today I'm going to talk about why I eat
four eggs a day and why you should as
well now you're probably wondering why I
consider myself an expert on eggs that's
an excellent question sorry I just had
to do that but it's primarily because
I've been eating so many eggs for so
many years that makes me an expert but
there's some really interesting
information about eggs and why you
should be eating more of them now the
first point I want to bring up is that
you can't really tell um how good an egg
is by the color of the egg yolk well at
least recently because they actually use
synthetic coloring now that they give
chickens to color the egg yolk on
exactly what the farmer wants and
there's actually 15 different shades
between yellow and orange that you can
pick to determine what color your egg
yolk is going to be so unfortunately the
egg yolk nowadays doesn't really tell
you about the amount of nutrition in
that egg yolk and they also use
different colorings in the meat itself
so you can turn like a pale white color
chicken meat into either yellow or a
beige color so apparently consumers uh
demand a certain color of their chicken
meat and their egg yolks but if you're
not using these color dieses and you
look at the actual color of the yolk uh
you can tell how much carotenoids
present in that egg you can't tell the
nutrition by the color of the shell okay
because they come in different colors
that doesn't give you too much data the
nutrition of an egg and a chicken is
determined by how they're raised and
what they're fed and unfortunately
chickens nowadays just have absolutely
no flavor uh like the chicken breast is
Bland they actually have to flavor it
I'm not kidding next time you go to the
store look at the label for chicken
breast and you're going to notice it has
natural flavorings or even artificial
flavorings because they're trying to
make this tasteless Bland piece of meat
taste more like chicken so unfortunately
we have grown chickens for size and we
want chickens that can grow fast because
chickens are sold by the weight now in
2015 cost of a chicken was like
$7 okay now to me that's actually pretty
cheap because I mean you have to grow
the chicken you have to take care of the
chicken how are you going to make any
profit at all if you have to feed the
chicken grain and most of these chickens
that are sold conventionally are fed
grain they're not allowed to go out and
eat bugs or worms or any of that but in
1948 the cost of a chicken was like
$3 now if we compare that to the dollar
now it would be like buying a chicken
for $30 and that is because the quality
back then is much greater than it is now
now before I get into the benefits of
egg I want to just quickly talk about
different terms uh that they use for
eggs so you have Freer range eggs right
well what does that actually mean well
it means that they're not in a cage they
are cagefree but it doesn't really mean
that they can go outside it just means
that they have access to the outside and
they don't Define access it could be
some small little hole in the barn uh
that they never find also the
verification process on free range is
not followed up with an on-site
inspection so there's a lot of gray
areas when you talk about free range and
then when we get the cage free it means
that they're just outside the cage which
is a step up and what about grade A well
that just means the shape of the shell
is really nice and it has no cracks so
it's really just a marketing thing like
I'm sure you never go home and go wow
honey I have some grade A eggs they're
perfectly round and they have no cracks
then you have pasteurized eggs right
that does not mean pasture raised okay
raised on a pasture outside it means
that they're heated okay which preserves
them it makes them last longer and then
you get a vegetarian fed right and yet
this sounds very wonderful uh vegetarian
fed means you're feeding them grains
like soy and corn which are GMO so I
would recommend getting organic Pastor
raised type eggs now what is better than
that well buy your eggs for at a farmers
market or if you have a little bit of
space Cas raise your own hands and get
your eggs that way and these are the
type of eggs that they produce um they
produce a lot of eggs even in the winter
which they're normally not supposed to
produce we have like 16 eggs every
single day so we're still trying to
figure out what to do with all these
eggs but man there's such a big
difference between uh these eggs that
we're consuming and the eggs that you
buy at the store and I'm doing a lot of
experiments on growing animals and also
growing vegetables testing certain
things out in different soils feeding
animals different things to see what
produces the healthiest animal and the
healthiest plant and I will be releasing
this on a new YouTube channel but I will
say that growing your own chickens using
organic grains without corn and soy uh
is pretty darn expensive so we're
experimenting on different ways of
feeding animals that are not just
healthier but cheaper I mean check this
out right here this is called fodder
it's sprouted barley you start with a
certain amount of barley seed and then
you let it Sprout for seven days and it
increases in weight by seven times this
is like crack for your chickens they
love it so I will keep you updated on
that very very soon all right so now
let's talk about the benefits of eggs
and why you should be eating eggs and
just realize I don't eat my eggs for
breakfast I eat them at my lunch because
I fast of course it's a late lunch it's
probably around around 2 230 maybe
sometimes 3:00 so number one the protein
and eggs is superior uh and what I'm
talking about is the anabolic effect
which means the ability of that egg to
help build protein tissues in your body
and the percentage of how much that egg
protein is converted into Body Protein
like your muscles your joints and other
proteins as well so if we exclude breast
milk okay protein is at 48% so 48% is
turning into the body tissue if we're
talking about meat or fish it's only
32% and when we talk about soy protein
that's like
177% and as a side note egg white is
only 17% when you add the yolk in there
you get more utilization which is
interesting and then wheight protein is
only
16% so what happens to the other part of
this protein
well it's converted into glucose and
used as fuel now there's another little
thing about this I want to mention and
it's called insulin index I talk about
this in my book but insulin index is the
scale of how a non-carbohydrate
food influences insulin and whole eggs
with the cholesterol have a much lower
insulin effect than egg whites so the
more that you take out fat and have it
as a pure protein as in Whey Protein the
higher the insulin Spike so eggs if you
compare that to anything else is
basically the best protein for you all
right next point is choline choline is
really good for your brain choline acts
as a bile salt in your liver it helps
break down cholesterol so it's a good
antidote for gall stones it's a good
antidote for a fatty
liver and then we get to lethin which is
also another antidote for cholesterol to
keep your cholesterol in check because
eggs come with cholesterol and a lot of
people are concerned about cholesterol
uh in fact there was a study out that
said that when you eat eggs it increases
your risk for death from heart attacks
by I think 177% but I did a whole video
on that I will put the link down below
it's a ridiculous study based on a
questionnaire I wouldn't even call it a
study because this Association was so
weak and they didn't talk about the
million other variables uh that could
have caused heart attacks and without
getting into it too much eggs will
increase your HDL uh more than the LDL
but that's for a different topic now the
other cool thing about eggs is that they
have a good amount of vitamin K2 which
keeps the calcium out of the arteries
and keeps the calcium out of the joints
and eggs also have vitamin D so vitamin
D and vitamin K2 work together and
there's not a lot of foods out there
that will give you vitamin D eggs also
have vitamin E good for the heart good
for the skin and eggs are loaded with
vitamin A the type that's extremely
bioavailable and it's called retinol so
part of these pigments in the vitamin a
complex are like yellow orange so the
deeper the color the more the vitamin A
you're going to get and eggs have omega3
fatty acids okay especially if they're
allow outside so they can eat worms and
insects eggs are loaded with B vitamins
B1 B2 B3 B6 B12 now I did mention that I
feed my chickens um a organic grain
without the soy without the corn that
grain is fermented for three days to
release a lot of the B vitamins and
other nutrients that are locked up in
that grain and not only is that more
nutritious you can feed them less
because it helps their digestion eggs
also have trace minerals and minerals
eggs also have carotenoids okay that is
a nutrient dense pigment
that gives that Yol the color but it
also has a lot of health benefits okay
now the two big carotenoids are number
one lutein which is yellow in color and
zantin which is more orange both of
these pigments greatly improve the eye
in fact the greatest concentration of
these carotenoids are in the eye so they
support the lens the retina they help
prevent macular degeneration they help
reduce the blue light that you're
exposed to with all your computers and
cell phones Etc but there's a lot of
other benefits too for your brain as
well now one question that has been
asked is how do you prepare an egg to
maximize the nutrition in the egg
because if you're going to heat it too
much you might destroy some of the
carotenoids and so poached or over easy
would be a great way to do that or if
you want scrambled what I'd recommend is
crack the egg inside the pan let the
whites turn a little white and then turn
the heat down and then mix it up and
scramble it after the white part has
turned a bit white this allows you to
preserve a lot of these nutrients as
compared to taking your egg in a bowl
and mixing it up and then putting it in
the frying pan so now that you know the
benefits of eggs if you're a small
person maybe you only have one or two
eggs if you're a larger person have
three or four and if you have any
considerations about the cholesterol and
eggs you got to check out this video
right here
