okay so I recently had a question
someone wanted to know well in a minute
fasting help STDs sexually transmitted
diseases here's my viewpoint on it you
have chlamydia gonorrhea syphilis HPV
and recently I did a video on herpes and
fasting and there was some really good
data on that topic because the herpes
virus travels along the nerves and when
you do in a minute fasting there's
something a little different about it
affecting the nervous system than other
tissues actually you get a better
clearing of that virus now I couldn't
find a lot of data on STDs and intamin
fasting I did find this one study
alternate day fasting 12 weeks help
Salmonella infected mice clear
pathogenic bacteria okay that's
interesting but it would be actually
more interesting if you do that study
let's say 18 hours or even 20 hours with
a four-hour window of eating I bet she
would see better results alternate day
fasting is basically you eat what you
want every other day and the days of
your fasting you're really reducing your
calories to 500 and I don't like that
because number one you're allowing the
person to eat whatever they want on the
alternative days and number two it's not
a true fast you're just cutting down the
calories however you do see some
benefits but as far as dealing with and
keeping these bacteria and viruses in
remission there's two things I want to
talk about there is some good data on
doing intermittent fasting and the
restoration of your microbiome diversity
in other words we need to intimate
fasting you actually strengthen your
immune system and you allow the microbes
to be more diverse your own immune
system like the good bacteria in your
gut you strengthen that when you do
intermittent fasting now you have a
better army to fight these pathogens
that's number one number two a tough OG
etaf adji is what happens in your cells
when you do fasting for a little bit
longer let's say 18 hours could be 17
but usually it starts at 18 and if you
do a little bit more you can get up more
Tov G where the cell starts
cleaning up old damaged proteins and
clearing out viruses and bacteria and
fungus and mold from the body so this is
a very powerful weapon against cleaning
up microbes okay and also helping the
microbes to be put back in remission and
I want to just add one more thing that I
would recommend I would add vitamin D
and/or more Sun because vitamin D is
very very important and also
strengthening your immune system to
fight these guys off so in summary in
termina fasting if done correctly can
strengthen your own immune system while
also directly targeting the clearing of
microbes in your body I put a link down
below of exactly how I would recommend
doing in a minute fasting so if you're
enjoying this content go ahead and share
it with someone that could really
benefit from it
