let's talk about why babies thrive on
Kido now when a woman is pregnant
especially during the last trimester 30%
of all the energy fed to that baby is
from ketones and then once they're born
the first two hours they're going to be
running off of lactate that's milk sugar
but then they're gonna convert it right
to ketones so ketones are very normal
for a newborn ketones are not supposed
to be an alternative fuel in fact breast
milk is loaded with MCT fats medium
chain triglycerides which are then
turned into ketones a baby's brain makes
up between eleven and twelve percent of
their entire body weight as compared to
an adult brain which only makes up two
percent of the weight yet in a newborn
75 percent of all the energy that they
use is for the brain if we compare this
to an adult we use 20 to 25% of our
energy for our brain so as you can see
this brain is very very important for
survival it's very important to allocate
the majority of fuel because it is going
to be the organ that runs the entire
body but here's the fascinating thing
ketones not only provide a good amount
of fuel for the infant's brain they also
provide the building blocks for lipids
of an infant's brain I'm talking about
the cholesterol and the myelin sheath
that surround the nerves in the brain
ketones supply the brain with 90% of the
carbon to make the white matter so it's
not just about the fuel it's about the
building blocks as well and this is also
another reason why babies are born with
extra fat because that fat actually can
help supply more ketones unless someone
screws it up by feeding them the
formulas which is basically the high
carb diet because all that sugar and
glucose and carbohydrate will completely
prevent the ketones
from being used as fuel so if you're
going to get pregnant or you are
pregnant try to breastfeed as long as
possible and in the process make sure
you're eating foods with all the key
neutral
I'm talking about the trace minerals I'm
talking about the B vitamins and vitamin
C from actual nutrient-dense foods that
way that child has the best chance of
optimizing their IQ their bone formation
their reduction of risk for certain
diseases and overall longevity my last
point is this if we started out on
ketones why would we want to go to a
high carb diet and why would someone be
hesitant of going on a ketogenic diet
after being on high carb diets for many
years it doesn't make sense to me other
than the fact that they just might not
understand this basic data right here
but for more information on how to grow
a very healthy baby check out this video
on this screen
