hi guys in this video we want to talk
about one of the best remedies for
glucoma this condition is in the eyeball
where there's high amounts of pressure
in the eye itself with decreased blood
flow to the optic nerve it's one of
those slow Insidious things that
actually gets worse with time without
any symptoms and then you end up going
blind so it's a situation so people want
to know what to do to prevent this
situation well um usually there's a
underlying hypothyroid issue going on so
you might want to get that checked and I
have a lot of videos I put some below of
what to do if that's the
situation a lot of vitamin C in the diet
is going to be important too so we're
not talking about synthetic ascorbic
acid we're talking about fruits mainly
vegetables maybe some berries but mainly
vegetables to get your vitamin C now to
support the optic nerve um what you need
is a B12 and B1 but made in a fat cable
form there's a product I'm not
affiliated with this company it's it's
called nerve support formula that
actually gives you that support and the
reason why you need those normally water
soluable vitamins to be made fat cable
is because we want to penetrate the myin
sheath which is a fat sheath around the
optic nerve to help heal this nerve it's
great for diabetics too especially with
diabetic neuropathy now to actually
improve the pressure uh what I always
recommend is a product by a company
called standard process it's called AC
carbamide and you could maybe find it
online if you do a search but this has a
um some a natural compound called Ura in
it which actually is really permeable
for um uh tissue cells and it's good to
equalize pressure and fluid retention
especially in the eyes so this is what I
recommend as the best remedy for glucoma
okay go ahead and try it and let me know
how it
works all right thanks for watching guys
hey press the Subscribe button this is
not my ringtone okay
oh
[Music]
jeez press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you informed of the future
events
