hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about lectins and some people are very
very sensitive to these they're
basically carbohydrate binding proteins
in certain foods that react with your
system especially your digestive system
and create bloating damage with your
intestinal lining gas all sorts of GI
symptoms and I would say if you are
trying to solve this problem and you
just can't seem to solve your digestive
issue you can't figure it out then you
get a blood test and test for lectins
because you can even have antibodies
that your body's making that are
attacking this in the food creating this
inflammatory condition and no matter
what you do it just never goes away you
have to eliminate foods that are high in
lectins okay there's three things that
you can do with foods to decrease the
amounts in general germinate them which
is soak them overnight in some water and
then put them through a dryer sprout
them will lower lectins and ferment the
foods that will also lower the electon
amounts so in reality lectins are part
of a defense mechanism to ward off pests
bugs and microbes okay but it can really
affect our bodies big-time so let's
cover some of the high lectin type foods
barley oat rice wheat quinoa rye those
would be the grains now check this out
milk kefir yogurt cheese fish or beef if
it's grain fed cows okay grain fed
animal products even grain fed fish
believe it or not that's what they feed
a lot of these fish grain fed cattle you
you want grass fed okay to lower the
lectin levels beans lentils soy peanuts
chocolate are all high in lectins
almonds cashew pine nuts pumpkin seeds
sunflower seeds high lectins corn canola
cottonseed all GML right peanut
safflower oils okay you want to stay
away from those if you are suspecting a
problem with this sugar tomato squash
and cucumbers
so if you don't want to get a blood test
just avoid these foods for like three
days and see if you feel better okay and
the question is what can you eat what
have low lectins let's go through the
list
wild rice pecans flax seed hemp seed
pistachio nuts walnuts dairy and beef
that's grass-fed and that includes all
that the cheese and that type of thing
pasture raised chickens and eggs wild
caught fish and seafood coconut olives
and olive oil sesame seeds avocado palm
oil and walnuts berries in all of the
vegetables so if you look at this if
you're on the ketogenic diet it's pretty
much this right here you're doing
grass-fed dairy beef of course you're
not doing wild rice but you're doing
pecans you're doing certain nuts while
caught fish coconut avocado olive oil
you're doing a lot of vegetables so you
would naturally feel better just by
going on the keto when the fact you
could also be lowering your lectins all
right so I put some more information
down below you can check out and thanks
so much for watching
hey thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
