hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about the person that is retaining fluid
yet they are dehydrated
is it possible well let's talk about it
alright before I get into it I want to
explain something
glucose is stored in the body as
something called glycogen okay so
glycogen is a string of glucose
molecules glucose is sugar now check
this out one gram of glycogen bonds to
two grams of water
so basically glycogen is a fluid-filled
sponge okay there's a lot of water there
so when you're running your body on
sugar fuel and not on fat feel because
you haven't discovered the ketogenic
diet or intermittent fasting yet you're
holding a lot of fluid you're having a
Demers Welling you press in the ankles
and you see this dent that forms okay
that's because you're running on sugar
also having too much sugar has a
tendency to retain sodium and it rids
potassium so when you have high blood
sugars and high insulin you're dumping a
lot of potassium you're retaining sodium
now the body will start diluting this
toxic sugar it's it this is a defense
mechanism against sugar with water
it'll take water and it flushes it out
through the urine this is why diabetics
pee so often this is why diabetics are
so thirsty because the body is trying to
take this water and flush out this sugar
okay so I mean you take a diabetic
that's very high levels of sugar and
their urine is filled with sugar okay
that's why now one of the most common
symptoms of being a diabetic is dry eyes
okay the lens of the eye is so
dehydrated it gets really sticky it
feels like there's sand in there it gets
irritated it becomes red okay I had dry
eyes really really bad when I was in my
20s okay I remember we were moving
across the country and I packed up
everything in this huge truck and pulled
my car on the back my wife was gonna
sell the house and I was gonna move
across country so I get in the car and
start driving right
so I'm in the middle of nowhere and I
closed my eye and I opened my eye and it
just rips my cornea because I had dry
eyes at the time so here I am in the
middle of nowhere
I can't see I can't drive so I pull off
I find little hotel and I basically
somehow parked this big truck went in
there so I get to sleep and my eyes are
closed and I'm like okay good it's all
healed I open my eye and it rips my
cornea again okay so now silent Saturday
I'm stranded the middle of nowhere so I
will start walking down the street
looking for an eye doctor in the middle
of nowhere there just happens to be an
eye doctor right next to the hotel so I
go up there they're open thank goodness
but they're busy until Monday okay so I
just basically barked right back through
the reception office and I say excuse me
doctor you got to help me I need
something for my eye you gotta help me
so he put me the room gave me some
medication for the eye and I got back on
the road but the point was that that was
dry eyes I had a blood sugar problem so
bad just previous to that I was
traveling around the country trying to
fix my own health going to the gurus I
went to dr. Bernard Jensen's seminar in
San Diego and he's like the author of
colon hydrotherapy like he is the Guru
okay I think he invented it so I go to
the seminar I stand in line at the end
for hours and hours to talk to him and I
said hey Doc what is this what's going
on to my eyes you know cuz they're all
bloodshot and they're feel like there's
sand in them and so he goes he looks out
he goes I don't know so he didn't really
help me but here's the point yours later
I after fixing my blood sugars all my
eye problems completely cleared out so
it was really the blood sugar issue
which I had a problem with since I was a
kid that was causing that so what
happened your cells in this situation
will become dehydrated yet you're gonna
retain fluid outside the cells so you
can vision your cells looking like
reasons okay with all the fluid outside
the cell so that's the scenario so this
is just another reason why you need to
do keto and in a minute fasting all
right I will put a link down below of
how to do that I'll see in the next
video hey if you're interested in
finding out the underlying cause of your
body issues click the link below and
take the evaluation quints
