today I'm going to tell you about a very
good natural remedy for respiratory
mucus now this could be either a
bacterial infection or a viral infection
I've done a lot of other videos on that
taking vitamin D zinc but I want to talk
about a natural remedy that you can use
in the meantime to get this mucus out of
the lungs while your immune system
clears out the virus and bacteria
so let's first define the word
expectorant it's a compound that is used
to increase fluid in the lungs which
allow the infected mucus to be released
so if you go the drugstore and you're
looking for ways to deal with mucus in
your lungs there are things that help
remove the mucus there are things that
suppress the mucus there are things that
thin the mucus and an expectorant is
something that expels the mucus out of
your lungs and the Latin word for
expectrum is to expel or banish now one
of the best remedies that I used when I
was in practice is called ammonium
chloride now this compound was in a
product called Cal Amino sold by a
company called standard process it's
very difficult to find it online you'd
have to find a practitioner that
actually uses standard process that
sells it but it seems to work really
good on several things one would be the
mucous arthritis any type of
inflammatory process so ammonium
chloride is a whole-body acidifier and
anytime you acidify the body whether
it's through apple cider vinegar or
betaine hydrochloride or ammonium
chloride you tend to stimulate these
things called phagocytes which help to
clean up the body it's part of the
immune system but ammonium chloride is
used in a lot of Coffman occations
it also was used in certain arthritic
medications that were over-the-counter
back in the 50s and I think the 40s but
for some reason they took it out but it
has a natural expectorant effect it
breaks down mucus and in other countries
like Finland Scandinavia Netherlands
North
Germany Egypt Iran they use this
compound in something called salty
licorice so they combine licorice with
ammonium chloride and they put it in
these little candies the problem I see
is that it's usually loaded with sugar
dextrose corn starch now they do have
sugar-free versions but they usually use
sugar alcohols like multi tall which
creates a lot of digestive issues and
it's very high in the glycemic index so
I like the concept but I just don't like
the added sugar because licorice in
addition to all the benefits for your
digestive system supports the flow of
healthy mucus and when you combine these
two together you have a really good
synergistic expectorant that can pull
the mucus out and help with chronic
coughing for example so in summary if
you have mucus in the lungs and you want
something fairly natural you could
either get these individually okay or
you can get this online or you can get
them combined if you could find
something that doesn't have all that
sugar all right thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
