so it's the fall the leaves have changed
simply gorgeous outside and a lot of
times people don't realize what's
happening when the leaves are changing
and I want to do a quick video on that
because it relates to antioxidants so
normally a leaf is green because of the
chlorophyll and chlorophyll is part of
something called photosynthesis where
it's taking sunlight and creating energy
so at the end of the summer we have a
spike of a certain antioxidant called
anthocyanin okay this compound gives the
leaf its red or purple or even a blue
color it's in currants eggplant it's in
oranges blackberries cherries grapes
it's there as a pigment and an
antioxidant to protect the leaf or the
plant from extreme temperatures but it's
very dependent on the pH so when the pH
is like three which is very acidic it'll
be more red between seven and 8 which is
more neutral and slightly basic it turns
Violet and as it goes up to 11 which is
extremely alkaline it turns the color of
blue then we have the antioxidant called
carotenoids which are yellow red and
orange there are over 1,00 different
coronoids one being lutein which is good
for the macula of the eye or xanthine
which is good for the brain for memory
now as it gets colder you get a spike of
tannins which give the color of brown
you also have flavonoids which are
yellow yellow red blue magenta and the
flavonoids are another antioxidant that
gives the plant its UV filtration you'll
see them in parsley onions blueberries
now there's many different unknowns with
antioxidants do the antioxidants have a
direct effect or do they have an
indirect effect on the body we do know
they have a great effect in the body
anti-inflammatory anti-cancer however
one Theory out there right now is anti
an oxidants actually
increase uric acid in the body and uric
acid is one of the most powerful
antioxidants that their body actually
makes so whether that's true or not we
don't know what we do know is when we
consume foods high in antioxidants our
health improves but just make sure you
get your antioxidants from food not from
pills because you can actually make
antioxidants in the lab as a genetically
modified product and you want to avoid
those so get your antioxidants from your
vegetables thanks for watching
