so let's talk about the seven natural
blood thinners okay there are certain
things that don't have side effects that
can pay in your blood and actually stop
a clot okay
vitamin E will thin the blood if you're
gonna take vitamin E make sure that it's
the whole complex that it's not a
synthetic version you want the kind that
has tocotrienols and tocopherols
together okay and then we have garlic
garlic right now is being heavily
researched by Big Pharma before it's
anti thrombotic effect okay it actually
can thin the blood naturally and there's
a certain compound a phytonutrient in
garlic that's responsible for that and
they're trying to synthesize that or so
they can patent it but what about just
take garlic then we have something
called needle kinase okay it's a natural
blood thinner tumeric is another good
blood thinner apple cider vinegar very
simple included in your diet it can help
thin the blood also cod liver oil you
can also do fish oil but the omega-3
fatty acids have natural blood thinning
properties now we have pycnogenol this
would be equivalent to using aspirin
okay in certain studies so it comes from
pine bark and it's pretty darn effective
now if you had I don't know surgery
heart surgery or you had a stroke for
example you are probably on coumadin and
that basically blocks vitamin k1 because
it's an anticoagulant okay because
vitamin k1 helps you clot and
unfortunately now you can't consume a
lot of foods with vitamin k1 okay
because just so happens those are the
vegetable family that you need to
provide for other nutrients so I've put
a link down below of what types of
vegetables you should be eating that are
low in vitamin k1 that have but other
types of vitamins so you can check that
out if you actually have to be on this
but work with your doctor to see if you
can do an alternative to this or even
these alternatives right here because
I'm not recommending that you stop your
medication
check with your doctor this is just data
to research if you wanted to go more
natural big question is what causes a
clot and strokes in the first place well
one big cause is high levels of blood
sugar and high levels of insulin as an
insulin resistance I mean take a look at
metformin for example one of the effects
of metformin is it can decrease the risk
of getting a thrombus okay well
metformin works to increase the receptor
for insulin it improves insulin
resistance I'm not recommending taking
it I'm just telling you that one of the
effects of metformin is it decreases
thrombus because high levels of insulin
creates a thrombus okay and this is
another reason why you should do healthy
key tale and intermittent fasting to
decrease your risk of getting a stroke
in general alright guys thanks for
watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg com
it's right on the front page I put a
link down below download it it's free
check it out
