so what would happen if you consumed
just two tablespoons of extra virgin
olive oil every single day that's the
topic for today there's a lot of amazing
things in olive oil that people have no
clue and there's a couple ways you can
take it I put it on my salad and this is
my I don't know if you can see this
right here this is my olive oil right
here okay I use a very specific type
because it's the real stuff I've been to
uh the farm in where they grow these
olives it's called ftor s Michelle atori
okay uh but anyway um unfortunately a
lot of the olive oil out there is fake
and I had no idea of fake versus real
for many many years and probably uh
until five years ago uh when I actually
tasted real extra virgin olive oil and
I'm like wow this is amazing before I
was consuming this fake olive oil that
was Bland it didn't really have any
taste it didn't have that uh peppery
grass like taste and it didn't irritate
the back of my throat those are just
indicators you have the real thing
because Unfortunately they sometimes
dilute olive oil with other oils like
soy or Canola so they're trying to clean
it up right now but it was quite amazing
when I went to this Farm where they
created this olive oil uh I had a chance
to check the soil and check the microbes
which are off the chart also the care
involved in making this product was just
way over the top I mean this goes Way
Beyond just organic now I don't get any
kickbacks from this company but I will
say when I find a good product I
definitely will let people know about it
so you can either add it to your salad
uh with h basic vinegared or apple cided
vinegar I put some lemon on my salad I
put sea salt or you can just take two
tablespoons of this oil every day it's a
pure fat so it's not going to spike
insulin so let me just go through some
of the compounds in olive oil okay and
I'm not going to give you the long names
because every time I do that I tend to
put people to sleep so I'll just bring
it up on the slide and I'll go through
the different effects that can be
created so this first fyon nutrient has
some pretty powerful
cardioprotective properties okay giving
you significant blood pressure lowering
effects you have two different types of
blood pressure you have primary and
second secondary another name for
primary is called essential so essential
hypertension and what's interesting
about that is that it doesn't have a
cause they don't know what the cause is
and that's
95% of all the blood pressure problems
out there they don't know what the cause
is of course we have all sorts of
medications to help you in the meantime
until we find a cause and since we're on
the topic of this you might also want to
add vitamin D and more potassium as well
as lowering your sugar because when you
have insulin resistance you can make the
arteries really really hardened and your
blood pressure will go up but the point
is that extra virgin olive oil can help
you they even make this special point if
you're on medication and you're taking
olive oil at the same time your blood
pressure could come down too low I mean
why wouldn't you want something without
side effects to lower your blood
pressure I mean the solution is just to
take less medication right some other
benefits include anti-cancer
it also protects the hypothalamus and
another part of your brain called the
substanti which has everything to
do about dopamine and if you have a
problem with that part of your brain you
can end up with Parkinson's so olive oil
protects the brain and has
neuroprotective properties and another
really important thing about um olive
oil is it's very anti-inflammatory
there's a lot of things in extra virgin
olive oil that help with inflammation
and pain so let's move on to the next
phytonutrient this one again gives you
anti-inflammatory benefits it can act as
an analgesic to help with pain it has
antimicrobial effects and also it can
help support the beta cell of the
pancreas which has everything to do with
helping your blood sugars and um also
with helping lowering insulin because
the beta cell makes insulin all right in
this next compound there's anti-cancer
properties properties as well as
antiarthritic benefits and then in these
last three phytonutrients which are
sterols a sterile is a compound that's
very similar to cholesterol and also
similar to steroids and so in this first
compound there's benefits with uh benign
prostatic hypertrophy if you get this
enlarged prostate um extra virgin olive
oil can help you this phytonutrient also
helps you balance cholesterol
specifically LDL and I'm talking about
the small dense particles okay and then
we get another phytonutrient which is
another steril which is
anti-inflammatory and also that can
benefit your LDL and then there's
another sterile which can also help with
your LDL so there are a lot of different
phytonutrients I just covered only six
of them but there are hundreds of
naturally curring compounds with all
sorts of very cool effects there's also
by the way a good amount of vitamin E in
extra virgin olive oil so I hope in this
video I convinced you to start using
more olive oil on a regular basis it can
really help you and if you haven't seen
this video on olive oil you definitely
want to check it out I put it up right
here
