so it's really surprising when I tell
people that dried fruit is not a health
food in fact it's probably one of the
worst snacks you can possibly consume
you usually see it in mixed with nuts or
sometimes they put on your salad so
check this out
half of a cup of fresh cranberries is
only two grams of sugar that's hardly
anything but if you take 1/2 of a cup of
dry cranberries
it's 37 grams of sugar yeah so dried
fruit is concentrated sugar not only
that they add sugar to it
a lot of times they put dextrose or high
fructose corn syrup around it or syrup
don't ask me why they add sulfates which
is a preservative and a lot of people
are allergic to that they don't know it
and it's very easy to consume a lot of
dried fruit at one time versus fruit but
if you're doing the ketogenic diet and
you're trying to lose weight this is
something you definitely want to stay
away from all right thanks for watching
hey if you're interested in finding out
the underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quiz
