hey guys I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know why am I
getting diarrhea when I'm doing ketosis
okay
well there's usually two reasons number
one is you're not used to digesting that
amount of saturated fat okay so because
saturated fat will increase by all
production and bio lubricates the colon
so you might want to just cut back in
some of the oils especially if it's in a
liquid form like the MCT oil or added
butter or coconut oil and see if that
makes the change
number two the more likely reason is
that you're not used to digesting the
quantity of vegetables that I am
recommending certain compounds and
certain vegetables can overwhelm these
microbes in your small intestine more
than other vegetables okay so what you
might want to do is switch over the type
of vegetables that you're consuming to
vegetables that are actually more easily
digested by your current microbes okay
so I would right now just switch over
and avoid consuming onions and garlic
artichoke beetroot leeks Brussels
sprouts cabbage green beans avocados
blackberries which is a berry
cauliflower mushroom and fennel and
stick with just regular green lettuce
cucumber tomato zucchini bell pepper and
bean sprouts these are pretty safe okay
you can also consume more fermented
vegetables and even spinach could be a
problem so when you're consuming lettuce
for example a lot of times it comes in a
container or a bag try to just get the
just straight plain lettuce only green
lettuce and see if that can help you now
as your microbes start growing and
adapting to digesting these other
vegetables you'll be able to include
more and more of these over time so go
ahead and make the shift and then
gradually start bringing these things
back in after I'd say about three or
four weeks from now hey guys so I'm
doing a survey of a future video and I
wanted to find out what your biggest
body problem is so that way the content
is aligning with something
you are personally interested in so
please click the link down below fill it
out and I will create the video thanks
