let's talk about the real cause of
breathing problems I'm talking about
sleep apnea I'm talking about snoring
I'm talking about all sorts of sinus
problems there's a really interesting
book which I'm halfway through called
breath the new science of a lost Arc by
James Nester and I agree with most of
the data he talks about with a couple
things that I disagree but you know I'm
halfway through maybe he talks about
that in the second part of the book but
if you combine the data in this book
with the data uh from Western Price's
book I think you'll come up with a
really good solution for breathing
problems he did some really interesting
research from all over the world on
indigenous cultures and he looked at
their teeth because he was a dentist and
he found some fascinating data if you
compare older cultures who actually ate
a lot healthier versus the modern
civilized culture that we live in today
there's a huge difference in our teeth
okay I mean if you start studying
ancient skulls they had their wisdom
teeth right nowadays people just remove
their wisdom teeth okay why is that well
back then they had really good straight
teeth good facial bones they had a wider
face good bone structure nowadays our
face is becoming thinner um people are
having nasal septum deviation which they
need surgery for um braces are normal I
mean it's kind of weird that we need
braces why the heck do we need braces
why are our teeth so crooked people are
having sleep apnea they're snoring so
what is the difference between what we
used to do and what we do now well James
Nester focuses more on the lack of
chewing right nowadays everything is uh
soft foods like soups guacamole hummus
dips our steak has to be very very
tender we don't consume a lot of
vegetables so we don't chew a lot
especially these young kids where the
only thing they chew is probably
bubblegum so James Nester is focusing on
the lack of chewing and Weston Price is
focusing more on nutrition because I
think they both are the root cause
because simply if you look at the
indigenous cultures they're doing a lot
of Whole Foods they're doing a lot of
nutritionally dense foods and it's the
trace minerals that activate the
proteins that help build our bones as
well as the vitamins that activate the
minerals that make our bones
structurally sound and if you have a
nutritional deficiency the actual
structure the size of the bones will not
fully develop I mean that's a know fact
but if you never chew okay if you're
constantly being fed soft foods you
don't activate the muscles to make the
bones structurally sound I mean just
like the rest of your body I mean if you
want to build a strong back you can't do
it without activating the muscles right
so you have to do certain exercises to
strengthen the muscles to strengthen the
bones because they're attached through
ligaments so as far as the face goes the
main muscle is the the articulation in
your jaw of chewing and if you're not
chewing enough you're not going to
activate the muscles around your face
and so the real problem boils down to
one thing our mouth is too small for our
teeth teeth and if there's not enough
space for the teeth to grow it comes out
sideways it comes out forward it comes
out back and we don't have room for
these extra teeth called the wisdom
teeth and if our mouth is smaller our
Airway passages are also going to be
smaller and that is going to restrict
our breathing I mean to me it's barbaric
on the way that they deal with these
issues I mean they go in there and do
surgery they're they're surgically
making the Airways more open I mean even
if you think about animals in the wild
right do they have crooked teeth do they
need braces no why because they do a lot
of chewing and they eat food that their
bodies Were Meant to eat so this is what
I recommend first of all get your kids
off the refined Foods number one and get
them to start chewing Foods uh more now
you as an adult watching this can also
make a dramatic change on your facial
structure which will then lead to
helping you breathe better
and here's what I'm going to recommend
you do start to do nose breathing which
is a lot better than mouth breathing and
you're going to force your body to get
more oxygen number two start chewing
your food longer okay now I recommend
consuming salad like in large quantities
like seven to 10 cups when I tell people
that sometimes they freak out they're
like seven to 10 cups of
vegetables that's way too much chewing
for them so they'll say can I blend it
can I use make greens drink as a
substitute and I'll just tell them why
don't you just have your spouse chew it
for you and then that way you can avoid
the the massive effort of chewing your
food but I really think you should start
chewing your food because if you're
going to chew seven to 10 cups of salad
and just take the time to chew it you
will develop your jaw muscles and it's
not a bad thing to chew other things
like steak for example that might not be
so tender just spend your time chewing
that because what you're doing you're
strengthens your muscles and you're
remodeling your jaw muscles and your
face muscles and that's going to create
more oxygen because you're going to have
more of an opening through your mouth I
mean you can start eating celery carrots
so find things that are true that are
also nutrient-dense Foods all right
number three and this is based on
Western price fat cable vitamins are
crucial like vitamin D like vitamin K2
both of those fat CYO vitamins control
calcium and you need plenty of calcium
in the right places to form teeth in
your jaw so in other words don't go on a
lowfat diet so this includes eggs egg
yolk cheese not the lowfat cheese it's
fatty fish fatty meats and grass-fed
butter as well now of course one of the
big things is avoiding processed foods
refined carbohydrates and then trace
minerals trace minerals um are all about
activating certain proteins in your body
and a lot of people are deficient trace
minerals because it's just not in our
Foods anymore because the large Farms
are really only putting three minerals
back in the soil U NPK right we have
nitrogen potassium and phosphorus but
what about all the other trace minerals
that we need but trace minerals are
found in shellfish they're found in
Seafood okay and seelp as well so that
would be definitely something to put on
the list now if you haven't seen my
video on nose breathing I'll put that up
right here check it
out for
