I'm going to show you how to get rid of
puffy eyes okay it's so easy all you
have to do is understand the mechanism
there's a lot of fancy terms for puffy
eyes uh periorbital edema all you need
to know is it's called eye bags and
unfortunately the medical profession
treats this condition with drugs
steroids antihistamines all sorts of
medications and I'm not telling you not
to take your medication I just want to
give you another viewpoint on this I
mean if you look up the Wikipedia page
it'll say potentially could be caused
from the hypothyroid insomnia infection
allergy and a whole bunch of other
causes which are so rare and the bigger
cause the more common cause isn't even
mentioned at all and the reason I know a
lot about this is I had puffy eyes for
many years I didn't know what it was but
once I did this one thing it completely
cleared up now on the Wiki page there's
two little things that were interesting
okay
they did mention one cause being high
levels of sodium okay which is
definitely true and also they mentioned
u a low carb diet could help prevent
puffiness of the eyes which I found very
interesting too and they had also a
little data you know using cucumber
slices on your eyes or C packs yeah
maybe that might help for a second but
it doesn't really correct the problem
yes many times the kidneys are involved
and yes there's usually a sodium problem
as well but both these conditions are
stemming from too much sugar in your
bloodstream I mean even if you take a
look at the number one cause of kidney
disease it's diabetes what is diabetes
high levels of sugar so when you look at
someone's eyelids and they're puffy yeah
it could be related to the kidney but we
want to go deeper and here's the
Simplicity of it this is what you need
to know when there is too much sugar in
the bloodstream you're going to have too
much insulin in the bloodstream you'll
eventually develop insulin r
resistance both of these situations
causes your body to hold sodium more
salt is retained when you consume sugar
and if you do this for a long period of
time it'll overload the kidneys and
it'll actually back up into the system
and it shows up in the eyelids sometimes
even before other parts of your body I
was at a restaurant uh about two or
three months ago and I remember seeing
an overweight kid with an overweight dad
just chowing down serious amounts of
carbs and both of them had really puffy
eyes I was very tempted to go over there
and talk to them but I I I didn't do it
my wife said no you better not do that
but I think a lot of people are not
aware that's it's coming from the sugar
so sugar causes the retention of fluid
because of the retention of sodium
there's a couple other things that
happen number one the depletion of
potassium you start to become pottassium
deficient when you consume carbs partly
what happens is when you store this
excess sugar it gets stored is something
called glycogen which is basically a
series of glucose molecules strung
together with the help of potassium so
you need potassium to store the sugar as
glycogen in your liver and the muscles
and so the more sugar you eat the more
pottassium gets kind of stored away and
stuck in this stored system of glucose
called
glycogen two other things happen you
start to develop uh more sympathetic
dominance that means that your flighty
mechanism is more activated and that's
the stress mechanism also another thing
is increased called renin it's a hormone
and both of these things the
sympathetics and renin retain sodium as
well so we have a lot happening in
relationship to the holding of fluid and
the retention of sodium and a depletion
of potassium and of course when you eat
junk food what's junk food sugar starch
MSG mono sodium glutamate boy the next
day you'll probably notice your eyes are
puffy that is what we're talking about
if you want to know how to fix it very
simply you want to get this sugar out of
your diet and you can also start taking
potassium and or start eating foods high
in potassium if you want a really good
video on exactly what to eat to help you
with that I put it up right here check
it
out
