so I want to answer another question can
I overdo vitamin D okay not from Sun
okay that's not going to happen but yes
you can overdo about a Mindi big time
and I do see people taking large
quantities of vitamin D without vitamin
k2 okay k2 in d3 work together so if you
consume too much d3 without k2 you can
have a buildup of calcium in the soft
tissue parts of the body it's called
hypercalcemia with well this is too much
calcium in the blood but then it
trickles off into the tissues as well
and the symptoms for hypercalcemia is
vomiting weakness kidney stones frequent
urination excessive thirst abdominal
pain depression and heart arrhythmias
okay so it can really plug up the body
and create a lot of issues so vitamin k2
takes the calcium in the blood in the
soft tissue and puts it into the bone
okay so it puts it into the bone and
this is my bone right there it doesn't
really look like a bone there and
vitamin d3 helps you absorb calcium from
a small intestine up into the blood by
20 times so we need these both at the
same time we don't want to have one
without the other
now the other thing is if a person is
taking large amounts of d3 with calcium
that's even worse because you're just
dumping even more calcium into the blood
without this okay that would be bad
especially if you do calcium carbonate
which is in most multivitamins out there
especially the ones from the GNC in the
drugstore they like their paper weights
because the first ingredient is calcium
carbonate limestone you'd be better off
chewing in the cement outside of the
building so the combination if you're
taking calcium carbonate with large
amounts of d3
it can really affect your heart big-time
and the rest of the body so always take
the k2 with the d3 alright thanks for
watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last edition
called the 7 principles of fat burning
it has a hundred and fifty six images
378 pages full glossary I talk about
keto in a minute fasting the body types
in detail I have a new stressed chapter
I'm going to show you exactly what to
eat and a comprehensive FAQ I put a link
down below check it out
