hey guys had another question relating
to diabetes is the diet different for a
type 1 diabetes versus type 2 yeah
that's the question well first of all in
a type 1 you have a situation where the
pancreas is not producing insulin
that's what diabetes type 1 is okay type
2 is a little different the pancreas is
making insulin but it's not connecting
in a cell there's resistance in the
receptor okay that's called insulin
resistance okay so in this situation
it's not making insulin this one it's
making it but it's not connecting so the
feedback loops come back down here and
you actually have causes your body to
make too much insulin so the goal with
type 2 is to get the receptor to receive
insulin so the feedback loops are not
going to cause the pancreas to produce
an excess of amount of insulin because
in type 2 your body produces five to
seven times the amount of insulin that
it needs so in this situation we have
way too much insulin so the diet I'm
recommending for type 1 is the exact
same thing for type 2 so with type 1 you
might not be able to correct this
situation because the pancreas is
already destroyed but you could at least
correct the diet to lessen the amount of
insulin this person really needs okay
thereby extending their life with type 2
there's a greater chance that you can
correct this and get this receptor
working so also the need for instant
goes way way down so I put a link down
below of what I'm gonna recommend it's a
combination of ketosis and intermittent
fasting so one of the things you need to
put your attention on as you apply this
information is if the need for insulin
goes down and you're still taking the
same medication you could end up with a
hypoglycemic or low blood sugar
situation so you just have to get with
your doctor and make those adjustments
alright thanks for watching
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know
hey that runs
