so today we want to talk about the
connection between knee arthritis knee
pain knee inflammation and mouth
bacteria so first let me touch on the
difference between rheumatoid arthritis
and osteoarthritis and rheumatoid
arthritis you have an immune system
attack on your own joints you have
antibodies anti means against the body
little things that are attacking the
joint keeping the whole joint in an
inflamed state and it starts creating
breakdown so you get this enlargement of
the joint happens in the fingers the
wrists the knees and other joints but
it's always symmetrical it's on both
sides at the same time now the thing
about RA is it affects other systems
like the heart it can cause anemia in
the blood it can affect the eyes and
there's always a lot of inflammation
whereas osteoarthritis you have the
decrease in joint space you get spurring
pain stiffness you get a bit less
inflammation even though there's some
and Ostra threat is typically you'll see
asymmetrical you'd be see it on one side
not on both sides and you see wear and
tear now I better practice for 29 years
and I always questioned why would
someone get osteoarthritis if they
didn't have an injury to a joint why
does it happen in one joint and not the
other joint if there's no injury or
repetitive injury or micro trauma
sometimes you see it in the hip like
it'll just start wearing out and that
was weird to me and then I also always
question rheumatoid arthritis why would
the body start attacking joints in a
symmetrical way for no reason so I
suspected there had to be some type of
microbe involved so I started doing some
research and I found this interesting
connection between oral bacteria DNA in
the synovial fluid of the knee joints
okay it was also found on the heart as
well so the question is what the heck is
this bacteria that's supposed to be in
the mouth doing in your joints in the
knees and why is it in the heart and the
name of that bacteria is Porfiry monas
gingivalis not that you really wanted to
know that
but that's the name and also it's the
microbe involved in gum disease now this
made a lot of sense to me because now it
gave a reason for your body to attack
the joint it's not attacking itself it's
attacking a microbe within the joint
that makes way more sense it's trying to
kill something off and it's like trying
to shoot it with certain elements and it
happens to also destroy your joint in
the process also if there's an infection
or a subclinical infection in the joint
that could definitely affect the Karla's
production you can create a build up of
calcium called biofilm that's around the
joint and various other symptoms so the
next question I would ask is how do I
know if there's a microbe that's causing
either one of these problems in one of
my joints I think one simple way in one
inexpensive way would be to assume that
that's causing it and start using a
natural antibiotic which by the way
doesn't have any side effects and if you
start getting improvement that it's
likely that that was the culprit okay so
here are a couple natural herbal
antibiotics that I would recommend
goldenseal tea tree oil myrrh garlic
olive leaf extract and this works on
viruses too there's also other studies
that show there are smaller microbes
involved as well like mycoplasma and
nano bacteria wood and even viral like
particles that are inside the joint so
if you were to use several different
combinations of these and there's others
as well
I think you'd create a really good
synergistic effect all right so go ahead
and try this for a couple weeks then let
me know down below if it helped you
thanks for watching
hey guys I'm not sure if you have my app
yet dr. Berg app it's totally free you
should download it okay this is what it
looks like you click it it gives you all
sorts of great resources I have all my
YouTube videos on this out ok and it's
regularly uploading the most recent ones
all the YouTube videos are also
converted to audio versions ok so you
can use it when you're walking
exercising driving your car I have a
mini chorus on there I'll be putting
additional courses I have a lot of
recipes on there and this is new and
also PDF resources so there's various
downloads PDFs that you can get as well
and if you wouldn't mind after you
download it check it out
give me your unbiased review and tell me
how you like it I want to know
