hi guys in this video I want to talk
about in a minute fasting bigger meals
and bloating I had a question from
someone recently wanting to know how big
of a meal they should consume if they
consumed two meals or one meal because
when they eat they're just completely
bloated and stuff so let's just talk
about that when you go les meals do
intermittent fasting you want to start
increasing the amount of calories for
that meal so we don't end up with a low
calorie diet to do that you have to have
bigger meals the problem is you only
have so much capacity to digest that
food especially if you're not used to it
and your metabolism is slow so you end
up just stuffing yourself and being
bloated so we want to avoid that and
also some people when they're starting
out they might have the fear of not
eating so frequently so they might start
eating so much food because they're
freaking out like oh my gosh I'm not
gonna eat so I have to eat everything I
can squeeze in my stomach not a good
idea and that just adds stress to the
whole digestive system so we want to
have the optimum meal the perfect meal
where you're full but you're not stuffed
so there's a couple points I want to
bring up number one you can go ahead and
separate out your vegetables with your
protein and fat so that way you don't
have to eat the whole thing at once so
instead of sitting down to a 30-minute
meal and cramming as much food as you
can go ahead and spread it out for an
hour or even two hours of eating so
let's say let's say this is at 3 o'clock
and this is at 5 o'clock so you would
eat your all your vegetables first your
7 cups or your 10 cups of vegetables
right there big salad and I do this a
lot too but you're not eating your
protein until you know an hour or even
two hours later so you're giving your
chance for your system to digest it and
then eat again so that way we can extend
our fasting time to around 23 hours of
23.5 hours to 21 hours of fasting so
that's still a good amount of time to
fix insulin resistance and really heal
if you're doing kind of a one meal but
it's stretched out over two hours and of
course when you do this when I do it
gradually and ease into it so you're at
two meals for a while and then
eventually go to one if you want to do
that some people don't want to do that
and that's totally fine so that means
you would just do two meals but just
make sure those two meals
you don't you've plied the same
principle you don't stuff yourself too
much so let me just give you an example
let's say you do two meals a day you eat
at one o'clock and five o'clock what you
could do is have your protein at 1:00
and then all your vegetables at 3:00 and
then your protein again at five o'clock
that way you spread it out so the point
I'm trying to make is that when you
combine so many different types of foods
together it's more stress on the
digestive system it requires more
enzymes it's harder to digest and
there's more bloating of all so if you
were to separate that out and in
consumed your protein and fat let's say
at one your vegetables at three then
your protein and fat at five you would
have an easier time to digest that the
other point you want to make is that
when you eat many people do not have the
stomach acid to digest that food so
normally in your stomach you have a pH
of between 1 & 3 that's extremely acid
when you get older and you age you lose
that acid and then the symptom would be
GERD acid reflux indigestion bloating
gas that those are the symptoms for a
low stomach acid and that's why we're
recommending more apple cider vinegar
there is one thing that I use or you can
use digest Plus this has a concentrated
outside of vinegar and Matane how to
chloride if you want to take it a tablet
yeah sometimes on Thanksgiving I will
pull that out when everyone's stuff give
them some of that so they can eat a
little bit longer because people like to
step themselves on Thanksgiving and the
next point I want to make is when you
consume certain vegetables you might not
be able to digest those vegetables and
you might bloat just from the vegetable
alone not necessarily all the food that
you're eating so you you want to just
kind of isolate that like people have
problems with broccoli for example they
get bloating but maybe not kale but some
people have a problem with cabbage and
some people have a problem with kale so
you may have to isolate a certain
vegetable that's bloating you and
replace it but that could be doing it
right there especially if you're not
used to having those vegetables food
oh geez you might have an allergy to
cheese or lactose or casein that's the
protein in the milk so you really want
to just kind of be aware of that and
change up your food to see if it's a
food allergy but because you're not
doing grains because you're not doing
sugars because you're not doing a lot of
the other processed foods there should
be less allergies and then we have the
last one which is too much fat this is a
common mistake that people make they
kind of overdo it on the fat because you
can have all these keto bums and these
snacks and this and that and they end up
just having a lot of gallbladder strain
so this is the the kind of the wild
variable that you have to keep adjusting
so if you go too much you're gonna have
not just bloating in your right rib cage
but you're gonna paint all the way up in
your right shoulder because of the
phrenic nerve and the gallbladder refers
up there causing headaches and all sorts
of things and if you don't have enough
fat you're gonna be hungry in between
the meals so we have to kind of juggle
that so I'll put a little link down
below on to clarify this I did a whole
video just on this one point all right
so these are some things to consider
when you're having less meals but you
want to maintain your calories alright
thanks for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press the button
below and I will keep you in the know
hey that rhymes
