what would happen if you consume fish
oils omega-3 fatty acids for about a
month 30 days very interesting things so
let's do a deep dive into the stop it
many people get their omega-3 fatty
acids from fish oils other people get
them from cod liver oil the difference
is that Civ oil has some additional
things vitamin A and vitamin D but both
of them have omega-3 fatty acids so
let's Dive Right In starting with the
brain 25% of all the fat in your brain
is that specific d ha type of fat and
most of it is in the frontal cortex the
part of the brain that supports memory
Focus concentration attention so
specifically DHA supports the Integrity
of the membrane around the neurons so
what does that mean Integrity of the
membranes well in the membrane around
the neurons you have a lot of things
happening you have these little pumps
that allow communication to go back and
forth you have protection against that
neuron from various things and one thing
about the brain is you do not want
inflammation in the brain now I will
point out that your body can make DHA
Okay it can make some not much and it
gets it from other foods that actually
can be converted into DHA and that
precursor or substance is called ala and
that's in walnuts that's in chia seed
flax seed but the conversion is very
very small so unless a person consume
something from the sea chances are
they're not going to get a lot of DHA
DHA supports the retina okay the retina
is neurological tissue in the back part
of the eye that picks up information
from the environment and it pulls it
into the brain it has little photo
receptors and 60% of all the fat in that
retina is DHA so it's very very
important it's important to protect you
against inflammation it's important to
UV radiation and protect against macular
degeneration then you have these omega-3
fatty acids in your skin it makes the
skin real smooth it protects the skin
against things like acne psoriasis
eczema dry skin red skin as well as
ultraviolet light now we need a certain
amount of ultraviolet light to help make
vitamin D but really only one tenth of
that spectrum of UV light is designated
for making vitamin D the rest of the UV
can create problems for our body but
omega-3 can protect our skin from UV
radiation there's even association
between DHA omega-3 fatty acids and your
bones helping to mineralize
bone decrease the risk of osteoporosis a
lot of people take omega-3 fatty acids
to help with arthritis in the joint or
any inflammation in the joint as well as
getting rid of inflammation in the liver
which can then turn into Scar Tissue so
it helps all three problems with the
liver Scar Tissue inflammation and fat
in the liver another benefit of fish oil
is to help balance out your blood sugars
specifically making insulin more
sensitive because so many people have
insulin resistance and they have
pre-diabetes and diabetes omega-3 fatty
acids can help turn that around now
there's also another interesting
connection between insulin and omega-3
fatty acids you need insulin to allow
these fatty acids to go in the body but
when you have insulin resistance the
cells actually have a deficiency of
insulin and that alone can actually
inhibit the amount of omega3 going into
the cell thus all the problems that
people have when they have insulin
resistance with inflammation because if
you're not able to absorb omega-3 fatty
acids your inflammatory markers will go
high higher and then we have the very
important purpose of supporting the
inside of the arteries keeping the
inflammation very very low so you don't
develop calci deposits or cholesterol
formation in the arteries people that
have asthma and allergies can benefit
from fish oils as well it's been known
to help reduce those symptoms and then
of course we have all the reproductive
benefits supporting the survival of
sperm also supporting the egg that's
released from the ovary so Omega-3s are
very important in increasing fertility
and also supplying some really important
raw material for this baby that's
growing inside the mother and even if
you're sore after exercise omega-3 fish
oils can help you get rid of that
inflammation and speed up the repair
process now a couple problems with fish
oils number one don't go on price you're
going to get something that's probably
rancid something that's already oxidized
much of the fish oil that's sold ends up
going through China in the processing of
these fish oils so you really lose
control of the supply chain and don't
really know what's happening at that
level and of course manufacturing
companies use China because you can get
a much cheaper product the other thing
to worry about with fish oils is
contamination with heavy metals lead
arsenic Mercury so it's really important
to know the source of where your omega-3
fatty acids come from is that part of
the ocean clean is it healthy you'd be
surprised some of the top brands I mean
it's like it's the worst quality you
could possibly get you end up Bur in and
belching and you can just taste the
rancidity of that oil now I will say
that fish oil or codiv oil is going to
taste a little bit like fish but there's
a huge difference between rancid fish
oil and just fish oil and also on the
flip side if it has absolutely no fish
smell or taste at all you might not even
be getting actual fish oil but I think
the best way to take it is in a pearl so
you can swallow it so there are options
plus you can get your omega-3 fatty
acids from consuming fatty fish while
caught salmon Herring mackerel sardines
shellfish there's even omega-3 fatty
acids in grass-fed animal products
grass-fed cheese grass-fed yogurt but
personally I get my Omega-3s from codiv
oil because it has additional vitamin d
and vitamin A and for more information
about cod liver oil I put this video up
right here check it out
