trying to figure out how to State this
um there's one thing that we know for
sure about dopamine no one really
understands the complexity of dopamine
if you do a deep dive on dopamine your
head is going to literally spin because
there are so many theories just when
they say they have it figured out well
no that doesn't work they'll say it's a
motivation molecule or the thing that
gives you pleasure or the thing that's
involved with reward no it's not it's
associated with these behaviors but it's
not the thing that gives you these
Sensations you give yourself these
Sensations dopamine has many many many
different functions
in one part of the brain it works this
way and another part of the brain it
works completely differently dopamine is
involved with motion and movement like
body movement that's why like in
Parkinson's disease the person will
always have low dopamine and they're
very rigid they can't move freely
dopamine is associated with behaviors
and certain emotions but anyone who is
on the lower emotional scale is going to
have low dopamine and have low other
neurotransmitters as well as low
hormones their entire biochemistry is
going to be on the low side dopamine is
also involved in the sleep cycles it's
involved in the gastrointestinal
motility the movement of things to your
GI system food intake learning kidney
function blood pressure and yes it does
get increased with pleasure but it also
gets increased with stress and pain so
when someone is using a drug to help
balance this one molecule
boy does that come with the package
which I'm going to talk about there's
been a recent like upsurge of people
doing dopamine detox we're trying to
detoxify this toxic dopamine hormone the
problem is not dopamine okay yes we need
to balance it out if it's low it's the
synthetic Sensations or the experiences
or the stimulus that we're doing that we
need to get rid of whether it's
scrolling with social media 24 hours a
day on Tick Tock gambling nicotine drugs
and then you also have like caffeine and
pornography all these things are
artificial or synthetic ways of
experiencing certain Sensations and when
you try to get these Sensations
artificially or synthetically it comes
with a package but I think we should
instead of doing a dopamine detox we
should do a bad lifestyle detox there's
certain medical problems that involve
low dopamine you have Parkinson's
schizophrenia
add or ADHD and even depression and
people that treat these conditions to
try to increase dopamine are doing
something that they just don't
understand they don't ever look at the
diet they don't look at the nutritional
cofactors that could be involved you
have to realize a dopamine is a system
it's a pathway it doesn't ever work as a
single molecule it's involved in this
complex biochemical pathway
and when you treat it as an individual
molecule
you will always lose and when we're
talking about losing I'm talking about
mainly with the side effects that come
as a package not only do these
medications deplete other
neurotransmitters but for example
anti-schizophrenia medication has a side
effect it can create motivational
disorders paranoia even lactation in men
and women and another side effect is
addictive behaviors now let's take
another category of medications which
are antipsychotic medications
what are the side effects of those one
is
Parkinson's symptoms and then when
people take medication for Parkinson's
okay one of the side effect is they
become a gambler which is a an addiction
so you have to understand that dopamine
has many different functions and it
works differently in different parts of
the body and on top of that dopamine is
a neurotransmitter it's a signaling
molecule that works within the nervous
system it's like a communication
hormone-like particle and hormones are
the communication particle that works
through the blood and you know what's
interesting about that all your hormones
all of them require dopamine for those
hormones to work I mean there's over a
hundred thousand research papers on
dopamine in PubMed right now all trying
to find a new treatment without the side
effects but they're never going to be
successful because it's impossible
dopamine again is not a single little
molecule that acts on its own to create
this one specific effect it creates many
many different effects for different
parts of your body you can have years of
stress bad eating have deficiencies of
the cofactors that make dopamine and end
up with low dopamine you can also have a
serious traumatic event let's say a loss
of a loved one and be very depressed and
have low dopamine because of that
lowered emotion but by trying to
increase that hormone without looking at
the whole picture
it's not going to work it's just it's
not logical so what can someone do well
number one start getting rid of the
artificial synthetic
experiences or stimulus number two start
looking at natural ways to help balance
dopamine in other neurotransmitters and
I'll give you a couple consistent
regular exercise being outside will
naturally increase dopamine
what's interesting about dopamine it
works with serotonin in opposites so
people that are inside a lot have more
serotonin uh and people that are outside
have more dopamine now I'm talking about
the relative uh ratios here but the more
outside that you are the more dopamine
that you're going to have uh even the
Sun and even vitamin D3 can help
increase dopamine you also have other
experiences like music the Arts doing
things that you like being connected to
people and also having all the cofactors
the things that help this hormone be
reduced like tyrosinase and even having
the cofactors these are things that help
the production of this dopamine like
tyrosine which is an amino acid you can
get that just by consuming or focusing
on adequate good protein sources like
animal protein and just as a side note
if you have very low neurotransmitters
and you have a lot of body problems and
you need a lot of repair
it's very important to consume a little
more protein and make sure that is
animal protein as well as animal fat for
the healing process because that's going
to give you the raw materials to help
build up these neurotransmitters but a
lot of these neurotransmitters are also
influenced by the gut microbiome so
having a healthy gut is also very
important and the other two nutrients
that are involved in dopamine are
vitamin C you can get that from leafy
greens or sauerkraut make sure it's raw
and copper which is a trace mineral now
where do you get copper from shellfish
okay or seafood
if you just have seafood or shellfish
once a week you'll get enough copper but
just as a side note to that if you
consume a lot of zinc without the copper
you can create a copper deficiency also
having just a lot of stress in your life
and consuming a lot of sugar will
increase the demand for this vitamin C
in Copper and just the last point about
this topic you want to look at the body
as a whole not as an individual molecule
the body molecules are not in control
they're at the effects side and they're
involved in biochemical Pathways that
involve many different steps and each
one of those steps involve enzymes and
each one of those enzymes involve
cofactors those are like vitamins and
minerals so a lot of this comes back to
having the right diet which
unfortunately many doctors do not look
at that piece of the puzzle so look at
the whole body if you're going to treat
something like this
use natural remedies that don't have
side effects and one last little point
about dopamine your gut microbiome help
you make neurotransmitters for more
information on that you should watch
this video right here
