hey I'm back again in this video we're
gonna discuss the best recovery nutrient
I had a question recently regarding what
would be the best nutrient to take to
recover after exercise this lady was
postmenopausal she started to work out
and she just was sore for an entire week
okay so this is what I recommended
d-ribose this is a natural nutrient that
you can order from a vitamin store or
online and what it does is it helps
recycle the energy currency it's called
ATP so ATP works through something
called the mitochondria which is energy
factory so this natural remedy is kind
of like the precursor or building block
to build more ATP to help ATP work more
efficiently so you can recover faster
and the skeletal muscle and even in the
heart muscle so let's say for example
you had heart surgery you'd want to take
this it would really make a difference
or if you had fibromyalgia like a real
true fibromyalgia where your muscles and
collagen or are inflamed this is another
thing to take or chronic fatigue
syndrome alright check it out put your
comments down below hey you probably
already subscribed but if you haven't
press this little button down below and
I will keep you updated
