in this video we're going to talk about
the real cause of headaches in migraines
this is very important and very valuable
because this video is actually worth $31
billion and that's the amount of money
that's spent on headaches every single
year it's crazy if you look up the cause
of headaches you'll normally see it's an
unknown cause it's very complex it's
very mysterious and uh it's usually
coming from anxiety or depression that's
actually not the case
the cause of headaches is very simple
when you look at the whole body I think
the confusion is when people get pain in
their head they think the problem is in
your head headaches are does not the
source of headaches do not come from
your head usually maybe 1% of the time
so one of the first things you want to
do with a headache or a migraine and by
the way a migraine is just the more
severe headache where it can involve
sensitivity to light nauseousness and
vomiting all
right get a hisory find out is there any
patternn involved in these headaches
maybe it's connected to your sinuses
because of the pressure well that's a
pretty no-brainer then this would be the
cause or maybe it's connected to your
menstrual period which every month you
get a headache we just isolated the root
cause or maybe it was after an injury or
after you drank alcohol last night and
had a hangover or when you stopped
drinking caffeine and you got caffeine
withdraws or maybe it was an allergy so
you want to get a history to get a CL of
what's causing these headaches but 90%
of all headaches are coming from the
gallbladder all right if you don't
believe me and you have a headache right
now all you have to do is take your
hands and press over the gallbladder
which is right down here underneath the
right rib cage and just press in and go
in a little bit at this angle and hold
this for 2 minutes if your headaches
clear up then we know it's gallbladder
and this is food related it's many times
when you eat too many nuts or peanut
butter when you try to eat healthier
that will trigger the gallbladder a lot
of times it could be junk food or fatty
foods but that gallbladder triggers a
nerve right underneath your diaphragm
that's called the frenic nerve that goes
right up through to the right shoulder
and up to the head and also the
gallbladder Meridian in Chinese medicine
goes all the way up to the top of your
head all the way through here but it
also goes on the left side too depending
on if you have a digestive issue so 9 %
of the time it's going to be gallbladder
related and you just need to change your
eating 5% of the time it's going to be
coming from a nerve pinch in your neck
of course when you go to the
chiropractor when you get adjusted and
align that neck and he it goes away we
know it's coming from a pinch nerve but
let's say it keeps coming back over and
over and over then we know there's some
other cause um I personally had
headaches for 12 years and I didn't know
what they were until I found out out it
was my gallbladder it wasn't my neck
because I had probably thousand
adjustments and it just kept coming back
over and over and over and over so when
you try to solve the wrong problem and
it keeps coming back then we have the
wrong problem okay 2% of the time it's
the sinuses right well that's pretty
easy because you have a sinus congestion
it could be back into the the staan
tubes back in the back of the throat up
to the ears and that pressure will
definitely cause a
headache and um then you would just want
to do things to help your sinuses like
to recommend the the kale Shake in the
morning because of the high vitamin A
you can go to my website and download
the recipe also you can do consume
radishes radishes are really good to
pull mucus out of the body and the
sinuses and that will clear up the
sinuses um and then we have the
menstrual cycle so if you get a headache
that time of the month then we need to
support the ovaries with some type of
natural remedy to help the headaches
only 1% of the time is a it going to be
coming from these things right here from
an old injury to the head that could be
the source of a headache um a tumor
which is very very rare and of course if
youve exhausted all the most common ones
then you can actually get some testing
to see is it really a headache the
problem is I had people I've had people
come in and they've spent thousands and
thousands of dollars with testing when
this is so rare to look for a tumor and
they never found anything it's just a
waste of money if you do something very
simple and you rule out the cause of it
you saved a lot of money okay infection
menitis if you have a fever and you feel
tired it could be an infection causing
your headaches don't rule that out
that's especially if you have a skin
reaction on on your body and it could be
an allergy to something it could be a
food allergy I've had people have
headaches after eating gluten which is
the protein and wheat or maybe milk or
some other allergy that can be causing
triggering the headache so that's mainly
going to be food related or it could be
envir seasonal uh related um caffeine
withdrawal we talked about that or a
hangover so that's the order of sequence
of most common to least uh common causes
of headaches I hope this helped if it's
helped you please make a comment below
on this video and I'll see you in the
next
video
