so today I want to talk about what is
menopause really well it's simply a
situation where you're running out of
eggs
a woman has about 400 eggs and every
month the egg gets released right around
age 51 maybe a little bit earlier a
little bit later you ran out of that
last egg you're done no more
menstruation
no more pregnancy it's time to party
right well then comes the hot flashes
the vaginal dryness the vaginal atrophy
mood changes weight gain loss of libido
bone loss and atrophy so just when you
thought things are gonna be great you
got all these things to deal with so
what actually is happening is you're
getting a shift in hormones and there's
three hormones that are involved you
have estrogen testosterone and
progesterone and these are not accurate
but I'm just gonna show you the pattern
typically before menopause versus after
you're gonna have a drop of estrogen
about 50 maybe 40 to 50 percent
testosterone is gonna drop about 50
percent but check this out progesterone
is gonna drop between 70 and 90 percent
so progesterone is the one that really
crashes and burns progesterone counters
and buffers estrogen they work together
so forgetting this massive drop in
progesterone versus estrogen we have
this ratio that's out of balance it's
going to make estrogen
appear dominant in the body and this is
why you have some of the symptoms right
here because it's estrogen dominance
when in reality it is lower but this is
the one that actually makes it appear to
be high in the body and creates a lot of
problems now the other thing you have to
realize is that you have a backup
mechanism okay a plan B and that's the
adrenals the adrenals actually make
these three hormones too and they're
supposed to act as a backup to the
ovaries and give you the right amount of
these hormones of course you don't need
the same amount of hormones as before
menopause because you're not gonna have
baby but
here's the issue if these adrenals are
weak going into menopause and they're
not able to back up the ovaries
appropriately you're going to start
seeing problems with these hormones
because you're going to be deficient and
you can start experiencing these
symptoms right here happens all the time
in fact 70 percent of women after
menopause develop hot flashes so in
reality all these symptoms are not
normal but if the adrenals are weak
that's when you really have the big
problems so what you really need to do
is support the adrenals before menopause
and try to keep your stress as low as
possible that's gonna probably help you
more than anything
estrogen not only comes from the ovary
and from the adrenals it comes from your
own fat so depending on how much weight
you're gonna have you're gonna have
certain levels of estrogen so this could
literally just go down slightly
maybe down maybe I know 30% maybe even
20% making this difference here this
ratio even worse so the real situation
is this the adrenals are just not
backing up these ovaries right here so
number one support the adrenals before
menopause but some of you watching are
actually after menopause so what do you
do in that situation well you do not go
on a low-fat diet do not lower your
dietary cholesterol why because all of
these hormones are made out of
cholesterol that's the precursor so if
you actually go on a low-fat diet low
cholesterol diet you are going to
negatively influence these hormones
alright number three counter high
cortisol because the adrenals are acting
to support the ovaries you're gonna get
a spike in cortisol okay that's spike in
cortisol it's very damaging for in
several ways one is it destroys your
bone that's why women after menopause
sometimes develop osteopenia and even
osteoporosis and they get atrophy it
looks like cellulite but it's really a
loss of muscle which you're getting this
atrophy or loose muscle tissue and look
like it's all fat but it's not it's just
basically a loss of muscle tissue and
it's kind of sagging in the body that is
thanks to cortisol cortisol also affects
the sleep cycle and it also releases
stored sugar so it raises insulin it
turns your own body proteins especially
the thigh and the leg muscles and your
butt muscles into glucose which then
triggers insulin this is why after
menopause it's very difficult because of
the darn cortisol that's raising the
insulin so I put some links down below
on all sorts of things you can do to
support the adrenals but you definitely
need to get on healthy keto and in a
minute fasting to keep the insulin in
check that's your best bet for helping
you lose weight and also helping you
correct a very slow metabolism number
form it would make sense to do something
to beef up no pun intended your
progesterone
wild yam cream is a really good remedy
there's others but I recommend the wild
yam cream for that and that way this
will push this up and help you reduce
some of these right here now because
your estrogen is a little bit higher and
that could be damaging because it's not
being opposed by the progesterone
effectively I would recommend consuming
more cruciferous vegetables just to keep
that estrogen in check cruciferous
vegetables seek help in something called
dim which is basically concentrated
cruciferous all can help to balance
these three estrogens and give you more
of a good estrogen and less of the bad
so it's more protective against things
like breast cancer things like that and
lastly vitamin E a lot of the vitamin E
is stored in the pituitary gland that
actually controls the adrenal and
controls the ovary and so vitamin E
drops significantly after menopause so
if you actually take enough vitamin E in
the correct type which I'm going to tell
you in a second you can support the
adrenals and the ovaries
and minimize a lot of these symptoms
right here the type of vitamin E that I
would recommend is not a synthetic
version I would get the natural to call
mix with something called tocotrienols
okay tocotrienols you can look it up and
get them in a whole food blend and that
can really support your pituitary and
really help you reduce these symptoms
right here all right check out the other
videos I have on the screen to give you
even more things you can do for
menopause thanks for watching
