I want to talk about some interesting
things related to an Alzheimer's brain
what is the essence of Alzheimer's well
the brain is composed of neurons okay
and you have these little synapse or gap
between these neurons which the
communication travels through here you
have certain electrical impulses that
occur now the interesting thing about
the brain is it only represents 2% of
all the tissues but it takes up 20% of
all the fuel so it's a fuel hog yet it's
not like pumping like your heart is or
your muscles again it's not contracting
it's just sitting there it's not like
the kidney where it's filtering blood or
the liver that's doing all these
metabolic things so really what it's
doing it's taking chemistry and
converting it into electrical energy and
send signals and information throughout
different parts of the brain to create
different effects throughout the entire
body so it's an electrical organ so the
essence of Alzheimer's is basically
atrophy shrinkage of the neuron and
you're losing the synapses so if we look
a little bit further we find out the
reason why is because they're starving
to death okay they're starving of low
glucose which is their fuel so basically
that's what Alzheimer's is and we also
have other things going on we have some
plaquing going on it's a protein plaque
we have glycation which is another type
of sticky protein that's plugging things
up and we also have a loss of oxygen now
the oxygen your brain is mostly used for
the oxidation of glucose and this is
mainly why you need a lot of oxygen
there are certain tests that can be done
to measure the brains consumption of
oxygen and the consumption of glucose
now if you wanted to check the
metabolism of glucose you would want to
just check the cerebral metabolic rate
and there's a test that you can do you
can check with your doctor maybe they
can do that because here's the thing
Alzheimer's starts like in your 20s or
30s and it starts out
completely asymptomatic there are no
symptoms at all yet you're having a
problem with your metabolic rate of
glucose okay and oxygen and there's
certain parts of the brain that are
affected more than others the most
common area of the brain that's affected
is the hippocampus this is part of the
brain that controls that like it's like
the relay switch into your database so
if you have damage in the hippocampus
you're gonna have a problem with memory
and learning and spatial memory trying
to find out where you parked in the
parking lot or where did you put your
keys so many people develop memory
problems early on they don't realize
that it could be the start of this
condition now another interesting thing
about the brain of Alzheimer's is that
in the brain you have low insulin but
outside the brain in the periphery you
have high insulin so obviously you also
have high blood glucose that's outside
the brain but inside the brain
specifically in the neurons it's going
to be low so everything is opposite and
I think you already know this but they
always talk about diabetes being
associated with Alzheimer's like their
cousin diseases and they both seem to
share things in common like insulin
resistance now that's all very
interesting but now what can we do with
that information okay let's say for
example you have Alzheimer's or you have
a loved one that has Alzheimer's or you
want to prevent it well there's a couple
of very important things you need to
know and that is this if your insulin is
high outside your body which most of the
time it's going to be if you're
consuming the regular diet that most
people consume you're not going to be
able to run the brain on the alternative
fuel that your brain loves that actually
will increase the oxygen that will
improve the neurogenesis or the
generation of neurons that will improve
the antioxidants which will also lessen
the inflammation and improve the
cognition but
can't run on ketones as an alternative
feel if the insulin is too high and if
the glucose is too high so this is the
problem you're stuck with glucose but
the problem is you can't absorb it
because the whole mechanism is broken
okay so this is what you need to do to
prevent it and also to lessen the
symptoms if you have it ketones you want
to start running the brain on ketones
ketones have the ability to bypass this
damage absorptive mechanism and feed the
neurons directly and start to improve
this area right here the other thing
that's pretty dramatic if you're
starting to get dementia or you have
Alzheimer's is to actually start taking
ketones directly okay and you can take
them as exhaustion as ketones or MCT oil
in addition to doing in a minute fasting
if you're new to my channel click the
link down below and you can learn more
about it but those are the things that
you need to really focus on to really
start to undo some of this damage now
there is a point of no return and if you
do research on the associations for
Alzheimer's there's no known cause
there's no known cure you can't do
anything we're still doing research well
I just want let you know there is some
good research out there that you can't
improve this I put some links down below
thanks for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
