today I have a very interesting topic
and we're gonna answer the question why
does gastric bypass reverse not just
diabetes by 83% okay in a very short
period of time but many other diseases
like central obesity hypertension by 63
percent high cholesterol by 61 percent
kidney dysfunction fatty liver PCOS
sleep apnea decreased risk of stroke
certain types of cancer by 70 percent
atherosclerosis cardiovascular disease
pseudotumor cerebri which is basically
severe headaches
there's feel like there's a tumor in
your skull it's all this pressure but
there's no tumor gird with it which is a
digestive issue joint pain and
retinopathy a problem with your I now
realize I'm not recommending this
procedure I'm going to tell you why
because it has some slight minor
complications the side effects
malabsorption syndrome vitamin mineral
deficiencies like b1 deficiency which
could then give you peripheral
neuropathy it also creates mineral
deficiencies like iron and calcium
protein deficiencies certain amino acids
don't get absorb increase your risk of
getting infection death in certain cases
and kidney stones other than that you're
perfectly fine basically it handles
metabolic syndrome now I've been talking
about this for a long time well now I
found the most amazing study that backs
it up and you got to check it out I'll
put the link down below it's entitled
hyperinsulinemic syndrome the metabolic
syndrome is broader than you think now
what is it about gastric bypass that can
lower insulin well when you get the
surgery done they alter part of your
small intestine the part that stimulates
insulin when you eat so let's say for
example you eat food that is not
carbohydrate okay you're just eating
some protein vegetables and a little fat
the fact that you're eating will trigger
something in your small intestine and
raise insulin okay
and then another situation you can just
eat carbs that will increase insulin but
if you no longer have the mechanism that
triggers insulin when you're eating
you're gonna greatly reduce insulin
you're gonna hand these other problems
but it's much safer to do this naturally
so you don't have to surgically go
through this and have to risk a lot of
these side effects right here all you
have to do is get on healthy keto and in
a minute fasting for those of you that
are new to my channel I put a link down
below for those of you that already have
been watching my videos you already know
about this you've already experienced
most of these right here so check out
this amazing article I think you're
going to enjoy it so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
