hi guys Dr Berg here I had another
question about uh can I cycle my
carbohydrates on a keto diet can I add
these carbohydrates certain times every
so often to try to somehow help the
depletion of the glycogen or whatever
reason that they're trying to do so
that's a good question well first of all
you need to know that your liver makes
carbohydrates it can make glucose out of
your own fat and your own protein in
your diet so you really don't need any
carbohydrates and when you second point
is when you mix carbohydrates into a
keto program you basically block keto
the way you get into keto is by avoiding
carbohydrates or fasting which is also
avoiding carbohydrates these two things
will get you into ketosis so the point
is that um people have this idea that
they somehow need it it's going to
create a problem if they don't have
carbohydrates you don't you need the
vitamins and minerals from certain
carbohydrates like vegetables but you
don't need the actual glucose it doesn't
do you any good but overall the bigger
goal is to build a health Reserve so
high that you can afford an occasional
deviation from your healthy eating plan
okay so I'm not saying you can never do
it it's just that once you get to a
state of where your body is so healthy
and you done so well you can afford to
go off because you know how to get back
on and that temporary deviation will not
dip your health down at all it will
barely create any negative effects okay
so that way yes you can go off the
program temporarily because you know you
have a big Reserve all right thanks for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press this little button down
below okay thanks
