so today we're going to talk about
tocotrienols now what are they they're
they're part of the vitamin E complex in
nature
vitamin E has about eight different
parts to it okay half of it is to cough
roles and half of it is something called
tocotrienols and the different names of
tocopherols would be alpha beta gamma
and delta same thing with tocotrienols
alpha beta gamma delta okay
the Greek word for tocotrienols comes
from tacos offspring
furro to bear to bear children because
of its effect on fertility okay because
if you're deficient in vitamin E
specifically this part you're gonna
become infertile ninety-five percent of
the studies done in vitamin E run to
corals not on tocotrienols okay and this
is why in the news you see this
interesting data about high doses of
vitamin E increasing your risk of
all-cause mortality basically telling
you stay away from this because it's
gonna kill you well what they didn't
tell you was that they're using high
doses of synthetic vitamin E which is
alpha tocopheryl they're not using the
natural source they're not even using
tocotrienols now this data they use
based on this quite amazing book called
tocotrienols vitamin e beyond to cough
Rawls okay this is all the research done
on tocotrienols it's quite utterly
amazing so I'll touch on this in a
little bit but I wanted to cover a
couple things tocotrienols has some very
powerful properties that decoff Rawls
does not have number one it has neural
protective factors it helps protect the
nervous system and the brain against
oxidative damage number two it has anti
cholesterol properties in fact decoff
Rahl has even been shown to increase
cholesterol whereas tocotrienols
actually can help lower cholesterol it
also has other benefits like
cardiovascular benefits it makes the
arteries
less stiff it helps make your liver or
less fatty improves the skin and
improves hair growth prevents sterility
and it also protects against stroke now
I'm going to show you something in this
book just quite interesting back in the
30s the shoot brothers which they had a
huge clinic there medical doctors and
this is based on 30,000 patients okay
and they were they were mainly studying
vitamin E back then and I want to just
kind of go through the benefits that
they mentioned from vitamin E and I'm
talking about the whole complex
19:36 improvements in angina its chest
pain okay 1940 fibroids endometriosis
atherosclerosis 1945 hemorrhages in the
skin mucous membranes and decreased
requirement for insulin interesting 1947
therapy for gangrene because gangrene
usually comes from necrosis or breakdown
of the tissue from diabetes because
you're having this oxidative stress
affecting the circulation so because
vitamin E is such a powerful antioxidant
it has the potential as a therapy for
gangrene 1948 lupus shortness of breath
1950 varicose vein benefits severe burn
benefits but I want to read you
something else because they were highly
criticized by mainstream medicine back
then and I want to just read a little
quote it says it was nearly impossible
now for anyone who valued his future in
academia - in spouse that means support
vitamin E prescribed it or advise it
that would make a man a quack at once
this situation lasted for many years no
amount of documentation could budge
medical men from the Stan's literature
and the positive was ignored and left
unread individual doctors often said if
it was as good as you say we would all
be using it okay so this is what they're
up against of course we're still up
against that but the benefits of tea
the complete complex are immense
anti-cancer properties anti-cholesterol
very powerful antioxidant properties
tocotrienols are 50 times stronger than
to cough Rahl's especially when you're
dealing with the oxidation of iron in
the body it creates immune improvements
as anti-tumor sports the cardiovascular
system antimicrobial and the list goes
on and on all right guys so what foods
are high in vitamin E of course the nuts
the seeds fish egg yolk and especially
leafy green lettuce and other vegetables
alright see you later
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
