so why would your systolic pressure be
higher than your diastolic well there's
a condition for that called isolated
systolic hypertension normally the blood
pressure is 120 over 80
that top number is the systolic which is
the measurement of the contraction of
the heart and the diastolic which is the
relaxation phase so this condition is
defined as the top number systolic going
above 130 but sometimes you see it
actually really high like 160 or 180
this is the most common type of
hypertension over the age of 65 reported
by the Mayo Clinic the question is what
causes this well if you do Google
researches you'll see that it could be
anemia hyperthyroid diabetes but you
won't find high cortisol unless you dig
into other references like this book
right here
which is the simple collection of
medical illustrations volume 4 endocrine
system page 86 and this is under the
section of a condition where you have
high cortisol I'm going to read this to
you
cortisol may be responsible for the
moderate hypertension which is
characteristically more of the systolic
type first gradually becoming diastolic
now this information is very difficult
to find if you just do a general search
on high systolic blood pressure but if
you type in high cortisol and blood
pressure then you get a lot more
information but but you have to know the
link between the two before you even
knew to research it so what's up with
this high cortisol well first of all it
causes significant sodium retention and
it also creates significant potassium
suppression anytime you suppress
potassium you can start getting a high
blood pressure just from that alone and
you can also affect the sympathetic
nervous system which is part of the
nervous system that controls this this
is sympathetic
this is parasympathetic that's another
potential relationship there but also
high cortisol will cause suppression of
nitric oxide nitric oxide is a natural
thing that our cells produce as a
vasodilator
to relax the blood vessels to reduce
blood pressure yeah so cortisol
suppresses that now in addition to that
you can also consume certain foods that
are high in nitric oxide like beets
garlic meat and dark leafy green
vegetables so here are a few things you
can try start taking more vitamin D and
I'm talking about at least 20,000 I use
a vitamin D of course when you take that
much you also want to take 200
micrograms of vitamin k2 you always want
to take those together but here's the
thing vitamin D is one of the most
magical things to reduce blood pressure
and the relationship between vitamin D
and high cortisol is this anytime you
see people with high core so you usually
always see them with a vitamin D
deficiency and when you actually take
vitamin D you can actually help to lower
cortisol so that is the relationship
there and I think the reason for that is
that vitamin D is not really a vitamin
it's a hormone that acts like cortisol
in the body just to a certain extent it
gets rid of inflammation it's really
helpful in autoimmune conditions but
it's definitely helpful in hypertension
the other thing that I would recommend
is start taking potassium and start
consuming more leafy greens to get more
potassium and nitric oxide I think that
alone might greatly help you alright go
ahead and try it and put your comments
down below
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
