hey guys have another video for you on
kidney stones a really really good
remedy if you're susceptible to getting
stones or if you have a stone this is
what I would recommend is called
ip6 it's a combination between inositol
which is a type of B vitamin and
phosphorus and this compound is really
something called phytic acid so this
compound has the capacity to prevent the
crystallization of calcium oxalate and
calcium phosphate now it does a lot of
other things and I'm gonna do another
video specifically on this because it's
quite amazing but I'll put some links
down below of what it can do for actual
kidney stones now in addition to this
I'm definitely recommend that you do a
low carb diet simply because high
amounts of carbohydrates in the diet can
increase stone formation a moderate
amount of protein okay we don't want too
much we just want moderate large amounts
of vegetables and this also will give
you more phytic acid okay which will
help so you want to avoid spinach
chocolate and peanuts which are high in
oxalates and vitamin C now there's
conflicting data and vitamin C in the
formation of kidney stone but vitamin C
binds with calcium preventing the
calcium from forming with oxalates okay
so I'll put a link down below if you
want to research even more on that but
it's a myth that taking vitamin C will
cause a kidney stone okay
vitamin C will help prevent a kidney
stone and increase your fluids now again
within reason drink more than you would
normally but don't drink too much and
also you can add electrolytes especially
if you're sedentary you want to drink
more fluids because when you're sitting
there and you're not drinking a lot of
fluids things can settle in grow if the
environment is just right but if you do
all of these things I think it'll help
you lemon water would be very very
beneficial because lemon will help
counter some of these formations of the
oxalate stones vitamin b6 which you can
get in just a healthy diet is very
important in preventing stone formation
and increase calcium foods like in
grass-fed dairy now you would think
consuming more calcium would end up with
more stone
but it's just the reverse taking more
dietary calcium through your digestive
system well you'll end up with less in
your kidney very counterintuitive but
it's very important the only type of
calcium I'd recommend if you're going to
take it as a supplement would be
something called calcium or at 8 now
another interesting phenomena that
occurs right before someone as a kidney
stone is many times they'll get a cramp
in their calf like they'll point their
toe on one leg and just it'll start
cramping up like crazy sometimes the way
come out of bed so one of the theories
that I have on why you might get that
cramping is because it's a calcium
deficiency it could be a magnesium
deficiency but it's probably a calcium
deficiency because when one part of the
body is deficient in calcium the other
part tends to retain it as a stone in
your kidney and then we have magnesium
which is very important to counter a
kidney oxalate stone but if you're
consuming a lot of vegetables you're
getting all your magnesium alright so
there you have it so go ahead and
comment below and tell me what you think
hey guys I had a quick question I'm
thinking about doing a keto summit in
Washington do you see this fall and the
reason I want to do in the fall that's
my favorite time of the year where the
leaves are falling it's going to be
gorgeous in Washington DC and I wanted
to know if you would be interested in
coming out so this will have a chance to
meet you
and cover the entire subject of keto and
in a minute fasting so I haven't
formulated all the details yet but I
just wanted to find out if you'd be
interested I put a link down below let
me know
