hey guys today we're gonna talk about
your cholesterol spiking when you're
doing keto and in a minute fasting okay
why is it going up should you be
concerned a couple things you need to
know your body makes cholesterol it
makes a lot seventy-five percent of all
the cholesterol that's in your body is
made by your body only 25% of the
cluster on your body comes from your
diet okay so there's a huge feedback
loop from your body's production of
cholesterol and the dietary cholesterol
coming in in other words when you eat
more cholesterol foods your body doesn't
make as much when you don't need as much
cholesterol your body makes more but we
have to realize is that your body does
make cholesterol and it's there for a
purpose mainly two purposes number one
for structural purposes cholesterol is
needed for every single cellular
membrane in your body 90% of the
cholesterol in your body is in your cell
membranes okay we need that vital also
cholesterol is needed to make vitamin D
and bile and steroid hormones like
cortisol testosterone estrogen those are
sex hormones and they're also called
steroid hormones alright let's go to the
second topic fasting when you fast
believe it or not your cholesterol will
go up now that's weird why would your
cholesterol go up when you do fasting
you're not eating any fat right well
guess what you're you've already tapped
out your glycogen Reserve now you're
tapping into the fat reserve and guess
what's in the fat that has the major
storage of triglycerides and it is the
largest storage of free cholesterol
now triglycerides are used for energy
cholesterol is not used for energy you
can't burn up your cholesterol so where
is it gonna go well it's gonna use be
used for repair and/or it's gonna go
through the liver and out through the
body the bile production which should
increase when you eat more fat should
start breaking down this cholesterol and
then have it exit the body so you're
just gonna get rid of the excess
cholesterol so fasting in general will
increase your cholesterol which is not a
bad thing and I'll get to that in a
second all right number three keto now
what are you doing when you're doing
keto you're actually burning your fat
reserves okay that's why the combination
of both of these may temporarily
increase your cholesterol until you you
know reduce all this fat to a normal
amount that you're happy with and
another thing that's interesting
if fasting increases cholesterol then
why would you want to fast before a
cholesterol test that would kind of make
it inaccurate wouldn't it I mean an
average person pretty much spends most
of their day eating and in fact there's
not a lot of tests that I know that are
being done to evaluate what happens to
your cholesterol after you eat it's
always in a fasting state which is
interesting so if you're checking your
cholesterol and it's high potentially it
could be because you're fasting now what
is the most important test that you can
do to really make sure that you're not
going to end up in trouble with
cardiovascular disease it's called
remnant cholesterol it's a way better
indicator than so called LDL the remnant
cholesterol is basically what's left
over from cholesterol once you've - the
HDL and the LDL and by the way HDL and
LDL they're not it's not cholesterol
it's certain cargo ships or boats that
are carrying cholesterol so what you're
going to do is you take your total
cholesterol - the HDL and the LDL and
that will give your remnant cholesterol
okay and here is the rating system if
you're seventeen or less its optimum
okay if it's between 18 and 23 you're
okay if it's 24 to 29 it's concerning
and if it's greater than 30 it's very
concerning the only way that it's going
to be in these two categories is if
you're consuming refined carbs or sugar
or you're doing something to increase
insulin okay
if you keep your insulin low even though
your cholesterol might be high or even
the LDL might be high you'll have low
remnant cholesterol why because your
body is using the Turkish rides in the
fat and it's mobilizing cholesterol
through the body and it's coming out and
there's not a lot of remnant left so use
the scale as a better indicator to know
if you're in the safe zone alright guys
thanks for watching so if you're
enjoying this content go ahead and share
it with someone that could really
benefit from it
