you want to drink one cup of turmeric
water every single night or morning for
amazing benefits the active compound in
turmeric is called curcumin and there is
some serious research on this one
compound that you need to know about but
before you follow any of the advice I'm
going to share with you obviously check
with your doctor to get you know an okay
especially if you're on medications
because you can't always come off
certain medications you know cold turkey
the first thing I want to talk about is
nids like ibuprofen and and aspirin in
one study curcumin was just as effective
as ibuprofen in reducing pain from
arthritis but without the side effects
curcumin also showed some similar
benefits to aspirin which is quite
amazing because the problem with Aspirin
is it can burn a hole in your stomach
let's get to number two cortical
steroids like prednizone I used to take
this for poison ivy every single year
until it eventually stopped working
cumin in one study showed terrible
results to prazone in reducing
inflammation for rheumatoidarthritis
asthma and irritable bowel disease
number three curcumin showed
anti-depressant effects similar to proac
and zolof in reducing symptoms of
depression apparently the theory is that
it increases serotonin and dopamine very
similar to the ssris number four
curcumin has anti-diabetic properties
some studies shows that curcumin can
have similar effects to metformin in
supporting blood sugar control in type 2
diabetes as you may or may not know
there's a black warning label on
Metformin because one of the dangerous
side effects is called lactic acidosis
so just maybe curcumin in turmeric might
be a possible substitute then we get to
number five anti-coagulants these are
the things that thin the blood the
anti-coagulation or anti- clotting
factors in cumin are similar to warin
and aspirin this could be used as a
substitute especially if for some reason
they can't take certain medications
number six statins in certain studies
which I'll list down below in the
description cumin showed a decrease in
LDL cholesterol and triglycerides as
well as creating a positive effect on
the endothelial layer of the inside of
the artery which is given more of a
protective effect because the way that
satins work is they just basically block
cholesterol C cumin instead Works a
different way it basically helps you
optimize your lipids number seven
chemotherapy so there's a drug called
five flu uril and this is a chemotherapy
drug there was a study comparing
curcumin to this drug so apparently
curcumin has some effects of slowing
down or inhibiting the growth of certain
cancer cells while at the same time
protecting the normal cells number eight
anti-inflammatory drugs especially for
irritable bowel disease cumin was shown
to decrease the side effects from both
Crohn's and ulcerative colitis in a
comparable fashion to a drug called
mesalamine number nine hypertensive
drugs curcumin pretty potent effects on
the endothelial layer on the inside of
the artery creating a significant
decrease in stiffness in the artery as
well as lowering the blood pressure and
number 10 curcumin has a pretty potent
antifungal effect collectively that's an
antimicrobial effect it can inhibit
certain pathogens especially fungi while
the effect of C cumin is not an actual
substitute it can actually potentially
help or enhance the effects of other
drugs with lessening the side effects
especially when you get into someone
taking antifungals or antibiotics that
then create resistance now these
microbes become super bugs and they're
almost impossible to destroy now the
question is when would you want to take
your cumin in the morning or at night or
before a meal well it depends what kind
of problems you have if you have more
arth rtis I would recommend taking this
drink in the morning if you have more
digestive problems I recommend you take
this right before you eat if you have
more problems with other issues like
anxiety or sleep related then take it
right before you go to bed so if you
want to increase the bioavalability take
it with some fat or with a meal or you
can take it with black pepper and this
is because curcumin has poor
bioavailability when you take turmeric
you only get very very tiny amounts of
this curcumin because if you take a look
at nature what curcumin really is it is
a pesticide and it also has other
properties to protect the plant from UV
radiation so when we take it ourselves
we could piggyback on all of the
different effects and the effectiveness
is going to start on your digestive
tract okay and then you're going to
absorb some of it the microbes even
consume some of it and then they create
additional compounds that help you in
many different ways one being reducing
inflammation this is why it's so good
for inflammation in your gut another
thing it'll do it'll
increase several strains of the
beneficial bacteria while also
inhibiting some of the pathogenic
bacteria which is pretty wild some of
the mistakes that people make taking way
too much or they might take it but
without the black pepper black pepper
helps the absorption by 2,000% what you
want to do is you want to take a glass
of water warm water okay and you want to
put about half of a teaspoon of turmeric
powder in the water and then you want to
take your black pepper take a little
pinch of it put that in the water mix it
into it with a half of a lemon you just
drink it down it's slightly warm it's
not boiled and then experience the
benefits another way to take it is
through making this what's called Golden
milk so you're going to mix a half of a
teaspoon of turmeric in either milk or
coconut milk I would recommend coconut
milk that seems to be pretty delicious
then you're going to add a four of a
teaspoon of cinnamon a little pinch of
pepper and you're going to heat this up
not to a boil but just before a boil and
you're going to sip it it makes a
wonderful drink and this is the one that
I probably would recommend before a bed
now another way you can take this is
with a smoothie a half of a teaspoon of
turmeric with a cup of kefir I'd
recommend like sheep kefir if you can
find it or even goats milk kefir
grass-fed and then you take a half of a
cup of blueberries you put it in a
blender and you blend it and you have a
wonderful drink now another way you can
take turmeric and this is mainly if you
have a sore throat or you have this
cough that you just can't get rid of
it's for the immune system you take a
half of a cup of hot water okay because
you want to have it hot but not to the
point where you boil the water but just
make it really hot and with this one
you're going to add a level teaspoon of
turmeric and then a tablespoon of raw
honey and you're going to kind of
dissolve as much as you can in this hot
water and then you're going to slug that
down once or twice a day your throat is
going to feel wonderful and again if you
have more arthritis inflammation take it
in the morning so that way all day you
have less inflammation or if you have
other problems definitely sleep stress
other issues that not related to
inflammation you can take that before
you go to bed but also remember if you
have digestive issues take it right
before you eat it will help prevent
bloating as well now if you haven't seen
my other video on turmeric you should
check it out I put it up right right
here
