hey guys have a very quick video for you
someone had a question what determines
Kido side-effects
some people have serious key to fatigue
keto rash other people don't
okay other people go right into this and
they have no problems they feel great
they adapt fast and no problems okay so
what determines whether you're gonna
have the side effects or not is the
amount of nutritional deficiencies in
your body when you start keyed out or
eating them and fasting if you spent
your whole life eating junk or sugar and
you are low in two main categories B
vitamins and minerals chances are you
are going to have side effects you're
gonna have key to fatigue you're going
to have blood sugar issues you're going
to have mood issues so if you're going
to start ketone in the fasting just
simply add more minerals and B vitamins
in the form of nutritional yeast and the
chances of you having the side effects
are very small all right I'm done the
end
hey if you like helping people as much
as I do press the share button and let's
get this information way out there
