hi guys listen I had another question
about organ meats can I consume organ
Meats okay so I'm going to talk about
that uh the first thing you need to know
is that um always have grass-fed organ
Meats from maybe U the farmers market
something that you know is really really
healthy never consume just regular organ
meats that you would get at the grocery
store unless it's grass-fed simply
because the amount of toxic waste that
can accumulate especially in the liver
okay that being said I have never
consumed organ Meats except for some
liver I was forced to consume as a child
and I just didn't like the taste but I
think I do want to start consuming some
organ Meats I just have no recipes at
this time but I want to try to maybe
take a combination grind them up and put
them hide them in my hamburger maybe
like 15 to 20% of it and make a
hamburger just because I know the
benefits now you talk about nutrient
density Foods um organ Meats have way
more nutrition than vegetables or even
sprouted vegetables even sprouted
cruciferous vegetables so organ Meats
have the most nutrition of any food that
you can eat I mean look at liver iron
B12 vitamin A the active form massive
amounts folate choline zinc methionine
which is a great amino acid and it acts
as a precursor for a lot of very
powerful antioxidants for your liver
selenium I mean it's really amazing
that's just a small fraction of
nutrients the kidney has loaded with
selenium and b12 brain has omega-3
specifically DHA which is a very
powerful um healthy fatty acid that
helps regenerate the brain tissue and it
it's like the raw material that the
brain needs again B12 vitamin
C the heart co-enzyme Q10 that's a very
powerful antioxidant that your cells
need to make energy you can get a lot of
energy from co-enzyme Q10 and believe it
or not consuming heart has that in it
and I know there's different recipes
that you can make it taste really good
it's really hard to find a dog food that
does it's not loaded with grains the
other day I was I went to this I won't
even mention the grocery store name I
went in there to get some dog food first
ingredient corn that's gml corn and you
know it's probably 80% corn so I went to
another um store uh pet store and I
found some dog food that has organ Meats
so I was really excited about that it's
like the whole the whole animal the
whole fish the organ Meats everything so
my dog loves that food it is expensive
it's like $90 per 25 lbs compared to the
$20 one but um we're trying it out uh
but he loves it in the morning he just
can't wait to get it but yeah uh dogs
can they love organ Meats there's a lot
of nutrition in there and uh you don't
want to necessarily give your dogs uh
grains so I wouldn't recommend giving
your dogs grains uh try to find uh food
that is less grains and more what
they're designed to consume all right
let me know what you think put your
comments below hi guys Hey listen I
created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
