so let's bring up the question is it
actually possible to gain weight on
fruits and vegetables
well it really depends on the amount
that you're consuming and the frequency
but if we talk about vegetables
it's very likely you're going to ever
gain weight in vegetables now you might
be thinking a potato right because
that's a vegetable well I'm not talking
about potatoes of course you're going to
gain weight on potatoes especially if
you cook them because the more you cook
them the more sugar that's released and
that's going to create a problem with
blood sugars but if you just take
vegetables in general leafy greens I
mean think about this seven cups
of a salad for example
with other mixed vegetables would only
give you
10.8 carbs
that is an incredibly low amount of
carbs
but seven grams of that is fiber so
we're really only getting 3.8 net carbs
extremely low
very low sugar
mostly fiber so you just can't gain
weight on this because the fiber doesn't
affect insulin only the carbs so the
situation is we have so much bulk and
fiber you wouldn't be able to eat that
much to get that many carbs in to gain
weight I mean we're talking about seven
cups right here and that's only 10 grams
so you're not going to gain weight on
vegetables okay now you may get bloating
or fluid retention which could result in
weight gain not fat gain so if you're
not used to consuming vegetables and you
all of a sudden gain weight realize
that's a digestive issue you want to
back off you could have a problem with
an overgrowth of bacteria in your small
intestine that's called sibo watch my
videos on that if you have that but the
point is that that's a different
situation it's not actual fat gain it's
water retention and all you have to do
is cut back your vegetables and switch
them to other things I have tons of
videos on that I'll put the link down
below
so the question is what about fruits
okay can you gain weight on fruits and
the answer is absolutely but it's also
dependent on the amount that you eat and
the frequency if you're snacking on
fruits like I was about five years ago
between meals I actually went up to 211
pounds okay
211. I just cut out the fruit and went
right down to 180. so I have personal
experience that fruit definitely can
cause weight gain now in the past they
had something called wild watermelon you
can see a picture of it right here
completely different carbohydrate and
sugar levels they had wild banana
check that out
wild carrot completely different than
the carrots you see now
wild corn very low in carbohydrate in
the past and then a wild Peach
completely different than the peaches
you see now then you have the wild Apple
which is the crab apple which are very
tart not very sweet they don't have a
lot of fructose and I had a tree in my
backyard growing up and you literally
chip your tooth if you chewed into it
because it was so dense with fiber and
so sour it wasn't sweet so over the
years they've changed their fruit they
basically made them sweeter with more
sugar
and that results in more fructose an
apple
contains like 19 grams of sugar that's a
tremendous amount of sugar the problem
is that at least 60 percent of that is
in the form of fructose and fructose
is metabolized differently your liver is
forced to deal with fructose and that
can turn into insulin resistance and it
can make you fat right around the
midsection on a positive note fruits do
have more vitamins and minerals and
phytonutrients and that's great and that
will protect against some of the sugar
but as far as weight gain you're going
to gain weight if you consume too much
fruit especially the apple and the pear
Apple has 60 fructose the Paris 60 melon
has 60 percent now melon does have more
fiber and more water but it is higher in
fructose I mean take a look if we
compare that to actual table sugar
table sugar only has 50 fructose these
fruit have more fructose than actual
table sugar and in nature fruit comes
seasonally so fruit originally was only
at certain times of the year
and it definitely didn't contain the
amount of fructose that it has now so
yes potentially you can gain weight in
Fruit but not on vegetables
thanks for watching
hey if you're liking this content Please
Subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
