hi guys I'm back in this video we're
gonna talk about keto side effects and
how they can reveal a deeper story of
what's going on the body Kino and
intermittent fasting magnify subclinical
deficiencies so let's say you're going
into keto or doing in a minute fasting
and you already have some nutritional
deficiencies well everything's gonna be
magnified because when you dookied out
the demand for certain nutrients goes up
so what we want to do is use the
symptoms to reveal the deeper problem ok
so let's say for example you have nausea
okay your nauseating
that's gallbladder so you may want to
look into other issues that can occur
with a gallbladder problem not just a
stone but just like a bile deficiency
you can start showing signs of
deficiency in vitamin A with your vision
at night when you're driving a vitamin e
k2 vitamin D low and that could happen
because you have a fatty liver so
there's a huge connection between fatty
liver and gallbladder problem ok so
again you want to use this as a clue to
kind of pull the string to see if
there's something deeper ok fatigue is
usually a low vitamin b1 thiamine and
low magnesium these two nutrients act as
a spark plug in your mitochondria so
they help the energy production so over
time if you continue this plan with
these deficiencies and you continue to
have fatigue chances are you'll quit
when the simple solution is supply
nutritional yeast or more vegetables to
satisfy these two things and get your
energy back quick alright so let's say
for example you have keto flu well if
you don't know that keto flu is a
decrease in salt or a sodium deficiency
and let's say for example you take more
potassium okay which is the opposing
mineral you'll exaggerate the symptoms
of this deficiency you'll make it worse
so you have to kind of know what this
symptom means when you're doing keto and
I F let's say you're bloating one
possible reason is because you have SIBO
small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
where the microbes are growing in the
wrong place in the small intestine and
the more vegetables that you add to the
and the more probiotics the worse it
becomes which you need when you have
SIBO is decrease the vegetables don't
take any probiotics and definitely don't
take any per minted products because
they have prebiotics and probiotics
together and then you have to increase
the acidity of your stomach obtained how
to chloride or outside a vinegar take
herbal antibiotics like oregano garlic
for about a month to handle this all
right so the next one
gout symptoms let's say your big toe
hurts so that means you have too much
uric acid well uric acid is a byproduct
of protein so if you're taking too much
protein on this plant and you get gout
and all of a sudden you get on
medication you cover up the symptom but
you never lessen your protein you can
create other issues like it increased a
pneumonia which can lead to all sorts of
toxicity all right so let's say you have
dark urine what does that usually mean
you dehydrated you just need to increase
your fluids add some electrolytes to it
and that will help as well let's say you
get a rash Kito rash potentially that
could be a low b3 I recently did a video
on sub clinical pellagra which is some
of the symptoms of vitamin b3 which is a
rash around your neck or the hands
potentially you could have this and you
go to the doctor and they start taking
all sorts of creams prednisone cream
which is cortisol and then create all
sorts of side effects from there so it's
good to know what causes what let's say
you start getting cramps usually that's
low magnesium and low potassium now if
you don't supply those minerals back
into the body over time you potentially
could develop arrhythmias of the heart
atrial fibrillation and a lot of other
issues because you need these minerals
for proper relaxation and contraction of
your muscles let's say for example you
do keto and you get bleeding gums well
it could be you're consuming no
vegetables okay and you're doing food
that has no vitamin C let's say you're
just doing chicken breast or something
like that and because you don't have the
vitamin C you develop what's called a
subclinical scurvy which is a vitamin C
deficiency and bleeding gums is one of
the symptoms so there's a lot of other
issue
that can occur with vitamin C
deficiencies so this clue will
immediately tell you you need to beef up
your vegetables no pun intended
alright guys thanks for watching I'll
see in the next video so to prevent me
from running at a Content I have a new
survey I want to find out what you are
interested in so please fill it out the
links down below
