I'm Mark mclen I came here in December
1st actually to uh I had a hard time
sleeping at our time finding stuff that
I was not allergic to my body would
react to a whole bunch of stuff gluten
dairy a whole bunch of different
chemicals just starting to wonder what's
going on I ended up actually finding Dr
Berg's website late at night on a popup
ad and I saw before actually but I just
ignored it thinking well just one
another those popup ads and I ended up
clicking on it going through the quiz it
was really late but uh I ended up
clicking and it actually seemed to make
sense next next next and I actually was
going to close it out and I got a pop up
for the free consultation and I like
give it a shot everything they told me
made sense even though I didn't tell
them my symptoms all the way she was
like you have this and this and this and
all seem to make sense and uh really
made sense so I came and signed up for
Dr bgs program and it really helped
change my life it's I've lost 35 pounds
and have been sleeping amazingly have
been eating a lot healthier than I was
before and most of all I've hadn't
haven't had any any uh Cravings at all
for sugar gluten wheat which is usually
I would have sugar and salt Cravings a
lot but with the kale shakes and with
the vinegar drink and cranberry I
haven't had
anything uh I really feel this has been
a definite Improvement in just how I
feel and how I live give me a lot more
Vitality from what I was before I was
always groggy always sleepy and during
the day wide awake at night but now I'm
able to sleep at night and actually have
a lot of energy during the day where I
don't even everyone else is kind of
feeling dag groggy and tired and I'm
just wide awake it's just really
cool
