hey guys so today we're gonna talk about
stents and some of the problems the
cascade effect problems that occur when
you get a stent originally they used
angioplasty which is a procedure where
they're putting a balloon to kind of
mash the plaque and create more space
than your arteries the problem is you
get a condition called restenosis which
is regrowing some of the tissue back so
that's not good so then they developed
something called a stent which is a
metal mesh that goes in the arteries and
holds up the arteries to create more
space well the problem is it still
created this this regrowing of tissue
but not as much but still it was too
high so then they added some drugs to
the stent called a drug-eluting stent
and that helped a little bit but it gave
another side effect which is thrombosis
which is clotting and then they had to
come up with another solution to fix
that which is dual antiplatelet therapy
okay the problem is once you get off
this we still have complications of the
heart more problems so some doctors are
just deciding to leave people on this
therapy indefinitely okay the problem
with that is that your risk for bleeding
increases so let's say for example you
have to get a surgery well that's a
problem because you're not gonna be able
to clot if they cut you open you can
bleed to death or let's say you get in a
car accident and you have this internal
bleeding
you basically bleed to death so it puts
you at risk okay so I see that there's a
need for stents in certain situations
but they are overused I'm gonna put some
links down below just to if you're
considering getting a stent you just
need to know all all the facts on this
so here's the big problem this is not
just a plumbing problem okay this is not
just you eating too much cholesterol
plugging up your arteries there always
is an originating lesion or damaged
artery that starts the cascade effect in
the first place where there's
inflammation this is the originator
right here
you have this inflamed artery okay
then the body comes in to heal it with
cholesterol and calcium and protein as
it's bandaid in the presence of a
nutrient deficiency this is accelerated
so if you're low in vitamin E vitamin C
certain B vitamins and other nutrients
this process is accelerated because
these nutrients actually protect against
oxidation or damage from inflammation
and what's really behind the
inflammation in most cases is high
levels of insulin because the person is
consuming too many carbohydrates not too
much fat but too much sugar and other
things that fall into the carbohydrate
family the other problem is low vitamin
k2 if you don't know about k2 I'm gonna
put a link down below vitamin k2 is an
amazing nutrient that helps keep the
calcium out of the arteries the problem
is the source of vitamin k2 is from
fatty foods so if you're getting the
recommendations to lower your fat
content and then that depletes the
vitamin k2 not to mention being put on a
statin for high cholesterol has a side
effect of increasing instant resistance
and increasing more insulin okay that's
going to worsen the situation so here we
are trying to solve a problem but it
gives you another problem not to mention
you may be put on coumadin which is a
medication to thin the blood and it
blocks vitamin k1 so this means you
can't consume leafy greens the very food
that would give you a lot of these
nutrients so basically you're stuck
between a rock and a hard place because
it's hard to get these nutrients in a
natural good form a whole food form it's
hard to keep insulin down because you're
not getting the correct diet so you
never end up treating the root problem
you're stuck in this patch-up mode
unfortunately so if you're confused if I
just confused you I highly recommend
doing some research or own research on
the relationship between arteries and
insulin okay that would be a good place
to start and inflammation of the
arteries and how insulin can affect that
also vitamin k2 and I also recommend you
get on a healthy ketogenic diet within a
minute fasting that can actually be a
game-changer for you so you have a
chance of minimizing the real cause of
this problem so despite whether you have
a stent or not what we want to do is we
want to prevent another problem all
right so thanks for watching and I hope
I at least increase your awareness on
some other areas that you might want to
dive into doing your own research
All Right see you later hey guys I'm not
sure if you have my app yet dr. Berg app
it's totally free you should download it
okay this is what it looks like you
click it it gives you all sorts of great
resources I have all my youtube videos
on this app okay and it's regularly
uploading the most recent ones all the
YouTube videos are also converted to
audio versions okay so you can use it
when you're walking exercising driving
your car I have a mini course on there
I'll be putting additional courses I
have a lot of recipes on there and this
is new and also PBF resources so there's
various downloads PDFs that you can get
as well and if you wouldn't mind after
you download it check it out give me
your unbiased review and tell me how you
like it I want to know
