hi guys recently I had a person who
wanted to know what causes tremors and
they did not have Parkinson's or some
type of brain degenerative disease they
just had this this tremor on one hand so
I pulled out my trusty
favorite book called sibling collection
of medical illustrations volume 4
endocrinology now in this book I I
mainly have been studying the adrenal
function and other enter congrats but I
recently dove into the pancreas and the
function of insulin which is fascinating
but I wanted to use a credible
physiology book with lots of pictures
because I think about physiology it
doesn't keep changing they know how the
body works and there might be some minor
things over the years that have been
evolved or tweaked but typically it's an
unchanging science but here's what it
talks about in this book and here's what
I found one of the causes of tremors is
neuronal irritability which makes a lot
of sense because if you irritate the
nervous system you're going to create a
tremor effect now what causes this is
low blood sugars okay now that can come
from high insulin but when the blood
sugars are lower okay the the nervous
system suffers greatly and definitely
the brain suffers what happens is when
your blood sugars go to low your body
will counter it with epinephrine or
another name for that would be
adrenaline to actually quickly raise the
blood sugars and it's the quick release
of epinephrine that causes this symptom
right here now there's some other
symptoms of hypoglycemia and that would
be anxiety sweating well we just
mentioned tremors tachycardia increased
pulse rate weakness mental confusion
headaches and depression and lethargy
now if you're experiencing any of these
or tremors start doing research in the
area of hypoglycemia and low blood
sugars and I think you'll find the
answer thanks for watching hey tell me
what you think about this video go ahead
and comment below and give me your
feedback
