so let's talk about the four reasons why
your blood sugars might go up in the
morning when you wake up alright so this
is called the dawn phenomenon and this
could happen if you're a type 1 diabetic
type 2 diabetic or you have insulin
resistance really bad and you're like a
pre-diabetic ok so the first reason
would be your you have a spike in
cortisol normally what happens between
12:00 and 3:00 a.m. okay you have a
higher insulin sensitivity in your liver
so your blood sugars usually are going
to be a lot better but in the early
morning this can change especially if
there's higher cortisol cortisol
mobilizes glucose for action for stress
okay and cortisol Peaks out at 8 o'clock
in the morning now it could be like 6
o'clock so between 6 & 8 maybe even 9
o'clock in the morning so you have this
higher spike of cortisol if you look at
the circadian wave of cortisol so
cortisol by itself if it's overly active
can just mobilize more glucose from your
liver and or from your muscles or
actually from protein okay or even from
fat as well so it can just kind of raise
the blood sugar from a spike in cortisol
so that's one reason why you might have
high blood sugar
okay second reason let's say you're
diabetic type 1 okay what happens you're
on insulin your insulin dependent and so
if you don't take enough insulin your
blood sugar can go up that way but
usually there's something going on the
liver where there's a hormone called
growth hormone that is spiking and that
can mobilise some of the sugar and
that's the reason type 1 might have high
sugar so there's a more of a liver issue
and I highly recommend those people do
intermittent fasting and healthy keto to
improve the situation and also decrease
the need for insulin they're still going
to need to take insulin but maybe not as
much okay number three diabetes type 2
in this situation the liver is making
glucose okay it's called gluconeogenesis
and it can even produce the glucose from
the fat or protein but actually it's
making too much sugar
and it's gonna start raising the sugar
right here now one reason that this
could happen it is a spike in cortisol
now cortisol should normally inhibit
insulin okay short term long term high
levels of cortisol it can actually raise
insulin so short term effect it can
spike your blood sugars because we need
this glucose for energy yet it's going
to inhibit insulin to some degree you're
not going to have this spike with
insulin as much if it's a cortisol
related effect if you have a spike in
insulin it's going to end up with low
blood sugar okay so we have this
mobilization of sugar whether it's
happening in the liver from certain
reason or cortisol and then we have this
high level of sugar but we don't have
the pushing down and that sugar because
the insulin is not working but if you're
a type 2 diabetic over a period of time
you're going to lose the ability to
produce insulin eventually and that's
going to come down and then the sugars
are going to come up and that's probably
what's happening in this situation we
just don't have enough insulin for it to
work
compounded you have insulin resistance
and then you your body's is not able to
regulate this properly now glucagon is
another hormone and the pancreas that
can also spike the blood sugar because
it mobilizes
the sugar from like the muscle or the
fat because it's the fat burning hormone
and then also epinephrine which is the
fat burning hormone that can also
mobilize glucose just to raise the
glucose so it really has to do with how
well insulin is working how much insulin
resistance you have because obviously at
this point you just have too much sugar
and there's just nothing pushing it down
there is danger in this high sugar
situation but if you're doing keto and I
F and you're getting this phenomena
realize you just need to give it more
time for it to work and I'm gonna cover
that in the next slide but don't be
alarmed it's not a big problem but if
you're actually eating a lot of carbs
and you're having this this is a big
problem because that means that you're
gonna require more medication to drive
this down and it's it's a problem
because this sugar has to go somewhere I
mean think about it when you take
medication what do you think that
medication is doing with that sugar
just miraculously making it disappear no
it's cramming it into other parts of the
Behati it's trying to hide it it's
hoarding it it's getting out of the
blood but it's putting in other places
that it shouldn't be another reason for
this is that you ate too many carbs the
night before okay and that's very common
so what do you do about this right here
real simple number one give it time
get on keto healthy keto if' give it
time eventually you're gonna you're
gonna heal insulin resistance it may
take a number of months and you're gonna
find that problem is going to be better
and better and better to handle this
excess sugar in the blood just exercise
it off that'll burn it up and then it'll
get it out of the blood that's one way
to get rid of it number three avoid
carbs tonight before it's a no-brainer
and number four outside of vinegar the
night before ok not too much dilute it
with water but that will also stabilize
the blood sugars alright thanks for
watching so if you want to get notified
with all my content click the
notification bell next to subscribed
