hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about something called the protein to
fat ratio and the reason we're going to
talk about this is that one confusion
people have is thinking that low fat
proteins are good lean protein is a good
and healthy thing in nature you never
see lean or low-fat protein it always
comes with fat when you do lean protein
you spike in Flint okay so let's go
through this chart just to show you the
relationship between the foods the
protein and the fat concentrations okay
eggs for example have a one to one ratio
50% fat and 50% protein these are this
is a wonderful food to consume if you're
doing the adaptation phase and you need
more fat to go from one meal to the next
so it's fatty or protein I have actually
duck eggs which are even fattier it's
probably a two to one ratio and man when
I consume that I can just go for hours
without hunger of course I'm not doing a
breakfast I have my eggs for my lunch
look check this out hamburger there's
two times as much fat then there's
protein again a very great thing to do
on the keto in a minute fasting I do a
lot of hamburgers I just make sure it's
grass-fed a steak is not actually the
best thing because it's twice as much
protein try to do a steak in salad
you're gonna be hungry in about a half
hour why because we don't have enough
fat so maybe if you do the steak you add
some peanut butter or nuts or sabri
cheese something to add the fat back in
but steak by itself is not very
satisfying I mean it is but it doesn't
last you a long time
check this out chicken with skin is
again two times as much protein as fat
so there's not a lot of fat in chicken
with skinned chicken without skin is it
ten times the amount of protein is fat
look at that so we're dealing especially
like turkey and chicken is very lean
protein chicken breast I mean it's all
just lean protein not good for the
ketogenic diet not good for intimate
fasting you're gonna spike insulin more
than other types of
meat with protein bacon is one to one
you would think that bacon has a
tremendous amount of fat well of course
it does but you're you're frying it off
and you're getting rid of that grease
but it's actually a really good nice
balance pork sausage I do that but I
make sure it's from a farmers market
twice as much fat as protein wow that's
a really good one to satisfy you peakins
four times as much fat as protein again
that is one of the best nuts that you
can consume on this program especially
if you have the pecans in chocolate with
coarse sugar free right I will put down
below a recipe that you can make with
chocolate-covered pecan all right you'll
like that almonds not as great as pecans
1.5 times much fat is protein not as
great peanut butter is like 2 times the
fat to protein so that's even better
than almonds brie cheese is one to one
ratio not bad look at this avocado six
times as much fat as protein so avocado
is the winner if you want to be
satisfied if you want to go longer
without being hungry alright okay so
there you have it and put your comments
down below hey if you're interested in
finding out the underlying cause of your
body issues click the link below and
take the evaluation quince
