hi guys in this video we're to talk
about your quality of sleep and the
computer screen alright most computer
screens have what's called an LED the
stands for light emitting device this
type of light is very different than
sunlight okay it's a type of light that
creates a lot of eye strain and
suppression of a hormone called
melatonin melatonin is the main sleeping
hormone an LED light can suppress
melatonin five times more than natural
light so the main problem with the LEDs
is it emits way too much of the blue
light so now let's compare that with a
candle light which is way down here the
spectrum of yellow so too much exposure
to this blue that is extremely damaging
not just to your eyes but to your
quality of sleep okay but you can get a
filter on your computer screen you can
also download an app that will help
filter some of this blue light so put a
couple links down below so you can add
these filters to your computer devices
alright thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know
hey that runs
