I'd like to talk about why I consume
cheese every single day and why you
should too no it's not because I'm from
Wisconsin it's because cheese is a great
protein Source it's almost like a
probiotic and it's low in lactose okay
so it's totally ketofriendly no I'm not
talking about processed cheese or Vita
cheese I think the best cheese would be
goats cheese and sheep cheese and I'm
going to focus more on that in this talk
sheep cheese goat cheese is A2 casine
that's the protein and it's not going to
create as much issue on your digestive
system some of the oldest people in the
world consume sheep and goat cheese
you're consuming a lot less lactose okay
that's the milk sugar cow's milk in
general you're looking at about um I
don't know
3.8 to maybe 4% lactose mozzarella
cheese or cottage cheese we're looking
at between one and uh
4% lactose but when we look at Goats
cheese or sheep cheese now we're looking
at like a
05% that's half of 1% so it's so tiny
it's you're not going to have any issues
with that lactose component and so now
we have less of a problem with lactose
intolerance because it's barely anything
there and also less of a problem with
this caseine if you even had an allergy
to casine is it's higher in protein
higher in vitamin A E folic acid certain
B vitamins calcium CLA which can
actually help your exercise performance
and weight loss nearly 20 to 30% of the
fat in sheep and goat cheese is MCT fats
and these fats are really really good
because they bypass a lot of these
systems and it goes right to the liver
and it's converted right into Ketone so
you're generating quick energy they're
going to be less stress in your
digestion MCT oil is partially made by
the good bacteria in the gut of these
animals I do consume Cow Cheese as well
but I make sure it's from high quality
sources usually from Europe I do not do
the regular cheese that's conventional I
do organic if you can get a cheese
that's been grown in high altitudes in
the mountains like the Swiss elps
because when these animals are grazing
on higher altitudes um the plants the
grass is higher to the sun and the sun's
energy or radiation are stronger and so
that plant or grass creat
higher amounts of protective elements
they're called polyphenols which are
phytonutrients and so when you're
consuming this cheese that came from an
animal that ate This Grass at higher
altitudes you're getting much higher
polyphenols which is also in grass-fed
grassfish beef as well when you
introduce these polyphenols into the
mitochondria it triggers this what's
called an uncoupling effect okay in the
mitochondria you can generate energy
when the mitoch Contra is uncoupled it
goes through a different pathway we're
making a lot of heat and that's
generating a lot of extra you could say
wasted energy so it's not very efficient
and this is a good thing if you're
trying to lose weight but let me just
give you another angle to this in the
30s there is a certain drug dnp when
they gave this drug to people in small
doses they would lose about a pound a
week right they're excited about that
but when they increased the dosage they
started losing like 5 lounds of fat per
week but it's a drug and it has side
effects it was so inefficient and wasted
so much fuel the person couldn't get
energy anymore because you're generating
less energy the body is going to make
more mitochondria in the Cell It's
called mitochondrial biogenesis okay and
that's really really interesting so we
have this interesting effect of these
polyenals in the cheese creating more
mitochondria uncoupling and more mondria
they have found uh in some studies that
um people that live a long time have
more mitochondrial uncoupling and just
as a side n or not there's other ways to
stimulate more mitochondrial uncoupling
exercise coal therapy fasting and some
of these polyphenols and other
phytonutrients like
sulfurane turmeric and the phytonutrient
in green tea and so the reason I'm even
bringing up the topic is because I think
it's very very interesting to be able to
get some of these phytonutrients from
your Foods whether it's from a grass-fed
grassfish meat or even the cheese now
there's another topic that relates to
this that that has me analyze um certain
phytonutrients in the beef sample that
actually I sent off to an experiment if
you haven't seen that video you have to
see it I put it up right here check it
out
I'm
