so recently had a question from someone
that wanted to know should I be drinking
water when I'm eating food okay so let's
just talk about that there's several
points to cover the thought is that if I
drink too much water it's going to
dilute the hydrochloric acid my stomach
and that's gonna weaken my ability to
digest food that hydrochloric acid
normally is there to then trigger
enzymes in the stomach to help you
digest protein primarily and absorb
minerals and kill off microbes okay so
that's why we need that acid there now I
could not find any human studies that
prove that drinking water is going to
dilute this inhibit digestion however
here's my thought on that if you're
doing a complete protein meal like for
example my first meal today which is
about one o'clock I'll do all protein in
fat okay and then I'll do a lot of my
salad at the next meal with a little
protein a little fat but I do most of
the protein of fat at the first meal I
just recommend that if you're gonna
drink water add a little vinegar it's
gonna help you keep the pH where it
needs to be but definitely don't do
alkaline waters don't add any calcium
carbonate to the meal because that's
gonna dilute it like you wouldn't want
to take an anti acid while you're eating
like tums or anything like that that
would be very very bad and over the
years some people swear by it they say
they digest better with more water
some people don't so you just got to
test the waters so I really think it's a
trivial thing it's not like the
important thing like what's more
important is what you're eating okay the
quality of food that you're eating and
basically if you're thirsty drink water
if you're not don't drink but don't
force yourself to drink a lot of water
especially when you're doing protein
because potentially it could dilute the
hydrochloric acid and we can the ability
to break down protein now if you're
doing salad with a meal or you're
combining a good amount of salad with
protein you may even find that you're
more thirsty at the end of the meal
because a lot of that fiber actually
attracts water and it gels up in your
colon so your body will tell you to
drink a little more now I will drink
more water when I eat a salad
definitely compared to what I'm just
doing protein so again it's not a
hardcore rule that you have to do
water or you have to avoid water see
what works better for you I will say
that the majority of population is low
in stomach acid so if you have a
weakened digestive system and let's say
your stomach is not strong with a good
enough acid probably not go crazy on too
much water simply because it's common
sense you don't want to dilute that
start to build it up with something
called betaine how to chloride I'll put
the spelling down below and even outside
of vinegar or outside of vinegar pills
and the way that some people know that
they don't have enough acid in the
stomach as they start getting acid
reflux okay because that valve on the
top of the stomach has sensors for the
pH and so it will close if the stomach
acid is strong and it kind of opens if
it's weak so if you're getting
regurgitation for example it potentially
could mean that you need more acid
alright guys so in summary the answer is
it depends
anyway thanks for watching so if you're
enjoying this content go ahead and share
it with someone that could really
benefit from it
