[Music]
this can increase the risk of a heart
attack over 2,000% within the first 24
hours now you probably wondering what am
I talking about what increases the risk
of heart attacks by that much could it
be bad diet Noe could it be smoking no
what about alcohol no this trigger that
I'm about to talk about also increases
the risk of getting viral infections and
autoimmune diseases so what is this
trigger it's actually stress but the
type of stress that inrees heart attacks
the most is losses a loss of a
significant person in your life and they
actually have a name for it it's called
a broken heart syndrome what they found
was that when you go through a loss your
risk for heart attack within the first
24 hours goes up significantly within
the first week your risk for heart
attacks are 6X so this got me thinking
into other types of stresses like
post-traumatic stress disorder and the
risk of developing autoimmune diseases
by 46%
and I'm also going to talk about a lot
of stress that people have nowadays is
actually manufactured stress can be
physical it could be mental it can be
real or imagined even thinking about a
stressful State can affect your body
physically you're not in that stressful
environment but just thinking about it
your blood pressure will start to
increase when I first met my wife we
went to this fair and they had a roller
coaster she loves roller coasters she
thrives on roller coasters she can do
the most intense roller coaster that you
can possibly imagine I can't even do the
small baby ones right I'm a wimp and of
course I didn't want to look like a wimp
so I got on the roller coaster with her
and I remember getting into the cart and
they put this thing over you and they
lock you in my pulse rate started
beating boom boom boom and as we're
going up this slow Hill and I see on the
other end it's like a drop off my blood
pressure my adrenaline starts kicking in
more and more and I started holding on
really really tight to the point I was
shaking my wife's looking over at me
going oh my gosh what what's happening
here and I was literally in pure Terror
we get up to the top you can't even see
where you're going right and my wife
said your face was white as a ghost what
that means when your face is that pale
is you've lost all your blood flow okay
all the blood is in the bottom of your
feet so as we went over the roller
coaster going down I think I passed out
I mean there was like tears coming down
from my eye my wife says I'm so sorry I
will will never do that again I will
never force you to get on the roller
coaster and I've never been on a roller
coaster ever since that I also had a
severe fear of public speaking
devastating there's certain types of
stresses that people actually can
tolerate other people can't so there's
two main types of stress there's the
type of stress that's acute or sudden
and then there's the chronic stress that
happens over a period of time but both
of them can create similar problems and
what happens when you actually
experience stress you have two things
going on you have a higher level of
adrenaline which then activates
something else called cortisol so
cortisol is a hormone adrenaline is a
neurotransmitter adrenaline works very
quickly cortisol takes some time it
starts mobilizing the sugar for quick
energy whereas adrenaline mainly works
on the heart rate sweating blood
pressure and also constriction of blood
in certain places because we need to put
the blood into the heart and the lungs
and this is why even when someone has a
heart attack right when their arteries
are clamping down they can inject the
heart with adrenaline and it's a
vasodilator it opens it up the same
thing with someone having an asthma
attack they'll take a cortisol inhaler
and that will vasod dilate the lungs but
what happens in chronic stress is you
start getting this high level of
cortisol cortisol is a natural
suppressant of your immune system and
this leaves you wide open for getting
infections because you just now lost the
barrier this is why stress lowers your
defenses and allows the virus to invade
the body this is also why so many people
develop autoimmune diseases after a
stress event especially if the stress is
intense enough or a shock to the system
where literally you just shut down a
part of the immune system that is
supposed to keep these autoimmune
diseases in check especially a specific
cell called the T regory cell those
cells are kind of like the Peacekeeper
and they tend to keep the body from
developing this self attack it's called
an autoimmune attack from your own
immune system destroying your own body
cells so that's interesting that also
explains why stress really can activate
so many problems with the immune system
and of course with heart attack and
stroke we're dealing with adrenaline
what you have to realize is stress
activates adrenaline which activates
clotting and other problems related to
the cardiov muscular system like I said
before you don't even necessarily have
to have real stress in front of you it
can be you're trying to sleep and you're
running through all sorts of scenarios
but some things can get overwhelming and
they can shock our body and I'm going to
talk about some great solutions for that
as well without getting into the details
of that generally I think you know what
I'm talking about when there's certain
people or groups that are basically
making your environment more dangerous
or at least perceived to be dangerous
creating a real or fake emergency
exaggerating a crisis all of these
things are meant to put people in fear
because usually the group that's
creating that problem has a solution
that now you're going to be dependent on
and really the key word in this whole
thing is control there's good stress and
bad stress and it all really has to do
with who's in control of that stress
because there are certain stresses that
are very therapeutic to us right like
exercise we're were in control so
sometimes we think that if we can just
get rid of all of our stress and our
problems we'd be very very healthy but
that's not actually true one would be
high-intensity interval training I mean
that actually increases stress it
increases adrenaline it increases
cortisol but you're only doing it for a
very short period of time another stress
that's super therapeutic for me is rock
climbing now that's intense you're going
straight up in vertical you're at Great
Heights and when I climb my attention is
totally in the present on the next thing
I'm going to put my hand on if I'm
thinking about any problems in my mind
they are gone within the first few
minutes because I am more focused on
something else so it's really what you
do with your attention because the
therapeutic goal should be to get you
out of your head and to take your
attention and unfix it to what you're
focused on and push it to something else
sports that's a great therapy because
it's a game it's easy to get your
attention off your problems when you're
doing sports another thing to do is work
with wood very therapeutic cleaning
gardening dancing music art and physical
manual work around your house all of
that is super therapeutic for stress if
you're in a stress mode you start to
breathe in a certain way this is a way
to control your own autonomic nervous
system and it works like a charm and
what you do is you breathe through your
nose not your mouth as you breathe in in
and you breathe out this is a great
technique to pull you out of a panic
attack or in an anxiety attack but again
it's you now controlling your own breath
that's really the secret sauce of that
and also taking certain nutritional
things like an adaptogen ashwagandha is
one of the better ones ashwagandha helps
increase your tolerance to stress it
calms the nerves B1 you can get also a
nutritional yeast and then magnesium is
another one that I use as well
especially in the evening before I go to
sleep winds you down it helps in many
different ways related to stress and
cortisol but there's one more thing you
can do that I used to do this in
practice and now I do videos on how to
do it yourself and you can manually do
some acur pressure to certain points in
your body that will greatly reduce your
stress it will literally put you to
sleep when you do it it's wonderful and
for that information you can check it
out right here
