hey guys Dr Burg here in this video
we're going to talk about muscle loss
and intermittent fasting now a lot of
times people ask me well I'm a little
concerned about doing intermittent
fasting whether it's even eating two
meals a day with no snacks or three
meals a day without snacks they're
concerned they're going to lose their
muscle mass or they want to work out and
build muscle mass and so when I tell
them to lower the amount of protein they
kind of freak out sometimes because they
think oh my gosh I'm going to become
atrophied well let's just kind of dive
deeper into really what happens there's
there's two types of hormones hormones
that are uh catabolic which means they
break things down okay and the main
catabolic hormone is cortisol it's very
destructive so even when you work out
and you break your muscles down or you
go through a major stress and break your
muscles down um the hormone responsible
for that is called cortisol but then the
body is supposed to recover when you're
sleeping through opposite hormones which
are more anabolic so the anabolic
hormones bu build things up and that's
what people want they want to build
muscle mass they want to uh retain their
muscles they want to get lean body mass
well growth hormone is the main hormone
that does that it does several things
it's the main fat burner it uh it it
creates protein growth it builds lean
body mass it's
anti-aging um so in gens physiology my
friendly book here um textbook I want to
show you something on page 888 it says
right here growth hormone also mobilizes
large quantities of free fatty acids
from the atopos tissue so basically it
dissolves fat and these in turn are used
to supply most of the energy for the
body cells thus acting as a potent
protein
spare okay so what does that mean
protein spare it means that it spares
protein it protects the loss of protein
so if you have enough growth hormone in
your body you will not get muscle loss
all right so I'm going to show you four
ways to improve this but typically it
would take you four days of fasting
before your body even thought about
breaking down muscles so typically you
don't have to worry about it but let's
just take one step further and make sure
that you're doing it correctly number
one fasting Believe It or Not triggers
growth hormone so intermittent fasting
helps you uh retain the protein and it
helps you burn fat so it's not going to
make things worse number two
hypoglycemia so when you drop hypo means
below sugar like low sugar so when you
keep your sugars really really low your
body will trigger increased amounts of
growth hormone so again to salvage the
protein in the body so if you're trying
to get lean body mass or you're trying
to prevent atrophy and you're eating
sugar that's going to be a problem okay
and or you're eating all through the day
it's grazing or snacking bad idea uh
intense exercise also is a potent
trigger for a growth hormone but the key
is making sure that you're recovering as
well because the number four is sleep so
if you're actually not sleeping and
you're exercising intensely you can
create a problem with growth hormone but
if you're sleeping good and you work out
correctly without overtraining you can
trigger growth hormone and actually
protect your muscles and the other
proteins in your body now on the flip
side cortisol the stress hormone can
block growth hormone so what triggers
cortisol
stress stress stress lack of sleep sugar
will do it uh surgery trauma all that
stuff so basically if you keep your
stress down intense exercise
intermittent fasting interval training
sleep keep your sugars out of the diet
you're going to be in good shape so
nothing to worry about so I just wanted
to kind of brief few on intermittent
fasting you don't have to worry about
muscle loss uh but this is how you
actually retain and uh protect you
against atrophy I'll see you in the next
video
