hey guys very quick video very simple
technique to lower your blood pressure
just by changing your breathing there's
a part of the nervous system called the
autonomic nervous system and that makes
up the systolic which is the top number
120 over the bottom number 80 diastolic
and these really represent the
sympathetic which is the you know
flight-or-fight contraction versus the
parasympathetic which is rest and digest
the relaxation so the diastolic is the
vascular systems ability to relax and
the systolic is your vascular systems
ability to contract okay very simple so
a lot of times the systolic might go up
first to high and then both of them
start going up and there's all different
types of variations but what I want to
get into it's just a simple simple
technique because if you actively
breathe in a certain way you can induce
a relaxation into your autonomic nervous
system so when someone's stressed their
breathing is very erratic
they might breathe in very very slowly
but then they might breathe out really
fast like that type of thing
so if you just breathe in very slowly
and you count to five okay and you match
your exhalation with five seconds and do
that for two or three minutes or maybe
up to five minutes you're gonna find
your whole body going into a really nice
relaxed state so I would recommend doing
this before you go to bed while you're
driving if you're stressed out so you
just want to slowly breathe in five
seconds through your nose and then five
seconds out through your nose very
slowly in and out and it's just gonna
just start calming you and it's a great
technique also for insomnia if you want
to really go to sleep a little bit
faster go ahead and try it and then
comment below and tell me what happens
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
