so are you fine you're getting water
attention weight gain on keto this video
is for you okay there's several
scenarios okay it could be that you're
low in vitamin b1 vitamin b1
deficiencies will create fluid retention
in edema and your ankles actually little
hold water so you just need more
nutritional yeast okay next one low
potassium okay so this is interesting
because if you're not consuming enough
vegetables you're not going to get
enough potassium okay but if you're
consuming a lot of vegetables okay and
you're getting water retention it could
be you can't digest all that fiber it's
too much for the microorganisms that you
have and there's two types of fiber
soluble and insoluble and both of these
types will retain fluid and water and
this is why sometimes when you eat a
salad you're thirsty I mean it's kind of
weird like there's not a lot of salt and
salad but you consume the cell and also
now you have to drink a lot of water why
is that because the fiber retains fluid
and your body will just will get thirsty
because it's demanding that fluid to
then bulk up to make the stool form and
go through the system so fiber is a
hidden source of fluid attention and
let's say you don't have enough microbes
to digest this fiber and you get
constipated okay in fact that can even
increase your weight by 3 4 even 5
pounds but it's just water weight okay
it's just water it's not fat so if you
get bloated or constipated after
introducing all this vegetable then you
need to cut it back because you're not
ready to digest all those vegetables so
cut it back to a small amount and start
consuming that for a while and slowly
build up so you can actually gain water
retention by doing a low potassium diet
by not consuming enough vegetables or by
consuming too many vegetable so you're
gonna have to test out and see what is
going to work for you if you can digest
these vegetables in the fiber and you
have enough microbes then that's what
you want to do but you might have to
work up to it because we really want the
potassium from the leafy greens big
potassium pushes out the fluid okay so
you could always take a potassium
supplement as well or electrolyte with
high in potassium if you're doing a lot
of salt and no potassium that's another
way that you can retain fluid and of
course if you're consuming too many
hidden carbs because carbohydrates
retain fluid a low carbohydrate diet
gets rid of fluid but if you're doing
carbs you're actually like a
fluid-filled sponge you're just
retaining a ton of fluid okay
so these are the factors you're not
going to gain actual fat on keto it's
just going to be mainly water light all
right thanks for watching so we've been
getting a lot of success stories but I
don't have your success story yet so
click the link down below and upload you
before-and-after I want to actually hear
about your success story I want to see
your before-and-afters and every week we
do featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
