there's a lot of confusion out there on
this topic of is it okay to put up save
integrand my skin is it going to make
things worse or whatever solicitors talk
about it the pH of your skin is 5.5 so
it's acidic neutral is seven anything
lower is more acidic anything higher
than seven is more alkaline as we go
from one number let's say seven down to
six six would be ten times as acid okay
and if you go down to five that would be
ten times ten it's a hundred times as
acidic okay and that's how it works and
the sweat on your skin and the oil which
is called sebum is also acidic it's
between four to five point five but the
ph probe cider vinegar is between two
and three so apple cider vinegar is more
than a hundred times more acid than your
skin so yes it's going to irritate it
and yes it can burn your skin so this is
why you always want to dilute it don't
put it directly on your skin okay it's
an acid I mean stomach acid is between
one and three so you wouldn't put
hydrochloric acid in your skin so you
dilute it you take one tablespoon in a
glass of water and then you take that
mixture and you put that on the skin now
why is that good for the skin well
because the skin thrives in an acidic
medium so if you add outside of integral
to it you will reduce certain bacteria
that shouldn't be on there because the
purpose of this acid is to prevent
certain microbes from invading the skin
it's one of your part of your immune
system it also can clean your pores you
can also make your skin softer and more
elastic will it cure your acne probably
not why because acne is a vitamin A
deficiency or in situation you have too
much androgens coming from too much
insulin now I'll put a link down below
of how to deal with acne but you want to
cut down your carbs of course do how the
keto and take some zinc
take some vitamin A preferably from cod
liver oil and do intermittent fasting
that is the best thing for acne but
outside a vinegar in itself applying it
externally probably it's not going to do
anything for your acne all right guys
thanks for watching
