let's talk about the difference between
sauerkraut and kimchi these are two very
popular fermented vegetables and today
we're going to talk about which one is
better sauerkraut has a much more mild
taste kimchi is very spicy it can be
very hot kimchi is made from a certain
type of cabbage called napac cabbage
radishes garlic chili pepper Ginger and
salt obviously right there if you have
more vegetables involved you're going to
have more phytonutrients it also has
more of a diversity of different
microbes now a sauerkraut the dominant
microbe is something called
lactobacillus plantarum now of course
that's also the dominant microbe in
kimchi as well this microbe is very
interesting because it can survive in
very harsh environments it can not be
affected by the acid in your stomach
they can survive and other microbes
cannot and therefore it can help us
because it balances out more good
bacteria than bad bacteria that helps
make this mucus barrier to prevent
pathogens from going in there and
creating leaky gut it has ability to
increase serotonin 90% of all the
serotonin in your body is made in the
gut serotonin is also the precursor to
another hormone called melatonin and
melatonin is a very potent antioxidant
if it's inside your cell but it also is
something that helps you sleep at night
if we switch over to kimchi kimchi helps
cultivate a very unique microbe that's
not in sauerkraut and what this unique
microbe does is it inhibits pathogen
like some of the microbes that
contaminate our food leria is one of
them kimchi microb greatly inhibits that
pathogen what's really unique about this
microbe as well is it inhibits not just
pathogens but also funguses and yeast in
certain molds and some people even take
diluted drops of the liquid in kimchi
and they spray it in their sauses
however if you just take raw kimchi you
know just by consuming it or
it can indirectly help the sinuses
because it can travel up through the
respiratory tissues kimchi also survives
in cold temperature this is why you can
keep it in the fridge and everything is
fine and the same thing with sauerkraut
as well if we flip over to sauerkraut
sauerkraut has a little bit more of a
certain microb called L brevis which has
a lot of benefits to the gut and even uh
to the immune system both sauerkraut and
kimchi also make something else
something called Balin bacterio sins are
natural antibiotics they're not going to
be a broad spectrum antibiotic like you
would get if you went to the doctor
which they just wipe out everything and
the devastation of broad spectrum
antibiotics are just destroying our guts
and this is why if someone is resistant
to antibiotics they develop super bugs
because they took a lot of antibiotics
now they have microbes that are
resistant to antibiotics sometimes
sauerkraut and kimchi can help that
situation also if we take a look at
something very similar between
sauerkraut and kimchi we have cabbage
number one it's a cruciferous vegetable
so it has a lot of different
phytonutrients it's loaded with
glutathione which is good for
detoxifying things in the body
anthocyanins which help longevity but
there's also something called vitamin U
and it was named by a researcher in the
50s who isolated this compound from
cabbage what is it you stand for it
stands for ulcers protecting against
ulcers helps you repair the inner tissue
of your digestive system as well as
decreasing inflammation this is why it's
so good for ulcers as well as gastritis
because it directly affects the cells
that make gastric acid so anytime you
have an ulcer or especially gastritis
think cabbage and as well as any
inflammation in the gut like IBS now on
top of that molecule you also have
another thing that cabbage has and
that's glutamine now glutamine is really
good for leaky gut it also helps fuel
the cells and the colon and it so
happens that glutamine is also in red
meat bone broth and eggs and so there's
some serious amazing Health properties
in both sauerkraut and kimchi now there
is a few more benefits to kimchi not
only do you have more of a diversity of
microbes you also have fermented garlic
which is an amazing compound it does all
sorts of things it's anti-cancer it's
it's antimicrobial powerful
anti-inflammatory antioxidant really
good for your immune system there's a
compound in ginger which if
fermented converts into several other
stronger anti-inflammatory molecules
that also have amazing digestive
properties as well and one other
interesting thing about Ginger is that
it helps nausea or if you're nauseous
and also fermented Ginger gives us a lot
more uh digestive enzymes as well so
it's good for anything related to
bloating indigestion gas things like
that the compound in chili pepper is
also enhanced when it's fermented so
this is going to be really good for
inflammation pain circulation metabolism
and also fat loss as well and if we look
at sauerkraut versus kimchi with weight
loss kimchi is a lot better for weight
loss and now we know why because it has
certain properties that help with blood
sugar insulin resistance and anything
that does that is going to help you lose
weight so it's probably why the Korean
people are so slim I I don't know if
that's true but the Koreans got the idea
from the Chinese long ago I think it was
in the 17th century the Chinese were
fermenting vegetables back then and then
the Koreans created kimchi as you can
see both of these products have amazing
Health potential but kimchi gives you
even more benefits than sauerkraut
because it's obviously there's more
vegetables in that product now
personally I cannot consume kimchi
because it's just too spicy but I will
consume it because I know it's good for
me and this is why I consume more sour
Kraut and one last benefit of kimchi
compared to sauerkraut is that kimchi
has even more vitamin C than sauerkraut
which is interesting because just with
one cup you get over 700 milligrams
that's 10 times the RDA for vitamin C
well apparently kimchi has more vitamin
C than even sauerkraut make sure if
you're going to consume either
sauerkraut or kimchi is you have it raw
because that's where you get the benefit
of the microbes when they pasteurize it
they heat it they kill it they put it in
a jar and it sits on the Shelf you don't
want to consume that because you're not
going to get the benefit from the
microbes you might get the benefit from
other things like some of the
phytonutrients and the lactic acid but
you're leaving a lot on the table
because all those microbes can greatly
help us since these fermented products
are so good for your digestive system
you should probably check out my video
on the digestive system because there's
a lot that can go wrong and this relates
to these two products so check out that
video right here
