hey guys Dr Burke here I have another
question for you does your doctor look
Beyond symptoms I mean every day I hear
this frustration with patients is go to
my doctor they're not looking deeper
they just give me a pill they're not
telling me why they're not getting to
the root cause well I just want to let
you know it's really not the medical
doctor's fault the whole system is
dysfunctional and medicine or Healthcare
has become the management of symptoms
okay and you know it I know it it's just
how it is you got this over specialized
doctors into every little thing ear nose
and throat orthopedic doctors a doctor
for every part of the body retinologist
doctors for the prostate it's become
really specialized so there's no doctor
that looks on everything really so
here's the problem they don't get
training in nutrition um Alternative
Care or even nutrition is considered
non-scientific
so here you are trying to do alternative
stuff or natural things you're not going
to get it okay I'm going to show you
something um and I'm not against the
medical profession I mean listen I I
completely demolished my left elbow okay
I destroyed it I had to go in for
surgery the doctor was a genius he put
that thing together I mean like I didn't
think there was going to be any hope
broke the left shoulder the same thing I
mean when you have technical Perfection
at that level of surgery it's incredible
when you need it Emergency Care
infections what I'm talking about is
chronic problems I'm talking about the
person that
goes for a psychiatric problem and
they're just giving pills right they're
not looking at the cause you have
clinical depression you have anxiety you
have all the stuff and they're just
putting on pills that's what I'm talking
about talking about the person has a
chronic fatigue and they're put in
medication chronic pain and they're put
on medication that's what I'm talking
about but I want to show you something
this is called merc's manual okay for
14th Edition and I want to just show you
the the real problem and this basically
has to do with like pla plaing in the
arteries arterial sclerosis where the
arteries become hardened this is what it
says it says uh fatty streaks probably
proceed uh plaque
formation um the mechanism development
remains unclear and it goes on to show
the rist factors and the signs and how
to diagnose it but there's nothing in
here that relates to High insulin
there's nothing in here that relates to
a vitamin C deficiency and how that
affects capillary fragility or micro
hemorrhaging of the arteries that then
the cholesterol comes in as a Band-Aid
there's nothing in there that even
covers the real cost here's one
hypertension that's high blood pressure
there's no evidence of excessive sodium
emotional stress or obesity causes
hypertension well okay well that's cool
that's a good thing and let me see right
here there is no cure for hypertension
but appropriate therapy can modify its
course sedation EXT rest prolong
vacations telling yourself not to worry
half-hearted attempts at weight
reduction and dietary sodium restriction
are poor substitutes for Effective
anti-hypertensive drug therapy so again
it's all about treating with drugs
there's no real causation they don't
look into they don't even mention
potassium deficiencies they don't
mention vitamin K2 or
D3 here's I mean this is pretty much
filled with unknown cause unknown cause
here's one vitamin u e deficiencies okay
so they're going into and I I just want
to mention one thing they're the the
vitamin E that they're recommending that
you take if you're deficient is a it's
called a DL Alpha tofol that is a
synthetic version synthetic vitamin E en
llarge doses dosages over a period of
time it creates all sorts of problems so
they're recommending synthetics and
pretty much for all the vitamins right
here um again they don't really
understand nutrition here's one this is
obesity the cause of obesity is simple
consuming more calories than are
expended as
energy well I'm glad it's
simple again it's not about
calories says here the prognosis obesity
is
poor uh says the simplest way to reduce
calorie intake is to go on a low calorie
diet wow that's that's really powerful
talk about surgery here jaw
wiring again nothing about insulin okay
nothing about insulin um or how hormones
affect the
calories and you're wondering why you're
frustrated with your doctor well this is
what they're getting here's another one
high cholesterol the most effective
dietary means of lowering serum that's
blood LDL that's bad cholesterol
levels um is to strict avoidance of
foods containing cholesterol and
saturated fats avoid meats eggs whole
milk butter lard and cooking
fats and substitute when necessary
polyunsaturated oils and margarine yeah
okay so right there they're not talking
about insulin again they're just saying
avoid it well we know your body makes
3,000 milligrams of cholesterol every
single day 3,000 if your body makes that
then why you why are you going to avoid
just a little bit of it the equivalency
that your body makes is equivalent to
300 strips of bacon 14 eggs or uh a
pound of butter yeah so your body makes
it so why is it so bad okay hypoglycemia
this is low blood sugar okay diabetics
that are also
hypoglycemic
should carry candy with them gosh I just
can't believe this this is crazy so
basically they're telling you eat candy
if you're a diabetic multiple sclerosis
this is an autoimmune it says the cause
is unknown Parkinson's Parkinson's
disease itself is idiopathic that means
unknown
cause Bell's paly that's a a problem
with a a a virus that kind of paralyzes
one side of your face and it's St like
that it says the cause is
unknown periphal neuropathy that's when
you have severe numbness and tingling
and burning pain at the bottom of your
feet or on your hands
usually from being a diabetic
right nothing in here nothing talks
about um the real cause which is a B
vitamin deficiency that is caused by the
the insulin problem that's starving off
the nerves depleting the B1 if you were
to take fat cable B1 and b12 okay you
could get rid of this but it's not even
talked about so you're wondering
why are they not looking at the root
cause because they're not trained okay
so this is why right here faulty
information then they're saying it's not
scientific so what I did is I created um
a really cool Tool uh that can be used
it's called the symptom checker which
basically evaluates cause and effect
relationships okay
so and you can get this if you're in my
membership site or you're in a health
coach training program and it's a really
cool tool right now there's 104 uh
different symptoms I'm going to create a
more in there but it's like a
referencing if you want to find out
what's behind something or find out
about something else but I just created
a little demo to show you what's inside
so check this out okay so this is really
cool so it's called a symptom checker
and we have over in4
symptoms and I keep adding more more and
more and basically this is a tool to
allow you to find the root causes of a
symptom okay so then you you can click
on uh let's say tingling burning
numbness and it basically tells you what
the cause is B1 and B12 deficiency
because insulin usually diabetics have
this problem insulin depletes the B
vitamins and then it tells you what to
eat tells you what nutrition to take so
you can do that with every single one
let's take another one let's take uh
clogged arteries of calcified arteries
so I go into what causes a clogged
artery it's a K2
deficiency uh what to do to fix it you
have K2 D3 because calcium and
cholesterol build up and and then I get
into uh what's behind that and that's a
vitamin C deficiency vitamin C
deficiencies create capillary fragility
that's micro hemogen that's little small
bleeding of the capillaries and then the
body comes in with calcium and
cholesterol to fix it as a Band-Aid
that's what what causes it and so here
we have the diet suggestions what to eat
what to take and this is really quick
you can find the cause and effect
relationship
PMS you know rigid nails so it's a great
tool to be able to get a deeper
understanding of what the heck is going
on with your body okay so the question
is where can I get this program well we
give it out as a bonus for the
membership site okay so if you just sign
up for the membership site you get this
as a bonus also we give it to all the
health coaches that are in training so I
have a health coach training program uh
everyone in that program gets this as
well as a tool and that way you can use
it to figure out what's behind things so
if you're interested click the link
below and we will see you on the inside
