hi guys dr. Burke here in this video I
want to explain a new release that I
just came out with called a new body
type guide it's finally available after
all these months this was supposed to be
released in January first and it's a
little bit late it's what is it
September now so anyway it's available
and I want to just kind of cover what is
in here this is a book that's about 379
pages it's not actually about it's
actually 379 pages 158 graphic
illustrations when I get a book the
first thing I look at does it have
pictures especially when you deal with
eating or dieting things like that I
want pictures to quickly assimilate I
like visuals okay so it has a ton of
graphic illustrations full glossary
index bibliography FAQ resources page so
it has everything this was formerly my 7
principles of fat burning book but with
lots and lots of upgrades ok in new
strategies but I want to quickly just
kind of show you something because I
wanted to show you where I started years
ago this was my first book right here
isn't this nice it's called the real
reason why exercise and diet is not
helping you with losing weight don't you
like that image right there people are
like what is that look at this this is
high quality isn't this terrible but was
my first kind I actually did all the
images myself look at these it look at
these body types
isn't that cool so this was the first
book ok I don't I hope you're not
laughing now and then the second book
was dr. Berg's body shaped diets ok you
can see this book I started to evolve
some technology ok one little tiny
problem I noticed that there's a typo on
the cover I know instead of lose that
stubborn wait it says loose that's
different weight so my wife had a bright
idea she said let's get some stickers
sign autographed copies so we'll put it
right over loose and that's what we did
so I basically signed by hand 5,000
copies in my garage so that's how we
ever came that and
and the next book was the seven
principles of fat burning and this green
right here people are like why do you
put that green in and you can't even see
what it is
it's vegetables okay you have to look
really close so anyway this and then we
upgraded it to this book here the seven
principles of fat burning which was took
me a long time seven years to do this
one right here and then as time went on
I wanted to upgrade more and more and
more and more because I have I'm always
very willing to add new things that work
and take out things that don't and this
is the final version I'm not changing it
right now because it really really works
we have just thousands and thousands of
people that were getting success so I
want to kind of cover what's in here
because this book right now actually
comes with a companion if you get it on
my website this book right here and I
wanted to do a little companion book
which is it's not lose weight to get
healthy it's good healthy to lose weight
this is a real short 58 page lots of
images in here but the cool thing about
this book it's a summary of this book of
some key points but it has the pictures
of the foods so it shows you what three
ounces versus six ounces of protein
looks like it shows you what the meal is
it shows you the percentages or the
amounts of fat that you need per day it
shows you what 20 percent protein
sixty eight percent fat five percent
carbs look like in a day of eating so it
shows you the difference between having
three meals a day and examples of the
right ratios with actually two meals a
day without lessening the calories so
it's a really good summary with a cute
FAQ you can probably read this in about
an hour and then what you do is this
fills in the blank right here so if you
get this this comes with it so I want to
just kind of give you that cool
additional book that will help you jump
in faster okay so I want to cover what
is in this book so the first thing I
want to cover is that
there's a little section on page six
with the definition that says food and I
want to read this it says food that
which is eaten to sustain life
provide energy and promote to the growth
of a pair of tissues nourishment okay
that's what food is so there's two key
words here one is provide energy that's
with fuel and most people think that has
to be done with carbohydrates they think
they have to eat carbohydrates to give
you energy but that is not true you
could run your body on fat way better
than running your body on carbohydrates
that's where you want to get your energy
an average person has a very small
amount of storage sugar but they have a
huge I'm talking like over 70,000 Cal
store calories of fat on their body that
is designed for you to tap into to use
as your fuel the average person never
ever burns actual much of their fat they
just burn the sugar and they keep
getting fatter and fatter so this book
shows you how to transition from burning
sugar to burning half actual fat and
using your own fuel as your reserve okay
why would you want to rely just on your
your diet for your fuel why don't you
use your own body storage because a lot
of people need to tap into that so this
shows you how to do it but then the next
thing is nourishment so we want to do it
healthily so we want to make sure that
the meals that you beat have our
nutrient dense okay you want to really
make sure that you're getting most of
the nutrients from the food okay I want
to bring up that one point the next
thing is the next chapter in chapter 3
is about hormones in your body shape I
talked about the hormones that burn fat
and the hormones that make fat and the
three hormones that make that it's very
important to understand what those are
and how they work so I wanted to cover
that and then we get to chapters 5
through 8 and I talked to specifically
about body types now a lot of data is in
this book right here I carried it over
this book to give people the base
hormones and glands and body shapes with
a lot more changes and tweaks and
upgrades so you're going to see some
similarities with those chapters but I
wanted to show you the triggers of what
makes you into a certain body type
you got the adrenal ovary thyroid and
liver body types okay and then when we
get into chapter 9 okay
this is where I talk to talk about the
actual triggers to fat burning okay so I
get into how to use food as a trigger to
flip the switch and I go into why people
never burn fat I go a lot into insulin
that's a huge addition to the older book
and really how to get your body into
using your own fat reserve as your
primary fuel source okay you know it's
like they say well you you don't want to
eat less calories because you're going
to starve yourself but the goal is to
get you to tap into your own body's
calories your own fat calories to make
up some of the lost calories that you
would eat if you weren't snacking all
day long so the people are dependent on
what they ate are really susceptible to
the whole blood sugar thing up and down
up and down up and down if they don't
eat they get really tired and hungry
this way the cravings go away and you
don't no longer a hungry anymore so then
the next chapter we get into is chapter
10 and that's called fat burning
strategies okay now these are all the
specific strategies that you're going to
use that are upgraded from this book so
I'm going to talk about how to get into
healthy ketosis I'm gonna talk a lot
about in a minute fasting and the power
of that and increasing your own body's
natural growth hormone by sometimes up
to 2,000 percent I mean that's
incredible talk about anti-aging so I
get into that I show you how to do in a
gradient so you don't experience any
side effects like the keto flu the keto
rash in the transition phase because
when you're switching over from sugar
burning the fat burning all the cells
need to be satisfied with the right
nutrients and we're building almost new
enzymes and new
to run your body on fat and it's a
transition phase sometimes three days
sometimes two weeks sometimes a month
but I show you to do it the best way
possible in the healthiest way possible
I also get into something called the
insulin index which goes beyond the
glycemic index which is all about sugars
this these are about all the other foods
that can trigger insulin as well okay
people have never even heard there is
such an index but there is and then I go
into insulin resistance which is
probably one of the biggest problems
right now in America in other parts of
the world and insulin resistance will
affect your setpoint so if you have
insulin resistance you'll lose weight
but you won't go past a certain plateau
so I just show you what to do to support
this condition so you don't so you can
avoid it prevent it and overcome it
alright now on page 156 I go into all
the corrective actions that you need to
do based on this new information so I go
into step by step what to do and finally
chapter 11 which goes into the basic
eating plan exactly what to eat and
everyone's going to start with this
basic one plan and in the next chapter
they're going to tweak it to their body
type so you're not going to go right to
a certain eating plan for a drain or
thyroid you're going to start with the
basic then tweak it after and because
the the body type tweaks are like in
addition to its little improvements to
take it one step further all right so
the next one next chapter is chapter 13
which gives you additional information
about proteins fats carbohydrates new
nutrients then chapter 14 talks about
how to stick to it
how to stick to it because so many
people start and they'd stop and they
don't continue on so I give you a lot of
great things to overcome social
situations every single barrier you can
imagine getting bored being home at
night with all the food in the house
like what do you do if you tempted
things
like that and then chapter 15 I cover
body issues like how to overcome
problems with fatigue because if you're
trying to lose weight and you're not
sleeping well that's gonna be a problem
so we show you what to do naturally for
a fatigued sleeping cognitive issues
stress issues craving digestive issues
inflammation menstrual I'll show you
what to do to overcome that the next
chapter chapter 16 is about getting rid
of stress hardly any program out there
covers the stress connection to a slow
metabolism I show you a technique on how
to fix your body's old stress okay
so that alone is like awesome the next
chapter is exercise how to tailor-make
your exercise to your body type I go
into the principles of how to take
exercise for the next level also chapter
xviii is gets into the eating plans as
far as giving you recipes and also
pleasure foods how to consume pleasure
foods but healthy pleasure foods and I
have images with that as well you're
going to like that chapter it gives you
the exact recipes and the ingredients to
each one the next chapter is 19 that
gets into the qat
I get in the queue a and then the
resource section and then lastly I have
these little this little cutout card
it's called conscious eating card and
you can cut this part out so for example
let's say you mess up I can explain what
to do how to make up the damage or let's
say that you're attempted you read the
card first and what I say in the card
will majorly shift your view point into
this temptation so we can increase the
awareness all right so that's pretty
much a summary of this book just to kind
of tell you what's in it it comes with
this book right now I'm I'm actually
giving you this at no cost for a small
amount of time but this will give you
the summary book jump right in and then
this will fill in the details right here
so I put a link down below get the book
now start weeding it and then send me
your success stories thank you so much
for watching
