hey guys in this video I want to share
with you just some information on what's
behind uh plaing in the uh arteries okay
so there's there's just a massive amount
of confusion that's out there in
relationship to the sequence of events
that occur the exact cause and effect
relationship somehow so-called science
doesn't want to be too positive and
really say this causes this everything
is associated there's risk factors and
it puts the the patient in a massive
confusion so let's just take a look at
some of the pieces of the puzzle and
then we can rearrange them in a correct
sequence of events ameloid plaing um
that's actually one of the things that
messes up your neurons in the brain
Parkinson's Alzheimer's so you have
plaing in the brain um and then you have
also a plaing in the arteries you can
have amid plaing in the liver in the
kidney and even in the pancreas that can
actually shut down the cells that make
insulin and cause diabetes type one okay
even make it type two as well you can
have this plaing in the joints it's
rheumato arthritis so if you think about
it you have the brain you have the
arteries you have the gums as
gingervitis and all that plaing you have
uh in the joints you have all you have
inflammation you have plaing you have
all sorts of uh scar tissue in there so
there's an interesting phenomena that's
occurring in different parts of the body
okay so when you go to the doctor you
might uh they might test for amalo
plaing and there's a medication for that
they might find that you have
intracellular calcium or calcium plaing
so that's why we have then you give high
blood pressure and that's why you have
calcium channel blockers for that or you
might have high cholesterol so we give
put you on a
Statin uh or you might have high insulin
and we can put you on diabetic
medication or bacteria shows up and they
put you on some type of antibiotic or
high levels of white blood cell and they
put you in a cortisone shot right so you
have all these different things that
occur um so
my thought is let's take a look at this
and what would happen as a chain
reaction first second third and fourth
okay here's what I think that's
happening number one you start off with
you don't start off with high
cholesterol you start off with high
insulin okay when you have high insulin
it makes the cells in the vascular
system the little cells that compos
what's called endothelium it creates a
leak in those cells okay very similar to
leaky gut
where you have another set of
inflammation and scar tissue and the
whole thing I didn't even talk about
that so you have this little leaking
through the artery wall and boom you're
going to actually stir up a hornet nness
with the immune system okay so if you
start off with high insulin and it could
be other things too you could have very
low Vitamin C which almost like a
borderline scurvy and create the same
like ulcers or allion in the artery wall
as well so we could have vitamin C
deficiency let's say you're just a junk
food junkie that's going to create it
too a lot of uh stress in the vascular
system or you're an alcoholic all these
things nutritional deficiencies
chemicals can start this reaction but
the the second thing you get is Artery
damage okay so we have Artery damage it
could be damage in the joints and the
liver and the Brain depending on your uh
weakest link in your body so after you
get this Artery damage then guess what's
going to happen you're more susceptible
to uh bacteria at that point okay now
they've even found the same microbes and
gingivitis in your in your
gums in your arteries okay so that's an
interesting coincidence so I'm wondering
what other part of the body it affects
too and then you'll get an immune
reaction that's number four so
inflammation is not really the cause of
these things it's the effect okay that's
what you need to straighten out and then
what happens here comes the cholesterol
the cholesterol acts as a Band-Aid to
come in there so there's two types of
cholesterol uh I'm sorry there's two
types of uh LDL which is so-called bad
cholesterol I did a video on this I'll
put all these links down below you have
type A and type B type A is the big
fluffy U you know type of cholesterol
that doesn't it's not involved in um
trying to do anything with this artery
wall type B is very small and dense and
those are the guys that are always
involved in trying to heal this lesion
in the wall okay so how do you know if
you have type A or type B because
they're usually combined you can't tell
you look at your triglycerides if your
triglycerides are
high and your HDL is low or possibly
normal then you have more B that means
that there's something going on there's
some type of healing going on there's
some type of um something going on in
your body that you need to address okay
so this is not the villain this is the
thing that comes in is a chain reaction
to help try to put a Band-Aid and try to
heal this thing okay because cholesterol
is there to actually help heal certain
things so we don't want to completely
lower this we want to understand what's
happening so we have this cholesterol
then comes the Amoy plaing okay or other
types of fibrous tissue this is all
protein it's like a it's a part of the
Band-Aid you're going to start getting
stiffening of the arteries if there's
too much of this then we get the calcium
calcium starts building up so we have
this whole mesh of this Band-Aid that's
made from protein calcium and
cholesterol that's all trying to heal
this area that's what your body's trying
to do so for someone to come in there
and start treating these without
understanding it is just completely
utterly insane so I just wanted to kind
of show you the sequence of events step
one 2 3 4 5 6 7 that's really the order
of things that occur and it's happening
all over your your body so and I'll put
a link down below of what you need to do
uh for this culprit right here because
this is a big one and this actually will
cause high blood pressure and obesity
but obesity is the last thing to occur
not the first thanks for
watching press it forget it forget it
I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
