so out of anything you could possibly do
for your health fasting and in minute
fasting are the most important things
you can do there's nothing else that
even comes close in creating more Health
now on the flip side snacking and
continued eating is the worst thing you
can do for your health so today I'm
going to show you the basics of how to
do intermittent fasting actually it's
not necessarily just for the beginners
it's for advanced people too because I
found that if you're running into a
plateau or things aren't going as smooth
um you need to go back to the basics all
right let's get into the meat and
potatoes of fasting well we probably
shouldn't talk about potatoes how about
the meat in cauliflower of fasting what
we're trying to do is we're trying to go
from sugar burning to fat burning a big
confusion that a lot of people have when
they're fasting is they think their body
is starving they think it's not eating
but in reality your body is eating when
it's not eating it's finally eating its
own fat that is why the best indicator
to know that it's working is your
appetite gone okay if your appetite is
going away and you don't have any more
appetite and you're not hungry anymore
guess what it's working and it makes it
a lot easier to stick to if you don't
have an appetite so the principle that
I've talked about in other videos is you
have to get healthy to lose weight not
lose weight to get healthy that means
that we're not necessarily focused on
weight loss weight loss will come after
you get healthy but a better indicator
for success is your ability to fast
comfortably because you're not hungry
like right now it's 12:00 noon I haven't
eaten since yesterday at about 6:30 am I
hungry I'm not hungry I am absolutely
not interested in any food at all I
don't want to eat anything right now the
first meal that I have will be roughly
about 33 30 today and even then I could
probably fast longer just because I've
been doing it for a long time but you
want to get into a condition where the
food is no longer controlling you you're
controlling your food so many people are
into this this situation where the food
is literally controlling their life and
it's destroying their life all right so
the first thing you need to do is Skip
breakfast okay or start to push your
breakfast further further
towards lunch okay so when you wake up
in the morning ask yourself are you
really hungry or are you just eating out
of habit chances are you're not going to
be hungry for breakfast so don't eat so
the rule of thumb is don't eat if you're
not hungry okay now to help you not be
hungry uh for breakfast you have to make
sure that you keep your carbs down for
your lunch in your dinner because if you
have carbs in your lunch or your dinner
guess what the next day you're going to
be hungry in the morning but if you keep
your carbs low and I'm talking about
roughly about maybe 20 grams maybe 30
grams then you're not going to be hungry
in the morning the other thing that you
can do is you can also do the
Bulletproof Coffee you can add either
butter to your coffee or MCT oil butter
is very satisfying and MCT oil will turn
into ketones so it's going to be a lot
easier to go all the way up until your
first meal at noon so depending on if
you drink coffee or not if you don't
drink coffee just do a tablespoon of MCT
oil that's a type of extract from
coconut oil that turns into ketones very
very fast so the other thing you have to
realize is that all these hormones are
on rhythms or waves okay and the
cortisol
hormone Peaks at 8:00 in the morning so
you may find that you're hungry in the
morning because of a cortisol Spike but
you're not really hungry it's just a
hormonal uh shift and a sensation that
you get so the next thing I'm going to
recommend is if you have this minor
hungry feeling just ignore it ignore the
hunger nine times out of 10 it will go
away okay and that's just because
there's certain hormonal shifts
happening in the body that are creating
that sensation but just ignore it now if
you ignore it and it doesn't go away and
you feel dizzy tired weak then you need
to eat but you really need to be able to
tell the difference between hunger and
time to eat but realize as you start
doing this it's going to get easier and
you won't have any hunger in the morning
unless you consume carbohydrates all
right the next little thing I'm going to
say is at this uh first meal uh make
sure you add some fat at the end of the
meal that can be peans or olives or some
Nut Butter it could be peanut butter it
could be breed cheese could be fatty
meat could be any of those why do you
want to add fat because when you start
doing in a minute fasting you haven't
adapted yet and so you need the fat to
help you go longer to feel satisfied so
you can fast longer because the fasting
itself and the combination of low carbs
is really what's going to help you start
to adapt to this new machine in your
cells that's burning
fat so the same thing with dinner
you want to add fat at the end of the
meal now the next point I'm want to
bring up is this U whole thing about
healthy keto okay what is healthy keto
well uh healthy keto is not just going
in a low carb it's using quality foods
that are higher in nutrients because the
last thing you want to do is end up
looking like a crackhead and I'm being
very sarcastic but some people when they
lose weight they they sort of look very
unhealthy their hair is dried out uh
they look older we want you to look good
as you do the ketogenic diet and look
younger okay have that healthy glow so
that's a combination of low carb fasting
and just healthier ingredients so
there's such a thing as dirty keto where
you're not paying attention to the
quality and you're eating at a fast food
restaurant or fast food and yeah it's
low carb because you're not eating the
bun but it's very very low quality food
don't recommend that all right so this
first meal and second meal is called
your eating window out okay so let's
just pretend your first meal is at noon
and your second meal is at 6 o' so that
would be roughly a 6-hour eating window
now when you first start out you could
potentially eat during this window
through here okay have a snack if you
want but I would recommend or challenge
you to not do that because that way we
get some fasting between these meals too
and that will help you the snacking is
the biggest killer for uh progress
because the snack stimulates insulin
every time you eat you stimulate this
thing called insulin and what we're
trying to do is fix insulin resistance
which was created by a high level of
insulin for a long period of time which
comes from constant eating and eating a
lot of carbohydrates now if you do a
6-hour eating window that gives you an
18-hour fasting cycle that's pretty good
if you could do 18 hours of fasting
you're GNA see some amazing results
especially with your brain you're going
to grow new brain cells and so your
cognitive function your focus your
memory your ability to keep your
attention your creativity all is going
to improve as well as your mood you're
going to be happier if you were
depressed you're going to feel much much
better just because your brain is
healing plus your immune system is going
to get stronger you actually grow new
immune stem cells in your bone marrow
which is really cool inflammation goes
way down and you start getting
rejuvenated you start healing faster all
sorts of amazing things happen all right
so now here's another problem we need to
resolve at night okay I know this might
be hard to believe but there are some
people out there that have a hard time
not snacking at night now we're not
talking about you you probably know
people or friends family members but
this snacking at night has to go it's
called grazing I was a professional
snacker at night I would basically after
dinner eat constantly until I went to
bed it was constantly putting things in
my mouth and uh you know nuts uh apples
um chips you name it that was me so
popcorn oh my gosh and that that's very
very bad so we want to get rid of the
snacking how do we do it well we use
what's called self discipline we have to
make sure we don't buy any snacks
anymore so they're not available to us
you want to stay busy because if you're
idle and just sitting there maybe
watching TV it's going to be more
difficult but I really think that what's
going to help you is this dinner making
sure that you have a very big dinner
with this fat so you're actually really
full and you don't feel the need for any
additional things but just realize if
you're like me and everyone else you
probably have insulin resistance which
means you can't absorb nutrients as well
as you should so even though you eat and
you're full you might not feel satisfied
there's a difference feeling satisfied
is going to happen once the insulin
resistance goes away and especially if
you're eating a lot of nutrient-dense
foods there are some things you can do
that will also improve that one Point
apple cided vinegar okay maybe a t
tablespoon in your water for dinner
Appley of vinegar has acetic acid the
biggest benefit of acetic acid is to
make insulin more sensitive to help your
blood sugars so it's going to actually
help you reduce insulin that's why it
can help you lose weight but it'll also
help your appetite it'll help actually
insulin work better so you absorb more
nutrients and you'll be less hungry so
apple cider of vinegar in your water is
really good I would also while you're at
it add some lemon to your water lemon
juice okay maybe um a teaspoon maybe a
half of a lemon maybe a whole lemon this
way you can have things like vitamin C
if it's fresh or citric acid that can
help reduce kidney stones and if you're
at risk for gout U because sometimes
when you're doing fasting your uric acid
goes up which acts as an antioxidant but
it can flare up gout so just add the
lemon and apple cett of vinegar in your
water when you drink this for dinner
another suggestion are these things
called vegetables okay I highly
recommend you consume more vegetables
and I'm talking about like a big salad I
will do my big salad either in the first
meal or the second meal now my my meal
is actually about right here so I might
eat at 3: and then at 6 so I have a very
very short in eating window it's hard
for me to eat all the calories in one
meal so I spread it out within like
maybe three maybe four hours but that's
just me I just want to focus right now
on not necessarily going Beyond this 18
and six but let's say you're eating at
12 and 6 to make it easy you can add a
salad right here and a salad right here
or you can just have a very big salad
the salad that you eat uh should be uh
eaten in the beginning of the meal why
because if you eat the protein first I
have found that the chances of you
eating that salad are going to be slim
to none because you're now filled up
with the protein so I always recommend
eat the salad first and then eat your
protein and fat second it seems to work
uh but again uh that's just a minor
point now why do we need the salad well
it's going to give you more potassium
and magnesium which is going to help
that insulin problem I talked about also
it's going to give you energy also it's
going to pre prevent cramping in your
legs and it's going to prevent keto
fatigue etc etc the fiber and the
vegetables uh feeds the
microbes and that's what the microbes
live on so you're feeding your microbes
they get to eat something and then what
they do is they change it into a type of
fat which actually is really good for
your blood sugars so I found that if I
don't consume large salads that I don't
feel quite right in fact it's harder to
into keto and um it's not going to go as
smooth also the vegetables are really
good for your liver and you're just
going to feel cleaner if you do
that and you can switch it out you can
have just vegetables okay sometime or
just a salad other time if you do the
vegetables you don't need the quantity
you don't need 10 cups of like broccoli
right so you do smaller maybe half the
amount and then uh for salad because
it's it's not as dense uh you can have
more of that the salads the appside of
vinegar eating more fat at the end of
the meal is going to help you avoid this
snacking now I want to just mention
something about cholesterol because um
this question keeps coming up over and
over and over and over again uh what
happens if my cholesterol goes up it
happens with a percentage of the
population usually it goes down but in
some people it goes up like my wife and
um people are concerned they go to the
doctor and like oh my gosh my
cholesterol is high because I'm eating
all this fat F Well if you really
understand what's happening it's not
going to be that scary because when you
burn fat a certain portion of that fat
is uh cholesterol so it's composed of
triglycerides which you use for
energy but also cholesterol which you
don't use for energy you don't burn
cholesterol so the cholesterol and the
fat has to come out has to go somewhere
right I mean the whole goal is to burn
your fat Reserve so we have to get the
clust out somehow so it has to go
through this thing called the liver okay
it comes to the liver and uh if you
don't have enough liver function or you
don't have enough bile uh for some
reason let's say you don't have a
gallbladder or let's say you you have a
fatty liver and you're not producing
enough
bile then you may have a little backup
of cholesterol so the more bow you have
the the easier it is for your body to
get rid of this excess cholesterol
but even the fact that your cholesterol
is high and you don't have the bile to
break it down or get rid of it as fast
as you would like realize if you went to
do an advanced lipid profile test and
you found that you have high
LDL there's a couple different types of
LDL and you're going to find that the
high LDL that you have is the large
particle size it's not the small dense
uh type of LDL so the small dense type
is the dangerous one you're not going to
find that you're only going to find that
if you're doing high carbs okay so I
wouldn't worry about it but if you are
concerned you can do the test and you
can see for yourself and I included a
video of my own wife having high LDL and
I explain that thoroughly now the other
thing that I want to mention which is
the icing and the cake or well I
probably shouldn't talk about cake but
when you do intermittent fasting and
keto together within 14
days 50%
of the fat in your liver is going to be
gone that is huge that is exciting as
long as you don't eat that icing on the
cake of course all right a couple other
things I'm going to show you about this
uh fasting thing um green tea very very
very awesome to uh drink through the day
because green
tea helps insulin resistance okay it'll
allow you to fast longer now there's
other types of tea or herbs that are in
tea that are also really good for blood
sugars that will help reduce appetite uh
like green tea will like cinnamon tea
using the herb Garcinia jining Ginger
are all really good to lower your
appetite so that's just an extra little
tip if you exercise okay I'm going to
recommend you not do any type of
preworkout drink with a carbohydrate or
even protein I wouldn't recomend any
post drink or taking any amino acids
while you're working out before or after
why because here you are you just worked
out and you created this amazing effect
with growth hormone and as soon as you
start eating something you basically
kind of nullify a lot of those results
especially if it's carbohydrate and even
if it's protein okay you're doing some
protein powder so realize as far as the
nutrient
around that exercise especially amino
acids you're going to get enough amino
acids from the meals okay so you don't
have to worry about putting back these
amino acids because really most of them
tend to even just turn the sugar like
the branch amino acids so I wouldn't
recommend uh eating around that exercise
keep your fasting consistent okay the
other point I want to bring up is
supplements uh when people fast a lot of
times they have symptoms like keto
fatigue keto flu they might get cramps
they might have thyroid
symptoms all that means is that you're
probably deficient in certain nutrients
because the demand for certain nutrients
go higher and maybe you haven't been
eating nutrient-dense foods for a while
so what you need to do is just make sure
you just take B vitamins natural ones I
recommend nutritional yeast and
electrolytes and I would recommend an
electrolyte powder that also has trace
minerals I'll put a link down of the one
that I recommend that way you can get
the trace minerals and the electrolyte
minerals with high amounts of potassium
which is going to help you potassium is
needed in large amounts in the body I'm
talking like 4700 milligrams
so sometimes if you can't do a lot of
salad this is a good little backup plan
but if you do the supplements okay with
inent fasting and especially prolonged
fasting you can easily avoid keto
fatigue keto flu thyroid symptoms all
right so now let me just cover a couple
mistakes that people make
um a small snack let's say you're doing
keto and you're like you're on a roll
I'm just going to fast all day long so
instead of um doing the fasting and
waiting to your big meal I'm just going
to do maybe a little snack just to kind
of push me through thinking that doing a
little snack or lower calories is going
to get me by and I'll be fine with that
but realize that the snacks especially
the protein ones like if you did like a
scoop of peanut butter for example you
what's going to happen is you're going
to spike insulin it's a protein protein
triggers insulin not as much as carbs
but it will and then guess what about an
hour and a half you're going to be
hungry it's going to throw you off your
plan so there's really only two things
that won't stimulate
insulin fiber and
fat protein will so if you have to snack
on
something do either pure fat as in like
MCA oil okay or that Bulletproof
Coffee or Fiber something very fibrous
like celery for example without the
peanut butter or some greens okay now
some of you are going like I'm not going
to do that because that's not very
pleasurable but I'm just telling you
that a mistake that people make is doing
this little protein snack as I interview
people and find out why it's not working
um I find out there well I'm sort of
doing keto with a couple little snacks
through the day and that type of thing
so just realize that that's why your
results are not going to be where you
need to be them I'm just bringing this
up as a as a point these small snacks
are a killer okay even if they're
healthy okay the next uh little thing
that I want to bring up is that
um the awareness of a little bit of carb
and what that does to the state of
ketosis if you're trying to lose weight
if you're trying to get into a really
good fasting State and um and you're
going
along and let's say at night you do I'm
just going to do a little wine it's not
many calories whatever or let's say
during the day you're going to do just
like one piece of
bread what you have to realize is that
little bit of carb uh can block you as
far as knocking you out of ketosis for a
good amount of time um half a glass of
wine could knock you out of ketosis for
24 hours um a couple drinks on the
weekend that whole weekend you're not
going to be burning any fat or you're
not going to be in ketosis just realize
that I'm not telling you not to do it
I'm just the messenger giving you the
information that if you do it don't be
surprised if the results are not what
you want them to be
okay because sometimes people are just
thinking of calories they're not looking
at the hormone effects of different
types of food all right the next point I
want to bring up is this uh this idea
that it's all going to happen really
quick maybe maybe you have a friend or
family member that does this and it
happens really quick for them but for
you it's not happening um I had a guy
that did my program many years ago I
didn't really educate him that well and
he says yeah your program didn't work I
says what do you mean yeah I did it for
two weeks and it didn't work I says what
happened well it did work for two weeks
but then I stopped doing it but then it
didn't keep working I'm like what I said
this is not a short-term thing where
it's just going to fix your weight
problem now you can go back to your old
plan this is like a lifelong change a
new
lifestyle process or habit that you need
to do consistently for the rest of your
life okay and that was something that I
just needed to educate him on because of
this point the number of years that an
average person has eaten poorly and I'm
including myself in this uh group um has
been a long time okay we've developed
this condition called insulin resistance
it's become very very chronic okay it's
a bad problem and uh the time it takes
to fix it is much greater than what you
may think the level of effort is going
to be a lot more than what you think so
you want to give it time you don't want
to focus on just the weight you want to
focus on the appetite energy cogn
improvements decrease
inflammation that means it's working
because you're creating your health so
this is why you have to have patience
this is why we call you a patient and
this is why we have also a waiting room
last point I want to bring up this false
piece of information that we've been
told so many times everything in
moderation just a little bit is fine
there's no bad food just keep everything
in Balance it's all about balance no
that is not true when you're trying to
get healthy you don't want to balance
everything there's things that are
really important and there's things that
are trivial not very important at all
what I'm showing you here is the most
important thing you can do for your
health out of anything and that is
fasting and I'm also showing you the
food that you need to avoid the most
which is a carbohydrate and the other
foods that you can eat in high amounts
like fat and there is one food that you
want to eat in moderation and that's
protein right so to get someone healthy
they're already in an outof balance
State okay so to put more balance and
just balance everything out and eat a
little bit of everything is the worst
advice that anyone can give you so i'
just given you the things that you
should focus the most of your attention
on when getting healthy and now your
next step is to learn on what to eat and
that's in this video right here check it
out
