so this video is about acceptable
liquids while you're fasting I've done
other videos about this topic but I'm
always getting new information and
updating my videos so you have the
current version okay so what can you
drink while you're fasting realize that
to get the benefits of fasting uh
calories do matter the more calories you
have of anything the more problems
you're going to have so let's first talk
about what you should be avoiding okay
while you're doing this and then we'll
talk about what you should be drinking
while you're doing fasting okay so bone
broth why shouldn't you consume bone
broth while you're fasting some people
say it's okay some people say it's not
okay well there's a good amount of
protein in there and protein can
stimulate insulin okay so if you're just
drinking a small amount of bone broth
it's probably not going to be a problem
but realize that there's protein in bone
broth that could inhibit the benefits of
fasting so if you're going to do bone
broth maybe you do it during
I have no problem with bone broth but it
can slow down your results now this also
goes with collagen powder okay collagen
is protein so again avoid collagen
powder while you're fasting all right
what about Branch chain amino acids okay
some people take it before or after a
workout well again we have another
protein okay powder that's not all of
the amino acids but it's some and that
can definitely spike your sugar that
will give you energy but they will
definitely block you more than even bone
broth what about coconut water there's a
good amount of sugar in coconut water
even though it's not like table sugar
there's still a good amount of sugar in
coconut water I would avoid it all right
coffee okay let's talk about coffee
black coffee is totally fine when you
start to add things to it especially if
you're doing the sweetened flavored
drinks okay that's definitely a no like
you even the artificially
sweetened creams that they use right now
what about whole cream well whole cream
doesn't stimulate insulin okay because
the more fat something is the less
insulin that's triggered but there are
calories so that can bump you out but
only a tiny bit so I'm just going to put
that right in the middle there so you
can do it but there's going to be some
slight decrease in some of the benefits
but I will say it's going to be
insignificant if you use a little bit of
half and half or cream in fact I use
cream and I really don't worry about it
so I mean this really could be in the
yes section but for those people that
want to be very very strict and you
should just do black coffee now when you
get half and half we're adding some more
milk so milk does have some more sugar
if you have the choice between half and
half and whole cream I would have a
tendency to do whole cream okay instead
of half and half but again it's a minor
inner point so if you want to use half
and half or cream go for it now what
about Bulletproof Coffee okay that has
more calories more fat because there's
butter and MCT oil however because it's
fat it's not going to trigger insulin
but if you are trying to lose weight
okay and you've done fasting for a
period of time maybe you don't consume
the bulletproof version you just do
black coffee because your body is going
to go after that fat as its Fuel and
less of your own fat however that being
said if you're trying to maintain your
weight okay and you don't want to lose
any more I would highly recommend
Bulletproof Coffee because that helps to
satisfy you and it helps you to go
longer with your fasting okay and then
of course the longer you go with your
fasting the more you become fat adapted
and the easier things will be so at
first in any ketogenic plan I recommend
a lot more fat and then as you do the
pro program if you want to speed up your
fat loss maybe you don't maybe you just
want you're happy with your results but
if you wanted to speed up your results
maybe you cut down your fat a little bit
and just consume the fat that is
normally within the ketogenic plan not
by adding more fat I have worked with a
lot of people out there and and certain
people that are plateaued all we do is
cut out the Bulletproof Coffee and
Presto they lose more weight all right
what about the pre-workout drinks you
have energy drinks you have sport drinks
you have electrolyte drinks like
Gatorade things like that all of these
have sugar and I would avoid them now on
the flip side since we're talking about
electrolytes if you're consuming an
electrolyte powder that doesn't have
sugar okay maybe it has Stevia that's
totally okay
but I'm gonna just mention one thing I
do have my own electrolyte powder and uh
presently I'm trying to find a
Manufacturing Company in Europe to
produce the same formula that I have in
America because that way the shipping
costs will be less and what I'm finding
out is something fascinating it's almost
impossible to find
a flavoring company that doesn't add
maltodextrin which is the worst sugar
you can consume okay it's like way way
higher than actual glucose on the
glycemic index okay so they put this
hidden um powder as a drying or spraying
agent in flavorings as well as in the uh
some of the vitamins as they make the
citrates and so even a lot of the
copycats from my electrolyte powder and
there's probably five of them out there
probably are using the cheaper version
which have this extra maltodextrin which
I am very much against because that
right there can prevent you from getting
good results but it's interesting
because if you want a natural flavoring
that doesn't have something or you want
a vitamin combination that doesn't have
these extra bad things you have to pay a
lot more unfortunately all right the
next one on the list is consuming soda
with artificial sweeteners okay avoid
that that even though it doesn't have
sugar in it it has artificial chemicals
that interrupt the microbiome in your
gut that can indirectly cause problems
with your insulin levels okay so I've
done videos on that but just avoid the
artificial sodas instead you can consume
the sodas with stevia or some of the
sugar alcohols that um are like Xylitol
erythritol things like Stevia or monk
fruit those are fine just make sure they
don't add anything else to it like
dextrin or maltodextrin now let's talk
about alcohol for a second
there are certain types of alcohol that
have no carbohydrates in them right but
alcohol is unique in itself in that your
liver will take it as a priority as a
toxin as a poison and have to break it
down in that breakdown process okay
there's several steps that happen in the
liver and create other problem with your
blood sugars and even cause a fatty
liver so that being said there are
levels of things that are bad for your
body right you have like very high
potent alcohol type drinks right well
that's going to create a lot of damage
then you have other drinks that are
lower in alcohol okay but also have
sugar in them like beer or sweetened
like margaritas for example well you
obviously those are a given avoid those
but what about the wines okay there are
certain wines that are really dry less
sweet and they also have less alcohol
well I'm going to put those right in the
center I'm not going to recommend them
but if you have them occasionally maybe
it's going to create a small effect and
not a major effect like some of the
other alcoholic beverages now personally
I don't drink any alcohol I don't do
well with it unless I'm really stressed
out or on the weekends maybe I'll do a
six-pack and I'm being very sarcastic
all right what about these soy drinks
like the soy milk for example
it's just bizarre to me that they turned
this beam into a milk right I mean
there's no milk in a bean so that soy
drink I would avoid it and I would also
avoid the almond milk however there are
certain types of almond milk
um that do have just almonds with water
and that's it right others have a lot of
additional things in them so maybe those
are okay in small amounts but one drink
of almond milk has like 30 calories so
now we're dealing with more calories
it's not a lot but it's a factor to look
at so if you had a choice between almond
milk and soy milk of course I would do
the almond milk first because there's a
lot of problems with soy but I'm going
to put almond milk right in the middle
and it really depends on the ingredients
so go ahead and read those because a lot
of times they will put a lot of other
things in there and even the unsweetened
almond milk might have some other things
that you don't want all right what about
milk well there is some sugar and milk
so I would avoid that and because we're
on the topic of dairy realize that when
you ferment milk you get cheese kefir
things like that and so what those
bacteria are doing to the milk they're
eating up all the sugar right so cheese
is very very low in lactose right in
fact I don't even think it has any
lactose or milk sugar and cheese
and of course if you have the raw cheese
from Europe uh you have the benefit of
the microbes the protein without the
sugar but I will say that yogurt does
have more sugar than kefir and so Kefir
is a lot better too because it has
friendly yeast and friendly bacteria and
a lot more than yogurt so if you had a
choice between yogurt kefir I would go
with the kefir but make sure it's plain
now what about uh like these hot
beverages with bullion cubes right some
people recommend them but the problem is
trying to find a boiling cube without
maltodextrin or monosodium glutamate or
modified food starch which is monosodium
glutamate so if you could find one great
because it gives you that extra salt
that you need but if it has the MSG or
maltodextrin I would avoid it all right
so what can you drink then right when
you're fasting you can drink water right
Spring Water filtered water would be
great you can do carbonated water or
Still Water you can add electrolytes you
can add apple cider vinegar it's not
going to be a problem in fact I do
recommend adding lemon or lime and apple
cider vinegar you can take supplements
when you're fasting that's totally fine
just make sure they're not like protein
powder type things but I do recommend
taking supplements there's very little
calories and supplements that's why you
can take them tea is very good to take
like green tea other types of tea when
you're fasting and will help you fast
and black coffee would be the ideal
situation but you again you can add some
cream or half and half I do and I don't
consider it a big problem but for those
people that want to be strict because
they have a very stubborn metabolism
well they might just want to do it
without any extra things and one last
point I want to bring up when you're
doing fasting especially prolonged
fasting don't forget about sea salt you
need about a level teaspoon as a minimum
in your water right because you're not
eating food so you want to kind of mix
that in these drinks whether you're
doing electrolyte powder or just
straight water throughout the day kind
of spread it out because that's very
very important because if you run out of
sodium and chloride your muscles get
weak you feel fatigued and there's a lot
of problems with that now since we're on
the topic of fasting and liquids if you
haven't seen this video on my lemon and
apple cider vinegar drink you should
check that out I put it up right here
