i was taught that the heart is the
primary pump for all the circulation but
there's other data to show that that's
not quite true i'm going to show you how
to improve the blood flow through your
legs and your ankles and your feet but
there's many different problems that
occur when you have poor circulation
edemon swelling painful feet as well
cramps in the feet and the calves i'm
going to cover all of these and then
relate them to a really simple solution
i'm also going to be covering several
important exercises this information is
based on a book called understanding the
heart by a Steven Hussy in one part of
the book he talked about trees how do
trees pump this water from the roots all
the way up to the leaves they don't have
hearts what he has found through a lot
of scientific research is that the heart
spins the blood and when you put water
through a vortex and even underneath the
earth you have moving water water always
should move it shouldn't be sitting
there really the theory of this is the
heart is acting as a mechanism to create
structured water to allow it to kind of
go through the body now we do know the
heart is very very electrical i mean
just think about what an EKG does right
you're measuring the electrical part of
the heart part of the solution that he
did is he started increasing more
structured water throughout his
circulatory system and so this leads us
to increase structured water in your
blood the best way to do that is to get
more exposure from infrared over 50% of
the sun's energy is infrared infrared is
just one little piece of the spectrum of
light which apparently has a lot of
healing i mean a lot of people are using
infrared for all sorts of things but you
can also make it to create more
structured water in your circulation
more exposure to the sun is one
important tip to improve the circulation
in your legs and improve your heart
function you can get an infrared device
there's infrared saunas you can even sit
in front of a campfire or your fireplace
you're going to get a good amount of
infrared from that infrared also is a
wonderful thing for your arteries
especially to increase something called
nitric oxide which helps with blood
pressure and then you also have the
vitamin D from the UV that automatically
increases nitric oxide let's say you
have swelling in your feet potassium is
one of the best natural diuretics to get
rid of excess fluid you have to take
maybe 1 to 2,000 milligrams per day the
combination of getting rid of all the
sugar and the starch that's the bread
pasta cereal crackers biscuits waffles
pancakes etc getting rid of those will
get rid of a lot of fluid in your lower
extremities and the other thing about
that is that when you consume a lot of
sugar you will deplete vitamin B1
sometimes the pain in your toes or the
bottom of your feet is related to that
and so you need to take something called
benotamine to restore it in addition to
your limiting your carbohydrates let's
say for example you have cramps
sometimes people think that cramps
really are poor circulation they're not
cramping in your calves or your feet is
merely a magnesium deficiency the thing
about magnesium is that it's really hard
to test for it because you only have 1%
of your body magnesium in your blood 99%
is in the cells and it's a really
important mineral involved with blood
pressure making energy and especially
muscle because it works with calcium it
controls calcium in fact one of the
medications for blood pressure is called
a calcium channel blocker well guess
what magnesium is it's a natural calcium
channel blocker why don't they just use
magnesium because you can't patent it
magnesium is really important for blood
pressure but it's also essential to get
rid of cramps but sometimes you have to
take enough over a long period of time i
recommend taking about 800 milligrams
per day in the evening for some weeks
until you get rid of your cramps and
then you can reduce it down to 400
milligrams per day you want to take
magnesium glycinate because that's the
one that is the best absorbed and it
doesn't cause diarrhea another mistake
compression stockings if you already
have problems with your arteries being
constricted and you use these
compression stockings you're basically
constricting blood flow not the best
thing to do now let's talk about
varicose veins there's a really good
remedy for that diosmin and it can help
with varicose veins another uh little
mistake that I think people make when
they have circulation problems is they
start doing highintensity type exercise
if you have a a problem with the lower
part of your body whether it's edema
varicose veins you want to go light on
the exercise you do not want to do any
high intense anything okay you don't
really want to do sprints just because
there's a chance it could get worse
walking would be the best thing let's go
into the exercises in this first
exercise we're going to combine
elevating our legs with an ankle pump so
you will be lying on your back with your
feet up on your wall while you move one
foot at a time back and forth and you're
pumping the fluid from your lower
extremity back to the heart the
combination of elevation and the pumping
motion is great to push fluid from the
lower extremity back up to where it
needs to go that's one exercise the next
one I'm going to show you is an ankle
pump while you're sitting now let's say
you're sitting in your chair through the
day you can literally just do this ankle
pumping underneath your desk with this
next exercise is really really good
because it involves activating more of
the muscles in your calf and in your
shin at the same time and this is called
heel to toe rocking in this first one
you're going to be holding something
whether it's a wall or something to
stabilize yourself so you don't fall
down and you're basically going to go
through this motion where you're rocking
back and you're going to go up on your
toes back and forth you're going to do
this about 10 times okay and you can do
that a few times through the day but
this is one of the best exercises if you
want to push fluid from the lower part
of the body up to the heart and then
after you get good enough you can do
this without any support and basically
stand there and do this rocking motion
to allow your body to adapt so you're
not having to depend on holding
something and I would recommend just
doing it 10 times okay and then do that
several times during the day recovered
circulation edema swelling pain but what
about cold feet what can you do for cold
feet that is normally an iodine
deficiency because the thyroid is low
sea keelp is one of the best sources of
iodine you can take that that'll help
strengthen your thyroid so you can
actually have warmer feet so I gave you
a lot of things to do today go ahead and
apply some of them and then please come
back and comment down below on how it
worked for
