hey guys had another question from
someone relating to magnesium and she
want to know why I'm recommending
potassium so much but not magnesium well
because potassium is probably the number
one deficiency of all the minerals but
magnesium comes in number two so let's
talk about this one we get a lot of
calcium but we don't get a lot of
magnesium primarily because we don't
consume enough vegetables at the heart
of chlorophyll is the magnesium mineral
and guess where we get chlorophyll in
the vegetable that's all the Greens okay
so magnesium is a cofactor for hundreds
of enzymes it's a helper factor that
helps in the metabolism of energy in the
metabolism of making proteins hair nails
skin muscle and also helps the heart
rhythm okay
it affects blood pressure so if you have
high blood pressure this would help you
increasing muscle tone muscle cramps in
your calves take some magnesium goes
right away it will help you absorb
vitamin D so magnesium helps balance
calcium so they work as a teeter-totter
so let's say you have too much calcium
you have arthritis spurring little
osteophytes that that go into the joints
more magnesium will help bring that down
also my museum is great to lower stress
it's good for sleeping also if you're
constipated people take magnesium but
you get it from leafy greens and a lot
of the vegetables it's a nuts it's in
eggs it's in a lot of different foods
but primarily I would recommend getting
it from the Greens men need four hundred
to four hundred and twenty milligrams
women need three hundred and ten to
three twenty milligrams okay again most
people are not getting enough because
they have small salads what causes a
deficiency excess calcium especially if
you're taking like a calcium carbonate
in large amounts that'll just deplete
your magnesium alcohol sugar refined
flour or grain products and low stomach
acid is because it takes acid to pull
that middle into your body so how do you
know if you have low stomach acids if
you get gas into
in heartburn GERD that we know you have
lost stomach acids so apple cider
vinegar is really good to take to help
you absorb that right there magnesium
deficiencies are also linked to insulin
resistance and this is why we recommend
consuming a lot of vegetables because
you have the potassium and magnesium to
help reduce insulin resistance and help
correct that problem also it's great for
headaches so again try to keep your
vegetables between seven and ten cups
every single day thanks for watching hey
if you haven't already subscribed press
the button below and I will keep you in
the know
hey that runs
