okay so this is the second video here's
the basics of how it works there's
basically two types of exercise high
intensity and low
intensity this would be
sprinting this be walking yoga
stretching this is playing basketball
interval training
hopping uh stair
Master hardcore and this is very low so
you're barely breathing you actually
can't go with the pulse rate because if
the nervous system is broken your pulse
rate might be low but you're huffing and
puffing so I'd rather go based on your
own subjective feeling uh how hard it is
and how go by your breathing basically
so low intensity workouts you can
actually talk to someone while you're
walking
comfortably here you can't you're
huffing and puffing okay so this is
called without air because it's called
anerobic without air because you're
actually burning more sugar and I'll
explain that in a
second this is called aerobic exercise
now people get confusion because there's
two definitions of aerobic one is
aerobic type workouts which you're
jumping around high intensity but then
the other definition is the type of
exercise that uses a lot of oxygen so it
means aerobic means with air low
intensity so when you're low intensity
walking you're actually doing aerobic
type workouts okay so high intensity low
intensity
now both of these do burn sugar and both
of them do burn fat but um let's start
with the low intensity right
here the body will burn up remember we
talked about the sugar calories being uh
like
1,500 calories all that's burned within
the first 25 minutes of
walking after the 25 minutes of walking
then the person will start burning fat
it's not a lot of fat but it's a little
fat and it's still good to do so people
that work out 20 uh 30 minutes a day
really only burn 5 minutes of fat
burning or have five minutes of actual
fat burning going on so if you're going
to walk you might as well walk 45 or
maybe 60 minutes okay and there's
nothing wrong with walking in the
beginning because you want to it's the
key is not
overtraining the advantage of doing this
is because this is how you reduce stress
low in inity workouts uh are really
better for stress than high intensity
because it's very um relaxing to the
body and you're increasing a lot of
breathing oxygen without the stress see
when you go through stress um you don't
you deprive yourself of oxygen so this
is a way to get the oxygen into your
body and actually protect your heart
this this is nothing wrong with high
intensity but it has to do with your
ability to tolerate it and handle it
many people don't have the ability to
handle hardcore workouts so for everyone
in this program they're going to start
out walking and you're going to
gradually increase to high intensity
over time so with low intensity workouts
you will not burn any fat for the first
25
minutes then after that you will
burn
um actual fat so in other words let me
get this straight here the first 25
minutes you'll burn sugar and then after
that you will burn fat so
again if you're going to walk walk for
at least an hour all right and I like
the idea of working walking outside and
not with headphones just looking at
stuff and relaxing and having a good
time as compared to trying to think
about everything you want to turn that
off a little bit okay now the high
intensity it will also burn sugar
immediately so it's burning up all the
sugar but you can't really do high
intensity for a long period of time
because your sugar will go out and then
this will turn into a byproduct called
lactic acid okay so sugar turns lactic
acid that's why your muscles get really
um painful and burning because of La
lactic acid so the more sugar that you
burn the more acid you will generate and
then acid decreases oxygen in the body
all
right
so can you burn fat with high intensity
absolutely but it only occurs 14 to 48
hours after the work work out during the
deep
sleep okay so again the most fat that
you can burn with all exercise is really
right
here high intensity I'll show you how to
do it in a little bit but um but it
doesn't happen right away it's
delayed when you're sleeping if you're
sleeping and there's certain barriers
that occur that stop you from doing that
but the point is that depending on what
you're doing and depending on the
intensity intensity is really the key
thing between everything and and this
fat is burned through hormone
interaction anyone can burn
sugar but the burn fat takes a very
specific condition in the body and we'll
get into the next video but I just
wanted to show you the difference
between high intensity low intensity and
how it works
