so today we're gonna talk about key tool
rash most likely it's a vitamin b2
deficiency when you do keto and what's
different about keto is you're doing
more fat right
well actually b2 is involved in fat
metabolism the more fat that you eat the
more b2 that you will need so if you're
going into the ketogenic diet with a
vitamin b2 deficiency or even a
subclinical vitamin b2 deficiency
everything is magnified and one of the
big symptoms of not having enough b2 is
skin issues dandruff it's called
sybaritic
dermatitis where the skin is rough and
scaly is really a b2 deficiency and you
can have cracked skin on your heels
around your mouth around your nose it's
really a b2 deficiency and then another
question people have is like why would I
have a subclinical deficiency of b2 well
it could be you don't have enough
hydrochloric acid in your stomach
without hydrochloric acid you can't
break down the food to extract the
vitamins so this would be very common
and the way that you would know that you
would have an hydrochloric acid
deficiency is if you had heartburn or
GERD or you have gas or you have pain of
stomach when you eat protein also the
use of a tanning bed can create a
vitamin b2 deficiency this is a big one
consuming a lot of refined foods refined
grains alcohol will do it gut damage so
let's say you're consuming enough b2
from the diet but you can't absorb it
because you have either IBS Crohn's or
celiac or some type of inflammation your
gut another really common problem right
here and liver damage is another common
one whether you have a fatty liver or
cirrhosis or inflammation now to correct
this condition
most people will handle it using
nutritional yeast however some people if
they're very deficient might need to
take b2 as a separate supplement I would
take a version that is called activated
and you can find it online anywhere
anyway thanks for watching and I hope
this helps you so if you want to get
notified with all my content click the
notification bell next to subscribed
