hi guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about the heated
debates going on between being a meat
eater versus being a vegan okay and it
really boils down to if you're a meat
eater you're saying carbs are dangerous
and if you're a vegan you're saying
animal fats and protein are dangerous so
the real problem is you have two groups
two different viewpoints giving
conflicting information and if you're
the public trying to figure out the
truth you're in this confusion okay a
confusion is conflicting information
so I really believe the big problem is
the
interpretation of the actual research
and studies that are being put out there
in order to understand these studies you
personally would have to read them and
understand them and you would need a
medical dictionary you would need some
basic understanding of medical
physiology so that's where it stops
right there so then you have to rely on
some other person's interpretation of
the study which then comes with certain
bias is so then the question is what is
the truth what is the true knowledge um
in order to have certainty on knowledge
you have to have personal experience
okay because someone can show you tons
of success stories tons of studies but
unless you personally experience this
information and it works for you you're
not going to have the full certainty so
here's what I think you should do you
should try this for a while okay see the
results that you get then try this diet
for a while and compare the results and
see which one works better for you what
produced the most Results Weight uh
blood profiles Improvement in energy and
overall quality of Health then you'll
have the certainty what works for you
and you won't have to be dependent on
some third- party Viewpoint or some
study because you experienced
it hey guys I wanted to personally
invite you to a new Facebook group that
I just started called Dr Bergs keto and
in minute fasting lab okay so I created
this so we can share our successful
actions what worked what didn't work
your results so I put a link down below
so go ahead and sign up and I'll see you
inside
