so in this video I want to answer the
question is in a minute fasting really
that different for women compared to men
a lot of times I'll get this question
you know female should I be doing in a
minute fasting I heard it was unhealthy
it's gonna mess up my hormones so so
let's just take a look a little bit
deeper into that topic what's the
difference between a man and a woman is
that women have a more complete
reproductive system okay so they have
more estrogen they their bodies can make
another body and that's all tied in with
survival and when you go into this topic
of starvation that is anti survival
right it lowers your survival starving
actually decreases your lifespan so
that's going to create a lot of problems
with the endocrine system hormones etc
but here's what I want to differentiate
we got starvation got fasting and a low
calorie diet when you do a low calorie
diet you're actually cutting down the
food that you're eating and usually
you're creating nutritional deficiencies
alright when you're doing fasting you've
created an adaptation to running your
body off fat the meals that are
recommended should not be low calorie
meals if you're doing it healthily
because we want to provide for all of
your nutrients so overall you are
cutting calories because you're not
eating so frequently but in that actual
meal you are satisfying your nutrients
now when you're starving you're creating
nutritional deficiencies all over the
place okay and you pretty much tapped
out your fat now you're running off
muscle protein and you're you're hungry
all the time right you're extremely
hungry it's called starvation when
you're fasting you're not hungry it's a
low stress situation in fact you feel
really good you feel euphoric and
hopefully you have nutritional reserves
based on what you ate in the past and if
not you need to enhance that with
supplements but in a low calorie diet
you're usually craving carbs you're
hungry all the time your body is telling
you to eat and I really think the
confusion is not really defining a
healthy version of in a minute fasting
okay because
if you just cut your calories you are
gonna create stress within the endocrine
system you're gonna be hungry all the
time you're gonna be craving and that's
gonna create an issue and also when
you're doing like the pattern of
so-called intimate fasting where it's
like five and two like you eat what you
want for five days and then for two days
you basically cut your calories down
that's not the definition of benevento
fasting that is going to create a
problem on the reproductive system
because you only have two days there to
adapt and that's just not long enough
and plus all the other days you're
probably eating foods that you shouldn't
be eating so if you're doing in a minute
fasting healthily okay and you're doing
it gradually so your body can adapt and
you making sure the meals are
nutrient-dense it's going to enhance
your reproductive system it's not going
to create a problem all right thanks for
watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you
just go to dr. Berg comm it's right on
the front page I put a link down below
download it it's free check it out
