in this video we're gonna talk about
what the color of your urine will tell
you about your body
no I'm gonna should be straw yellow
color okay if it's clear that means
you're drinking too much water if it's
darker yellow that could mean you're
dehydrated you need to drink more water
or you have cute tones in the urine if
it's cloudy you could potentially have a
kidney stone a bladder stone or a UTI
and if it's foamy and I know this is not
a color but I wanted to bring this up
you could potentially have protein in
the urine which means that your kidneys
are leaking protein okay it's not
filtering there's some kidney damage
going on if it's fluorescent yellow it
could be that you're taking synthetic B
vitamins okay and your body's trying to
get rid of them if your urine is red or
rust color it could be blood beets or
berries that you're consuming now it's
blood it could mean that you have a
kidney stone or UTI or a prostate
problem or let's say you just got done
running a marathon that could actually
create some jarring especially if you
have a kidney stone but even if you
don't it can produce some blood in the
urine if the urine is orange it could
mean that you have a liver problem or a
gall bladder problem especially if your
stool is like colored if the urine is
black it could be an antibiotic called
flagyl or it could be the herb cast
gardenia which is a laxative or the
sweetener sorbitol if your urine is blue
potentially it could be hypercalcemia
you have too much calcium in your blood
and that could come from actually too
much vitamin D by the way if your urine
is very very dark brown potentially it
could be the flagyl that antibiotic it
could be muscle injury because you
exercised excessively it could be kidney
damage it could be excessive fava beans
or you consume some rhubarb all right
guys there you have it thanks for
watching
so you know my viewpoint on this topic I
want to know your viewpoint what do you
think about this video go ahead and
comment down below
