which one of these would you buy the $2
per dozen version or the $7 a dozen
version well I have an excellent
presentation for you because I am an
expert at this topic of course it's not
an exact science but I want to share
with you some data on eggs that I think
will help you choose the right type of
egg so when evaluating eggs there's a
lot of these different terms that are
confusing I'm going to make it extremely
simple the the first part of this is
just going to be mainly talking about
space how much space the chicken gets
okay unfortunately
65% of all chickens are in cages caged
chickens which is the great majority of
all the chickens are required to get at
least 67 Square in so that's a little
bit over 8 in by 8 Ines of space then
you get something else called New
California cage chickens they get
another couple inches so that's like a
space of 10 1/2 in x 10 1/2 in and again
not even a square foot of space then you
graduate into something called cage free
right they're out of the cage but the
question is how much space do they
usually get they're in a barn with a lot
of other chickens cage free chickens get
12 in x 12 in so they get a square foot
then we get something called free range
or something called free roaming so they
get to go around the barn and they get
uh actually 2 ft x 2 ft so it's 24 in x
24 in a little more space and I think
they're also allowed to go outside the
barn there's some hole outside the barn
I don't know when they have access to
that I think when they're laying and I
also don't know if they have the option
of stepping on actual grass or just
cement then we get something called
pasture raised not pasteurized these
chickens get a little bit more than 10
ft by 10 ft so that's a lot better now
if you could find a farmer close to you
maybe the farmer Market they're going to
probably get a lot more space and I
think that's the chickens that you
really want to get their eggs from
because when we're dealing with space as
you collapse the space in on these
chickens you raise up
cortisol adrenaline it's not healthy
it's not going to contribute to the
health of that chicken or the health of
the egg chickens were not designed to
live without space just like you're not
designed to live in a small area of
space now when something says natural
right these eggs are fresh and natural
that does not mean anything you can
pretty much ignore that and also ignore
the like the different grades it doesn't
tell you how healthy that chicken is
either what you want is Pastor raised
now as far as the feed goes you have
conventional feeds sometimes they'll say
it's vegetarian feed well versus what
else are you going to feed them chicken
conventional chickens are fed corn and
soy GMO that means they're sprayed with
chemicals and that also means that
they're getting a tremendous amount of
Omega 6 fatty acids an average egg is
not low in this Omega 6 fatty acid now
you have this ratio you have the ratios
of omega3 fats to omega-6 fatty acids
and sometimes companies will Spike the
omega-3 by adding fish feed or fish meal
and things like that and that's fine but
at the same time they don't lower the
omega-6 fatty acids now why is it so
important to not consume so much omega-6
fatty acid because at least between 25%
and 30% of our overall calories in the
US is omega-6 seed oils so adding more
omega-6 is not a good thing these foods
high in omega-6 fatty acids uh really
mess with your mitochondria your energy
Factory they leech into the nervous
system they affect the heart uh they
create inflammation now I personally
raise chickens for their eggs and we get
a lot of eggs from those chickens I mean
we probably get maybe nine eggs a day we
can't even eat that much in nature these
uh chickens are meant to consume worms
bugs things like that and if you're
raising chickens it's very difficult to
have enough worms or bugs for them so
what I was using is an organic grain mix
for quite some time until I had my eggs
tested and I was kind of shocked to find
out that the eggs were pretty high in
omega-6 fatty acids so what did I do I
found a type of feed that's still
organic but it's no soy no corn organic
peas organic barley oats wheat fish mail
calcium vitamins minerals and then I
also enhance it with uh some
freeze-dried insects as well as allowing
the chickens to roam around and get some
space and so now the Omega 6 fats are
much much lower
now of course you might not have the
space where you can actually have
chickens you might not be uh close to a
farmer's market so what you want to do
you want to find a store that sells
pasture raised organic eggs and I'll
tell you it's a little bit more money
it's a few more dollars per dozen but
it's really worth it because you're
going to invest in your health you're
also going to support the farmer who
really cares about your food so yes you
can find really cheap eggs but my whole
thought is you're actually in investing
it's kind of like Insurance in your own
health so many people when they actually
live on junk food because they're trying
to save money they end up paying a lot
more in health cost and a cost of lack
of energy the cost of not having the
quality of wellbeing and there's also a
company called Angel Acres I've never
spoken with them but what they do is
they raise chickens in a super healthy
way uh without doing the soy and the uh
corn and they've tested the eggs and
they're much lower with their omega-6
fatty acids and yes they're more
expensive but it's really worth it
because you're getting a much higher
quality product now there's a lot more
really interesting information about
eggs that I want to share with you in
this video check it out
