I'm back again and today we're going to
talk about how to increase dopamine
doing keto what is dopamine it's a
neurotransmitter neurotransmitter is
very similar to a hormone but instead of
traveling through the blood it travels
to the nervous system okay so it
transmits communication dopamine is
produced with various parts of the brain
one specific part called a nucleus
accumbens okay so it's deep inside the
brain and it's involved they don't know
exactly what it does but it's involved
with motivation drive and reward okay so
they found that if they destroy this
structure you lose your motivation your
drive and the reward system is affected
and what I'm talking about with reward
system I'm talking about like the
pleasure centers of the body you see a
lot of problems with this nucleus in the
brain when used with drug addiction and
people that are addicted to
carbohydrates so what happens when
people take drugs for example is it
triggers this little nucleus in the
brain this little Center this nerve
bundle which then increases dopamine it
makes them feel better right and then so
it comes up and it comes down and now
they have started getting withdrawals so
they need it again and so they do it
again and they do it again every time
they do it it creates more of a
dysfunction and you need more and more
drug to create the same effect so
dopamine is involved with these basic
drives okay let's say you have a certain
appetite for a doughnut for example and
you see this incredible chocolate
doughnut and has in you're envisioning
it has a certain texture to it certain
taste a certain feeling it'll give you
this great pleasure and then you start
consuming it and then you get this
wonderful feeling for about a minute and
it drops down right the more you start
consuming it the less pleasure you get
over a period of time to the point where
that pleasure eventually starts turning
into no pleasure and then eventually
pain because you have all these side
effects from the sugar but over time
when you lose the function of this
little nucleus and you start developing
dopamine deficiencies you lack that get
up and go mojo
okay you become apathetic apathy is
right down there with depression you
don't care anymore
people that are depressed they're just
not motivated they don't have the drive
they don't have pleasure alright so now
let's circle back to Quito what does
Quito do with dopamine Quito helps you
normalize insulin okay at Laura's
insulin now what's the connection
between insulin and dopamine insulin has
a huge role in regulating dopamine this
is why people initially like the
carbohydrates because they feel so much
pleasure from it because it stimulates
dopamine at first okay but the more you
do it chronically you start developing
insulin resistance so that means that
insulin is unavailable to you so there's
a lot of different receptors for insulin
in the brain so the more you try to
elevate insulin over and over and over
by doing the carbs for example you're
going to create a lowered amount of
dopamine so from a food angle if you
have a history of consuming a lot of
carbohydrates chances are your dopamine
might be pretty low because you have
insulin resistance so going on keto
drops the carbs you start healing in
some resistance and you start
reestablishing your dopamine centers so
a lot of times people will take a drug
for depression they'll take a drug that
recycle serotonin okay that's a
different neurotransmitter and many
times it just doesn't help people so I
did a video on this recently where I
talked about a lot of the research
that's done especially with psychiatric
drugs what they do is they only include
the ones that are positive and don't
include the negative ones the ones that
either have complications or don't work
so you're really getting an alteration
of the facts of what these medications
really do and the effectiveness as well
as the safety as well it's not exactly
what they publish because they're
they're not putting in all the data they
put in only what they want you to see
and of course if it doesn't work the
person's labeled as treatment resistant
depression okay sounds very scientific
and of course they'll give you new
medications for that or electric shock
therapy now as a side now what's
interesting about that is that my
attorney
Jonathan amore this attorney has won
more cases against the FDA than any
other attorney so right now he's
involved in a huge battle with the FDA
and electric shock therapy in trying to
change the classification of ect
now what's interesting is the FDA has
never received not one single clinical
trial from the manufacturing companies
that make electroshock devices which
show that they're safe were effective so
hopefully you'll be very successful
inhaling that because to shock someone's
brain with Aldus voltage when really you
can just fix this right here with that
completely unnecessary
so dopamine is involved with addictions
it's involved in depression it's
involved with insulin resistance also
there's other causes of depression one
is chronically fatigued if you're
completely exhausted because you're not
sleeping or some other reason you're
going to be depressed it's very
difficult to be depressed when you have
tons of vitality and health and energy
okay number two when you have blood
sugar problems when your blood sugar
drops and let's say you're not on keto
you can develop anxiety you can develop
depression why because your brain gets
first dibs on glucose okay so if you
don't have enough glucose to the brain
it suffers and you start having all
sorts of problems with dopamine and
other neurotransmitters and again just
to summarize low dopamine will create
depression as well so if you're new to
my channel and you don't know much about
it click the link down below and really
learn how to do keto that healthy way
thanks for watching
hey before you leave I just wanted to
give you a little quick history on some
of the books that I wrote this was one
of the first books it's called dr. Berg
body shapes it was my attempt at writing
about body types what was very
interesting about this book is I
actually did all the images myself don't
ask me why they look actually not quite
as professional as some of the image
that I have in the new book but anyway
this is my first attempt right here
called dr. Berg's body shaped diets and
then I wrote a book more extensive
called the seven principles of fat
burning I don't even have a copy anymore
actually because it's outdated the next
book I put about a thousand hours into
this one right here called a new body
type guide major updates on the body
types I put a lot of energy into this
it has professional images graphics all
sorts of things now the problem with
this book is it doesn't really describe
what this is really about body types are
only a small portion of what's in this
book and that's why I changed the name
to the healthy keto plan okay if you
happen to have this book you don't
really need this book because there's
some only very very minor updates but if
you don't have this you need to get this
one right here this book goes into every
single detail that you would ever want
to know about it goes into the seven
principles of a burning goes into
hormones the body types the basic keto
plan it goes into in a minute fasting I
talked about the ten fat burning
triggers and blockers in that burning
strategies with a lot of details in
every single chapter I go into body
issues that interfere with losing weight
there's very few people that just have a
weight problem they have a lot of body
issues whether it's sleeping problems
stress problems inflammation menopause I
cover that extensively in this book then
I talk about how to get rid of stress
and I show you a technique then I get
into exercising and then I have a lot of
really good recipes in this book as well
so this is a good reference guide on my
website if you get this book you get
this one free it's called healthy keto
and then fasting this is the shortcut a
quick guide to this book and the reason
I created this book is to have you
within 45 minutes learn how to do keto
okay in a minute fasting exactly what
you need to do then you can fill in the
blank
with this book right here so right now
I'm doing a special if you get this book
you get this one totally free or you can
go to Amazon and get these individually
so I just want to clarify the difference
between this book and this updated one
right here if you don't have this you
need to get this right here that way you
can get the exact correct information to
do it healthily
