today we're going to talk about why
french fries are so darn addictive
especially if you're consuming them at a
fast-food restaurant so what's in a
french fry well we have the potato and
we're not talking about a robber tater
we're talking about a cooked potato and
when you cook a potato a starch those
carbohydrates break down into sugar and
so they're gonna create a huge spike in
your insulin so if we have the potato we
have the vegetable oil now vegetable oil
sounds very very healthy right well it's
actually coming from either corn or
canola maybe cottonseed not peanut oil
anymore mainly corn or canola and of
course both of these are GMO which means
they have traces of glyphosate which is
an herbicide and when you go into a
restaurant you don't know how often that
oil is used over and over and over
next thing natural beef flavoring which
contains wheat and milk derivatives then
we have dextrose which is a synthetic
sugar made from more corn corn is GMO as
Tracy's that glyphosate then we have
salt and we're not talking about sea
salt we're talking about sodium chloride
two minerals instead of eighty-four
minerals citric acid TBHQ as a
preservative and then another chemical
to preserve the color now there's an
interesting book about relieving
depression called potatoes not prozac
because the effect of potatoes on your
mood now potatoes may affect your mood
but they also come with a package they
will raise insulin because they are
pretty high on the glycemic index and
the form of the table that most people
consume is not very very healthy if you
were to consume a raw potato I don't
think that would be a problem but of
course try to consume a raw potato not
very appetizing here's the big problem
when you consume a french fry with all
these different things in it you are
going to stimulate your
neurotransmitters in your brain
specifically a center in your brain
called the nucleus
accumbens this little nerve bundle is
the center of the brain involved in
addictions so when someone is taking in
crack or cocaine or any of those drugs
the effect that that's created is
through the nucleus accumbens so the
nucleus accumbens that little Center
will increase dopamine in serotonin
both of these are pleasure
neurotransmitters so it's not really the
drug that's creating the direct pleasure
effect it's really your body is creating
the pleasure through the drug triggering
it well when you consume sugar or
refined carbohydrates especially french
fries you are definitely going to
trigger this nucleus accumbens and raise
dopamine and that is why it's so
addictive that's why it's so pleasurable
and of course when you consume french
fries you need to add ketchup right so
then we're adding another four grams of
sugar per tablespoon but it's not just
regular sugar its high fructose corn
syrup and with additional corn syrup
again GMO more glyphosate so what this
will do is just exaggerate the effects
of what this is doing on your blood
Sugar's and what I'm talking about is
this when you take a starch and you
combine it with a fat and sugar and heat
you're going to create what's called
glycation and glycation is basically the
binding of a sugar molecule with a fat
or a sugar molecule with a protein and
that decreases elasticity within your
arteries within your veins and your
tendons it clogs up certain connections
in the brain it creates sticky proteins
in the body which accelerates the aging
process you're also going to experience
a lot of bloating because when you
consume this and of course most people
don't just have french fries they're
having a hamburger meat right when you
combine this with protein of course the
bun
not to mention the coke and the ketchup
you're going to create a tremendous
amount of bloating within your
that's around the gallbladder and the
Ducks between the pancreas and the small
intestine so you're gonna get a lot of
pressure in that area and over time if
you continue to do this you're gonna get
scar tissue and lead to gall stones and
problems for your bile and problems with
digestion and not to mention a spike in
insulin so you're gonna get a lot of
inflammation not just in the digestive
system and your joints and it's gonna
create a lot of inflammation in your
colon all right
that being said so I know that most
people are not going to be perfect with
your diet this video is mainly
increasing the awareness on the
combinations of these different things
that are either french fry and the
effects that it can create on the body
so maybe in the future you might not
have the quantities of a french fry or
maybe you might not consume these as
often or when you do consume a french
fry maybe you're not going to add the
ketchup because now you know the effects
that it can create anyway thanks for
watching and I'll see you in the next
video
hey if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
