hey guys we're going to create a short
video on fasting okay
fasting is like miracle-gro for your
brain okay it's an incredible incredible
things that can do for your brain if you
have brain fog if you have memory
problems if you have mental fatigue you
need to do fasting so fasting can
stimulate a certain protein called BDNF
by up to 400% it can actually resist
oxidative stress that comes from too
frequent of eating so the more frequent
you eat the more you raise insulin the
more damage that's created in your brain
and your memory starts going down hill
so not only will high sugar destroy the
brain but high insulin will do it too
and eating in general will increase
insulin so all these conditions
Parkinson's Alzheimer's dementia stem
from oxidative stress and fasting can
counter that okay it's a great it's
actually very inexpensive it's actually
free creates neurogenesis which is the
regrowing of nerve cells it's going to
increase your your memory your focus new
connections like synapses can increase
mitochondria so fasting can help reverse
the physical causes of memory loss
mental fatigue and brain fog so I really
do think that people are starting to
recognize the effects the positive
effects of low carb on their focus and
their memory but I think the
underestimate the power of fasting
because every time you eat you stimulate
insulin so I think people are starting
to understand the benefits of low carbs
on mental performance and physical
weight loss but if they add fasting to
the low carb that's when they're gonna
really see some positive changes for
memory focus and concentration so the
body was just not meant to consume food
that frequently so when you start in a
minute fasting I'm going to put some
links down below of how to do it of
course you want to start out gradually
okay you want to start three meals no
snacks you want to go to two meals if
you're getting older and you have
brain fog and you have memory problems I
highly suggest you do what's called oh
man one meal a day you want to work up
to that you'll see some powerful changes
when you do that so you want to do this
gradually you want to make sure that you
do not eat unless you're hungry so some
days you might fast longer depending on
your hunger but really try to pay
attention to your body and kind of pull
yourself out of this habit of eating so
frequently and just don't eat unless
you're hungry so what you're gonna find
as you do this you're gonna be your
body's going to adapt to the point where
you can go longer and longer until you
finally are just eating one meal a day
and for someone that has a slow
metabolism this is completely healthy
for them so we're not trying to start on
the body we're trying to get the body to
heal so fasting allows the brain to get
into this rejuvenation mode and you have
all sorts of positive things that happen
so I put some links down below so go
ahead and click them study them learn
how to do it and then get started so I
hope you're coming to the keto Health
Summit coming up in October so I want to
quickly comment on what we're gonna do
that's different from other conventions
ok the problem with these other
conventions is they give you information
over a load ok it's so much data that
you're basically swimming in a sea of
information we're going to do things
very differently we're only going to
cover the most important things that
make a huge difference now there are
three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory and concentration
that's going to blow you away and number
two I'm going to show you how to
increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism
if you've died it for a long time and
everything is kind of just really slow
I'm going to show you how to get
complete control over your metabolism so
you can literally turn up the dial as
high as you
want and control as much weight as you
want to lose and these three things are
just a tiny bit of what you're going to
learn in the summit so click the link
below get signed up and I will see you
in October
