I wanted to do this quick video on how
to get rid of painful periods which are
also called menstrual cramps or known as
period pain they're all really the same
thing you have a cramping going on in
the lower part of your body now the
question is what is cramping well it's
the uterus yes the uterus can cramp
because when you think about like even
pregnancy it's the uterus that contracts
well during your menstrual cycle the
uterus also contracts as well and so
we're dealing with a spasm of a muscle
there's a really quick thing that you
can do to give relief to yourself so
what you do is just lay in your stomach
that's called a prone position and then
you put your arms up and you stretch
backwards hyperextending your lower back
which will stretch out the uterus in
front of your back so that's the quick
thing to give you immediate relief and
it will help if you can do it sometimes
it's so painful that you can't even do
that but at least uh that's something I
would attempt as a first thing all right
so now you can't keep stretching all day
long so what can you do to really get to
the root of the problem if you look up
uh painful periods or menstrual cramps
you will always see this word prostag
gland in well it's a chemical that
signals uh certain parts of your body to
do certain things like uh create
inflammation and this is why
prostaglandins are behind inflammation
in the brain and when people take
medication like ibuprofen for pain or a
headache it is blocking these
prostaglandins but there's different
types of prostag glin and the one that
we're going to talk about has a very
specific purpose of causing a Vaso
constriction in the uterus if it's too
high and I will get into why it's too
high in a minute but let's talk about
what you can do to inhibit or lower
prostaglandins most people take
Ibuprofen okay and it does work the
problem is there's side effects there's
a lot of side effects it can affect your
stomach it can create other issues which
I don't want to get into but what I do
want to get into is an alternative
similar to Ibuprofen that has virtually
no side effects there is one study and
I'll put the link down below that showed
the comparison of ibuprofen to this
remedy okay and it was very very close
ibuprofen did win out in being more
effective but initially both of those
proed to be very very similar or
compatible in Effectiveness and the
remedy is cinnamon that's right so just
sprinkle a little cinnamon and sugar on
your toast and you'll be good to go and
I'm being very sarcastic the type of
cinnamon that you want is it going to be
in a capsule okay because you need to
get a gram or a th000 milligrams and
you're going to take that three times a
day but cinnamon has a lot of different
properties for regulating blood sugars
but in this situation it gives an
anti-spasmodic effect okay it gets rid
of spasms and it can help you reduce
inflam inflammation why because it
lowers prostate glands the specific ones
that are affecting the uterus now the
question you're probably asking right
now is why are these prostag glin too
high in the first place it's really in a
balance with two hormones we have a
excessively lowered amount of
progesterone and we have too much
estrogen that is the combination that uh
creates this problem and it just so
happens that cinnamon
lowers estrogen and it increases
progesterone so it not only affects that
prostag glandon but it helps to go
deeper a couple other things that I
recommend that also will directly
inhibit prostaglandins vitamin D3 and I
would take about 10,000 IUS three times
a day throughout the day at the same
time you're taking the cinnamon as well
as calcium and magnesium together and
the vitamin D helps the absorption of
the calcium and the Magnesium go into
the tissues helping to relax this spasm
vitamin D is also a potent
anti-inflammatory as well and the third
thing that might be very beneficial is
omega3 fatty acids in the form of Civ
oil um omega-3 is a natural uh pain
reliever a natural anti-inflammatory so
now you have a very potent solution for
menstrual cramps or period pain now
because of the sensoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other side so now that you know
that the question is what actually is
behind this imbalance of too much
estrogen and not enough progesterone and
for that I put this video up right here
check it
out
