hey this is Dr Burg again I have another
client that I want to talk to and a
couple things that she was a client a
while ago and then we worked on her um
and then we got her back she had a
couple deaths in the family holidays and
then we're getting her back so I want
you just to mention in the last time
when you first came you did have a
sleeping problem right initially yeah I
had a serious sleeping problem um my
husband gets up at 2 3:00 in the morning
he's a trainer and he's usually in
someone's living room training working
them out and so he leaves the house
really early in the morning I would wake
up when he left the bed just by moving
in the bed I would wake up and then I'd
be awake until like 5:00 I have to get
up at 6 right and so um this was going
on for years and I just didn't
understand how much of an impact it was
having um until I came here I didn't
know that you burned burn fat during
sleep I had no clue so um I'm only 5
feet tall and I was weighing like 160
lbs probably more than that a friend of
mine told me about the kale shake and I
got the booklet and I started using that
um before I even came to you and I lost
like 10 lbs I could hardly believe it
because it was almost effortless just by
using um the kale shakes and um I I I
had to put a a dumbbell on the scale to
actually make sure that it actually said
you know 10 lbs were gone so anyway that
kind of motivated me even more cuz I had
tried a lot of things and nothing was
working I was not getting smaller I did
Zumba MH which my knees are now really
bad because of Zumba I loved it it was
fun and I was consistent with it really
consistent um but it messed up my knee
and one of the first things you told me
when I came here was that um I needed to
stop
exercising and you were and I was like
but that's I did lose 8 lbs it took me
three months but I did lose 8 lbs so I
really was dismayed when you said that
but you said um you know we need to get
your hormones balanced once we get that
done you will lose the weight but let's
not focus on the weight so I was like
okay fine and yeah like 25 lbs came off
so I was psyched I've been telling
people like because they I'm a walking
billboard because people remember um the
face I was telling on Facebook I saw a
picture of me and my face was so
round and I almost didn't recognize
myself and I hated that the picture was
out there on Facebook but it kind of
made me decide I needed to do something
and so now um my is a lot Slimmer I'm a
lot Slimmer and um I'm not at my goal
weight but I am much much happier I
sleep like a rock now my husband leaves
the house I don't even know he's
gone and I did not know that that could
even be possible he'd drop a book in the
basement and me two floors up right
right and then I'm up for the rest of
the you know we hours of the morning it
was awful have you found that your
stress tolerance has changed uh that was
the initial reason really that I came to
see you because I was actually being
quite mean to my husband because I my
temper was so short and everything and I
actually went to our marriage counselor
and said I have a problem and the first
thing um uh he told me was I want you to
get a a physical I went to my regular
doctor and he told me oh your
cholesterol is a little high but there's
nothing really wrong with you and I'm
like that is just not true cuzz I feel
like crap um and so that's when um I
bumped into this friend she gave me the
information and you came it was like you
were living in my house when I sat down
with you um because you were telling me
about these different things and that
were happening in my body and why and I
finally had some answers and so it was
it was it's been an incredible
experience awesome awesome
um the other thing is that this knee now
you went to the doctors it's just
swollen I think I don't know if you had
any therapy but it just won't heal right
didne me yeah and it's been weeks like
this um I went to back to my primary
care physician and bless his heart he's
doing the best he knows how um he put me
on
Naproxin um I think like 2 250
milligrams twice a day it's done
absolutely nothing um I think that you
know by the way that I'm eating because
when I started getting back on track as
far as eating better my knee started
feeling better so I don't have the pain
right that I was having um but I still
have the inflammation so yeah because
see when she moves her leg out this one
doesn't extend out all the way right and
uh so what I'm going to do is I'm going
to we're going to do some treatments
today and then I'm going to do another
video after a couple treatments and so
we can just compare it to show people uh
if you notice when the leg doesn't go
out that means the hamstring underneath
the leg is too contracted so we don't
want to stretch the hamstring that's
going to make it worse if we want to
relax and loosen the hamstring we work
on the quadricep on this side that'll
give you a lot of relief and then also
we work on the opposite hamstring so
we'll do all that today and then we'll
do a post video okay great well thank
you so much thank you you're
welcome
