so this is a short video on a question
that I recently got relating to is chili
pepper extract good to take is it
dangerous is it going to help me so I'm
going to talk about this especially in
relationship to the biological effect of
pain relief so the active ingredient
that creates the benefit is called
capsaicin okay
this compound K has the potential to
block sensory nerve signals for pain and
inflammation so it's really good for
pain from a rheumatoid arthritis pain
from osteoarthritis neuritis that which
is inflammation the nerve neuropathy
which is nerve damage even from being a
diabetic and the feet or the hands it's
great for a neurological pain from
shingles or trigeminal neuralgia which
is a nerve pain on the face but it's
also good for other things too like
sinus mucus sinus headaches improving
circulation and allergies but for these
things you'd want to take it orally for
pain you wouldn't want to take it
topically so it's very hot on the skin
and when you take it orally so make sure
you're taking it with food not an empty
stomach and you just use a little bit on
your skin also to make sure you don't
react now as far as the brand I don't
have any recommendations for that you're
gonna have to do your own research so I
was a dosage I would look on the
directions and follow the directions on
the bottle alright thanks for watching
so I want to know what you're interested
in as far as a video click the link down
below and share some ideas I want to
hear
