so if you have that loose saggy skin
underneath your arms you're going to be
very excited to watch this video
typically a person with loose skin
underneath their arms might just think
it's a fat problem and they just need to
lose weight so they do all this cardio
and they change their diet and it
doesn't do anything so what I have to
share with you first is what the problem
really is and from there we can come up
with a really good solution now there's
a term I want to intr uce you to called
sarcopenia age related muscle loss and
this may or may not be happening to you
depending on your age and one other
thing are you sitting down for this
immobility if you immobilize a muscle or
a joint is it the muscle that actually
keeps the shape of the arm the answer is
no it's this right here so in our bodies
we have Saran Wrap we have a certain
wrap in tissue that surrounds the muscle
and that tissue is called fascia fascia
is the bag that surrounds the arm and
holds everything in a nice tight way and
in this diagram here you'll see you have
the skin and then just underneath it you
have a layer of fat it's called
subcutaneous fat and then you have the
first layer of fasia okay and then you
have another layer of fat and then you
have another layer of fascia and then
you have the muscle and fascia also
becomes
immobilized with
immobility and aging yes you might have
some fat there that needs to be dealt
with but probably the bigger problem is
this atrophy of the fascia and the
muscle now there's an interesting book
that I'm reading right here fascia
treatment with shock waves which I'm not
recommending in this video anything
about the shock waves that would be for
more of a mile FAS
problem which we're not talking about
but I want to share something in this
book this very expensive
book fascia can change its tone it has
contractile cells within the fascia
itself it can change its tone so the
question is how we just basically undo
the immobility and we start to move it
but here's the problem if you do this on
more of an isolated basis where you're
just working two muscles right you're
you're extending the tricep or you're
Contracting the bicep that doesn't
involve the fascia it only involves the
Muscle fascia is much more Dynamic and
it crosses over a lot of different
muscle groups so the type of solution
that I'm going to recommend is not a
two-dimensional contraction relaxation
type exercise but more of a functional
exercise that involves like at least 20
muscles because it's all one continuous
unit if you're just going to focus on
this one small area with if you're
neglecting what it's connected to the
back part we're probably not going to
see much change so I'm going to show you
the best exercises to start out with
which I'm going to put a link down below
rather than reinvent the wheel you just
need to watch how this person does this
exercises because she did a wonderful
job of doing the most incredible Dynamic
functional exercises
with the arms without any added weight
the fascia adds elasticity
flexibility posture it holds everything
up if we didn't have it we'd just
basically be this big ball of mush so
really the solution is a lot of movement
in that area even in anatomy and
physiology when you take the courses you
learn the uh origin insertion of the
muscles right and that's important but
in life we're not just using like one or
two muscles I mean the Motions that we
do in living are very very Dynamic and
uh that's why going to the gym and just
isolating one muscle at a time I don't
think is the best workout especially for
your fascia because the fascia wraps
around and it goes to other muscles it's
one big sheath that kind of covers
everything all right so here's the first
step okay and I would recommend watching
this entire video um but this is an arm
workout so as you can see
she has a timer there you can follow
along and she's just about ready to show
you the first exercise that
involve not just the arm but the
shoulder itself no weights okay then she
goes to another workout right here where
she's doing a different motion okay this
involving the
shoulders the arms I'm going to turn
around
so then she does a series of additional
exercises including this one where she's
pushing your arms out and in okay looks
easy
incredibly difficult okay your arms are
going to burn so just do as much as you
can this first workout you don't want to
get too sore now what you're doing in
this functional exercise you're doing a
a series of moves and motions that
involve the fascia and the muscle and
you're going to do this workout as much
as you can until you have no more
soreness now it could take a week before
all the soreness goes away and then you
want to do it again you're going to keep
doing these exercises over and over and
over until the point where you know you
can do them comfortably and there's very
little if any soreness at all all right
so now that you went through this
exercise which you're working the muscle
we want to go heavier into the fascia
using one of these right here okay bands
and I found a really
good uh exercise for that
maneuver right here we're going to take
a look at it right now right and um you
can see this person is taking these
bands and they're
stretching all the way to the lateral
side of their body and they're really
activating the fascia all the fascia
that comes underneath here comes all the
way down your arm through here okay so
what we want to do is we want to stretch
all of that because it's not just the
EXC exercise that stimulates the
reversal of atrophy it's also stretching
stretching will help activate the fal
bag around this tissue and start
tightening it because it has contracti
tissue and of course you want to do the
other side okay with these bands maximum
do both sides left arm pulls down okay
and you'll see that then he transitions
to another maneuver which is on your
knees it goes through that
technique amazing stretches I mean for
your fascia it's going to tighten up
underneath your arm and you're going to
do both sides and then once you've
graduated from that video there's one
more that I found that's awesome now
you're going to add weight to your arms
while you do some of these exercises and
this video is called solid arms and
shoulders 30 minute strength workout
with dumbbells okay and of course you
want to use the appropriate weight for
this so maybe you start out with with a
5 lb weight go to a 10 lb weight maybe a
15 lb weight but probably not anything
more than that bringing the Dum so in
this exercise you can see that she has
dumbbells and she's basically going to
work her arms one at a time over her
head which I like this a lot better than
doing curls because you're working the
entire arm the shoulder everything so
you're not just working the
tricep it's very functional very simple
and she has a countdown so you can do
that this is a great video so I don't
have to reinvent the wheel these are
three amazing videos that I think you
can use in the recovery of the fascia
underneath your arm as well as the
atrophied muscle underneath your arms
and on that note I have the first video
connected right here check it out
