hey Dr Burke here in this short video
we're going to talk about how to warm up
your hands or your feet using
acupressure to the thyroid now I'm just
going to make a disclaimer I'm not
curing thyroid disease okay I'm just
showing you how to influence the thyroid
to warm up the hands and feet um it
works about 50% of the time so I'm going
to show you how to do it on yourself or
to have someone do it on you if it
doesn't work chances are that the reason
why you're cold is coming from another
source okay so there's many different
causes of cold hands or feet so first
thing you want to do is rate the
coldness so let me just see you have
yeah you do have cold hands um I'm going
to rate her coldness on a scale from 1
to 10 10 being very very very very
hot zero being ice cold give me a number
how are you going to rate that
temperature five five okay now we're
doing on our hands you would do it on
the feet feet separately so we're going
to work on the hands first okay so I'm
going to turn her this way and the
acupressure points to the thid are
located right here and if you wanted to
know the segment it's about C5 C6 area
right here so now I'm taking my two
fingers right here and this is of course
someone else doing this you're going to
take your hand in the forehead and press
down here straight like this okay like
scissors of course
it if there is um an issue here it might
be a little sore so go light but I'm
going to press right in here and the
most important thing is we don't mess up
their
hair okay so now I'm pressing on this
point right here and I'm just going to
hold this for about an hour no I'm just
kidding we're going to hold it for uh
couple minutes
here so I'm pressing right into this
little point right here
and you're going to feel a little kind
of a resistance and I'm just holding an
equal amount of pressure at the area of
the lower neck okay so it's right
through here right about there and uh so
now while I'm doing this I'm going to
ask the
person that five tell me when it goes to
a six
okay
six okay
good now I'm just holding this sustained
pressure and it could take about 2
minutes okay
so now tell me when it's a
seven
seven seven okay
good tell me when it's an
eight eight good it's an eight let me
just see here yeah it's warming up
nicely now
um what you may want to do
let's say for example it's going too
slow then you might want to move your
fingers down just a half an inch okay
because you want to get the
exact opposite of the thyroid gland so
you want to get the exact opposite if
you draw a circle around where the
thyroid is which is in the front of the
neck and the lower part so I'm going to
come down here like down at C6 which is
the last one of the last segments before
C7 which is very lower so we're going to
just hold that right there now what's
interesting when I went down here a
little lower her forehead just heated up
so there's something happening here cuz
uh it's not
me okay what is it is it what's
happening now to the
temperature um the palms of my hands are
warm and then it's a little bit cold in
the top of my hand okay she said the
palms of her hand are warm now so it was
a five what is the palm of of of your
hands right now nine a nine so that's
pretty cool so now what we're going to
do if you don't have someone to do this
on you you can use uh this
do-it-yourself version and we're going
to use on someone this small we're going
to use this width right here sometimes
uh we'd use a bigger one but I'm going
to actually just this is a tripod so I'm
going to sit this back here and why
don't you scoot your butt this way about
6 in yeah now look at this so I'm going
to actually position this let me just
take the hair out of the way here and
just give me that scissors over
there so we're going to come right down
here uh just sit up for a second okay
good we're going to hit this right here
all right so now just kind of lean your
head back there yeah do you feel this is
the same pressure that I did almost okay
do I have to go lower
yeah right there mhm how was that good
so now what we're going to do is I'm
going to take
this I'm going to try
to have her lean back a little bit like
this and let gravity pull her head back
so now we have an acupressure device
that's exactly at the lower neck
pressing on those two points for about 2
or 3 minutes that way no one needs to
press she can just lay back let gravity
push her head back on this device and
the longer she does it the warmer she's
going to get so this is great to do
especially if you have to um go to sleep
and you it's hard to sleep because your
your hands are feet are so cold so this
is just something you can do um see if
it works uh it may work uh I say it's
about 50% so give it a shot and I will
see you in the next
video
