hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're gonna talk about how you could
possibly gain weight on consuming just
salad let's see you're out doing the
keto plan you're doing one meal a day
and you're basically having just a salad
but you're having a lot of it and all of
a sudden you gain two pounds how can
that be
is that actually fat well not really now
it could be hidden carbs in the croutons
the salad dressing or the dried fruit
but if you're on my program chances are
these are not the problem okay what is
the problem well first of all a lot of
people are not used to consuming large
quantities of lettuce or salad so they
don't have the microbes which means
they're not going to have the enzymes to
digest those foods so they're gonna have
a hard time digesting now in these
salads you have inside the fibers which
act as roughage and insoluble fibers
which basically ferment and your
microbes can consume those as their meal
but the Seibel fibers absorb a lot of
water okay it's sort of like a sponge
and so here you are you drink some water
and it doesn't come out it kind of gets
stuck in there and because you're not
able to digest all this your whole
digestive system slows down and you feel
full you're bloated and you're retaining
water that's why you gain two pounds so
in the meantime what can you do well you
can steam your vegetables which will
allow these fibers to break down a
little bit more making it easier to
digest them and also switch the type of
vegetables that you're consuming try
doing squash or cauliflower steamed
cauliflower or some broccoli or
asparagus which both all these mainly
are steamed anyways these will help you
and take the stress off the microbes as
you're building up the microflora to be
able to digest the quantities of
vegetables that you need so try this out
and let me know how it works so if
you're enjoying these videos click share
and spread the word
