one of my favorite drinks for the liver
is the combination between apple cider
vinegar and lemon today let's talk about
the benefits of combining both of these
amazing ingredients into one drink let's
talk about apple cider vinegar in itself
some people uh have this idea that it's
filled with all sorts of nutrients and
you have the mother that's doing all
these wonderful things well there's not
actually a lot of nutrients in alide
vinegar there's a little bit and also
the mother um yes it might have some
enzymes and some probotics
but mainly it's sediment so it's not
some magical thing that's creating these
effects it's mainly the basic acetic
acid but this acetic acid is quite
amazing first of all it's an acid made
by certain bacteria that has a lot of
cool effects on our bodies it will uh
address some big problems that a lot of
people have especially insulin
resistance it helps you make insulin
more sensitive so insulin works in the
body and and if you have diabetes or
pre-diabetes or you just have insulin
resistance apple cider vinegar can help
correct this problem because if insulin
is made more sensitive you're going to
have better blood sugar you're going to
have better cognitive function you're
going to store uh less fat in the liver
you're going to have less inflammation
so apple cider vinegar can actually stop
that whole process from occurring and in
some aspects potentially could reverse
it appleid of vinegar also helps um this
thing called o oxidative stress so all
this free radical damage that can happen
Apple CID of vinegar can kind of slow it
down Apple CID of vinegar also helps you
uh store glycogen in the liver and so
that's going to actually help you with
exercise and your capacity to use your
stored fuel in the liver as well as the
muscles and at the same time the brain
will get fuel from the liver also I've
noticed a great lessening of the
appetite when you do applea vinegar and
better digestion less bloating now I
will say most of the research I'm going
to put down below on elid of vinegar
backing up some of these claims are done
on mice okay so if you have I don't know
pet hamster pet mouse definitely put
them on upset of vinegar as well now as
far as the type of Aleta vinegar organic
okay I prefer Fair Childs over brags
because they don't dilute it is it
important to have the mother um not
necessarily we're after a high quality
acidic acid and as far as commercial
Apple Ceta vinegar that's not organic
you know it could contain pesticides and
stuff like that so just make sure you
get the organic type now let's switch
gears to Lemon right now you could just
do lemon juice uh or you could just
juice the lemon or you could just blend
the whole lemon which takes more time
and of course if you have a drink that
blends the lemon you'll have a lot of
extra benefits uh especially the
phytonutrients the essential oils that
are in the outside peel there's all
sorts of flavonoids which are just
natural compounds that have a lot of
different effects from antioxidant
effects to anti-inflammatory so
basically in a lemon you have citric
acid which is good to prevent kidney
stones it will also help you support the
mitochondria also you have vitamin C
unless you are taking lemon juice from a
bottle that's been pasteurized so
combined it creates a hipat protective
effect liver protecting effect there's
been some studies of course on mice that
have drinken alcohol that it can help to
reduce the liver enzymes so if your mice
tend to be drinkers give them some lemon
right after there's also some
interesting studies on using lemon for
problems with different lipids and
cholesterol imbalances in some of that
research they used garlic combined with
lemon but it was pretty credible this
was done on humans and it was a
randomized double blinded Placebo
controlled trial there's also a study I
found where lemon can help reduce fat on
your liver for the most part it's going
to help reduce free radical damage and
oxidative stress and very simply and
this is what I like about this it's
simple you get a glass of water 12
ounces sometimes 16 ounces whatever you
want to do and you put a tablespoon of
Alid vinegar in there and put a
tablespoon of lemon juice or squeeze the
entire juice from a lemon or blend the
entire lemon I would recommend using a
straw so you don't affect the teeth
because it's going to be slightly acidic
and over time it could affect the enamel
but not if you use a straw but I have to
emphasize uh sometimes when I've
recommended appleid of vinegar and lemon
uh sometimes people just drink it
straight without adding the water so
it's going to it's a little bit too uh
acidic so don't do that the only time I
probably wouldn't do this drink is if
you feel like you have this severe
burning in your stomach which could mean
you have an ulcer in which case you
don't want to be taking apple cider
vinegar in your gut however uh many
people that have indigestion heartburn
acid reflex don't have an ulcer so this
is probably just a reminder of this
drink because you probably already know
about it but it's actually a very simple
thing that can create some really cool
benefits as well as giving you energy
now if you haven't seen this video on
alider vinegar it's actually very
interesting I put it up right here check
it out
