hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about a real common cause for eczema
which is a skin condition it's a rash
it's itchy scaly it's red and that is
something called salicylate sensitivity
now you may have heard of salicylic acid
which is aspirin but salicylates can
come in a natural form in plants spices
and nuts as compared to aspirin which is
a synthetic version of this so if you're
reacting to this compound and you're
getting this symptom then we have to
look at what foods are high and
salicylates and let's go down the list
we have cayenne pepper cinnamon curry
oregano sage tumeric
thyme black pepper basil ginger and
nutmeg broccoli chili pepper cucumber
spinach squash sweet potato canned
tomatoes radishes zucchini coffee wine
beer pine nuts peanuts pistachios and
almonds so if you have this condition
simply avoid these foods for a week and
see if it gets better then you'll know
for sure alright talk to you later hey
thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
