today we're going to talk about why
counting sheep is not the best technique
to help you fall asleep because counting
is a form of thinking because any time
you start counting or thinking about
cheap or thinking in general you're
gonna activate the mind and an activated
mind is not gonna help you sleep people
are thinking way too much in fact I
think thinking is overrated
especially when you're trying to get to
sleep solving problems activates stress
and then you might think of positive
thoughts and then you might get excited
that's gonna keep you up so thinking is
the worst thing to do if you're trying
to sleep but sometimes it's hard just to
turn it off so I'm going to show you a
really good technique that I use to help
you stop thinking but first let's talk
about some basics I've done a lot of
videos on sleep so this is a quick
review so alcohol will definitely keep
you up unless you drink a lot of it in
which case you're going to be
unconscious and you'll wake up with a
hangover so this is not a good option
for sleeping caffeine in coffee and tea
and there's a little bit in chocolate
but chocolate has a stimulant
okay so choc that will keep you up and
other caffeinated beverages and not to
mention all the sodas that people are
drinking so if you do a bit too much and
I'm talking about like more than one in
the morning you may find that that's the
reason why you're not sleeping because
it's not cycled out to the system your
liver has not fully detoxified it yet
and that's keeping you up stress okay
this is a big one I've done a lot of
videos on this I'm gonna put some links
down below but if the adrenals are
overstressed or your adrenal fatigue it
can activate a lot of thinking and
solving problems you'll be in this state
where at night like at 2:00 o'clock in
the morning you're totally awake and
you're thinking excessively and then
during the day you're ready for a bed
okay right so it's everything is flipped
now I personally had a problem with
sleeping it was so bad
there were nights I did not even sleep
one minute I would lay there the whole
night counting sheep counting backwards
from 100 forwards to a hundred I tried
everything and it didn't work until I
started to address my adrenals I'm gonna
put some links down below if you have
that
there's a way to solve that problem but
stress is probably the number one thing
okay so then we have digestion what you
eat can definitely affect your ability
to sleep especially if you ate something
you shouldn't be eating that you feel
bloated that's gonna keep you from
sleeping I've done tons of videos on
this okay too much light in the room so
if you have the light on before bed and
you just try to go to bed light in
darkness activate certain things through
your retina that go into the pineal
gland that will either stimulate or
inhibit the sleep hormone called
melatonin so melatonin which helps you
sleep is activated by darkness so it's
best that you turn the lights off and
you start to wind down that way the
artificial lights during the day also do
not help so I like full-spectrum lights
around my desk all day so I get that go
outside get some Sun get vitamin D that
also will help you with sleep greatly
also your cell phone right next to your
bed or being on your cell phone or your
computer way too much the EMF the light
from the computer can really mess up
your sleep cycles I've done lots of
videos on that I put the link down below
I've also did videos on sleep apnea
getting enough oxygen if you have that
you should watch that I'm not going to
get into that in this video because I
did a whole video just on that one topic
leg cramps I put the link down below but
if you have leg cramps Tamila night you
need more magnesium potassium maybe
sodium or even calcium I talked about
that extensively and that can be the
reason why you're not sleeping a really
effective herb that I used in my sleep
aid is called foti root okay it's been
used to in China for a long long time as
an anti-aging herb a he shoe whew a very
effective herb for a lot of things for
your adrenals for sleep there's several
other key ingredients in my sleep aid if
you're interested I put a link down
below but for tea root is one of the key
things in that hormone so you want to
limit your caffeine of course aerobic
exercise is going to be a very very
vital the days that I don't exercise I
know the sleep is not as good vitamin D
this will help you sleep minimally
20,000 I use a vitamin d3 take k2 with
it I'll put some data down below but
this really will help you get into the
deeper sleep it will help also if you
have excessive amounts of stress in
cortisol so if the adrenals aren't right
this can help you right here and then
getting more Sun that would be ideally
what you should do but it's hard to get
this during the winter
okay so vitamin b1 will help you stop
thinking so much nutritional yeast
that's the best source especially if you
have this nervous tension and you're
excessively thinking thinking thinking
this can help you too much stress too
much sugar too much alcohol will deplete
b1 but B 1 is really really important in
having a calm mind ok magnesium
potassium essential for calming down the
nervous system especially the muscles so
try to sleep if your muscles are all
tight and your stiff it's not gonna work
so you want a nice big salad during the
day it's interesting the days that I
don't have as much salad
I find that my muscles aren't fully
relaxed like they should be okay there's
something called the autonomic nervous
system and that is a system that is
working on automatic okay there's two
parts of this system
there's the sympathetic nervous system
which is the flight or flight mode it's
kind of like the stress part of the
nervous system that activates things
you're being chased by a tiger that
system kicks in then you have the
parasympathetic this system is all about
rest and digest it's the system that is
always active pushing your heart rate
down helping you sleep so it kind of
these two work opposing each other if
you have a sleep problem most definitely
you gonna have a problem with this
system right here so the question is how
can you activate this system and inhibit
this system I mentioned all the things
that you can do
nutrition wise exercise wise but this is
a great technique that relates to a
simple way of breathing now when
someone's stressed their breathing is
altered okay so they have a shorter
exhalation so the breathing in and their
exhalation is always shorter which is
interesting so there's not this balance
now the thing about the lungs as far as
in relationship to the autonomic nervous
system is that it's not just involuntary
it's not just on automatic you can
voluntarily stop breathing if you want
you can hold your breath but if you
forget about it your breathing will just
go on automatic and you will just start
breathing normally you don't have to
think about it that's called involuntary
but you have the ability to control your
breath as well so this is the technique
it's very very simple all you have to do
is balance out the inhalation with the
exhalation okay so you want to slowly
breathe in okay and you want to slowly
breathe out and you want to make sure
these are the same as far as the timing
goes okay so let's just say I was gonna
breathe in for four seconds there we go
and then breathe out for four seconds
what's gonna happen is you're
voluntarily stimulating the
parasympathetic nervous system and
you're turning this off to a certain
degree you don't have to get into
counting all you have to do is focus on
your breathing in and out and make sure
they're the same and try to slow them
down
this is one of the most effective quick
things that you could do just to get you
into sleep without having to think so
much so you want to turn off the
thinking just focus on your breathing it
gives you something to do that's not
activating the mind so go ahead and try
this and put your comments down below
and let me know how it works
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
