hey guys so I just wanted to create this
video based on a new study that was
released to make sure that you don't put
your pet mouse on the ketogenic diet
okay if you have gerbils if you have a
hamsters do not put them on a ketogenic
diet okay and here's why
because this is what the study revealed
a high-fat ketogenic diet causes hepatic
insulin resistance in mice
now that's insulin resistance in your
liver which then will lead to a fatty
liver and then diabetes high cholesterol
okay now that's pretty scary right well
let me just read on says right here it
should be mentioned that the ketogenic
diet used in this study as well as in
other studies in mice may differ from
the ketogenic diet used in humans
hello so I'm gonna show you actually
what they fed the mice okay
in fact I'll put some links down below
so I have their diet right here I also
pulled up the high-fat diet too but I'm
not gonna talk about that I'm just going
to talk about their ketogenic diet which
is 76 a modified high-fat paste okay so
the first thing you should know is that
the macros the protein was eight point
six percent now typically in a ketogenic
diet we do 20 percent so it's a little
low carbs are three point two that's
pretty exciting that's really low
normally we recommend like five percent
of your total calories being carbs so
they were even lower and then the fat is
75 percent which which is just about
right okay sounds good right until you
click on the ingredients okay right here
and this is what they're feeding the
mice a combination of lard butter I'll
guarantee it's not grass-fed corn oil
probably GMO
casein which is the protein in milk
which a lot of people have allergies to
cellulose okay minerals vitamins I'll
guarantee those are synthetic and
dextrose which is a type of synthetic
sugar okay now listen if you consume
this you would get insulin resistance
this is not what human
consume so the problem is if you look on
the internet about the dangers of
ketogenic diet this is one of the big
studies they're quoting okay but no
one's pulling a string and telling you
what these mice actually ate so if you
ever hear anything related to the
ketogenic diet causing a fatty liver
diabetes insulin resistance okay look at
the actual study see if it's an actual
my study and find out what these mice
actually ate all right guys in that note
I'll see you next video so to prevent me
from running at a Content I have a new
survey I want to find out what you are
interested in so please fill it out the
links down below
