hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about organic versus conventional meat
okay now sometimes when you're doing
keto or in a minute fasting you'll give
people it'll say oh all that fat that
you're eating and the protein is so
unhealthy but not if it's organic
definitely if it's conventional but
non-organic because organic means
without antibiotics and without added
growth hormone like the rb/gh or Serrano
which I'm not sure if you know about
that but Serrano is a very very potent
estrogen it's an anabolic growth hormone
it makes things get bigger it's a
hundred thousand times stronger than the
chemical and plastics that cause cancer
and this will definitely cause cancer
but it's been banned in Europe in 1985
it's still used in Canada and the US so
just another reason why you have to do
organic okay it's it's worth it also
when you're doing organic you're getting
no feed byproducts urea arsenic the
animals are fed in an organic pasture
there's no synthetic pesticides on top
of that there's a lot of other nutrients
that are a lot higher and I'm not even
talking about grass-fed just organic
you're gonna spike your omega-3 fatty
acids by 47% also you'll increase alpha
lipoic acid by 64% which is a very
healthy fatty acid and CLA which is
another very healthy fat by 41% so if
you could do grass-fed that would take
you one step further but for sure do
organic do not consume condensing meats
on a ketogenic diet hey thank you so
much for watching keep spreading the
word and share this video
