so recently I had a question about sugar
alcohols that I wanted to create this
very short video so the question is
should you subtract sugar alcohol
sweeteners as your net carbs now
normally you would take the total carbs
on the back of the label and you minus
the fiber but you also minus the sugar
alcohols why because in theory this
doesn't necessarily get absorbed in the
small intestine or raise the blood
sugars so so the thought is because
they're not acting just like sugar we
can deduct those to get our net carbs so
the net carbs are what you're operating
on on your calculations because you want
to keep your carbs between 20 50 grams
per day okay
well I disagree out of all the sugar
alcohols only one that is zero on the
glycemic index and that's a wreath root
all so yes if you have a wreath throat
well as your sweetener definitely
deducted from the total carbs to get
your net carbs however xylitol maltitol
sorbitol these do produce some reaction
on the glycemic index it's not
incredibly high and it's a lot less than
actual table sugar and definitely
glucose but it's not zero so for that
reason I would not recommend deducting
these in your calculations only a wreath
root all so that way you're being a
little conservative and you're probably
having more accurate numbers down here
now if you're consuming stevia or monk
fruit you don't have to worry about
these these are such a small amount of
calories and you do not have to factor
these into this equation at all
because they don't spike insulin alright
guys there you have it that's my
long-winded answer to a short question
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
