so recently I had someone that wanted to
know what is causing her paresthesia
okay first of all what is paresthesia a
paresthesia is a problem with the
nervous system you have some abnormal
sensation coming from the sensory nerves
there's two types branches of nerves
one is motor which controls movement the
other one is sensory which is perception
and there's many different fibers that
control different sensations okay so if
the sensory nerve is damaged in any way
you can have any lack of feeling and
that's called numbness you can have
tingling you can have pins and needles
you can even have the sensation of cold
or even burning pain you can have the
feeling of ants crawling on your your
skin that that's a nerve problem you can
actually have the part of your body feel
heavy and that's a problem with the
sensory nerve you can actually have a
hypersensitivity feeling to pain in the
part of your body or a lack of that so
you can have any combination of these
right here so when people have carpal
tunnel syndrome which is an obstruction
to the nerve in your wrist they can also
have these symptoms too so what's
happening is that you either have damage
directly to the nerve like the the
coating around the nerve is becoming
lost okay or there's compression to the
nerve itself you can also have a
situation where you wake up in the
middle of night with the pain okay and
that can be very irritating so I want to
talk about the different causes and then
the number one cause okay all right the
first one is chemo chemotherapy that has
a side effect of causing something
called peripheral neuropathies or nerve
damage also chemicals in general being
exposed to chemicals destroy the nerves
as well
statins okay why would statins have a
side effect of nerve damage
well because statins block the
production of cholesterol and
cholesterol is needed within the nervous
system because most the nerve is fat so
if you're blocking cholesterol you can
actually block the production of a
normal nervous system and the membranes
around the cells going on a low-fat diet
can also cause this as well let's say
you're a vegan or vegetarian
because even the retina into the eye
which is all neurological is affected by
DHA and EPA so DHEA comes from animal
products unless you're getting it from
algae but you're gonna get most the DNA
from fish so again if you have let's say
you're on a low-fat diet and you have
these symptoms you might want to start
consuming healthy wild-caught fish or
some good cod liver oil or even salmon
oil make sure it's while caught to start
building that up so the DHA is very very
important in Neurology and preventing
these problems toxic levels of something
called homocysteine so this compound is
built up when you have a deficiency of
certain B vitamins in the diet and the B
vitamins are like so important in
maintaining nerve function especially
not only one if you're a deficient in
b12 are gonna have no Rytas you can have
all sorts of nerve issues b6 is very
important
b12 is essential so again a B vitamin
deficiency anything that creates a B
vitamin deficiency can create problems
with this okay all right if you're on
metformin because you're a diabetic one
of the side effects is it depletes
vitamin b12 which is needed for nerve
function seizure medications will
decrease folate that can actually affect
it's one of side effects is paresthesia
drinking alcohol depletes your B
vitamins if you're an alcoholic if you
drink too much that can actually create
this a problem but this one right here
is the most common one and it's a high
carbohydrate diet i'm i'm talking about
refined carbohydrates in the form of
sugar and pasta and breads and crackers
and things like that because doing that
will pull out all sorts of nutrients
primarily the B vitamins okay and you
start pulling those out and this is why
a diabetic who's usually always on a
high carb diet has problems with
peripheral neuropathies and nerve damage
and paresthesia because of the loss of B
vitamins so if a diabetic had high
levels of B vitamins in their diet okay
even though their sugar was high they
would get less symptoms
so the B vitamins especially b1 is
protective against nerve damage so if
you have this problem and you're doing
high carbs go on a low carb diet I put a
link down below okay of how to do that
but also at the same time start taking B
vitamins the best source would be
nutritional yeast but you can also take
some been though to mean with it so
benfotiamine let me let me spell that
for you then vote to me okay spelling is
my worst subject but I think I got this
right here been vote to mean you can get
this it's a fat soluble B 1 that will
help the nervous system to actually help
undo this condition too and it also is
good for advanced nerve problems like
peripheral neuropathies and things like
that alright thanks for watching and
I'll see you in the next video if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
