hi guys had another question about low
carbs and serotonin someone said that
well I'm I don't want to do a little
carb on your key dough plan because
that's gonna lower my serotonin okay so
I mean it sounds good in theory but it's
absolutely not true I'm gonna understand
I help you understand like the
background of why that isn't true first
of all serotonin is a neurotransmitter
okay neurotransmitter and
neurotransmitters are made from protein
the precursor the thing that turns in
the serotonin is called tryptophan this
is an amino acid it's protein now could
be that you're not consuming enough
protein in your diet that could be one
fun cause it could also be that you're
not able to digest the protein because
your stomach is not acid enough that's
another cause but the more likely cause
is this thing right here called high
insulin when you have high amounts of
insulin because you have insulin
resistance
you can't absorb amino acids that well
so you can't absorb proteins that well
and that alone will cause low levels of
serotonin now because you have high
insulin that's gonna bring the sugars
lower initially so you're gonna end up
with low blood sugar issues especially
few don't eat and you're gonna feel kind
of Moody and then you eat carbohydrate
and you feel better and you're like wow
this makes sense
I need carbs to increase my mood but in
fact it's not gonna work long term
because as soon as you eat that carb
it's gonna bring it down again it's
gonna affect your mood high amounts of
insulin and low blood sugars will
actually really mess up your focus or
your cognitive function so long term if
we fix this you'll be able to absorb the
protein and the glucose and you'll fix
the blood sugar issue and so it's not
true that you need more carbs to
increase your serotonin it's just the
opposite you need to lower the carbs to
fix your serotonin but really you're
fixing insulin resistance so you can
absorb the precursors to build serotonin
high amounts of insulin will never make
your mood better it'll never increase
serotonin alright thanks for watching
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know
hey that rhymes
