can you guess america's favorite
vegetable corn now it's debatable
whether corn is an actual vegetable or
grain or actually a fruit if you look at
the different definitions of it but I
don't think it's a vegetable because
vegetables are like the Leafs and stems
of plants but regardless of that corn
has a couple issues with it number one
it's pretty low in nutrients like if you
take a hundred grams of fresh corn it's
four percent vitamin a six percent
vitamin C two percent iron and zero
percent calcium there's just not a lot
of nutrients in corn and of course when
people are eating corn they're not
usually eating fresh corn they're doing
either corn chips or popcorn or
something made with corn starch but corn
is just in so many foods at the grocery
store now here's the problem of corn
ninety-three percent of the corn grown
at least in the u.s. is GM oh and
there's two different types that make up
GMO you have HT and BT HT would be
herbicide tolerant so if you grow corn
and you spray roundup ready which is
glyphosate on the corn it kills the
weeds but it doesn't kill the corn
because the corn is resistant to the
herbicide now BT is slightly different
the actual corn kernel is insecticide so
when the insects eat it they die that's
what's making up this 90 percent of the
corn grown in the US and the majority of
this is fed to animals of course we then
eat the animals so we get it indirectly
now the other problem that I see is that
farmers that grow the corn actually get
paid to grow the corn so it's very
profitable you can make high fructose
corn syrup corn oil and what really
shocked me is an average person in the
u.s. consumes a hundred and sixty pounds
of corn every single year I'm not
consuming any corn in my diet so some
people are obviously consuming a lot
more than 160 pounds and corn is the
most GMO food probably ranking close
with a soy both of those are very very
high in the list all right
talk about the difference between fact
and opinion a fact is something that is
based on evidence truthful information
an opinion may or may not be based on
evidence and it may not be truthful and
just because a lot of people tell you a
lie doesn't make it a truth so if a
hundred people told you the same lie
would it be a truth what about a
thousand because when you do searches on
the Internet
you will see everywhere that GMOs are
considered safe in fact the FDA even
said that they're confident that the
genetically engineered food is as safe
as it's conventional counterpart well
this is an opinion and this is
definitely an opinion let's go right to
the facts the World Health Organization
based on evidence stated that the
chemicals and GMO foods are a probable
carcinogen and there's a couple of there
facts that you may not be aware of the
FDA does not do safety tests on GMO food
they said it's the manufacturing
company's responsibility to ensure
safety and here's another fact that
length of time that these GMO foods were
tested on animals rats were only three
months this is not enough time to really
see the consequences of what these GMO
foods do to our bodies and the other
fascinating thing about the FDA is they
don't require independent safety studies
and on top of that when you do the
safety study you don't even have to send
them the entire complete study you can
send them a summary of the study amazing
but true alright so now that you know
America's favorite vegetable comment
below on what your favorite vegetable is
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
