hey guys I'm back in this video we're
gonna discuss the topic of kale and does
kale act like a poison in the body or an
anti poison okay let's discuss that
there's some rumors and information
going around if you do searches that if
you consume kale you'll end up getting a
goiter and destroying your thyroid
because there are certain final
chemicals in kale that can inhibit
thyroid absorption if the person already
has an iodine deficiency so one of the
categories of phytonutrients in kale is
called glucosinolates and there's
roughly about a hundred and twenty-five
different versions of this and this
phytochemical can then turn into ISO
thiocyanate which is another
phytochemical which then can convert to
sulforaphane and indole-3-carbinol now
you don't need to know that all you need
to know is there's certain final
nutrients that are in kale that break
down into these end products okay
now presently there are absolutely zero
peer-review human studies that shows any
relationship between consuming kale and
it causing damage to our bodies okay
there are some animal studies done some
on pigs that show when these animals
consume high doses and high concentrated
amounts that it can lead to a problem
with the thyroid but if you equate that
to a human that weighs 154 pounds so
that individual would have to consume at
least 17 pounds of cruciferous
vegetables to inhibit the thyroid so let
me ask you how many pounds of kale have
you consumed recently and by the way the
studies done on pigs were using rapeseed
and mustard seed so the odds of you
developing a problem by consuming kale
are very very tiny and if you're
concerned just go ahead and consume some
seek help with it and you're going to be
totally fine and I've been recommending
Kayla for the last two decades and to
date I have yet to find one person that
had any problem or complaint with their
thyroid consuming kale now let's talk
about why kale is good in the benefits
first of all it's one of the most
powerful anti-cancer foods you can
consume it has a potent anti-cancer
effect anti-tumor and it stimulates
something called phase one phase two
detoxification in your liver okay that's
where the liver will then convert a
poison into a harmless particle and rid
it to the body so to answer this
question kale is not acting as a poison
it's actually just the opposite it's an
anti poison because it rids poisons from
the body and if you live on planet Earth
you're going to be exposed to these
poisons chemicals in the food chemicals
in the environment endocrine disruptors
all over the place
glyphosate in the GMO food so thank
goodness we have the family of
cruciferous vegetables there to help
counter that effect alright thanks for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press the button below and I
will keep you in the know hey that
rhymes
