so in this video we're gonna actually
talk about what is hepatitis C and some
alternative things that you can do to
minimize the damage from this condition
and before I begin I just want to point
out that anything I say is just for
educational purposes is not meant to
replace your medical care check with
your doctor before applying and in this
information okay that being said let's
get into some very interesting things
about hepatitis C what is hepatitis
first of all hepa liver itis
inflammation of okay it's inflammation
of your liver so hepatitis C virus is a
very specific virus that invades the
liver cells and creates a lot of
inflammation and damage so it's
transmitted by blood so you can't get it
by kissing someone it's mainly by a
dirty needle transfusion and even but
rarely getting a tattoo or acupuncture
now what's really interesting about the
hepatitis C virus is it actually mimics
LDL that's the so called bad cholesterol
low-density lipoprotein and I think the
reason it does that is because these
viruses are very strategic they want to
survive so they can actually mimic parts
of your own physiology there is no
vaccine for hepatitis C and when you
have hepatitis C you're more at risk for
getting diabetes which we'll cover in a
second and also cirrhosis and even
cancer some of the symptoms for
hepatitis C would be fatigue weight loss
nausea joint pain muscle pain and loss
of cognitive function now another
interesting side note is that 10 to 50
percent of these cases that have
hepatitis C spontaneously resolved
mainly in younger people and females
okay so the mechanism of hepatitis is
that you have this virus creating a lot
of destruction you're getting a lot of
inflammation and it's replicating okay
with this inflammation you have several
issues one is that you start getting
scar tissue or fibrosis which eventually
can lead to cirrhosis or scar tissue of
the liver when this happens you start
losing function and because the liver is
essential for so many different
functions you start having all sorts of
other issues now another interesting
thing that happens when you have
information is that inflammation can
cause insulin resistance okay
insulin is trying to connect to the
cells and the cell receptor is resistive
of that hormone so what happens is that
you don't get the feedback loop that you
would normally get to turn off insulin
so when you resist insulin the body
starts making more insulin okay so a
person with insulin resistance has
anywhere between five to seven times
more insulin than a normal person and
the big problem with insulin resistance
is you get a tremendous amount of
oxidative stress you get oxidation and
this is why pre-diabetics and diabetics
have all sorts of health problems with
their nerves with the brain with the
heart the inside layer of the artery on
the heart starts to oxidize you start
having problems with the eyes and the
kidney and anytime you have inflammation
itself you're going to get a lot of
oxidative stress too so the combination
of insulin resistance or high insulin
and inflammation is a double-edged sword
to the liver as far as the livers
ability to actually heal and repair
itself if there's a constant
inflammatory condition and you have all
this oxidative stress you're getting a
lot of constant destruction of the cells
now another interesting thing about
inflammation itself is the cancer cancer
has a tendency to spread in areas of
inflammation so whether you had an old
injury or an old infection or a current
infection there is a higher risk and
getting cancer and hepatitis C because
of the inflammatory condition that's
going on all right so now that you have
a better understanding of what it is
let's talk about what to do about it all
right so this is what I would recommend
but again check with your doctor before
doing any of these actions all right
what are we dealing with we're dealing
with oxidative stress from the virus
itself we're dealing with a lot of
inflammation we're dealing with insulin
resistance which by the way is creating
a lot more insulin in this insulin is
creating more oxygen
stress so we have a compound effect that
gives us a lot of oxygen of stress and
free radical damage there's a great
study I put it down below a double
blinded study that showed significant
decrease in liver enzymes an improvement
in liver function when one takes
antioxidants now in this study we were
taking them orally in and being injected
but they use milk thistle which is by
the way really good for the liver but
also an antioxidant ascorbic acid
l-glutamine alpha lipoic acid alpha
tocopheryl and B vitamins all of these
act as antioxidants now there's some
other ones you can take too that we're
not part of the study but they're pretty
powerful NAC selenium and Sammy there's
actually many different antioxidants you
can take but I would go for a food
itself like parsley kale any of the
cruciferous foods are loaded with
antioxidants or a concentrate of a green
product or a cruciferous would be very
very good you want a food concentrate as
compared to an antioxidant that's a
synthetic which I don't recommend
because it's been shown that those
actually can spike your risk for cancer
so just use a natural food based
antioxidant and start consuming a lot of
cruciferous vegetables now another very
very powerful thing you can do to reduce
oxidative stress is do intermittent
fasting in fact in a minute fasting is
probably one of the most powerful things
you can do to drop inflammation the body
and dropped oxidative stress apparently
your body goes into this very
interesting survival mode and a healing
mode both of your immune system and just
resisting stress in general now if you
look up hepatitis in relationship to
fasting you'll see some positives and
negatives to that okay one viewpoint is
that you don't want to do fasting
because there's a problem with the liver
you're not storing sugar effectively and
you usually have hypoglycemia so you
have to eat every couple hours to keep
your blood Sugar's up I totally disagree
with that because if you're going to eat
every couple hours you're gonna raise
insulin more and more and more to the
point where you're gonna actually create
more insulin resistance and like I said
before excessive amounts of insulin
creates more oxidative stress so we're
trying to go in the opposite direction
if you go into in a minute fasting very
nice and gradually I think that's going
to be very very healthy for the liver so
we have intamin fasting a lots of
cruciferous vegetables you want to steam
them or slightly cook them or even
consume them fermented because you also
release more antioxidants if you do that
also get on a healthy keto plan
ketogenic plan I put a link down below
if you're new to this but that will
actually lower your carbs okay and
that's gonna help insulin resistance
right there and that's gonna lower
oxidative stress just by that action the
combination of healthy keto and
intermittent fasting together is very
powerful for any type of inflammatory
condition and this right here of course
you want to avoid alcohol because you
don't want to do anything that damages
the liver cell and minimize any
medications you're on get with your
doctor to do that because again the
medications have side effects and
sometimes people say well can I take
prednisone or cortisone shots because
that's an anti-inflammatory yes it is
but the amount of damage that's gonna
create another parts of the body is not
going to be good you probably dropped
inflammation for a short period of time
but then actually have more damage in
other parts of the body and the last
thing I want to mention is this this
little virus right here how do we do
with this virus viruses tend to beat you
up when you're rundown and you're
unhealthy when your resistance is low so
the real only solution to a virus is to
be super healthy to have so much health
that the virus kind of can eventually go
in remission and stay in remission
because you can really cool embarrass
you want to do everything you can to
minimize stress so these actions have
the capacity to minimize damage control
and increase the longevity of the liver
thanks for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird
well I'll just remind you on a daily
basis how about that
