okay so add another question I still
have sugar and carb cravings on keto
what could that be so real quickly
number one your carbs are too high most
of the time you're just eating too many
carbs okay you want to keep your carbs
below 20 grams okay so you don't want
any type of fruit you don't want any
beans you don't want any breads or pasta
or cereal crackers or biscuits or juice
or alcohol any of that you can have a
small amount of berries but make sure
the berry is either black berry or
raspberry not blueberry or strawberry
but craving sugar or carbs when you're
in ketosis simply means you're not in
the ketosis yep you're in the transition
phase and to get in there we also want
to do intermittent fasting you must do
these together to see the change because
the the way that you get into ketosis
where you can shut off these cravings is
by dropping insulin and to do that we
have to drop the carbs and the frequency
of eating so you go three meals a day
and then what happens no snacks and then
you start pushing your breakfast forward
to the point where you actually don't
need a breakfast anymore so you don't
eat if you're not hungry
you have your lunch you have your dinner
and no snacks you add fat to the meal to
be able to go longer okay not a lot of
protein just three to six ounces but the
other point I want to bring up is that
the potassium in vegetables in the
magnesium and vegetables and the other
nutrients are really key to fixing the
insulin problem that you have that's
causing this in the first place so
without adding the vegetables you could
still crave so we want seven to ten cups
just have two big salads you know a five
cups of salad per meal and that that
should be enough but we want to increase
this we want to do is keep the carbs low
look for any hidden carbs and give it a
little time within two to three days the
cravings should go away and the hunger
should go away and that's when you know
you're in true ketosis thanks for
watching
hey guys so I'm doing a survey of a
future video and I wanted to find out
what your biggest body problem is so
that way the content is aligning with
something that you are personally
interested in so please click the link
down below fill it out and I will create
the video thanks
