hi guys I'm back in this video we're
gonna answer the question what has more
nutrients carbohydrates proteins or fats
now I'm not going to evaluate every
single type of protein carbohydrate and
fat I'm just going to basically take
three and compare them but it's not as
accurate because I'm not going to go
after fruits and not going to go after
grains I'm not going to talk about beans
we're just gonna evaluate grass-fed beef
three ounces and one cup of chopped kale
and one teaspoon of coconut oil is our
fat let's just kind of evaluate this to
look at the differences normally we need
certain required nutrients we need
vitamins there's two types there's fat
soluble like vitamin A D and K and then
we have water soluble which is the B
vitamins vitamin C and then we also have
minerals we have minerals that you need
more of like potassium and calcium and
then you also have minerals that you
don't need very much of trace minerals
okay so then we have amino acids which
would come from plant and it can come
from animal alright then we have
essential fatty acids so we need certain
fats that would be the omega-3 fatty
acid do you need that for your cellular
membranes your brain your hormones
alright so first of all if we look at
beef vitamin A it has zero vitamin A
because vitamin A is a fat soluble and
that's usually in cod liver oil it's in
certain organ meats it's in butter now
if we take a look at kale it has 10,000
IU's but this is a pre vitamin re it has
to be converted into the active form
which is retinol so you may convert
maybe 3% of that okay so it still has a
vitamin name but it also has the
phytonutrients that help the vision in
the eye and the brain so this is still
going to help you a lot
alright coconut oil has zero vitamin A
even the virgin coconut oil and then we
have vitamin C zero beef but we have a
good amount of vitamin C for kale which
is 80 milligrams so you really only need
70 milligrams a day so it's actually
more than what you need there's no
vitamin C in coconut oil a little bit
about a mini and beef zero and kale zero
and coke
oil then we have vitamin K we have 0.9
micrograms versus 547 micrograms of
vitamin K so if someone's on coumadin
which is blocking vitamin K they're
gonna have to avoid kale because it's
loaded with vitamin K and we have a tiny
bit of vitamin K in coconut oil just a
tiny bit so then we have vitamin b1 we
got zero just a very small amount in
kale and nothing in coconut oil b2 time
trace amounts b3 have a little bit more
3.9 milligrams versus point seven for
kale so the B vitamins both of them
that's why you want to get your B
vitamins from nutritional yeast b6
there's a tiny bit tiny bit in kale zero
with coconut oil
then we get to folate which is a really
good prenatal vitamin and also if a
woman is breastfeeding to in a
developing child okay so we have four
point one micrograms versus 19
micrograms so kale has large amounts of
folate zero coconut oil then we get to
b12 there's good amounts of b12 and beef
but there's zero and kale zero in
coconut oil choline which is the type of
B vitamin that's good for a fatty liver
happens to be very very high the 60
milligrams in only three ounces of beef
zero and kale zero and coconut and so
people are like oh don't eat beef
because you're it's going to give you a
fatty liver you're gonna get fat well
not not if it has choline so we have
calcium with 10 milligrams 90 milligrams
of chaos is a good source of calcium
zero coconut oil iron two point four
milligrams one point one milligrams zero
but here's the thing the type of iron
and beef is much more absorbable than
the type and kale alright so that would
be a little difference there and then we
have magnesium we got fifteen point nine
twenty two point eight so there's a good
amount of magnesium in kale then we got
zinc three point nine versus point three
so this is low two with zinc it's good
for the immune system and we get protein
just actual amino acids sixteen point
two grams versus point three grams so
kale is not a lot of protein in
comparison
with beef alright so then we have
omega-3 fatty acids specifically we're
talking about grass-fed NAT grain-fed
that's 74 milligrams but look at kale
kale has a hundred and twenty-nine
milligrams so it's loaded with omega-3
fatty acids so then we have potassium
now if we check this out it's like 270
milligrams for just in 3 ounces of beef
of potassium versus 299 milligrams in 1
cup of kale so if you're having several
cups of kale you're getting a lot of
potassium so then we have selenium which
by the way helps you detoxify heavy
metals including mercury and look at
beef is loaded 12 versus 0.6 versus 0 so
as you can see you really need a variety
of foods to get all of your nutrients
and one last thing about trace minerals
I recommend seek help to get your trace
minerals it's very difficult to get
trace minerals and an average diet
nowadays so thank you so much for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press this little button down
below okay thanks
