hey guys I have another question for you
and the question is what food can you
not resist okay so if I were to put some
food in your face what food could you
not say no chew that's the question for
today in fact I put a link down in the
description
don't type this in the comment section
click the link in the description and
type it out there because I'm gonna
summarize everyone's answers in credit
another video to show you the number one
food that people cannot resist so in the
description is the link go ahead and go
in there and type it out and then I'll
actually tabulate everything okay so
what is the food that you can't say no
to what is the food that has power over
you is it rice white rice with butter
and salt
how about warm bread out of the oven
sourdough bread with either butter or
olive oil how about chocolate cheesecake
how about chocolate cheesecake together
cake chips pizza what can you not resist
so really the willpower is your strength
your ability to say no to resist the
temptation but the worst situation is
the group setting the social situation
where you have these this group of
people who are all off the program and
they are partying whatever and it's
going to be really hard to say no in
that situation so really even more
specifically than carbs causing obesity
it's really the packaging of the carbs
okay that really is the culprit the
packaging they make for carbs are
unbelievably attractive very cheap very
available you go through the grocery
line and you look to the right side of
the left and it's just filled with carbs
right you got all the chocolate candies
you have the chips you have the sodas
it's all right there so it's right in
your face all of the time it's very
irresistible especially if you go
through that line with low blood sugars
and this is why for the newbies click
the link down below on keto in there and
fast and you need to start that program
to get to a state where your body
doesn't crave anymore it's not as hungry
anymore to make it easy to be able to
cope and of course dr. Burke tells you
hey avoid the carbs you can have the fat
and then you go on the internet
someone else says no no if that's gonna
kill you it's gonna cause diabetes and
what they don't tell you is the studies
on high-fat diets are on mice and the
diet that they give mice is not really a
high-fat diet it's a high fat and a high
carb diet they don't tell you that but
that's the truth so before you believe
those studies actually read the study
and you're gonna find that consuming a
high-fat diet with low carbs totally
healthy now how do we get our power back
how do we get out of this trap well
starts with reading labels okay very
very important why because there are
certain things in foods that are
creating the problem and I consider
these chemicals an actual drug but one
is the MSG monosodium glutamate but
recently they don't use the word
monosodium glutamate they use the word
modified food starch it's the exact same
thing it's also in the fast-food
restaurants Chinese restaurants it's in
a lot of foods in the grocery store it's
there to give you a very unique flavor
savory and what what happens though when
you consume this chemical is it
increases insulin by 300% which means
that it's altering your blood Sugar's it
means that it's going to cause you to
eat more and this is why they put it in
foods so you can keep buying more and
you're especially going to want more the
next day you're gonna go back and have
more of that more of that I mean just
think about the last time you ate at the
fast food place last week right and then
you eat this and then the next day you
go your blood sugar crash you want to go
back to the same old thing and that's
really a trap so MSG can really mess
with you you got to read labels because
it's hidden all over the place they even
put it in salad dressing also high
fructose corn syrup decreases a natural
body hormone called leptin and what does
that mean it means that the the hunger
doesn't shut off so you actually you
don't feel satisfied when you consume
high fructose corn syrup so definitely
in the sodas it's a problem because you
could just drink a lot of this stuff
without feeling satisfied
yeah and that's going to just make a
fatty liver
okay let's say for example you crave
chips okay because you like the salt in
there and you eat these chips week to
get your to satisfy your salt craving
well how about just consuming salt might
be a new concept right so yeah so it can
suit if you would like chips that means
you need more salt the problem is when
you eat the chip it has the carb which
will then cause more water retention
more sodium retention and it creates
you're like a water log situation so
it's it's not good just get the salt
from the diet somehow okay
starches let's say you crave rice bread
pasta mac and cheese right there's a
couple issues with that number one being
you're gonna start retaining fluid
because it's a carbohydrate and it's
going to be converted to fat it's gonna
be really hard to lose weight because
you're gonna spike insulin one way to
diminish the carbohydrate to starch
craving is to take more B vitamins that
does lower the craving to wheat and
grains okay so that's one way so realize
a starch is basically a bunch of sugar
molecules connected the other smart
thing to do would be to start consuming
keto desserts I'm gonna put a link down
below if you don't even know what that
means but you can actually create some
amazing great desserts that are mimic
the food that you love okay but without
the bad stuff and then you can consume
that at the end of the meal and not feel
deprived okay how about that and then of
course keto and I have that's the
ultimate solution it's working with
thousands and thousands of people it's
probably working with you because you're
probably doing it but this message is
for those people are not doing it it's
going to really increase your resistance
by decreasing your hunger so you can
resist it more because you don't have
any more cravings and you're not hungry
anymore but don't forget click the link
down below and then type out the main
food that you can't resist I'll do a
further follow-up video on that thanks
for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
