we're going to talk about refeeding
after a prolonged fast I'm talking about
maybe four five to seven day fast not
talking about like two days
it's a rare situation but it can occur
it's called the refeeding syndrome and
what happens is you're getting a shift
of nutrients from your blood to the
cells inside the cells so you have extra
cellular - intracellular and the
malnourished State so let's say for
example you have nutrient deficiencies
already going into a fast which by the
way you should never have anyone with
nutritional deficiencies like let's say
you have an alcoholic or someone who's
anorexic or something like that and you
have known vitamin nutrient deficiencies
or some disease and then you have them
fast and not take supplements during
their fasting period quite dangerous
because what will happen is that as soon
as you start eating and get this a flood
of nutrients that's going to go inside
the cell and really drop the nutrients
inside the blood like phosphorus
potassium magnesium and even b1 and it
could be quite dangerous you can
actually faint you can have a lot of
cramping in your stomach and a lot of
other more serious symptoms so you want
to break a fast slowly but here's the
thing if you're taking nutrients
electrolytes B vitamins during the
fasting period and sea salt you're going
to be totally fine I'm talking about the
situation where you're not and the other
point is that when you break the fast
with non keto friendly foods okay let's
say there are higher carbohydrate foods
that alone can deplete your potassium
your phosphorus your magnesium and your
b1 because those foods deplete nutrients
and that can create a big problem so you
always want to break the fast with keto
friendly foods and do it slowly and
gradually go in the fasting
over a period of time so you don't shock
the system I just want to bring this
point
because I did have someone actually
faint after two days of fasting and it
was because they did not have enough
nutrients and then they broke the fast
with a with a higher carbohydrate meal
anyway thanks for watching if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
