hello so in this video we're going to
talk about how to keep your viruses in
remission okay so the first thing you
need to know is that viruses are not
alive okay they're a piece of genetic
material wrapped in a sack and they're
actually dormant and they're waiting
until your resistance is low you're sick
tired and getting older and then they
come out and they invade your cells
hijack the copy machine and start
reproducing themselves so it can then
spread and destroy different parts of
your body so your own immune system then
has to work harder to then counter that
attack and that's why sometimes it takes
seven to ten days or even longer
sometimes to dismantle these virus
infections because antibiotics don't
work for viruses viruses are like
everywhere in the environment now even
in the sea per liter of sea water you
have over a hundred billion viruses and
they are there to help break down
bacteria and keep the overgrowth of
bacteria from coming to large and so
they break down this bacteria and other
microorganisms down to the very very
small carbon atoms so they kind of help
balance the excess of certain
microorganisms now the thing I want to
tell you about viruses is that they
can't really harm you unless your cells
let them harm you okay in other words
you have to be susceptible to the virus
there has to be some weak barrier or
weak membrane and that comes mainly from
stress or poor nutrition or even
radiation and there's other things that
can trigger viruses but stress is a big
one most infections what happens just
before the person gets the infection or
shall I say allows the virus to invade
the body because the virus is already
there is the stress stress activated
like herpes or shingles pain so many
different viral infections occur right
after stress events so that tells us
that we need to keep the adrenal glands
really really strong because if the
adrenal glands are sick or not working
like in a condition called Addison's
disease Addison's disease is a condition
where your adrenals are pretty much
burnt out it's like adrenal fatigue on
steroids these
cases have a lot of problems with the
immune system they get a lot of viral
infections okay so this is very
important so you have to do whatever you
can to really keep your stress level low
daily walks eating good nutrition making
sure you hang out with people that don't
stress you out I know some people have
chronic problems in life doing whatever
you can do to lessen that problem if
you're involved in a stressful
relationship try to work it out or you
know get another relationship because
that can really keep yourselves
susceptible and vulnerable to attacks
from viruses poor nutrition is another
factor especially the trace minerals
like if you're low in zinc or selenium
for example your susceptibility to
viruses go up because your cells get
weak your immune system depends on those
trace minerals and there's all these
enzymes that help you with the
protection radiation is another trigger
for viruses to invade the South now
there's a couple nutrients that are
really important if we're talking about
viruses vitamin C is probably the most
potent vitamin to help protect you
against viral invasions okay sauerkraut
bell peppers leafy greens very very
important and of course orange juice
right no I'm just kidding orange juice
is totally pasteurized it's kind of a
dead product which kills the vitamin C
the heat kills the vitamin C it has a
lot of glucose it doesn't have vitamin C
unless they add it to the orange juice
as in the synthetic version of vitamin C
now you might say well I just want to
grind the juice fresh and drink it yeah
you're getting a little about them and
see with that not as much as you think
but you're getting all the sugar with it
because one thing that will activate
viruses is high sugar diet okay so
that's important to keep enough vitamin
C vitamin A is very very important in
keeping viruses in check and this is a
fat soluble vitamin vitamin D is very
important inhaling viruses as well and
helping your immune system and a really
good remedy to have both of these
together as a 50 50 50 split 50% vitamin
A and 50% vitamin D would be cod liver
oil
the stuff that your grandmother used to
give you right when you started to get
sick well now you know why because it
has a lot of vitamin A and a lot of
vitamin D and of course you can get out
there and get some Sun very important
another thing that's interesting is a
lot of people get sick in the fall the
flu season which is viruses why is that
I mean the most logical thing is that
you're gonna have a lower amount of
vitamin D because you're coming out of
the summer with all this Sun okay and
then all of a sudden you get darkness a
sudden drop in vitamin D if you're not
taking vitamin D you can end up with a
susceptibility to viruses 'ok then
invade the body okay and i'm not
recommending things like vaccines and
things like that like the flu vaccine it
seems like my patients that used to get
those vaccines just got the flu I
personally I don't think I've ever had a
flu vaccine at all and I've never gotten
the flu at all so calcium lactate is
also good to put viruses back in
remission especially with kids and young
toddlers if they have like a fever or a
virus and you're not sure if it's
bacteria or virus give a little calcium
it's inexpensive it's safe and watch
what happens you might see a quick
remission of that virus especially if
it's a fever or a cold even in adults if
you have something like herpes a simplex
where it's on your lip this virus that
comes out calcium lactate is a really
good remedy to put that thing back in
remission and of course the combination
of calcium and vitamin D would work even
better because vitamin D helps the
absorption of calcium by 20 times in the
small intestine
all right so that gives you some ideas
on what you can do to keep your viruses
in remission thanks for watching
so I want to know about what you think
about this video so please comment below
and tell me what you think
