I'm going to show you the absolute best
way to remove Dental plaque from your
teeth plaque is a bofilm of microbes
what is bofilm it's like a calcium Igloo
around a group of microbes and they
build this calcium shell to protect
themselves but plaque is one of the
primary causes of
gingivitis of bad breath as well as
decay of your teeth and it's not just
because you're not flossing or brushing
your teeth you could brush your teeth
and floss your teeth all day long and
you can still get plaque and I'm going
to tell you why your mouth contains the
second largest group of microbes in your
entire body you have hundreds if not
thousands of different types of species
of microbes growing in your mouth the
majority of these microbes are commensal
it's not necessarily unfriendly it's not
necessarily beneficial the derivation
comes from the word which means eating
at the same table now these microbes you
can call them friendly microbes they
actually do give us protection because
here's the problem if you kill them or
try to kill them um all of a sudden you
end up with a yeast infection or a
Candida infection even in your mouth
well apparently those microbes are
keeping the the candida in check they
keep the fungus in check so if you kill
them off now you have this overgrowth of
fungus it's called oral thrush but these
microbes are supposed to be fairly
neutral and not bother you plaque
develops when this commensal friendly
relationship changes to an unfriendly
relationship called a pathogenic
relationship and I don't know if you've
ever had this happen in your life where
you had a friend that turned on you well
this is the same situation these
biofilms develop under stress okay what
kind of stress well a lot of things can
stress them out you eating the wrong
Foods eating a lot of sugar uh smoking
alcohol antibiotics I already mentioned
that now is there any type of I don't
know chemicals that maybe mimic an
antibiotic in your mouth the answer is
yes the main chemical in mouthwash for
example which is called chlorexidine and
if you look at the side effects it
increases acidity it increases the risk
of Decay what about fluoride that's in
all your toothpaste it's in the water
Supply wow I did a little Deep dive on
that check this out fluoride has been
around for 60 years there's never ever
ever been any randomized control studies
on fluoride in the water supply the FDA
recognizes fluoride as a drug if you
look in the back of your toothpaste
it'll say Keep Out Of Reach of children
do not ingest and the fluide that is in
the water supply is not pharmaceutical
grade like the stuff that you would get
at the dental office no it's not the
fluoride in your water supply is a
hazardous material from the phosphate
fertilizer companies but what's really
bizarre about this is like who's running
the show on fluoride is it the American
Dental Association no is it the FDA no
is it the CDC nope is it the
Environmental Protection Agency the
answer is no so who is running the show
on fluoride well it's a private entity
this is just another reason to get a
water filter to specifically pull out
fluorides from the water supply I have
one in my house it's a whole house um
fluoride filter I have one for chloride
and I have one for fluoride because I
don't even want that stuff touching my
skin let alone going on my body and also
as far as a toothpaste goes you know you
might want to think twice about getting
the fluoride in the toothpaste I would
get a toothpaste without fluide or even
just make your own so the dental plaque
is coming from these pathogenic microbes
they're
biofilms because there's been something
in your mouth that created a stress so
obviously whatever that is based on the
information you have now you can you
know stop exposing these microbes to
that but now how do you get those
microbes back in your mouth yes you can
buy a probiotic for your mouth
absolutely but you can just start
consuming foods that have probiotics
okay
sauerkraut kimchi Keir if you just start
consuming some of those on a regular
basis that can put the microbes back in
your mouth and of course if you're
chewing gum make sure you do the xyle
gum these new microbes will start to
compete for food against the pathogens
and so there's great information I'm
going to put the links down below to
show that taking probiotics can help not
just um reduce chronic alosis but also
reduce plaque on your teeth now if you
want a good recipe to make your own
toothpaste I put it up right here check
it out
