so today I want to talk about five
uncommon signs of a potassium deficiency
a lot of people understand the potassium
Xin volved with the heart the rhythm of
the heart maybe blood sugars nerve and
muscle physiology but what they might
not realize it's involved in a lot of
other things as well
energy metabolism protein synthesis and
actually making muscle glucose
metabolism the conversion of glucose to
glycogen which is the storage form of
glucose so one of the biggest symptoms
of a potassium deficiency is fatigue
okay you just you just lose your energy
alright number two low endurance or low
stamina you just run it a gas fast
especially when you're working out or
climbing stairs so you basically just
run out of energy a lot quicker than you
should
number three increase urination at night
so many times we're thinking diabetes or
prediabetes but it could be a potassium
deficiency but that potassium deficiency
could be coming because you're diabetic
because insulin resistance is involved
and when you have in some resistance you
can't really absorb potassium and
magnesium that well and just as a side
note it's very very important to take
extra potassium and magnesium if you
have diabetes or you have insulin
resistance that will actually help the
urination at night next one is
constipation because of the necessity of
potassium involved in the smooth muscle
that forms the colon and number five
paralysis after a high carb meal when
you consume a lot of carbohydrates your
need for potassium goes way up because
potassium is involved in not just energy
metabolism but glucose metabolism as
well and you have this shift of this
electrolyte out of the muscle cell
getting a temporary paralysis and this
relates even myself because when I was
getting married 29 years ago Karen and I
went to shop for wedding cakes so I
don't know we were sampling all these
cakes this is before I knew anything
about nutrition and then we ended up at
an Italian restaurant and we had all
carbs pizza
I was doing wine that was really sweet
and then right at the end I noticed that
they were actually taking these carts of
all these desert samples they would come
around to the table and they mentioned
would you like to sample any of these
before we toss these and of course my
mind I don't want to waste that good
food right so we started sampling all
this sugar all these desserts for
probably another half hour it was really
bad so that was a high carb meal as
we're driving home I noticed my heart is
pounding like crazy I get into the house
and I feel like faint I feel tired my
muscles are weak like my legs are I feel
like like cement
I didn't sleep one minute that night my
heart was racing I was totally awake so
that might have not have been a
paralysis but it was definitely a side
effect from doing too many carbs okay
guys so and also realized that you need
4700 milligrams of potassium and some
people need a little bit more especially
after doing the hardcore workouts and
you would get this mainly from these
things called vegetables even though
those are carbohydrates or lower with
potassium they're actually low in sugar
and so that's what you would consume to
build up your potassium Reserve thanks
for watching so if you want to get
notified with all my content click the
notification bell next to subscribed
