alright guys today we're going to talk
about tremors and vitamin deficiencies
so there's mainly two types of tremors
resting and essential resting could come
from Parkinson's which is a problem in
the brain and essential which means
unknown they don't know is more in the
other parts of the neurology but they
don't know so it could be coming from
the brain as well essential is eight
times more common it mainly happens upon
initiation when you're trying to do
something let's say you're writing or
and it could be of the head shaking the
torso shaking your legs shaking
whereas resting tremor is not as much on
activation but just an arresting state
you have this rhythmic movement of your
hands or one hand and an essential
tremor you have this progressive nerve
damage now for Parkinson's and I've done
several videos on this realize that
insulin resistance plays a huge part in
this problem okay and this is why you
want to get on a healthy keto plan you
want to do in a minute fasting for sure
why because this will produce a top ajit
which is the repair action of your cells
through recycling damaged proteins
especially in the brain you can grow new
brain cells especially part of the brain
where there's damage that's causing
problems with dopamine and I did a
separate video just on dopamine when you
lower insulin you can improve dopamine
because you're improving parts of the
brain that make dopamine now also if you
add vitamin D in there you can also
improve insulin resistance and also
Parkinson's symptoms Karen and I had a
friend who had Parkinson's and I mean
this guy he wasn't that old and he can
see is just shuffling along he looks
really old and he's hunched back and has
his tremors and dementia
we recommend Kido in a minute fasting
and several other things which I'll get
to in a second and he's doing fantastic
now he's really coming out of it so I've
seen for his hand that these actions can
greatly improve the symptoms from
Parkinson's and of course anything that
I'm recommending in these videos is just
meant for education is not meant to
replace
medical care so check with your doctor
before making these changes okay then we
have essential tremors I would highly
recommend doing research on the B
vitamins if you look at b12 deficiencies
you're gonna see one of the symptoms is
tremors okay so b12 has a lot to do with
the nervous system and keeping the
nervous system functioning you do tend
to store b12 for a long periods of time
but if you're deficient whether you're a
vegan or you have digestive issues and
you have maybe IBS or Crohn's or celiac
or gastric bypass that could be more of
the reason why you have a b12 deficiency
in which case you need to take thousands
of micrograms of b12 not hundreds so I
would do like 2,000 micrograms of b12
every single day some people if they're
very deficient and they have a very
serious illness need to be injected by
b12 make sure that the version of b12
that you take is the methyl cobalamin
which is the active form and it goes in
a lot better than the other versions
alright number 2 b1
very very important if you look at
classical b1 deficiency is called
beriberi it affects the brain and
nervous system especially the myelin
sheath the version of be one that I
would recommend would be something
called benfotiamine
which is a fat soluble version even
though it's synthetic it seems to work
really nice and it doesn't seem to have
any side effects but it will penetrate
the nervous system a lot better than the
regular versions of b1 which are
water-soluble also b3 deficiencies can
also affect the neurology and create
tremors if you're deficient in this case
I would probably take 500 milligrams of
that and then b6 b6 is a very important
cofactor in so many metabolic processes
in the body I would recommend b6 as well
and a blend of a nutritional yeast okay
number three low vitamin E can affect
the nerve
and the muscle as well but specifically
the nervous system so if you're going to
take a vitamin E make sure it's not
synthetic make sure it's a food base a
combination between tocopheryl and
tocotrienols okay that's the version you
need because if your vitamin E
deficiency that could be one reason why
you have a tremor
now caprylic acid from coconut oil is
now being researched for tremors so
that's another thing that you might want
to consider as well alright guys thanks
for watching I'll see you in the next
video so if you want to get notified
with all my content click the
notification bell next to subscribed
