you know when someone initially told me
about fasting I really didn't think
anything of it I thought it was a fad
I'm like fasting what is that going to
do you're just skipping meals it didn't
make sense to me and uh it kept coming
up over and over and over again till I
finally just took a look at it and once
I really understood what it is it turns
out that fasting especially intermittent
fasting is the single best thing you
could do for your health the most
powerful thing you could do for weight
loss
it is the cure for so many problems
including cancer and that is because it
addresses the deeper root cause of most
health problems which is insulin
resistance and mitochondrial damage so
wherever you're at I'm going to show you
how to transition into this as slowly
and as fast as you want so what is this
inin of fasting it's not a diet it's
just a pattern of eating and not eating
you're mimicking what your body was
designed to do our bodies were not
developed or designed uh to have food
247 and that leads to weight gain
inflammation and destruction of the
brain cells and the immune system so if
we reverse this thing and just eat less
frequent all sorts of magical things
happen at a deeper level you're
manipulating certain hormones you're
lowering your insulin which is going to
help you to tap into your fat cells
anytime insulin is high fat cannot be
accessed you must lower insulin to tap
into your fat cells and if you really
understand this it's pretty simple of
how you should lose weight right you
want to adjust these hormones you want
to keep insulin as low as possible and
then the other hormone growth hormone we
want to activate that it just so happens
that growth hormone gets activated with
fasting and just so you know one of the
best indicators to know that this is
working is when your appetite goes away
now think about that for a second
appetite goes away isn't that like a
huge barrier to trying to stick to any
program if you weren't hungry all the
time wouldn't it be a lot easier and the
answer is yes the next benefit that I
personally like the most is cognitive
benefits my brain works so much better
when I do intermittent fasting I had no
idea before how much this frequent
eating was destroying my brain and
keeping me in a brain fog like I felt
like I had a helmet on my head all the
time like this heavy like cloud and I
just uh couldn't wake up so from the
brain level intermittent fasting is
really awesome and this is going to help
you focus help your
concentration help your memory and then
the other thing that this does is it
raises your mood if you were depressed
before if you had anxiety you're now not
going to have that anymore I'm not sure
if you saw this video I'm going to put
the link down below but it's a
fascinating story of this person who
wanted to commit suicide okay they were
extremely depressed and the way that he
was going to kill himself is by starving
himself to death so he goes into his
room locks the door and he just lies on
the bed day one he wakes up he's still
not dead day two he wakes up he's still
not dead day three he wakes up he's
feeling good he's feeling actually no
longer depressed he unlocks the door
walks out and says what's going on why
do I feel so good right now I'm no I'm
I'm not going to kill myself he started
looking up on the Internet things about
fasting and what happens when you don't
eat and he stumbled on this fasting
thing and he stumbled on my website
anyway he lost a lot of weight he no
longer is depressed he's no longer
suicidal he's a much happier person he
has this huge success story and it all
started with this miraculous fasting so
fasting can help you fix your brain
realize as a side note fasting is not
starving that's different starving is
when your body is starting to eat up
your muscle protein and different organs
and you pretty much ran out of your fat
see the fat on your body is there to
help you survive when you are not eating
okay let that sink in for a little bit
when you don't eat your body is not
going to directly go after your muscle
as energy it's going to go after your
fat as energy for a period of time until
that's gone then it'll use the muscle
that's when you're starving but what you
need to know is that a lot of people
have a lot of extra fat that it's going
to take a long time before you get to
the muscles in fact an average person
has roughly over a 100,000 calories of
stored energy in their fat cells an
average person that's not overweight a
100,000 calories so just you know you're
not going to starve if you skip a couple
meals but what's really kind of funny is
when someone starts fasting and they
like oh my gosh am I going to be able to
go this many hours without eating right
and so they eat this huge meal like
because they think it's going to be
their last meal but here's the thing
once you get used to it you know after a
couple days it becomes easier and uh you
start seeing the results and you have
more confident you're not going to
starve to death emotionally you're going
to be happier number two your immune
system is going to be better now I'm
going to be talking about prolong
fasting a little bit and what that can
do that's like uh fasting for a couple
days or longer boy that can completely
increase and help you generate stem
cells for the immune system so you're
literally regrowing a new immune system
which is fascinating the other really
cool thing about fasting is you can
generate this condition of autophagy
autophagy means self eat so basically
your body cells are cleaning up old
damage cells and rejuvenating them and
recycling them into new cells so it's
kind of like a garbage disposal on
steroids you start cleaning everything
up and then you're generating new cells
and this is why when people do fasting
especially routine consistent
intermittent fasting it's definitely uh
anti-aging you start looking younger
your skin your joints inflammation goes
down and so that's another Point
inflammation I mean think about how many
diseases and conditions uh have
inflammation heart disease autoimmune
disease arthritis they all have
inflammation all right another benefit
is that when you do in minute fasting
you're going to save a lot of money on
your grocery bills because you're not
eating all these snacks you're eating
less frequently and I calculated an
average person could save anywhere
between 100 to 300 to up to $600 a month
just on eating less of these Foods now I
do want to point out that this is not
just about cutting calories however when
you do intermittent fasting the need for
food becomes less and your body becomes
more efficient so you can get by on less
calories your nutrient requirements are
less because your body has adapted and
when we talk about weight loss in a slow
metabolism fasting does not slow the
metabolism it repairs this thing behind
the metabolism behind that set point
that you might attempt to lose weight
and like hit a certain plateau and you
can't get anything less on that that's
your set point and that's controlled by
insulin resistance so once you fast for
a period of time you can correct that
and actually lower that set point so
basically you're repairing your
metabolism when you're doing fasting
because behind this slow metabolism is
this insulin issue remember insulin is
the key factor that determines whether
you're going to burn fat or not so we
can actually lower our overall average
insulin levels now the other thing
that's cool about fasting or eating less
frequently is that it's going to give
you lot of extra time because you're not
constantly feeding yourself in preparing
meals so that kind of cool and then also
another big benefit is it gives your
digestive system a chance to reset so
it's not constantly having to work 24/7
because you're cramming all this food
down your throat so you have less
bloating less inflammation in the gut
and that alone is huge okay so here's
the starting point let's say you're on
three meals a day plus snacks okay the
first thing to do step one eliminate
snacks that includes eating snacks at
night in grazing we no longer want to
graze three meals okay that's step one
if you just did that you would improve
the body okay step two skip your
breakfast now you can do this gradually
or suddenly but I think I kind of
skipped something because to make this
really easy um it would help to go on a
low carb diet it's not a necessity it
will help
it's a different thing so I do want to
just talk about that because when you
lower your carbohydrates it allows you
to tap into more fat uh because you
lower insulin because the two things
that increase insulin is frequent eating
and carbs if you lower your carbs it's
going to be easier to skip that
breakfast in the morning because you go
to bed and then all night long you're
fasting okay and then you wake up and
then the question is are you really
hungry probably not but we just eat out
of this habit or tradition we've been
told that breakfast is the most
important meal of the day which is a
complete lie made up by people who sell
food for breakfast but typically if you
do this you wake up the hunger is gone
you go as long as you can let's say when
you're just starting out you can only go
till 10:00 in the morning well then have
your breakfast then or 11: you keep
doing this until you push that breakfast
into your lunch and it becomes one meal
um I typically have my first meal as a
breakfast type thing or like maybe like
I'll do eggs or bacon something like
that but you don't have to do that okay
so now you're let's say at 12:00 you
have your new your first meal the second
meal let's say it's at 6 now you're at
two meals a day so between 12 and six
gives you a 6-hour eating window and a
18-hour fasting window so you can pretty
much stay at this pattern it's very easy
to do you get a lot of benefits for most
people this is what they do and it's
fine but let's say we want to lose
weight faster let's say um we're not
getting all the benefits out of this
number three is to shorten these two
meals to a 4-Hour eating window that
gives us 20 hours of fasting wow you're
going to get more benefits from this
more weight loss uh less belly fat so
you basically just push your lunch
farther in the afternoon let's say it's
at I don't know at 2:00 okay then you
eat at 6:00 so that will give you a 4H
hour eating window but you can also just
eat at 12 and then push your dinner to 4
so there's different options depending
on what you want to do and I do want to
point out this eating window typically
people will think that oh it's just a
window I can eat like constantly well if
you just didn't do that and just had
like two meals like starting let's say
at 12 and 4: and not have any snacks in
between you can get more benefit however
when you first starting out don't worry
about that let's just make it simple
just see what you want in that eating
window but just keep that as your eating
window so you have this 20 hours of
fasting right so 20 hours of fasting
will give you a whole bunch of
additional benefits but let's just take
it to the next level let's do omad that
means one meal per day that gives you
about 23 hours of fasting with a 1-hour
eating uh window I believe that anyone
over the age of 50 should be doing this
because as you get older you don't need
as much food you're not going to be as
active and um one meal seems to be fine
and you get this 23 hours of fasting
which produces a lot of amazing benefits
there's something else I want to add to
this it's called periodic
prolonged fasting so now if we do this
consistent pattern of in of fasting and
then we add in here period prolong
fasting so now you're fasting for 2 days
or 3 days or 4 days or 5 days or 7 days
or longer probably the biggest thing
would be to really give yourself a
chance to stimulate your stem cells for
kind of immune rebuilding or to repair
your brain or to really handle like
arthritis or some type of health problem
and cancer out of all the things that
you can do for cancer prolong fasting is
is hands down the most powerful thing
you can do for cancer in fact um I
talked about this a lot in other videos
that you might have to find on Rumble
because I took them down but there's a
gentleman that had stage four prostate
cancer stage four they told him to go
home and die so he started to gather all
sorts of information and he did all
sorts of things but the thing that
really made the difference for him is a
prolong fast like a long fast he was
able to reverse this situation get rid
of his stage four cancer which is very
very serious and he's still alive years
later and he has an entire YouTube
channel and I'll put his link down below
but he has s since wrote a book about it
and he has done a lot of things and we
even work together to fund a scientific
study which is very expensive in Europe
to substantiate a protocol um and that's
for a different video but the point is
that prolong fasting is very very
powerful to kill cancer because when you
fast your genetics your genes start
aligning with survival in a big way so
in other words our bodies in the past
have starved many many times and so as a
protective mechanism when you mimic a
little bit of starvation all sorts of
survival things kick in and all sorts of
diseases go in remission you upgrade
certain genes to overcome all sorts of
issues now let's say for example we're
doing the fasting and we want to even
make it more powerful we want to add a
couple things I already mentioned going
on low carb that's called the ketogenic
diet okay if you add that it's going to
really really really speed things up as
well I think the combination is the
Perfect Blend because they both
complement each other also if you add
exercise you can just take things to the
next level because all these actions
enhance the same thing lowering insulin
increasing growth hormone causing more
survival creating more Health in the
body I mean when you think about when
you go to the doctor what are they doing
to increase health I'm not talking about
suppressing a symptom I couldn't come up
with a lot of things they don't really
address this core foundation with eating
they don't usually address this fasting
technique they might talk about exercise
in general but it's really about
handling all the side effects from
eating junk Foods alcohol you know the
effects of stress and all these other
things that's kind of what they're
addressing and I looked at this and I'm
like what is it about healthc care that
can actually increase health I think
that's missing listen don't get me wrong
if you break a bone if you injure
yourself I mean you need to go to the
doctor but this massive uh suppression
of symptoms you know I think the whole
system is broken where we don't really
uh Focus as much on increasing Health
which is a completely different thing so
an average person has a lot of of
insulin resistance they have a lot of
belly fat they're overweight they have a
lot of inflammation they have something
called ectopic fat that's fat that can
no longer go in the fat cell the fat
cell is broken so it spills over outside
the fat cell in the organs like your
liver and then around the organs as
visceral fat that's why you have belly
fat if you look down at your shoes right
now and you see your belly sticking out
that means you have insulin resistance a
couple other things that you probably
have heard that are completely false
this other concept that uh six meals a
day is healthy this idea that you have
to eat to prevent hunger so you don't
overeat is completely ridiculous because
if you eat these small meals it actually
causes you to be more hungry in about an
hour and a half so this is the perfect
way to keep you eating by eating small
meals thus the topic we're talking about
intermittent fasting which means don't
eat so often and also this concept of
everything in moderation you know just
eat everything you want there's no no
bad food group in moderation this is
complete because every time we eat
carbohydrates in moderation we get into
trouble and in order to get into deep
ketosis which is the state of fat
burning you can do a moderate amount of
protein but not a moderate amount of
carbohydrates an average person consumes
about 65% of their calories carbohydrate
and we already know that's not working
okay what about the topic of women doing
fasting and maybe you heard that it's
bad for the thyroid and there is some
studies that show that um the thyroid
hormone the active form T3 does go down
a little bit but that does not mean the
thyroid is dysfunctional because the way
that they diagnose
hypothyroidism is not with T3 it's with
this other hormone coming from the
pituitary called the thyroid stimulating
hormone and that one in these studies is
always normal because what happens when
you go on a low carb diet or you do in
aitt fasting and you start burning fat
and you start losing weight your
metabolism becomes healthier and the
need for this T3 does go down you don't
need it as much because your body is
burning fat more efficiently all right
the next point you might hear is that
and I already mentioned this like
fasting is starvation fasting is
dangerous um it's actually dangerous to
eat frequently okay we've already done
that experiment we know that it's super
healthy to do in fasting there's a
couple things I want to bring up about
that though nutrition if you're going
into this with nutritional deficiencies
all you have to do is take certain
nutrients to make sure that you're not
deficient the two main categories of
nutrients that I recommend are the B
vitamins and you can get that from
nutritional yeast um and electrolytes
well well salt is part of electrolytes
but we'll just add a third salt because
sometimes people don't think salt is
electrolytes so if you take these you
pretty much eliminate um like keto flu
keto fatigue keto rash and some of the
other things that might happen in this
transitional step you see the purpose of
food is to provide energy and
nourishment mainly nourishment is the
vitamins and the minerals and all these
other things that we need well we can
take these without the calories but what
about fuel if you're not eating where's
the fuel going to come from you're fat
fuel you're actually eating when you're
not eating you're just switching to your
fat fuel a lot of people have a lot of
fuel that they can't tap into that's
because their insulin's too high because
they're eating too frequently their
carbs are too high in aitta fasting is
finally a way to tap into your fat and
really use that as the primary fuel this
is what our bodies were designed to do
to use fat fuel when there's no food
available now as far as vitamins is that
going to knock you out of this fasting
State no vitamins are fine because they
don't have calories unless you have
vitamins that have sugar or things in
them also uh you can drink coffee fine
you can have tea water it's totally fine
just don't do things like juice and
things with sugar in them and then the
last point that I want to bring up is
that when you do this this is a healthy
action you're going to heal your body
from different angles you're actually
going to regrow muscle if you have
atrophy because of growth hormone
stimulation which means that if if
you're going through this fat
reduction muscle growing action you may
Plateau with your weight at certain
times okay if this happens don't think
it's not working it is working look at
the size of your clothes focus on your
appetite is your appetite gone give it
more time to work and give your body a
chance to adapt and you now have the
knowledge of how to turn up or turn down
the diet based on these different
patterns of intermittent fasting now the
next most important video for you to
watch would be on what to drink the
liquids during fasting if you haven't
seen this video I'll put it up right
here check it
out
