my name is Sheila gray and the reason
why I came to Dr bird is because I have
tried numerous of things to lose weight
and thought I was doing everything right
and um just the weight just wouldn't
come off so I came to Dr Burg and he
gave me um some good information that
I'm using and hopefully um um it's going
to work for
me um I was going to the gym um five
times a week working out eating healthy
and then the weight just wasn't coming
off um the first evaluation with Dr Berg
was good because I found out what type
um what my body type was um didn't know
that we had there was four different
types of body types and I found out what
I was um which was the adrenaline type
and um the reason why I wasn't losing
weight
um Dr Berg is very knowledgeable he
um gave me a lot of information that I
did not know um I read his book are
reading his book and I mean it was it's
just it's just overwhelming with the
information that he gives
you it's like a god gift that brought me
here to him and that um a lot of things
like I said I did not know um that
I'm finding out and um I'm just very
excited about what's going to happen Dr
Berg listened to me I told him exactly
what was going on and he knew right away
he came back and gave me the answer and
he said you know with the body type that
I have um I'm thinking I'm exercising
every day that you know I should be
losing weight but I was really pretty
much hurting my body because I was
adding to more stress to my body than I
was I was hurting it more than I was
helping it so I really appreciate that
knowing that I have recommended to um Dr
Berg to several of my friends who um
have appointments lined up to see him so
I again I um you know I think it's for
me it's going to probably be a low um
slow process but it's actually going to
happen for
me
