in this short video I'm going to talk
about what I do personally to help
myself sleep each night I do a lot of um
activities through a day in the office I
do workouts and I need to be able to
sleep very very good and quickly so I
can actually rejuvenate so I never go to
bed with body stress so stress is stuck
energy in the body so we're going to be
using acupressure with a device that I
created um to convert
stuck energy which is stress in the body
to a valuable energy or relaxation
because stuck energy is is like a
tension in your body that won't let it
you relax all right so basically we're
actually fixing your brakes and taking
the foot off the gas pedal all right so
there's two places that we're going to
be working on one is we're going to
stimulate the relaxation centers in the
body which happen to be back here just
underneath the skull if there's any
doctors watching this the name of that
area of the body um is the um the center
the origin of the vegus nerve which is
the parasympathetic and the Heart of the
locus cerus and the rathi nuclei but for
th everyone else don't worry about that
all you need to know is that's where the
break pods are or the onoff switch for
your sleep so it's right back there and
we're going to trigger that using ACU
pressure before bed so we want to induce
a relaxed State all we're doing is we're
a applying the brake pad so you can
start to turn off but there might be a
problem with the gas pedal the on switch
the accelerator so number two we're
going to be doing some acupressure to
turn off the flight or fight mechanism
and there's a lot more to this but I'm
going to show you two of them today in
this video on myself so you can see how
it works and you can apply it to
yourself as well and that happens to be
in the abdomen area because if you think
about it when you're stressed you'll
notice that you have a lot of tension
through your chest an abdomen it really
tightens up through there so we're going
to be taking the foot off the gas pedal
and applying the brakes to induce a
really good Delta wave sleep so I can
sleep through the night and wake up
feeling rejuvenated so let's show you
how to do
that okay so we have this device this is
a I designed this plastic device it's a
tripod so you can use it on different
surfaces and it has different widths
wide medium for different types of
people um now this is based on my hand
with when I do acupressure I wanted to
create something if I was going
somewhere that I could do acup pressure
myself so I created this for myself of
course you can use one as well so so the
first center we're going to put this on
a tall back chair so I'm just going to
show you I'm going to hook it right back
here in the top part of my head right
here and I'm just going to let my
gravity of my head go back on those two
points right there there and you can see
that it's it's actually triggering a
stress release right now and I'm
actually feeling really calm through my
whole body and if I fall asleep you know
I'll try to wake up and finish this
video but basically what's happening now
is I'm extracting stress from the the
first center and I'm actually kind of
triggering the relaxation centers in the
back of my upper neck and you can use
this on a couch you can use this uh in
your bed on a pillow or a tall back
chair but you want to just set the top
of your neck right underneath your skull
and let gravity kind of come down and
hold that pressure for two maybe three
four minutes and you're just going to
you're just going to melt you want to
take a nap and what I like to do is I
like to also do a little lower do the
lower parts of her neck because it's
going to pull a lot of stress to the
entire neck and then I will take that's
the widest one right I will take the
medium one and I'll put
that um in the very lower part of my
neck like right here yeah right here I
don't know if you can see that so we're
basically holding pressure in the lower
part of my neck because that takes all
the tension off the upper shoulders so I
want to go to bed and not have any
tension in my shoulders so I'll be
working on all different all the
different segments in my neck and just
finding the tight spots and letting
gravity kind of pull the stress out and
again I use this on my pillow or a tall
back chair um basically I have one in my
office in my house so I'll do this in
the toall B chair my office I'll walk to
my room go to bed typically or I will go
in my bed and use this as well but I
like to use it on a chair or on the
couch and right now just from that
little bit that I did it op up my neck
my neck feels really loose and I feel
really calm so that's step one now step
two is we're going to take the longer
portion and press it into some points in
the abdomen about an inch to the right
of your belly button and then we're
going to press directly inward like this
pressing in right like that and I'm
going to hold this pressure not so it's
very painful but just so there's
pressure for about maybe a minute or so
and it's releasing stress it this takes
the lot of the flight or fight stress
out of your body so hold this and then
I'll go up an inch okay so I'm actually
an inch to the right of the belly button
going straight up to the bottom of the
rib cage and then I'll work a little
higher higher and up till I get to the
rib cage and I'll just hold this okay
then I go to the other side and I will
press 1 in to the left of the belly
button press straight in and hold that
and kind of go up those points right
there and I will probably do this one in
bed because it's a little more
comfortable and I'll just take my hand
and let gravity pull it in there and
take stress out of the abdomen now what
I did is I created a little bit of a
download below of these points if you
want to see a visual in relationship to
the belly button and the rib cage but I
do this each night before I go to bed
because it keeps the stress off my body
so this particular um mechanism down
here works on taking the foot off the
gas pedal and then this one up here
works on stimulating the brake pads so
you really create a relaxed state so you
can really go to bed a lot faster I just
want to show you this great uh technique
so if you wanted to get one of these you
can go ahead and order one to my left
actually your right my left and um get
it and then I actually give you more
videos on using it through the entire
body it's a very simple device um it
would be cool also to use this on a
plane if you're flying somewhere the
problem is they they may uh think it's a
weapon of mass destruction so I guess it
could be but I doubt it so you might
want to just put in your suitcase and do
it when you get there to to handle the
jet lag so that's just uh two different
um uses of this device and uh there's
many other ones but I think that should
actually get you started so hope you
enjoyed the video I will see you in the
next
one
