so we're going to talk about the five
most common subclinical magnesium
deficiency symptoms okay magnesium is a
co enzyme okay what does that mean a
coenzyme it is a helper nutrient for
enzymes enzymes do all the work in the
body the chemical reactions the building
of tissue the repairing of tissue are
all done by enzymes and magnesium other
minerals and vitamins and trace minerals
are essential they're essential your
body needs them or things don't get done
they're like little keys that allow
enzymes to work and magnesium is
involved in over 300 enzymes ok from
energy production to DNA repair and even
preventing mutations that could
eventually end up as cancer it's
involved in so many chemical reactions
the problem is that it's very difficult
to detect magnesium deficiencies because
most magnesium is inside the cell just
like potassium for example it's inside
the cell sodium is outside the cell and
that's very easy to detect but magnesium
is very difficult the other point about
magnesium is that the RDAs are roughly
about 450 milligrams there are certain
groups of people who suggest that we
need even more we need like up to 600
milligrams but the average person has
much less than 450 milligrams and when
you're deficient in magnesium your
calcium automatically starts going up in
the body and we know a lot of people
have a problem with calcium deposits
calcium and the soft tissues not just
from a lack of vitamin k2 but it could
be from a magnesium deficiency as well
let's say that you have a certain amount
of magnesium it's not a lot but it's
just a little bit the body is going to
ration out that magnesium to only
essential places only essential proteins
things that involve present time
survival not long-term repair or even
probably preventing mutations so here
the body is using the magnesium to cope
with the daily stresses of life at the
expense of a longer life
so if you're deficient certain nutrients
it can actually shorten your life and
you could have more mutations and less
repair in the body
so there's five big clues that you may
have a subclinical deficiency of
magnesium number one is fatigue because
my museum is involved in creating ATP
which is the energy currency of the body
number two cramps especially at night in
the calves in your feet number three
high blood pressure because without
magnesium you won't have the elasticity
in the circulation in the vascular
system so things become hardened okay
and that's going to increase the blood
pressure number four you become stiff
especially in the morning when you get
out of bed number five
irregular heartbeat but potassium is
also involved as well so it could be a
combination so you may have skipped
heartbeats and then maybe a palpitation
then the beat starts becoming irregular
it's just a simple mineral deficiency so
these are the five clues that you may
have a magnesium deficiency so where do
you get magnesium okay it's at the heart
of something called chlorophyll and
chlorophyll makes up the green stuff in
leafy green vegetables so the solution
is very simple add a very large salad or
two medium-sized salads to your day and
get enough magnesium and watch these go
away thanks for watching I just wanted
to say thank you so much for watching my
videos I really appreciate it and if you
wouldn't mind giving me a review I put a
link down below
