I'd like to discuss this very
interesting amazing molecule called
co-enzyme Q10 now what is it and where
do you get it and what food has the
highest amount coenzyme Q10 is a helper
molecule that is inside your
mitochondria to help you make energy ATP
in your cells and it is in every single
cell in the body it helps in this
transformation into ATP as well as
stabilizing the membrane and
preventing any type of leakage of
electrons now if you think about a
battery a battery is filled with this
energy that is filled with electrons and
if you had a hole in the battery uh and
they leaked out You' get a dead battery
same exact thing happens in your cells
in relationship to co-enzyme Q10 if you
don't have enough of it you're going to
have a loss of energy and I think the
best way to kind of help you understand
the signific ific of co-enzyme Q10 is to
talk about what happens with statins
when you take a Statin you could
generate this condition called Statin
induced myopathies because statin drugs
block the formation of co-enzyme Q10 now
what is a myopathy like what type of
problems can you have when you have a
myopathy well muscle pain muscle
weakness and you're going to have an
intolerance to exercise you're not going
to want to exercise you're going to get
tired real fast even if you like climb a
stairs or climb a hill you're going to
run out of oxygen pretty quick enzy Q10
can increase the energy in your muscles
in your in your entire body it can
greatly reduce your fatigue especially
when you're exercising it actually can
give you more oxygen when you exercise
so you're less winded and it also can
improve your repair uh when you exercise
so that's going to improve your
performance
now if you have congestive heart failure
you should definitely be taking coenzym
Q10 or be eating the foods that are high
in Coen Q10 which I'm going to explain
but in one study with patients that had
congestive heart failure uh much less
hospitalizations especially from
pulmonary
edema cardiac asthma and arrhythmias now
another interesting thing about
co-enzyme Q10 it gets transported
through the body on a shuttle and the
name of that shuttle is LDL that's right
that so-called bad cholesterol is the
transportation of this co-enzyme Q10 it
gets bound to it and it travels to the
body and um without that LDL it doesn't
really go anywhere it kind of just kind
of lingers around and doesn't do much so
we need the LDL now another purpose of
Coen mq10 is its ability to act as an
antioxidant so so it prevents the
oxidation of
LDL so this is another benefit it gives
you this anti- atherogenic effect so it
supports the arteries so that's pretty
much what coenzym Q10 does I mean it
does a lot of other things uh for your
brain for the different organs but let's
just talk about what food has the most
coenzyme
Q10 it is heart muscle that's right
which is an organ me that very few
people consume recently we had one of
our um CS butchered and they wanted to
know if I wanted to keep the heart
muscle and I'm like yes I do I
definitely want to keep all the organs
so I'm going to freeze dry that heart
and I'm going to turn it into
freeze-dried heart capsules okay and
that's one way I'm going to get my Coen
mq10 and I'll do a video on that to uh
share my experience um to see what
happens but you can actually find some
grass-fed heart or you can get it as
supplements of course find a high
quality Source but out of all the organs
in our bodies and other animals uh the
heart has the most coenzyme Q10 and so
another good source of coenzyme Q10 is
in other organ Meats like kidney liver
brain CoQ10 is also in B fish it's even
in extra virgin olive oil when you
exercise you can increase the number of
mitochondria that you have and you can
indirectly increase the amount of
coenzyme Q10 that your body makes just
by doing regular exercise but a lot of
people get their co-enzyme Q10 from
supplements the challenge with coenzyme
Q10 is in its bioavalability um the
absorption rate is like only 5% there
are other types of coenzyme Q10 that are
more bio valuable and one being
something called ubiquit all on the flip
side
what are those things that could inhibit
coenzym Q10 well I already mentioned
statins but there's other things like
the normal aging process can decrease
the amount of Coan mq10 which could
explain why the majority of the
population on Earth usually end up dying
from a heart problem but for anything
connected to Heart coenzyme Q10 is a
great remedy that can help there's other
co-actors involved in the uh this
co-enzyme working uh in the mitochondria
so if you're deficient in vitamin C for
example or vitamin B6 or bolate or
alphalipoic acid you could actually end
up having a lowered amount of co-enzyme
Q10 and also anything that messes with
your mitochondria will diminish coenzyme
Q10 and that includes diabetes
Alzheimer's many many different things
stress is another thing that can
diminish your natural pool of coenzyme
Q10 but I wanted to give you a quick
summary of what coenzyme Q10 is in a
simple video and if you want the
complete information on supporting a
healthy cardiovascular system you should
check this video right here
