hey guys Dr Burke here I want to show
you how to correct posture so I'm sure
um your parents used to tell you to sit
up tall right unfortunately that was bad
advice because here's what happens you
have two sets of muscles you have all
the muscles on the front part of your
body and all the muscles on the back
part of your body so when you're
slouched like this the muscles on the
front part of the body are too tight so
if you were to stretch them they tend to
be like a rubband and just rebound and
come back back you know and and it's not
bad to stretch that way but from years
of sitting back and you know watching TV
like this and slouching a much better
approach would be to stretch the muscles
in the back and I'm going to show you
how to do that to that allow you to come
up without really any effort okay so
this is what you do for poor posture to
your kids even tell them just have them
slouch more so you really want to
stretch the back muscle so I'm going to
hunch my back as much as I can so I'm
just going to Arch my back like this I'm
going to press down and I'm going to
come all the way down this
way okay so I'm going to do that about
10 times all right I'm GNA hunch my
back and make my posture as bad as
possible forcing my head to come down
too okay so I'm just going to do
this
okay so you want to just hunt your back
now what's going to happen if after
about 10 times you're it's going to be
like you're just going to come right up
naturally it's really easy to sit up
tall now okay it's just when you do this
don't mention my name if you're doing it
in public right but I'm just kidding the
point is that you always want to work on
the opposite muscles okay so this whole
thing where you have to constantly
stretch back doesn't always work so I
you could even do both ways but this is
something that's been neglected but I
want you just to try this right now as
you're sitting in your chair do it 10
times and see if it doesn't allow your
posture to come up without any effort at
all and even your head over your body
and put your comments below so go ahead
and subscribe to my channel and I will
see you in the next
video
