hey guys I want to talk about a
confusion that relates to yogurt versus
kefir right number one yogurt really
only helps you clean the colon and
provides food for the existing microbes
that are in the colon already it does
not provide more bacteria into your
colon so it cleans the colon and
provides food okay that's it on the
other hand kefir which is a different
product but similar does a lot more it
actually helps you grow new colonies of
friendly bacteria it helps you grow new
colonies of friendly yeast yeah I know
you have friendly yeast in your body
when you don't have enough friendly
yeast you get the unfriendly yeast and
candida is a type of yeast so you can
get these uh infections you can get
these problems in the private parts you
can have problems in the overgrowth like
the white tongue syndrome you can have
unfriendly yeast in your large intestine
so there's a lot of different issues
that can happen so kefir has a lot of
different strains uh that you can set
back into your deep areas of your colon
to start to rid the unfriendly bacteria
and unfriendly yeast so it cleans it up
it's pretty cool especially in the Deep
mucous membranes of the body the other
thing that's interesting about kefir is
that it adds more nutrients to the body
way more than yogurt so it actually
increases tryptophan which is amino acid
that helps helps sleeping that helps
your cognitive state it helps anxiety it
helps even Cravings to Chocolate because
tryptophan turns into serotonin which is
a which is a hormone tryptophan is
basically amino acid so that's why in
your gut there's a lot of connection
between your gut and your brain so if
your gut is doing well you're going to
your mood's going to be better you're
not going to have as much anxiety you're
going to feel calmer very important but
if you have a lot of diges of issues
good luck now the other thing is that
it'll provide calcium magnesium and
phosphorus B12 vitamin B1 so has a lot
of great nutrients um Kefir is much
easier to digest so it's really good for
an infant or a baby and also the elderly
okay much easier to digest than yogurt
um also yogurt is pretty pretty high in
sugar and then also um Kefir is the best
remedy for candida that I know about so
so if you're going to consume either one
of these I would do this one here you
know you don't need much in small
amounts make sure it's plain make sure
it's not low fat make sure it's whole
milk and if you have an allergy that
could be a problem so find another way
to do it but Kefir is a really good
product to help your digestion thanks
for watching hey guys thank you so much
for watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
