want to talk about the five mistakes
that dieters make when they try to boost
their metabolism and when we talk about
metabolism I'm talking about the speed
rate at which you burn fat fuel okay so
that's the topic for today so number one
the first mistake of trying to boost
your metabolism is trying to boost your
metabolism understand that a slow
metabolism is not really a slow
metabolism it's an efficient metabolism
so when I talk about efficiency I'm
talking about some machine that can run
on a smaller amount of fuel more
efficiently and that's exactly what a
slow metabolism is it's not necessarily
turned down it's just adapted to run on
lesser amounts of fuel for a longer
period of time this is a a good thing if
you're trying to survive without food
but it's a bad thing if you're trying to
lose weight so stimulating metabolism
with caffeine or some type of herbal
stimulant or some drug is a very bad
idea because you're going to burn out
your metabolism you're going to burn out
your adrenals and maybe you might lose
initially a little bit but in the long
run you'll end up having fatigue and
having all sorts of issues all right
number two the second mistake going on a
diet okay and I'm talking about a low
calorie diet all your body is going to
do it's going to adapt to lower amounts
of calories and become more efficient
I will guarantee if you talk to anyone
in their 40s 50s 60s with the apparency
of a slow metabolism they have a history
of dieting they have a history of going
on a low calorie diet and that really
causes the metabolism to just work so
efficiently that doesn't take much fuel
to run it so maybe your spouse can
actually eat a lot of food and not
really gain weight but with you you just
eat a little bit and you might gain
weight because your body has adapted
going on a diet or reducing the calories
just trains the metabolism to just work
more efficiently number three you've
probably heard this before
stoke the metabolic Flame by consuming
six meals through the day and whatever
you do don't skip a meal because then
you're gonna slow your metabolism down
which is absolutely not true eating more
food or eating more frequent foods does
that stoke your metabolism fire it
doesn't stimulate your metabolism
doesn't speed things up because every
time you stoke that fire with eating you
trigger insulin insulin is the
gatekeeper it's the switch that
determines what type of fuel that you
want to burn so if you don't already
know this when you're trying to burn fat
I think that would be the goal just to
focus the body into only burning fat not
burn up your glucose Reserve so now
you're hungry and you're starving and
you're craving right it's to burn fat so
that way you're living on fat and you
have a lot more of it and your appetite
goes away and you go longer with that to
do that you must lower insulin you must
lower your carbs it's the only way to
tap into the fat because insulin is one
of the major
that storing hormones that even in small
amounts can prevent you from tapping
into that fat so Above All Else the
lowering of your carbohydrates is going
to be one of the most important things
and number four you want to make sure
you don't over train let me let me just
tell you a quick story of a patient who
came to see me and I'm not kidding I'm
not kidding she would work out I think
six to seven hours a day at the gym
seven days a week it was a full-time job
and all of a sudden she started gaining
weight and she's freaking out because no
matter what she does she can't lose
weight I mean even the thought of
telling her to back off that exercise it
just make her more stressed out she's a
classic example of someone that's over
training okay over training never gives
your body a chance to recover and think
about this when you exercise
you're not really necessarily burning
all your fat the fat burning occurs in
the recovery phase I have another story
to tell you there was a lady who came to
see me she was a 552 came in to try to
lose weight and she decided not to work
with me instead she was going to go to
the gym and work with her friend to
exercise over a period of time to lose
weight well I saw her come back in my
office a year later really depressed and
she looked if not the same a little bit
more overweight and she basically told
me she lifted I don't know how many
thousands of pounds of weight over a
course of a year
um I mean like the workouts I think were
three times a week two hours a workout
just all this effort right I think she
said she lost a pound or two but talk
about depressing
here's another example of someone that's
over training and her real problem was
that she wasn't able to sleep so all
that exercise never had a chance to
create any benefit in the recovery phase
because she just couldn't sleep and uh
her just she was over training and it
was just terrible all I did is help fix
her sleep problem and within three
months I think she she lost some major
major weight she looked really good and
number five those protein shakes that
everyone says to go ahead and consume
those to help
stimulate your metabolism well here's
the data on protein yes it is true that
protein does stimulate
three of the fat burning hormones but
the quality of protein is very very
important these protein shakes many
times are not the best quality usually
they're some type of refined protein
powder that doesn't come from nature I
mean even the whey protein powder is not
natural they're taking out the fat it's
very very lean it's one of the highest
things on the insulin index scale the
very hormone we're trying to avoid so I
would recommend instead of the protein
shakes have real meat protein animal
protein it's the best there's also
what's called The Ideal Protein they use
soy protein isolates I'm very much
against that I do notice that some
people lose weight but they don't look
good as they lose weight they kind of
look ragged their hair dries out their
skin doesn't look vibrant it's not the
best way to help you lose weight so
here's a really important concept it's
not lose weight to get healthy it's get
healthy to lose weight okay if you just
focus on getting healthy and using fat
as your fuel you will lose weight but
realize in the process something has to
happen first you have to first convert
your body into the state of ketosis that
could take a little bit of time and the
way that you know that you're in ketosis
is that your appetite goes away you're
no longer craving for anything okay
you're able to do intermittent fasting
go longer periods of time without eating
but because you have adapted to your fat
it's not going to create a stressful
situation it's not going to create a
more efficient metabolism so think about
this you have a
a very efficient car right
um which is a person with a kind of a
slow metabolism then maybe you have a
Hummer which is basically a fuel hog it
wastes fuel that's what you want you
want to create a system that wastes a
lot of fat so you can get this fat off
your body you don't want to create a
more efficient system unless you're
going to be an environment where you're
not going to have a lot of food then
maybe it's a good idea let's say for
example in that series uh Naked and
Afraid right where you you have to get
your own food right well someone with a
very efficient metabolism would survive
much better okay in that environment so
maybe having this efficient metabolism
would be a really good thing if you
enrolled in that TV program but other
than that it's not the best idea we want
to waste fuel we want to waste a lot of
fat fuel you can do that with ketosis by
lowering your carbohydrates you want to
burn fat as fuel okay so how do you do
that moderate high quality protein will
stimulate glucagon and growth hormone
and testosterone and if you do high
intensity interval training with lots of
rest and good recovery that will
stimulate adrenaline Island which also
can help you burn fat but more
importantly it's to understand what to
avoid okay what to avoid is way more
important than what to eat okay because
there are two fat making hormones the
big one is insulin and that's related to
eating carbohydrates so you have to keep
your carbs low
and cortisol cortisol is another Fat
making hormone especially in your
midsection it mobilizes even your
proteins and turns that into sugar which
then is converted to Fat a lot of the
fat making actions of cortisol happen
because
cortisol will eventually trigger insulin
and so keeping your stress low by
exercising walking sleeping is vital the
other question is what do you actually
eat to be healthy well for that
just look at the dietary guidelines you
know the dietary guidelines that are
influenced by The Academy of nutrition
and dietetics right they are the source
of science-based nutrition and food
therapy most of them are dietitians
others are assistants to dietitians but
the dietitian is the most influential
individual involved in food policy that
has given us this food pyramid or these
dietary guidelines right which are
considered to be healthy and what they
say is that you should pretty much have
half your plate grains and then the
other half
fruits and vegetables and make sure you
have low fat proteins if you go to the
website called eatright.org you'll see
right at the top they are the most
trusted okay in food and nutrition but
you know there's this one little tiny
issue I have with that there's a man by
the name of Ruskin who requested some
documents through the Freedom of
Information Act and he got 80 000
documents emails correspondence between
the Academy of nutrition and dietetics
and the food industry quite a few cozy
relationships between these two groups I
think the way I would use their site and
information is I would see what they're
recommending and do the exact opposite
and then you'll really discover what a
truly healthy diet would look like so to
get that information on exactly what to
eat that's healthy
you should check this video out right
here
