I have a question once you create more
of lately as if protein is it fat is it
carbs type it down in the comment
section below now as I do this little
presentation I'm going to be explaining
what each thing means so go ahead and
let me know what you crave now if you're
doing the ketogenic plan and you're
doing in a minute fasting with that a
lot of things will come up as you refine
this program some people need a little
bit more of this or more of that okay
now my whole intention of doing this is
to just get you to really be in tune
with your body and listen to what it's
telling you because if you're going
along not having a protein you could be
slowing your progress okay so if you're
craving protein it could mean that you
need more repair or recovery protein
provides the raw materials for the hair
and the organs the nail the collagen
most of the body so if especially if
you're exercising and you're craving
protein then that's what you need more
of but let's say for example you're
consuming protein but you're still
craving protein it could mean that
you're not digesting the protein so you
need to certify the stomach because you
need a very acid stomach to digest
protein so add the outside of vinegar
okay so that's protein the other thing
is look at the quality of protein
the best quality protein is the egg okay
and then we get down into other types of
fatty ER pieces of protein and then we
get down here to chicken and turkey
which is very low fat protein and and
you don't want to ever consume
commercial process proteins ever because
that's gonna replace your body with very
poor quality proteins you don't wanna do
soy protein powders okay now if you
consume whey protein for example it does
have a complete package of amino acids
but it does stimulate insulin now it's
not going to necessarily convert to fat
because and I'm going to do a video on
this because way also has another
hormone that it stimulates too called
glucose
which is the opposing hormone to insulin
so you have both of these hormones
working together and what basically what
you need to know is that when you
consume them whey protein it will spike
insulin but it won't necessarily convert
to fat it'll draw the insulin will allow
the amino acids to penetrate the cell
okay I still don't recommend it because
it's a refined product but all I'm gonna
say is that if it does stimulate insulin
it's definitely not as bad as consuming
sugar okay and it won't convert the fat
it'll help you absorb the protein but
the goal is we just don't want to
stimulate insulin too much okay it also
could mean that you need more fat
soluble vitamins vitamin A D E and K
okay so if you have vision problems for
example or skin problems you need more
vitamin A if you are pushing your body
exercising especially the heart it could
mean that you mean you need more vitamin
E okay if you're going through menopause
and you're female
your vitamin E drops way down so your
body's gonna crave more fat just to get
vitamin E vitamin E is a very important
fat soluble vitamin for females who are
going through menopause FYI
okay now the endocrine system also needs
the fat so it could be that your
endocrine system needs some raw material
like you want to build more adrenal
hormones so anyway if you crave fat
consume fat now if you crave carbs in
the form of vegetables this usually
means that you need more minerals you
need more potassium you need more
vitamins okay now it could mean that you
also have a congested liver or a
congestive gall bladder because the body
is gonna want to flush that out if I
don't consume enough vegetables I feel
like my livers a bit too congested I
don't feel quite right okay and then I
will actually crave it vegetables now at
first that's probably not gonna happen
but after as your body gets healthier
it'll get more in tune and you'll want
the right thing now if you crave starch
like potato rice grains that's strictly
you have a blood sugar issue okay your
blood sugars are coming up and down
up and down up and down you need that
quick energy okay by consuming the
starches it's not going to fix that it's
going to make it worse so we we want you
to avoid that but the whole point is
this
whatever you crave be in tune with it
consume more of it and kind of just pay
more attention to your body and adjust
things the macro portions of calories of
carbs protein and fats that I have in
the book are a rough guideline you might
need a little more fat you might need a
little more vegetable you might need a
little more protein okay so just go by
what your body is telling you and I
think you'll you'll be okay alright see
you later
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know
hey that runs
