hey guys I'm back with another answer to
a question that someone wanted to know
should I take calcium dairy with kidney
stones okay a very good question some
studies show that consuming dairy will
help you reduce a kidney stone because
when you consume it to go through the
digestive system and it binds with
calcium in your digestive tract and
there's less binding going on in the
kidney through the blood here's the
problem a lot of people have milk
allergies to the protein in the milk
casein even sometimes way those are two
proteins and a lot of people are
sensitive to lactose the sugar in milk
not to mention if you consume milk
products from cows consuming grains not
to mention even if it was organic it's
still non-gmo or still without
pesticides but those cows are still
consuming grains you're gonna have
higher amounts of omega-6 fatty acids
compared to omega-3 increasing the
inflammation so if you think about this
you have this Cox lit crystal stone okay
it's in your kidney and it's not smooth
its jagged it's irritated this is why a
lot of people actually bleed when they
have a kidney stone because there's
these sharp edges that are literally
tearing the inside the kidney up
especially if you're jogging and then
that damage to the filtration unit of
the kidney starts developing scar tissue
so now we have a loss of function of the
kidney so if we're gonna add more
inflammation to the kidney that would be
bad we want to reduce the inflammation
in areas of your body that are damaged
now if you were to do butter or better
yet ghee which is basically just the fat
without any of the protein this would
not be a problem especially if it's
grass-fed and also I think whole cream
is going to be fine too because there's
going to be less casein and less things
to be allergic to and definitely less
lactose so we're just dealing with fat
now I've done a lot of other videos on
this where I talked about the foods to
avoid avoid spinach beet tops even
though that I'm recommending that in
other videos because of the potassium
content if you're predisposed to getting
kidney stone you want to avoid beet tops
in peanuts
other nuts as well tea chocolate avocado
I mean think about when you dookied oh
these are the top foods that you would
eat so you may have to just switch those
foods if you have a tendency to get a
stone and I think it's important to
consume foods high in calcium but not
dairy unless you are sure you don't have
an allergy and if you're gonna only
focus on grass-fed I think that would be
fine all right these are the foods that
are high in calcium we have seeds we
have sardines fish seafood and dark
greens so these are going to give you
your calcium which will help bind the
oxalates in the digestive system so
there will be less binding in the kidney
itself so the goal is to decrease the
development and formation of oxalate
crystals okay one of the best antidotes
for that are citrons okay citrate helps
decrease the formation of the crystals
and decreases calcium saturation but you
can do various forms of citrus you can
do potassium citrate magnesium citrate
you can even do calcium citrate and a
lot of you may already have my
electrolyte powder and you may not even
know this but all of the minerals are in
a citrate form calcium citrate magnesium
citrate potassium citrate so that can
actually help decrease the risk of the
formation of an ox let's tone foods high
in magnesium that's all the dark leafy
greens and this is a really good remedy
hydroxycitric okay this is a really
really important one especially if you
had a stone and you want to prevent
another stone okay this will help
dissolve it and lastly a lot of lemon
juice okay I mean when you do the
ketogenic diet and you're drinking
fluids it's important to add lemon at
least every day to that water it doesn't
even have to be fresh lemon it can be in
a jar it's already pasteurized because
you're just getting the citrus from that
which will actually decrease the
formation of oxalate stones now if you
actually happen to have a stone and it's
trying to pass or it's irritating you
and you have a cramp in your on the
right side I'm gonna recommend
if you don't have this start drinking a
lot of lemon juice
okay or a lot of citrate sweather
potassium citrate or magnesium citrate
if you consume a lot you can down a lot
of this and drink a lot of water that
will help to flush that out and decrease
the severity of the pain alright thanks
for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
