let's talk about the difference between
folic acid and I'm talking about the
synthetic version of vitamin B9
as well as folate the natural version
are they the same you know so many women
when they're pregnant they start taking
a prenatal that is just loaded up with
this synthetic folic acid and there's a
lot of data to show that that can help
prevent things like neural tube defects
which is an incomplete closure of the
spinal column and so it's true it does
do that but with more and more people
recognizing that they may have a
mutation with a certain Gene that
relates to B9 I think we should talk
about it there's a very common problem
with a gene that is called
MTHFR it involves an enzyme in
converting folic acid into the active
form so your body can use it so if you
have a problem with this Gene your
ability to get this active form of B9 is
greatly inhibited and if you end up
taking this synthetic version version
which called folic acid you can have a
lot of problems because it can
accumulate as
unmetabolized folic acid now it probably
is not going to become a problem unless
you take large amounts but the fact that
if you have this mutation you're going
to be deficient so there's this delicate
balance of getting just the right amount
of this B9 because here's the thing B9
actually does a lot of things it
protects against the initiation of
cancer
because B9 helps to protect the DNA
against problems with the code and if
you have just the right amount of B9 it
can protect this damage within the DNA
that can potentially then lead to cancer
B9 also is involved in the initiation
of new cancer cells that sounds like
it's kind of conflicting on one hand it
prevents the initiation of new cancer
cells but on the other hand it can
actually help grow this cancer cells but
based on the data that I read it's
really when you have way too much of
this folic acid so this complicates
things because with this mutation you
need more than you normally should have
yet you don't want to get too much so
the solution of to this problem is to
take a type of B9 that doesn't have to
be converted okay it doesn't require
this enzyme so in other words this
mutation is a no issue why because it's
ready to be used and can be easily
absorbed in the body
and that is called methylfolate and
there's other long names for it but
basically it's a type of B9 that's
easily absorbed and it doesn't require
these other enzyme reactions like the
synthetic folic acid now sometimes
you'll hear reports and studies that
show that regardless of this mutation
you still need to take this synthetic
folic acid to prevent neural tube
defects because there is no studies
comparing the synthetic folic acid to
this methyl folate and that's true and
they're not going to do studies because
to do that on humans right it's too
dangerous it's too unethical so it's not
going to be done so you're just going to
have to use common sense if you even if
you compare these two versions of B9
it's going to be more effective for you
to get enough B9 in your blood using the
methyl folate version the other thing is
if you have this mutation there's some
studies to show that if you're taking
way too much synthetic folic acid or the
mother's taking way too much that can
increase the risk of autism by a factor
of 17 x and the synthetic folic acid
cannot fix this mutated Gene in fact it
can block the natural version of folate
and potentially increase your risk of
getting cancer so that being said the
question is how do I make sure I'm not
getting too much of this synthetic
version well unfortunately it's put in
our food supply it's as part of the
fortification for all cereals okay that
kids eat also adults it's used in all
the breads the pasta the cereal the
crackers the biscuits the energy drinks
a lot of the synthetic vitamins as well
as fortified nutritional yeast that's
why I always recommend to get the
unfortified version of that even more
importantly is to start to consume the
foods that are high in this natural B9
which is consuming more dark leafy green
vegetables the last point I want to
bring up is that if a person has this
genetic problem and they're taking a lot
of folic acid to prevent let's see
anemia
or some other problem what can happen is
they can end up camouflaging a B12
deficiency because B9 and b12 work
together and that can create problems
with an increase of something else that
I want to kind of just summarize very
simply it's called homocysteine
homocysteine is a bad compound that can
increase your risk of getting
heart attacks and strokes and
homocysteine also affects the inside of
the artery the endothelial tissue it
inhibits this nitric oxide that then can
cause you to have high blood pressure
and create all sorts of problems but
it's not just a problem inside your
heart it can affect other areas as well
because if there's a diminished nitric
oxide you can end up with erectile
dysfunction now since we're on this
topic if you have not seen my video on
B12 that would be the next video to
watch check it out
