hey Dr Berg here in this video I'm going
to talk about sleep and why people can't
sleep the main reason is they have stuck
uh encapsulated energy in their body
it's some old stress that's built up
from old injury and old infection that's
one of the things that will definitely
keep you from sleeping and you can learn
that in my acupressure course but today
we're going to talk about some of the
common remedies for the different
problems because there's different types
of sleep problems you have sleep apnea
which basically is high level of that
cortisol that stress hormone that causes
belly fat and that elevate it it shrinks
a nerve it's the called the hypoglossal
nerve that's the 12 cranial nerve and
that nerve goes to the nasal passages
right here when it shrinks it shuts down
the air so the person can't breathe and
especially at night because that's when
it's activated so during the day it
might be okay um and the other thing
that uh causes sleep problems is the
bladder so waking up urinating a lot
again again that would be adrenal yeah
the other thing that will cause uh sleep
problems would be a lack of calcium from
Acid urine and um consuming lots of acid
foods and it depletes the uh calcium or
it could be high levels of cortisol
depleting the calcium and that sensation
would be difficulty getting to bed
because you can't wind down mentally in
your head so your head is basically
tired but it can't relax so you need
some simp Le calcium take calcium
citrate or calcium lactate take it
before you go to bed like five and
you'll go out and by the way as a side
note for
children every single childhood illness
I don't care what it is fever or
infection I give my kids calcium and it
knocks it out fast it helps them sleep
because one thing that will keep you up
is those kids so definitely give them
some calcium you can give it to them
even if they're very very small crush it
up put it in applesauce give it to the
kid and he'll be sleeping like a baby of
course crying all night night waking you
up so the other thing you want to do is
when you go through a mental stress and
you're thinking a lot you deplete the a
vitamin called B1 B1 um helps to counter
stress if you're going to take B1 make
sure that you consume it naturally
because most B vitamins are made
synthetically one thing that I recommend
is you can just get it from Brewers um
I'm sorry nutritional yeast at the
health food store that way you know it's
not synthetic but that be um vitamin
really is wonderful for extracting the
the sensation of the nervousness the
nervous restlessness that people get
when they're sleeping um so when they
take it they almost feel like they have
more tolerance to stress so that would
be some common causes of sleep problems
um that I have found over the last 23
years
