so recently I had a question from
someone that wanted to know the
difference between golf stones and
kiddie stones were are they the same
stones just in different organs actually
no so golf stones are really cholesterol
stones not because the persons consuming
a high cholesterol die is because they
don't have enough bile bi le that thing
that helps you dissolve fats it's a
fluid like a detergent that helps break
down grease and fats and helps you
absorb fat soluble vitamins if you don't
have enough bile you can develop
different deposits of cholesterol and
that turns into stones okay so the
question is how do you prevent
cholesterol stones okay number one you
want to keep a low carbohydrate diet why
because high carbohydrate diets lots of
sugar will spike insulin and it will
actually lead to cholesterol stones okay
number two saturated fats did you
realize that saturated fats release bile
and going on a low saturated fat diet
can increase your risk of gall stones
check it out and put the link down below
a moderate amount of protein between
three and six ounces is perfect not an
excessive amount of protein because that
could create a problem with a spike of
insulin and lastly a large amount of
vegetables to keep the liver healthy and
to keep the cholesterol going through
the gallbladder okay now we're getting
to kidney stones kidney stones are not
made out of cholesterol they're made out
of calcium oxalate or uric acid crystals
okay now one thing I would recommend to
prevent these stones especially if
you're susceptible to them if you've had
one in the past is consume lemon juice
on a regular basis because the citrate
in the lemon juice will counter the
oxalate stones okay now if you're doing
a ketogenic program in a minute fasting
and you're susceptible getting stones
chances are it's going to be more of a
uric acid crystals don't or gal in which
case again lemon juice would help and
also potassium citrate would help as
well simply because this is more of a pH
type situation when your pH becomes a
little too acidic
you can develop this right here so you
want to alkalize it with these not to
mention the vast
so if you're doing the exact right
program that I'm recommending you
shouldn't have a problem because you're
consuming a lot of vegetables and this
is just another reason why the
vegetables are kind of like a missing
component in other programs that if you
add this in there you're going to
prevent a lot of issues alright thanks
for watching hey thank you so much for
watching keep spreading the word and
share this video
