hi guys I'm going to share with you some
interesting information on the ketosis
and sodium okay here's what happens
sometimes when you get the keto flu when
you're adapting when you're just
starting out you get a headache you get
fatigue nausea dizzy muscle weakness
these are all classic symptoms of a
sodium deficiency now it could also be
potassium as well because the
electrolytes have similar uh issues if
they're deficient but mainly if you have
KET of flu you should the first thing
you should probably try is increasing
more sodium because here's how it works
very simply when you lower your carbs
and sugar you lower your insulin right
well when your insulin is lower you
release sodium so sodium is released
through the kidney when you consume
carbs or sugar you retain sodium that's
why you can eat a little bit of sugar
and gain like 5 pounds that's just
fluid but when you actually start on
this program you're going to dump a lot
of fluid because you're releasing sodium
and that that's why you get these
symptoms so very simply make sure you
consume enough salt I would do it uh in
sea salt I would not do regular table
salt and you're going to feel a lot
better really quick and you don't have
to go through this keto flu thing all
right go ahead and try it and share your
comments
below uh how about um I'm not sure just
press it okay that's sound crappy press
the subscri why can't I say subscribe
subscribe press press the sub subscribe
button and I will keep you updated on
the future events
