all right I know I picked the wrong
shirt for this video I kind of blended
with the board I got it but let's just
jump into this topic today I want to
talk about seven remedies that seem to
work the majority of the time but let's
first talk about the benefit of number
one salt okay and of course I'm talking
about a high quality sea salt so salt
could be used for many things the two
main things that stand out for salt
specifically sodium is number one
weakness in your body so let's say for
example you do a fast and you're fasting
for a period of time and you don't
consume enough salt and you become
sodium deficient especially if you're
exercising and sweating especially if
you're drinking a lot of water you start
lowering the sodium you're going to feel
very weak your muscles are going to be
weak so the next time you feel like that
just take a little bit of salt and
you'll feel the difference real quick
the other thing that sodium is good for
is to help lower
the sympathetic nervous system the
flight or fight stress response let's
say for example you went through stress
and you can't sleep okay because your
sympathetic nervous system is like an
overdrive if you have a little salt
before bed okay maybe in a little glass
of water just a little bit of salt it
could be a half of a eth of a teaspoon
right and you dissolve it up drink it
down and go to sleep you're going to
find that you sleep much better because
a deficiency of so sodium raises the
sympathetic nervous system and it also
lowers or weakens the parasympathetics
so basically taking a little salt calms
this nervous system down to help balance
your autonomic nervous system so just go
ahead and try it out but there are a lot
of effects that salt can create positive
effects I just wanted to mention two
that seem to work the majority of the
time number two apple cider vinegar and
of course I always recommend diluting
this with water like in a glass of water
you put one or two tablespoons the two
main things that apple cider vinegar
works for one any type of indigestion
slash acid reflux SL harburn or gird
okay that's kind of like well that's
actually several conditions and it just
so happens that when you have a weakened
acidic you know stomach you'll get
indigestion gas acid reflux heartburn or
gird so you find taking the app cider
vinegar right before you consume a meal
will greatly help you the other effect
that apple cider vinegar has that's
really effective is to help stabilize
blood sugar so if you're a diabetic if
you're a pre-diabetic if you have bad
insulin resistance which is like 90% of
the population and you took this maybe
in the late evening you would wake up
and your blood sugars would be better
you probably would notice that your
Cravings go away and you're not as
hungry because your blood sugars are
more level so anything related to blood
sugars or making insulin more sensitive
alide of vinegar and by the way Alid of
vinegar will help give you energy as
well all right number three whole lemons
you take the whole lemon you put it in
the blender with a glass of water you
blend it down you can put a little bit
of stevia or some electrolytes in there
to kind of make it not so tart and you
slug that down what you're doing is
you're blending the entire lemon the
outside
the inside and the seeds everything
together and you're going to get a huge
spike in
bioflavonoids bioflavonoids help with
spider veins okay and actually varicose
veins as well but that takes a little
bit longer if you have spider veins
start doing a whole lemon every morning
when you wake up drink it down and watch
what happens the other thing that it's
going to do is give you a really good
vitamin C complex and that's going to
also help if you have any type of
bleeding gums or vitamin C deficiency uh
that will be improved the next one
number four is extra virgin olive oil
make sure if you're going to do olive
oil it's a high quality olive oil
there's one that I get which is from a
very trusted Farm in Italy I'll put that
link down below but there's many
different types that are also equally as
good but just don't get the fake stuff
so olive oil in your salad each day can
help you with many different things if
you have prostate enlargement if you
have high blood pressure if you have
problems with your cholesterol it's
heart protective as well as
anti-inflammatory so there's a lot of
research on this a lot of people consume
it a lot of people have gotten better
from just adding that to their diet all
right number five baking soda if you
have tartter okay take a four of a
teaspoon of baking soda and then put a
half a cup of water mix it together and
then brush your teeth with that mixture
first of all the baking soda which is
alkaline is going to help uh break up
some of this bofilm and it's going to
help counter some of the acidity that
could be going on so baking soda is good
for tarar but it's also good if you have
um heartburn with an ulcer okay or you
have some type of situation with harburn
that doesn't respond to to taking apple
cider vinegar or betan hyd chloride
because normally I recommend if you have
heartburn or acid reflux you take pan
hydrochloride or appleid vinegar to
acidify it to help it but if there's
gastritis or there's some inflammation
or there's an ulcer that's going to make
it worse and so what you want to do is
you want something that won't uh make
things worse okay so baking soda will
help to get rid of some of that acidity
without aggravating the you know like
the ulcer or the gastritis as you also
use like chlorophyll to help heal it
some zinc I would recommend zinc
carnosine or even some weat Crest juice
powder mixed with water because that
tends to kind of heal the inner uh
lining of your stomach or even the
esophagus all right so that's baking
soda and number six we have broccoli
Sprouts there's nothing wrong with
broccoli Sprouts okay I mean it's it's a
great thing
um if you were to grow your own broccoli
Sprouts in soil to make them a little
bit slightly older and that's called
micr grain that would be a little bit
better because you're getting the
benefit of the soil but that being said
broccoli Sprouts contain something
called sulfurane and in large large
quantities compared to adult broccoli by
a factor of 10 to 50 times more
sulfurane and sulfurane is really good
for hpylori which causes gastri
ulcers things like that sulfurane is
also very
anti-cancer not that I'm making any
claims here but there's over 2,000
studies on sulfurane in relationship to
cancer and 30 of them are human trials
so that's pretty cool but sulfurane has
also been known to help autistic
children and adults number seven garlic
garlic is high in Allison Allison is a
very powerful antimicrobial not just for
getting rid of bacteria and viruses but
fungus mold
parasites this is why it's really
important to cook with garlic with your
meats and things because if there
happens to be any potential pathogen in
there and you have the garlic at the
same time that can help to neutralize it
so garlic is also good to take if you
have an infection garlic also has
certain uh things to help lower blood
pressure and th the blood to prevent the
blood from clotting so it's really good
for your heart now to get the complete
list of all the remedies okay I have a
document that you can download for free
on my website I'll put the link down
below go there now and check it
out
