so recently I had a question from
someone that wanted to know what is the
difference between a yeast infection and
a candida infection and a fungus
infection there's just a big confusion
on these terms so let's just kind of go
through this yeast is a type of fungus
okay Candida is the most common type of
yeast infection
so basically Candida is a type of yeast
and you have like 20 different types of
Candida but it's only the overgrowth
that becomes a problem or pathogenic
normally we need this yeast candida and
fungus in our digestive system and
around our body it's part of the normal
flora or microbiome we don't just have
friendly bacteria we have friendly east
from the candida and friendly fungus
okay
so the location of this candida
overgrowth can occur in the vaginal area
the mouth under the breast nail bed
armpits private parts
it likes areas that are moist so the
question is what creates this overgrowth
situation well you guessed it
antibiotics will do it sugar will do it
because candida and yeast live on sugar
it ferments certain types of sugar
steroids
stress will cause the overgrowth
estrogen will cause the overgrowth and
this is why women can get a yeast
infection during certain times of their
cycle and that's where the side effects
of birth control pills and hormone
replacement therapy and so I just did a
video on this if you have estrogen
dominance iodine seek help is the best
remedy alright so now what do you do if
you have a yeast or Candida infection
well number one you want to increase the
stomach acid it's very very important I
would recommend something called betaine
hydrochloride okay I'll put the spelling
down below take that on a regular basis
outside of vinegar is also very
important you can get them in a tablet
form garlic essential start consuming
garlic in your food I'm not talking
about rubbing it on your body because it
can burn just to just consume it in your
food or take it as a supplement clove is
a good remedy for that as well find a
really good probiotic all right enhance
the probiotic the flora of your gut okay
and avoid the actual food that feeds
these microbes avoid all sugar of all
kinds all right
I'll talk to you guys later so I want to
thank you for being here and watching my
videos if you haven't already subscribed
go ahead and do so so you can stay
informed of future videos
