hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about keto transition and blood sugars
okay a lot of people when they're doing
keto adaptation they go through all
sorts of symptoms like moodiness
irritable ness grouchiness because
they're they're shifting from a sugar of
fuel to a fat fuel okay in the process
you have to build new enzymes build new
machinery and so a lot of times it's not
as smooth as you would like it okay so
I'm going to talk about the three common
things that I see when I talk to people
when I look at the person's food log and
I see what they're doing I find out
they're not really doing it correctly
okay they're not really the meals aren't
complete they're not doing enough
vegetables okay they're not doing enough
protein they might skip protein right
out of the meal and they're definitely
not doing enough fat number two they're
sort of doing it but they're not fully
doing it consistently so they might have
a snack here a drink here and just do
not doing it consistently and then the
third thing is the time that they're
doing it correctly is very short come to
find out out of a whole month they maybe
did it like two or three days correctly
and then they kind of go off the program
they go back on the program
so really you have to do it correctly
and long enough to experience the
results and that could be between two to
three weeks and yes you know you might
need to add the B vitamins in there
potassium electrolytes sodium but to get
rid of this this transition phase where
you're moody irritable and stabilize
your emotions you need to do it
correctly and you do you need to do it
long enough okay so your next step is to
get started and do it for real hey if
you haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know hey that rhymed
