hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about what's really
behind leaky gut okay now youve probably
been told that well gluten will cause it
and that's true that's the protein in
wheat but what happens when you cut out
the gluten and you still have the
problem and it's not clearing up or
people that really don't consume any
gluten what's the cause then there's
something else it's basically a version
of scurvy scurvy of your colon that's a
vitamin C deficiency now I did some
videos on this with the AR Aries because
uh when you have scurvy of the arteries
or vitamin C deficiency of the arteries
you can start having um these little
leak leaks that go into the blood vessel
and it creates an immune reaction uh and
it starts getting uh formation of
cholesterol and calcium and then you get
this clot well a similar thing happens
in the colon when you see vitamin C
controls the collagen formation so when
you're deficient in vitamin C uh you'll
get symptoms of like uh bleeding gums
that's because the capillaries are are
breaking down and you're getting
bleeding okay well guess what happens
you have this little lining uh of layer
of cells in your colon that allow food
to be absorbed through the like a root
light structure uh into the lymphatic
system where you absorb the nutrients
normally those little um gaps are
between one in seven microns very very
very small when you have leaky gut it
becomes 200
to 300 microns so you have these huge
holes in your colon and that's going to
allow undigested proteins to go through
the colon well guess what happens it
doesn't get the stamp of approval
through from your immune system
immigration and so your body starts
attacking and building antibodies
against those proteins thus the massive
food allergies specifically to proteins
and food sensitivities to other Foods as
well but here you have all these food
allergies simply because of this vitamin
C deficiency so you got food allergies
and then you have immune reaction you
have inflammation scarred tissue and now
you can't absorb food after that because
it's it's just not working and you have
these like these malformed um Junctions
okay so um here's a question like why
are you deficient in vitaminc in the
first place could it be your diet is it
because you don't consume enough
vegetables you need a good amount of
vegetables at least seven cups every
single day to get your vitamin C um when
you take a supplement most vitamin C
comes in a synthetic version of
scorpicol theoric acid but inside you
have the P factors of bof
flavonoids okay bof flavonoids and then
you have the J factors that's the anti-
pneumonia vitamin increases oxygen
copper in vitamin K so you have a lot
complex things inside that vitamin C
complex that's how Nature has designed
vitamin C the one that is really uh
specifically aligns to this problem is
the deficiency in the P Factor the B
flavonoids so when you take ascorbic
acid you get any bioflavonoids okay so
it really doesn't work so here's some
foods that are very very important um
that are very high in bioflavonoids to
help heal that collagen uh sprouted
buckwheats okay you can get I would get
that as a supplement find a supplement
that sprouted bu buckwheat there's one
from Santa process called cuda plus
that's one there's others on Amazon um
I'll put some some information down
below I don't have any brands that I'm
recommending other than Santa process is
a good one uh curatin is a a bof
flavonoid parsley onions green tea
Citrus lemons limes all these are very
high in b flavonoid a lot of the
vegetables most of the vegetables
especially cruciferous are loaded with B
flavonoids but let's say you're
consuming these foods but you're still
having this problem it could be it's not
that your diet is deficient of vitamin C
it's that you have insulin resistance
you have too much insulin you're
pre-diabetic or you have symptoms of um
a subclinical pre-diabetes which is not
really showing up but you have all the
symptoms um that see high this is going
to create a lot more insulin and higher
insulin will deplete your vitamin C boom
that's one thing so you have to correct
that if that's the problem the other
cause of vitamin C deficiencies is
smoking one cigarette if you smoke one
cigarette you're going to deplete uh at
least 25 gr of of vitamin C so you're
smoking and then you're depleting it
you're not knowing that's causing that
can set you up for a vitamin C
deficiency okay so I just wanted to give
you some solutions to um this problem
right here to actually help heal this
and these are some good things and also
you're going to have to stop smoking if
you are a smoker that's going to really
help you as well thanks for watching hi
guys Hey listen I created a pretty
amazing evaluation quiz down below that
actually analyzes your symptoms to find
the cause the root cause of all of your
symptoms the most likely cause so take
the quiz now and we'll send you a report
