the shocking truth about protein bars
protein bars are a huge industry what's
in the ingredients let's first start
with an actual candy bar and then we're
going to do a comparison with all the
healthy protein bars now if we take the
Snickers bar 50 g bar 30 G of carbs 25 G
of that is sugar so basically we're
talking about 58% of this bar is sugar
and when you look at the first
ingredient that makes up most of this
bar and the first ingredient is milk
chocolate the second is peanuts and the
third corn syrup pretty darn high in the
glycemic index then we have actual sugar
and then it has salt egg whites palm oil
butter skim milk lactose which is milk
sugar and peanuts so that's what makes
up a Snickers bar now remember that as
we go through these protein bars because
somehow there's a perception that these
protein bars are healthier than a candy
bar the first one I want to go through
is this one right here this is a cliff
bar so this Cliff bar is 68 G okay so
it's a little more than the candy bar
and whereas the candy bar is 58% sugar
this one is merely 41% sugar but they
have virtually the same amount of
carbohydrates except for the clipbar has
like one more carbohydrate so this is 31
gam of carbohydrate and there's 3 G of
fiber so you deduct that and you get 28
net carbs okay then we have 17 g of
sugar wait a second so if we have this
total carbohydrate and we deduct the
fiber and the sugar we still have 11 G
of carbohydrate left so what is making
up this 11 G of carbohydrate it's
starches not like the typical starches
in vegetables the starches that turn
into sugar so quick they really are
sugars because if you look at what a
starches it's just a chain of sugar
molecules strung together so this really
doesn't have seven g of sugar when we
add the 11 G of starch sugar it really
has 28 g of sugar which is 7 teaspoons
of sugar but I want to know what type of
sugar we're dealing with well first one
is cane syrup then we have brown rice
syrup there's some palm oil for the fat
and then here are the starches we have
soy flour and rice flour now the big
thing that people are going to look at
when they look at the label is how much
protein wow 20 G of protein that's
amazing well what's the quality of
protein soy protein concentrate that is
a very lowquality protein so basically
we have a lot of ultra process
ingredients in this product okay so
that's the cliff Builder Bar now since
we're talking about bars protein bars I
want to mention um an energy bar by
Cliff okay so we'll be talking about
this one maybe you've seen it in the
grocery store this bar is 68 G
55.88% % of it is sugar now remember
when I talked about sugar with this one
this one has 58% sugars 58% 56% This is
43 G of carbs 5 G of fiber and 17 g of
sugar now wait a second we have
something that's missing in these carbs
right there's 21 G of carbs that's
unaccounted for so what makes up the 21
G of carbs that they're not talking
about starches again when you think
starches think sugar so basically we're
talking about
5.25 teaspoons of extra sugar that's
hidden as starches so when you consume
this you're consuming 9.5 tpoon of sugar
and then if we look at the ingredient we
have oats organic brown rice syrup soy
rice crisps which is soy protein
isolates and rice flour organic tapioca
syrup organic cane syrup and also the
chory fiber organic soy flour and the
soy oil so we're dealing with a lot of
starches a lot of sugars and then some
seed oil I'm going to tell you right now
if you consume this you're not going to
have sustainable energy you're going to
have some little bit of spike in energy
and then you're going to crash and burn
and you're going to end up with low
blood sugars if you have a very fast
metabolism and you're exercising you
might be able to deal with it but I know
I would not be able to deal with this
bar right here all right now let's go to
the kind bar and it says the number one
ingredient is heart healthy peanuts it
says on the back low glycemic index
dairyfree no GMO very low sodium no
sugar alcohols zero trans fats and a
good source of fiber let's see if any of
this is actually true the first thing
you need to know is this is a 40 G bar
and if we look at the percentage of
sugar it's
37.5% of it is sugar what type of sugar
well if we get beyond the first
ingredient which is peanuts second
ingredient is glucose syrup glucose
syrup is not low on the glycemic index
then sugar then honey then palm oil then
the soy protein isolate and they throw
in the chory root fiber your perception
of healthy protein bars might be
changing don't worry it gets worse okay
the next one I want to talk about is the
quest bars okay the quest bars in One of
These Bars we have 60 G and by the way
this is 41% sugar in this bar right here
so we have 25 G of carbs we have 12 G of
fiber and N9 gram of sugar alcohols now
realize if you are going to consume n
grams of sugar alcohols you're going to
have a lot of GI problems a lot of gas a
lot of bloating maybe some diarrhea the
first ingredient is a protein blend then
polydextrose then water arral then we
get almonds then palm oil then we have
another ingredient called sodium quinate
it says it's a high quality protein
which I disagree with and then they add
a type of sweetener sucros milk protein
iset and whey protein iset and they also
have this other ingredient poly dextrose
again we don't know what's going to
happen when your good bacteria try to
deal with it or ferment it we don't have
the long-term safety studies so right
now we're doing kind of a human
experiment to find out how this affects
people and apparently you are the guinea
pig now let's get into this one right
here called Pure protein when I say the
word pure protein what comes to mind
pure protein right that means 100% of
this is protein in theory but in reality
it's not true it has 20 gram of protein
2 gam of sugar and let's take a look at
what is in here it's like 50 g of
product so we have 17 G of carbohydrate
one gram of fiber but only two grams of
sugar what's left starches out of all
the carbohydrates 14 G of that is starch
basically we're throwing in four more
teaspoons of sugar and they're hidden as
starches so you don't notice it on the
label 34% of the pure protein is sugar
let's talk about the ingredients what's
in here sugar we have tapioca starch and
we also have sucrose mtol syrup plus
they add mtol it's not low on the
glycemic index and they put it in a lot
of sugar-free candy and it's the wor
worst sugar alcohol and of course the
type of protein that is in this pure
protein product is you guessed it soy
protein isolate the cheapest worst type
of protein you can consume all right
next one we're going to talk about is
this one called one this one has 20 gr
of protein 1 gram of sugar wow that
sounds pretty good there's 60 G of
product in this bar and there's 25 G of
carbs 8 G of fiber but 6 g of sugar
alcohols that's quite high if we look at
the ingredients we have this darn mol
again rice flour and tapioca starch the
type of protein is going to be milk
protein Sway and then they add in this
salable vegetable fiber ISO molto
illegal saccharide it's sugar and then
canola oil which is seed oil
polydextrose cellulose which is
basically sawdust or wood pulp and then
again the sugar that they're using is
sucrose a lowquality artificial sugar
41% of this product is sugar but
probably more because of the iso
maltooligosaccharide try to say that
three times now we have something called
met rex or RX it's a meal replacement so
this is not necessarily a protein bar
but even though it has 30 grams of
protein maybe it is a protein bar but
they advertise it as a meal replacement
you can just take this without having to
eat it has 100 gram of product 30 gram
of protein 17
vitamins and minerals 48 G of carbs okay
1 gam of fiber and 29 g of sugar what
explains the big gap if you guessed
starches you are correct it does have 4
gram of sugar alcohol 15 G of rice
starch which is really equivalent to
about four teaspoons of actual sugar now
the sugar alcohols is the multile syrup
again they're corn syrup fructose soy
protein isolate they throw some way
there some milk some egg whites and this
also contains something called
bioengineered food ingredients they
don't want to use the word GMO anymore
this right here is
48% sugar then we have this one it's
called
amrx bar first thing it says is 10 gram
of protein 3 tablespoons of Oats sounds
healthy five cashews that's healthy two
egg whites wow that's great two
teaspoons of Honey best form of
sweetener no BS
now let's make sure that there's nothing
else in here because this gives the
appearance that there are only these
ingredients on here well almonds
blueberries pumpkin seeds brown rice
brown rice why are they putting that in
there high oleic sunflower oil what is
that that might sound like a healthier
uh seed oil but it's still highly
processed then we have coconut Sugar Oat
fiber and sea salt
52.73 % of this is sugar a lot of these
bars are comparable to a candy bar now
if we were to compare all these bars and
and trying to pick out the worst one my
pick would be this one right here being
the worst one and the reason for that is
not just the that's 41% sugar which is a
big problem but there's also some hidden
sugars and some things that are really
going to mess up your blood sugars
things that are camouflaged as fiber but
are really sugars so there's really
nothing in here that is healthy at all
at least some of these bars have some
good ingredients in them but I couldn't
really find anything in this one so tell
me what you think about these protein
bars and if you found a bar that
actually is healthy please comment down
below I've been looking I just haven't
found any now since protein is the main
theme of this video if you have not seen
this video on one of the best protein
sources you should check it out put it
up right here
