today we're going to talk about the
biggest lie or myth about your gut
microbiome this will be a game changer
if you ask chat PT WebMD or Google do
antibiotics permanently Wipe Out the
microbiome the answer you're going to
get is no that is such a big lie if you
really understood what happens when you
take an antibiotic or something to wipe
out some of your microbes or all of your
microbes and the consequences of what
happens to them you would think twice
about taking antibiotics iotics now I'm
not just talking about antibiotics I'm
talking about cortical steroids as in
predone I took that every year for
probably 7 to 10 years for my poison ivy
junk Foods severely destroy your
microbiome another thing that was
patented as an antibiotic glyphosate
that's the herbicide Roundup Ready I
mean I've had antibiotics my whole life
and I had no idea the long-term effects
that those create antibiotics wipe out
certain strains of good microbes from
your body which you had as an abundant
microb now was replaced by something
else and that alteration is called
disbiosis and chances are you have an
increased population of antibiotic
resistant microbes I didn't know that
that's huge and it's very important to
know what those strains are and to
figure out how you can get them back
that's what I'm going to talk about
today some of the microbes that are
wiped out are called Keystone microbes
if eliminated affects the entire eco
system of your gut it can really put you
at risk for all sorts of inflammatory
conditions autoimmune diseases allergies
etc etc now before we kind of get into
it too much I think the really important
thing to know is that 99% of your genes
are not yours they're microbial you're
mostly microbes you have a much lower
percentage of actual human cells so our
bodies have like 20,000 genes the
microbiome has 3 million so on one hand
if you have the right microbiome you can
have a good immunity you can have low
risk of disease you can make all your
neurotransmitters on the other hand if
we have an alteration of your microbiome
over here and too many bad bacteria
versus the good you're going to have
leaky gut you're going to be more
susceptible to autoimmune diseases small
intestinal bacteria overgrowth and then
those microbes in the wrong place are
going to steal your nutrition so you're
going to have nutritional deficiencies
and the question is how do we get the
right Keystone bacteria back there's no
yogurt that you can get that has even
close to the number of microbes that you
have in your body but the good news is
there's really only maybe five to seven
keystone species that can help put
things into balance you see a lot of the
microbes that are missing that you no
longer have can be increased by just
changing the environment and feeding the
microbes certain things prevotella is
missing in 70 to 80% of the population
this is the microb that that helps you
balance your blood sugar this is the
microb that normally is supposed to get
rid of oxalates I don't know if you've
heard about oxalates but that's the
thing that can increase your risk for
kidney stones and that's the microbe
that really gets killed off when you
take antibiotics all right next one is
this weird name acrania if you're
deficient in this you're not going to be
able to produce the mucus barrier that
protects you against pathogens you're
also going to have a risk of metabolic
syndrome and obesity in 40 to 60% of the
population is deficient in this micro
but hang in there I'm going to show you
how to increase some of these microbes
all right next one is feal bacterium if
you're deficient in this you're going to
have more inflammation and more risk of
autoimmune diseases 30 to 50% of the
population is missing this microbe so
many diseases originate in the gut and
now you know why because if you don't
have that microbe that's supposed to
protect you then you're susceptible to
getting that disease all right last one
is Rino cacus 50 to 60% of the
population is missing this one and if
you're deficient you're going to lose
the ability to digest certain fibers
from Plants this could explain why so
many people just when they even have a
salad or any vegetables boy they just
get bloating and they do not do well but
they thrive on the carnivore diet
interesting so here's the secret okay
you can change the environment that your
microbiome lives in so let's just go
through the list of things that you can
take polyphenols you can get polyphenols
in green tea and also in certain
vegetables garlic onions asparagus you
can change the environment to increase
the diversity of microbes consuming
fermented things like
sauerkraut kimchi pickled vegetables
things like that there's a microb called
bacterio fragilis This is a microb that
most people have right now but what's
interesting is what it does it resists
tumors and cancer with this
catch22 you must also have enough
vitamin D and this is why vitamin D is
such a powerful anti-tumor anti-cancer
vitamin and of course if you already
have leaky gut okay there's several
things you should know number one zinc
carnosine is one of the best remedies L
glutamine is good bone broth colostrum
can help heal a leaky gut and doing
intermittent fasting all can help now I
save the best microb for last this
microb is missing in 95 to 96% of the
population it is so important because it
prevents small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth it makes seven natural
antibiotics that kill only the bad
bacteria and leave the good guys alone
it increases the population of other
good microbes without even taking those
microbes but even more importantly it
increases a super highlevel hormone
called oxytocin now oxytocin is
typically known uh when women are
lactating breastfeeding or they're in
contractions to release the baby but
oxytocin is also considered the the
bonding or love hormone it does lower
cortisol it also increases the thickness
of your skin this microbe can be
cultivated so in other words you can
make it into this yogurt compound with
high levels of this single microbe to
create a therapeutic effect on your body
in this video I'm going to show you how
to do it after an interview I do with uh
Dr William Davis the doctor wrote the
book super gut where I learned this
information on this amazing micro so I
want to show you this interview with him
and then I'm going to roll right into
how to make it and after you make it you
put in the fridge and you just consume
like a half a cup of day and if you want
to make more you actually don't need any
more probiotics you already started with
one capsule that you'll mix in with this
concoction which I'm going to explain
how to make it and then what you do is
you take two tablespoons of this
probiotic mixture you made to start the
next batch and you can keep doing this
over and over and over it's actually
very inexpensive but let's just roll
right into Dr William Davis's interview
how did you kind of isolate or stumble
on this very specific microb I mean
there's other microbes but I think the
the main one you talk about a lot is the
the L or lactobacillus ruter ey so can
you tell me a little bit about how you
kind of stumbled on that microb versus
other ones well it was real simple you
know I make most of my uh ideas by
mistake by making big blunders so so
that that's how I came to the Wheat
Belly idea Trying to minimize the
expression of small LDL particles as you
know the real cause for heart disease
not this nonsense about LDL olol so I
saw people you and I have a lot of
success in helping people regain health
and so with wheat grain and grain
elimination sugar elimination and a
handful of common nutrients that are
lacking in Modern Life and we see all
kinds of wonderful things like a
reversal of type two diabetes loss of
fatty liver weight loss Etc but it was
clear that was incomplete even when I
added some basic microbiome strategies
like a high pocy multispecies probiotic
or Prebiotic fibers and fermented foods
I still saw some residual problems for
instance somebody says my rheumatoid
arthritis is much better I got rid of
the biologic injections I got rid of the
prednisone but I'm still taking the
proxin uh as needed for occasional mild
flareups why so I looked for what else
was there was and I started thinking
about the hormone oxytocin I don't even
remember why there's a really crazy set
of Frankenstein
experiments being conducted conducted by
a woman named Arena Conboy she's been at
Harvard Stanford I think she's now UC
Berkeley and she did something really
creepy they took an old rat and cloned
it so that they got a young rat that was
immunologically and genetically
identical and then connected their
circulatory systems yuck well then this
is called they called it heterochronic
parabiosis two times next to life well
lo and behold the old rat becomes Young
and so they ask what's the what are the
mediators that work is ongoing but the
first mediator they isolated they're a
bunch of peptides the First Media they
they isolate was
oxytocin what people regard as the
hormone of love and empathy what some
ladies regard as the drug they get to
induce labor when they're pregnant at at
term delivery term
pregnancy well then an MIT group a
cancer group we exploring the
anti-cancer effects of lactobacilus
rodite and they discovered all kinds of
unexpected effects the first thing they
observed was that their fur in their
words became rich and
luxurious wow so they started doing all
kinds of crazy things to these mice like
inflicting wounds in their skin and
watch healing time cut by half they
watched old mice become young again so
for instance if you look at muscle
that's atrophied in older mice uh young
muscle cells come back their libido
their their mating behavior comes back
back their the immune system is
Amplified in other words it changed they
even did this they did a crazy study
they gave two groups of mice a lousy
diet purposefully meant to mimic fast
food the mice that got just fast food
got fat and old and lost their hair
stopped mating they got old and
died mice who got same crappy diet but
with roty stayed slender Rich fur mated
they stayed young until death so okay so
so this experiment with the mice I think
that was the missing point they gave
them a certain microbe El rudai because
of because of oxytocin they wanted to
increase it they they they did but they
didn't set out to do just that they kind
of stumbled on that so like a lot of
things I do lot this was by accident so
they wanted to understand first of all
why that rich luxurion fur issue and it
became clear they opened a whole
Pandora's box of effects well I got that
same microb it was available
commercially from a Swedish company but
it was available as tablets for infants
so very Teensy weeny doses so I I simply
reasoned let's ferment it as something
that looks like yogurt but we're going
to ferment it using prolonged
fermentation so rorai will you know as
you recall microbes don't have sex
there's no mommy daddy male female
microb they just double so ride doubles
every three hours at human body
temperature so I made yogurt it's not
yogurt of course it looks and smells
like yogurt but I used prolonged
fermentation uh I allowed 12 doublings I
perform something called flow cytometry
just a way to count microbes and we get
300 billion so far more about a
thousandfold more than the original
tablets for babies I just started
talking about it gave to all my
neighbors I started eating it okay so
the question I have is so when you um
you did you initially know how to do
that or did you just go uh okay me try
something and I guess that didn't work
did you how did you know to ferment it
for 36 hours hit and miss
okay and then I did repeated flow
cytometry counts it became clear the the
number I first picked 36 hours was The
Sweet Spot that's where you get maximum
number at least as yogurt and if you go
to 48 Hours you get a plateau you
actually get an increase in dead
microbes so 36 hours which by the way is
very different than what they do in
commercial yogurt making which is yeah 6
to 12 hours
it's ridiculous so so I guess the reason
um at first did you think well I think
we'll just take this microb as a
supplement right you were you thinking
at first like oh we'll just take it and
we it'll work just by taking it you know
you can but the the quantity of in the
original product which which called
bioag gastrous GA g-r us the infant
tablets so when you take it nothing
happens when I called the company I
talked to EXA I said hey I'm playing
with this yo this your your tablet is
making yogurt they say you can't no
one's ever made yogurt from it and they
said we don't know anything about that
MIT nonsense don't call us again they
essentially shut it all down so I okay
fine so I made the yogurt and now we
have thousands and thousands of people
doing it and the crazy thing is so as as
elegant as that MIT work was we're
learning new lessons both from Human
Experience and some limited efforts in
clinical trials we're seeing all kinds
of things happen but you know what as
you know usually when you see stuff
happen in mice it's usually not
corroborated in humans it falls apart in
this instance to my great surprise
everything seen in mice has proven true
in humans wow so we see a restoration of
youthful musculature an increase in
strength guys older guys over 50 get
about a 50% rise in testosterone ladies
get AR rest older ladies get a
restoration of vaginal moisture and
sensation there's an increase in libido
which leads some very embarrassing
stories uh there is uh I presumptive
increase in the immune respones people
seem to get better faster there's an
acceleration of healing from minor
wounds uh
and I tell this to ladies you know I'm
sure your audience a lot like mine my
audience is 87%
female they all say this to me
incredibly they say oh we don't care
about muscle and immune response we just
want better
skin I said what
all right fine so I did a little
clinical trial ladies big ladies I said
don't change your diet don't change your
exercise program just take these that
was rorai I added some other things to
amplify the skin effects collagen
peptides hyaluronic acid and the
coronoid AES anthon and we did high
resolution skin ultrasound and we showed
a big increase in dermal thickness
ladies are thrilled because they lose
their crows feet and their smile lines
BL wow but I happen to measure the waist
circumference just it's free you I don't
you and I don't have the budget of
farmer we don't have billions of dollars
to spend we have maybe you know tens or
hundreds of thousands of dollars to
spend in our clinical trials so I
measured waste circumference free and to
my great surprise this was Christmas Eve
I get the waste circumference I said no
way they lost huge amount of waist
circumference up to eight and a half
inches no change in diet even more
remarkably they didn't lose weight well
how can that be well I think consistent
with the animal evidence and what I'm
seeing Lally play out in thousands of
people is you lose abdominal fat but you
restore youthful muscle we're seeing
that play So I think what we've St what
I stumbled on by accident this is a way
to shift body composition the complete
opposite by the way of these garbage
glp1 Agonist drugs yeah that of course
cause loss of huge loss of muscle
guarantees weight regain so a person has
a choice stop the drug and see your
health deteriorate when you regain all
the weight as fat or stay on the drug
forever and be held hostage by the
pharmaceutical Industries so I I think
even one of your videos you mentioned
you personally gained how much muscle
mass so in my 60s in my 60s I gained
about 13 pounds of muscle and F my my
strength increased by 50% uh and you
know I I mentioned to you in emails I
hate going to the gym I can't stand it
right so I go 15 minutes on a busy week
I go 15 minutes once a week I haven't
been to the gym in five months by the
way but I do other things but uh so
that's what I'm seeing now I don't know
if that happens to everybody I do see
ladies they get M mad at me they say hey
I'm doing your program in the road I
gained eight pounds I asked him have you
looked in the mirror have you measured
your waist I said well yeah my waist is
smaller my shoulders are firmer my
thighs and buttocks and neck are firmer
so presumptive we got to do this more
formally like do a dexa study or
something like that formally quantify
the shift and mus and all that business
but you know all we're doing though
right is replacing things that you
should have had in your body all along
okay so this microb obviously we were
supposed to have it initially and I'm
guessing some past antibiotic wiped it
out or bad food or something and I think
I think you mentioned even in your book
or another video that what percentage of
the population just doesn't have this
microbe anymore about 96% %c gosh so it
is it is very susceptible as are many
lacto baceline to Common antibiotics so
if you took amoxicillin 30 years ago for
an upper Resturant it wiped out all your
Rite what's so fascinating about that is
if we sequence the microbiomes of
somebody living the highlands of New
Guinea or the Brazilian Rainforest in
the Amazon people unexposed to
antibiotics Etc they all have Rite they
all have if we see wild mammals like
deer or giraffes or lions they all have
ruter I suggesting it's necessary for
Maman Health it's us who've lost it the
original Discoverer Dr Gard reuter said
it was everywhere in the 1960s he got it
from the breast milk of a German
breastfeeding mom and he found it in
stool and other body fluids over his
40-year academic career he found
increasingly difficult to find it
started to disappear and since then
that's been corroborated it's virtually
disappeared from the human microbiome
and I think that's why we're seeing such
over-the-top effects restoring something
people have lost and doing so at very
high counts
wow so so then what happens you lose
this microbe which also by the way tends
to protect against small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth right does a lot of
things in the small intestine too and
then it it probably because it's not
there then you start getting this
Invasion from the large intestine
climbing up to the small intestin is
that what happens to sometimes exactly
yes so loss of those beneficial species
this this species of lacts and others
allow the over proliferation of
proteobacteria feal microbes like Eola
and klebsiella that have taken up
residents in uh virtually half the US
population so it's it's probably the
worst epidemic to ever occur in our
species and there's there's there's
there science behind that but um so we
have 24 of small intestine Infested by
fecal microbes now as you recall the
small intestine is very permeable that's
where we absorb nutrients so when those
microbes that live and die over just a
period of a few hours they don't live
very long they release some of the
components of their cell walls such as
the endotoxin component that gains ax
your bloodstream that's called
endotoxemia of course and that is a
major driver of weight gain dementia
it's probably one of the most important
factors causing multiple forms of cancer
Tye 2 diabetes cognitive impairment so
in other words it's going to cause us to
re reconsider virtually all human
disease in light of the contribution
initiation or exacerbation of
endotoxemia some of these bad microbes
these pathogens they either leak off or
release um something negative about that
that then forms um this infection that
gets into the bloodstream that starts
creating a a Cascade of bad
effects yes so you know people have
suspected this issue of gut leak for
many decades but it finally got
corroborated by Patrice KY and his
Belgian group in 2007 and since
corroborated numerous times since it is
a major driver it it it terrifies me to
think how we didn't know about this
thing the great thing about rotari is so
most microbes colonize the colon only
right the large intestine
yeah the rotay colonize the 24 ft of
small intestine and the colon wow where
it takes up residence and does something
wonderful it produces what are called
bacteria sins natural antibiotics
effective against fecal microbes so the
loss of rorai probably was a big part of
the reason why this happened and
restoring rorai is a big part of the
solution to correct that Pro so we're
seeing sibo recede via normalization
breath hydrogen
gas with restoration of lacil ride but
I've combined it with lactobacilus
gaseri because that's another big
bacteria produc and small intestinal
colonizer and then we've thrown in a
strain of basilla subtilus or suus
because of its extraordinary bacteria
and so far making yogurt yogurt out of
those three we get about 90%
normalization of breath hydrogen gas and
all the wonderful effects that accompany
that weight loss PLO are broken
hemoglobin a when C finally goes below
five uh all that kind of great stuff
happens just by restoring these Keystone
I think are Keystone microbes via
something that looks and smells like
yogurt and also your sleep right and oh
I'm a chronic insomnia
terrible for decades with rotay I sleep
wonderfully not everybody gets that
maybe half the people get that and by
the way uh there are some other microbes
that have magnificent effects on sleep
another one is lactobacilus KCI churot
strain that's available as this goofy
little product called yakul
it's a it's an awful little product it's
skim milk and sugar uh but it's a good
source of that microb and so as a
chronic Insomniac I take the ruite
sleeping eight nine hours straight
through rare Awakenings I add the KCI
shirota as as yogurt I sleep 12 hours a
night I had to stop it because it was so
overwhelming that it varies among people
you know but uh it's it's and these are
effects not yet described in the
scientific literature so because we're
experiencing it on a on a large
scale you stumbled on something that's
so fascinating to me um because I'm into
the farming and the soil and the
microbes this is like but this is all
human body stuff I definitely want to
stay connected and and keep picking your
brain but um so there's a book that I
highly recommend everyone go out and get
it's um super gut and also I'm going to
put your website down below and you also
have a course uh I'll put some
information about um what the specific
microbe that you recommend because
there's different strains uh and you
have you figured out the right strain so
that's going to be really key to get
that I'll put that link down below but
wow this is huge I'm so interested in
this topic uh I'm just blown away but um
anyway I wanted to just pull you on and
and not take too much of your time but I
want to thank you for that data and uh
and also I'm gonna I'll just going to
roll right into next how to make this if
someone wants to make it and uh if they
want details uh they can go to your your
blog site how about that terrific yeah
you know my one of my interests is this
is all happening right yeah at a time of
record social isolation
divorce suicide is at record levels 36%
increase between 2
2020 and I did not know this the
psychology Community has been formally
measuring and tabulating the rise of
narcissistic
behavior and that curve looks like this
45 degree incline so now we have a way
perhaps we can't address all social ills
of course with yogurt perhaps we can
have an impact because of the
restoration what I'm seeing is a
restoration of the intensity of love and
affection for other people desire for
human companionship increase in
generosity and the acceptance of other
people's opinions so that's my goal in
doing all this I think we can change
human behavior in a good way I can get
behind
that that's awesome well done thank you
so much thank you so this is very simple
how we make this we're going to take uh
the probiotic one capsule and then we
will open it
up and then we're going to take inulin
this is a
tablespoon take
two take organic half and a
half just to make make a paste mix it up
really good don't put too much of that
uh half and half in there right off the
bat just about 2 tablespoons and then we
can pour the rest of this half and half
in there one quart going to mix this up
really
good take a container two containers
We'll pour some of this in
here even it out pretty
good okay we're putting this mixture
into the yogurt maker we have two of
them right very carefully okay now we
have to add water to
it so I'm going to pour the
water like
so and I want that level to be at the
same level as
the mixture inside the containers we now
have the water at the level of a little
bit more than I wanted so that's fine
okay here's the next part and of course
if you have a different machine you're
going to have to just do the same type
of thing on the left we have temperature
and time so we can press this once okay
and then we want this at
99° Fahrenheit so we're going to bring
this
down okay and then press start on that
and then now what we're going to do we
have 8 hours we're going to go up to 36
hours okay and then we press start again
and guess what we're done we're going to
put the top on it and then we're going
to wait for 36
hours and then after that's done we are
going to then put it in the
refrigerator for storage okay we're
pulling out of the refrigerator after 36
hours and leaving in the refrigerator
for a couple hours to cool down and now
we're going to consume a half of a cup
of this every single day it's amazing
it's Rich it's delicious you can add uh
berries to it if you need to add a
sweetener uh go ahead but I think you'll
find it quite delicious a half a cup a
day
