I'm back and today we're going to talk
about something actually very
fascinating you may have never heard
about this before but it's called
intermittent hypoxic training okay so
we're gonna talk about the benefits of
intermittent hypoxic training or therapy
all right what is this well it's a
training or therapy very similar to
training in high altitudes you're giving
your body lower amounts of oxygen and
this is the key term intermittently okay
because if you cut down the oxygen too
low too long it can be dangerous just
like fasting is really good short term
but not for two years so by giving your
body a little doses of hypoxia a lack of
oxygen you can create an amazing
adaptation some of the videos I've done
recently we're about giving the body
more oxygen right this is about taking
the oxygen away a lot of the top
athletes do this type of training to get
the unfair advantage number two chronic
lung diseases doing this training at the
right intervals under supervision can
increase your oxygen carrying capacity
greatly number three bronchial asthma
and by the way both of these right here
would benefit greatly from vitamin D as
well okay number four hypertension
five diabetes number six
brain damage let's say for example you
had Parkinson's or Alzheimer's doing
this training can cause your body to
just carry more oxygen and feed the
areas that are hypoxic number seven
radiation toxicity number eight
increasing of your antioxidant Network
when you put your body in a hypoxic
state it starts to rebound and starts
creating antioxidants like crazy number
nine it increases the number of
mitochondria Wow number ten and actually
I think this is the most amazing thing
it will increase not only the number of
red blood cells but the size of your red
blood cells so you can carry more oxygen
so you're making super red blood cells
this is
amazing number 11 it helps release
excessive amounts of calcium from the
cell number 12 it'll increase oxygen to
your tissues is probably why it helps
diabetes asthma and brain damage and
number 13 it decreases oxidative stress
all right so how do you do it you can
get a device like this which is a little
mask over your mouth right here where
you can breathe and you probably can't
hear me but basically this restricts air
and you can use different settings that
will simulate different altitudes so
maybe you start at 3,000 feet and you
slowly go up to 19,000 feet and you're
mimicking the amount of oxygen at
different altitudes and there's other
ways to do it too one way is like you're
on this bicycle and you're breathing in
less amount of oxygen and more nitrogen
to create the same effect so one pattern
might look like between three to five
minutes of hypoxic air where you're
breathing more co2 and then two to five
minutes of ambient normal air back and
forth for let's say 45 minutes and then
what you can do is you can get a pulse
oximeter they're very inexpensive you
can get them from Amazon and that'll
measure the amount of oxygen in your
blood as your feedback mechanism now
before I did hyperbaric my oxygen was 95
and now it's a hundred but when you're
doing this training it'll go down to 85
temporarily but then it goes right back
up to where you were so this is just
another tool that you can use to create
a hormetic effect which basically you're
giving a small amount of stress and
tremendous body to rebound and adapt and
become even stronger alright thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
