so I'm gonna talk about an interesting
relationship between vitiligo and copper
okay what is vitiligo it's an autoimmune
condition where your body is attacking
certain cells that make melanin so
without melanin you don't have the
pigment and you have these white spots
so it's a loss of Milano site function
so the way this works is you have a
Milano site that makes melanin which is
that gives you the pigment in the skin
and it works through this conversion of
an amino acid to a certain enzyme
tyrosinase anything with an ace is an
enzyme so you need this enzyme to be
able to make melanin and to make this
enzyme work you need copper so the
entire structure of this enzyme which is
a protein requires copper and many
enzymes in the body require minerals as
their cofactor helper nutrients now when
you have too much of this enzyme you can
get a hyperpigmentation of the skin and
get dark spots or aging spots that's
what that is
and there's all sorts of remedies copper
ki laters that actually pull copper out
but vitiligo
is an autoimmune condition okay so the
body is making antibodies to attack
itself so we have a lot of inflammation
we have a lot of oxidation so we have a
defective antioxidant system and the
body is actually making too much
hydrogen peroxide this is a very
powerful oxidant and you can even try
this at home
put some hydrogen peroxide in your hair
and see what happens now don't do this
it'll actually bleach the hair okay so
in your body that's what's actually
happening to your skin and the main
antioxidant that rids this hydrogen
peroxide uses copper and zinc so when
you have too much hydrogen peroxide it
can decrease this enzyme and if you have
enough of this enzyme you can counter
the hydrogen peroxide but in this
situation we have these cells that are
defective and we're not able to make the
melanin in sufficient quantities so
there's a couple things you can do you
can get a copper
cream and put that directly on the skin
to supply what your body needs to make
this enzyme okay number two you can take
some zinc because this is involved in
this very powerful antioxidant start
building up your defenses against this
oxidation and number three vitamin d3
okay why vitamin d3 why is that good for
vitiligo well it's good for autoimmune
conditions but if you think about what
is the medical treatment for vitiligo
besides UV light or a photo therapy is
corticosteroids like prednisone so they
use prednisone and dealing with
autoimmune conditions guess what vitamin
d3 is it's also a steroid d3 will help
build up your body's own natural
steroids and it's also a very powerful
immune regulator to help the immune
system as well as decrease the
inflammation involved in this condition
so number one do the copper cream zinc
and vitamin d3 alright thanks for
watching so if you want to get notified
with all my content click the
notification bell next to subscribed
