let's talk about the dangers of ultra
low fat diets I'm talking about a diet
that the fats make up only 15% of your
total calories the diet that I recommend
has fat making up about 70% of your
total calories now why is that because
there's a lot of things in fat that we
need fat soluble vitamins essential
fatty acids fats are needed to make
structural parts of our tissue including
all the cell membranes and that's why
they call certain fats essential fatty
acids because fats that you need that
you have to get from the diet your body
can't make them all right number one
you're gonna get a decrease in the fat
side with vitamins vitamin A D E in K
and the consequences of these
deficiencies are very vast vitamin A
immune system vision at night vitamin D
immune system keeping viruses in check
keeping your inflammation down helping
calcium be absorbed vitamin E essential
for the heart and if our hormone health
vitamin K help you stop bleeding also
vitamin k2 to transport calcium out of
the soft tissues alright number two risk
of mental problems your brain is mostly
made out of fat your nerves are
insulated with a fat lining so if we
don't have the structural components for
the brain of the nerves your mood
suffers and your cognitive function
suffers greatly alright number three
increased risk of cancer because you're
not going to have the essential fatty
acids to help your immune system all
right next thing is decrease in HDL
that's the so-called good cholesterol
that usually goes down with an increase
in triglycerides number five when you
decrease dietary fat a person will
automatically increase carbohydrates not
a good combination
and by the way Americans have already
tried the low fat high carb diet for
years and we know it just does not work
alright number six you're never going to
be satisfied you're always going to be
hungry not a good combination if you
want to stick to any type of healthy
eating plan
alright number seven if you actually
lower your fat and raise your protein
it's really hard on the liver and the
kidney and it will also increase the
spike of insulin so you always want to
consume the normal fat that comes along
with the protein and not do lean protein
or low fat protein all right guys thanks
for watching and don't forget to click
on this next video on the quantities and
the types of fat you need to be
consuming
