hey guys I wanted to do a video on this
someone had a question wanting to know
why is my blood sugar high when I'm on
keto what's really weird is that when
that person started eating their blood
Sugar's went down so the blood sugar
spiked occurred when they were fasting
weird well let's talk about why that
could be that uses a situation where the
person still has insulin resistance okay
they're usually diabetic or a
pre-diabetic or might not even know
there are pre-diabetic they just have
really bad insulin resistance so yours
before they ate a lot of carbs a lot of
frequent foods like junk foods and that
built up this thing called insulin
resistance where the insulin doesn't
connect that well and that creates
actually a situation where you have too
much insulin outside the cell and not
enough insulin inside the cell now the
signals are picked up inside the cell
transmitted over to the liver where the
liver starts making glucose that's
called gluco neo Genesis glucose meaning
glucose neo New Genesis making so your
liver is making the sugar it's not
coming from the diet but it's raising
the sugar in the blood so all this means
is that you're not out of the woods yet
it's gonna take some more time and just
so you know most if not all diabetics
have insulin resistance so this is why
the higher sugar so what can you do
about it
okay so number one continue to reduce
the carbs number two start doing fasting
okay number three exercise exercise is
going to burn up that extra glucose
that's in the blood so be very very
smart to do this get more sleep Sun
vitamin D will help insulin resistance
decreasing your stress will help
consuming fiber from vegetables can help
because it actually feeds the microbes
which then make new Charak acid which
then helps insulin resistance and your
blood sugars alpha soda vinegar can help
you
potassium enhancing the diet with more
potassium foods and actually potassium
itself and vitamin b1 can help reduce
insulin resistance
and help stabilize your blood sugars and
just realize over time your blood
Sugar's will come down and actually stay
down
once your liver gets the message that
it's connecting alright thanks for
watching
so if you've personally benefited from
the information that I put on my videos
I would love to actually see your
success story - I put a link down below
so you can upload your before and after
pictures with your story
