would you be excited to pay $12 a gallon
for your gasoline that would be crazy
wouldn't it be very very expensive
well what about your water okay a lot of
people are paying a lot of money for
bottled water I mean this right here is
16 ounces I think it's 16.9 ounces the
cost of dollar-fifty now my math is not
great but eight of these times a dollar
fifty is 12 bucks per gallon now yes you
can get it cheaper if you buy different
types of water by water and bulk but
it's extremely expensive and plus you're
getting a lot of the plastic residue and
chemicals that have come along with this
so I'm gonna recommend you get a water
filter like a either a house filter or
something on your tap or at least a
water pitcher because you don't want to
be drinking tap water has chlorine heavy
metals medications they're finding
traces of medications different
chemicals like benzene or pesticides
like glyphosate which isn't on the GMO
food there's just a lot of stuff in tap
on or that you don't want to consume
okay so filtered water is the way to go
either on your shower head or your sink
or a whole house filter or even a water
pitcher okay
like the Brita filters but the problem
with the Brita filters and other filters
is they only last like 40 gallons now
that's going to be a lot cheaper than
bottled water and some will last up to
150 gallons and you have to replace the
filter but I'm gonna recommend one
that's actually a lot better the one
that I use it's a it's called crystal
quest and by the way I don't get any
Commission's kickbacks favors from this
company they don't even know I'm
promoting their product but I just think
it's a really good product this is what
it looks like right here and the reason
that I like it is that the filter is a
four-stage filter it pulls out a lot of
this crap okay and the cool thing is it
will filter 2,000 gallons okay way more
than these other pictures and it's like
it's roughly about 39 bucks so I'll put
a link down below check it out but I use
this all the time the water tastes
really good so depending much water you
drink or your
family drinks it can last a long time
anywhere between six months up to a year
it's incredible all right thanks for
watching I just wanted to say thank you
so much for watching my videos I really
appreciate it and if you wouldn't mind
giving me a review I put a link down
below
