so I want to talk about the importance
of electrolytes on a ketogenic diet I'm
not sure if you know this or not but
it's really the lack of electrolytes
that are responsible for the keto flu
constipation when you do Kido Kido
fatigue cramping and heart flutter or a
palpitation or even symptoms of heart
arrhythmia let's go through a few
reasons why this might be well the first
reason is this when you run your body on
glucose 2.7 grams of water is needed for
one gram of glucose so when you're
storing glucose as glycogen you're
holding like three times the amount of
water so glycogen or store glucose is
really a fluid-filled sponge so when you
lower your carbs and you get rid of the
fluid
you're gonna then get rid of the total
volume of fluid and the electrolytes at
the same time because that's where the
electrolytes are stored in the fluid and
guess what you may experience dizziness
weakness tiredness lightheadedness and
even cramps when you don't have enough
electrolytes so electrolytes would be
like potassium magnesium calcium sodium
phosphorus chloride these minerals like
magnesium calcium sodium phosphorus are
fairly stable for the most part in other
words your body can pull them from the
bone from the muscles very easily but
potassium does not have a storage so
potassium is a mineral that is needed in
large quantities yet your body does not
retain it that well but it definitely
retains sodium an average person is
holding or retaining 8,000 milligrams of
extra sodium so when you're doing a fast
your body does become more conservative
with minerals and vitamins so you're not
going to lose as much but if you're
already deficient and going into a fast
those symptoms are magnified or if
you're doing prolonged fasting you're
going to definitely be deficient in some
of these minerals and another point I
want to talk about is when you're doing
keto which is low carb many times people
do not consume a lot of vegetables
because that's carbs even though they're
very low
sima carbs and there a lot of fiber and
we count a net carbs not total carbs so
if we're subtracting all the fiber
you're not getting as many carbohydrates
as you might think but we don't get
enough vegetables and you're not taking
electrolytes you're not going to get
enough potassium potassium is needed to
lower insulin it's needed to improve
insulin resistance it's also needed for
your gut it's also needed for the
peristalsis or the pumping action of the
colon because most of these electrolytes
especially potassium are needed for
muscle contraction so to have a normal
bowel movement you need potassium
magnesium and definitely sodium for a
slightly different reason because if
you're getting rid of your fluid and you
don't have enough fluid in your tissues
or in your colon that's going to cause
dehydration and you're gonna get
constipation so sometimes you need more
potassium for constipation sometimes you
need more sodium and even sometimes you
might need magnesium now the second
reason why electrolytes are important is
that electrolytes improve insulin
resistance and that is the goal of doing
keto NIF in the first place is to
improve and balance out your insulin
levels and fix insulin resistance so you
can improve this by lowering your
carbohydrates not eating as frequently
intermittent fasting and taking
electrolytes so it speeds up the process
without all the side effects and lastly
you have the mitochondria you that's
where all the energy production is
happening this is where your metabolism
is located and when you switch from
running your body and glucose to
fat-burning guess what your metabolism
goes up so the requirement for more
electrolytes goes up too simply because
the mitochondria needs certain
electrolytes and minerals to run the
Machine so in summary you have a couple
options you can take electrolytes or you
can consume foods with electrolytes and
the main foods you want to focus on in
addition to the moderate protein and
higher fat are these things called
vegetables so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
