hey guys in this video we're gonna show
you how to get rid of something called
phantom pain okay now I actually thought
I did a video on this before which I
actually didn't so I'm doing one now
alright so what actually is phantom pain
let's go to the dictionary phantom pain
sensations are described as perceptions
that an individual experience is related
to a limb or an organ that is not
physically part of the body okay so
let's say for example you were involved
in an accident and you had one of your
legs removed and now you have pain in
that area but the limb is not there okay
so what do you do so in this video I'm
not going to get into why this technique
works but it does work so you're just
gonna have to do it to see for yourself
but if you have the sensation of pain
let's say for example in your left leg
what you're going to want to do is you
can do this on yourself or have someone
do it to you
you want to stimulate massage it can be
used with the massage tool it can be
done with your hands it can be done with
acupuncture you want to stimulate the
opposite leg so wherever you feel pain
on this side you're gonna be working on
the opposite leg there's all sorts of
massage tools that you can use but it
doesn't matter the pattern that you use
you just want to stimulate the opposite
leg wherever the sensation is on this
side you work on the opposite side what
you're going to notice when you're doing
this is a hypersensitivity or actually
more pain on the side that you're
pressing and you're going to be probably
surprised that that pain is there but it
has to do with how the circuits work in
the body the left neurological circuits
are connected to the right circuits so
they're all on a continuous loop so you
can actually influence this side of your
body by working on this side so if you
personally have phantom pain go ahead
and do this right now and comment below
and tell us what happened
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
