I wanted to create a short video on why
lemon juice can be both good and bad for
our itis now that's kind of conflicting
so let me explain what I'm talking about
if we compare gout arthritis with
osteoarthritis there's two different
things happening with gout arthritis you
have high levels of uric acid now the
osteoarthritis you don't have uric acid
you have calcium deposits within the
joints and you have a breakdown of the
joints and you have inflammation so gout
symptoms get better when you make things
more alkaline okay when you alkalize the
body a little bit more with
osteoarthritis you typically get worse
when you make things more alkaline and
that's probably because of the
relationship between calcium and pH if
your stomach for example is too alkaline
you will not be able to absorb calcium
so when you al collides the body you can
actually create a flare-up with
arthritis and as a side note you can
also create a worsening of allergies by
the way so in osteoarthritis you want to
acidify the body a little bit more and
that's why we recommend apple cider
vinegar when you consume lemon or lemon
juice and it gets broken down
metabolized it actually turns alkalyn it
turns into a base and that worsens gout
because it makes things more alkaline so
citric acid whether it's from lemons
limes grapefruit oranges when it's
metabolize it turns alkaline and it can
make out worse so to lessen the pain in
the attack and the precipitation of this
uric acid all you have to do and this is
a temporary thing is alkalis the urine
now in Austria thread us if you alkalize
the body you're going to make it worse
because of the connection between pH and
calcium for example it takes a very
acidic stomach to absorb calcium and if
the body is a little bit too alkaline
calcium tends to precipitate out and get
stuck in the joints so with cases of
osteoarthritis they do better with apple
cider vinegar to acidify the body
but with gout they will do worse without
cider vinegar now let's talk about lemon
so when you consume lemon juice for gout
the person usually feels a lot better
because you lower the acidity but for
osteoarthritis you make it worse because
you make things more alkaline so for
osteoarthritis use apple cider vinegar
for gout use lemon juice and by the way
that's just a temporary quick fix
that'll make you feel better for a
little bit you want to correct the
underlying cause of course high fructose
corn syrup is at the top the list with
causing gout people that are sensitive
purines and I put a complete video on
gout below you should check it out if
you have this because the true cause of
gout is a sluggish kidney and you want
to keep working on your kidney now as a
side note when you do in a minute
fasting your body will produce more uric
acid as an antioxidant and if you're
sensitive to it it could give you a
flare-up of gout and this is why you
could either do lemon juice or you can
do potassium citrate to alkalize the
body to chill out this acidity and turn
off that gout symptom alright thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
video hey if you haven't already
subscribed press the button below and I
will keep you in the know hey that runs
