hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about the number one
reason for weight loss failure you ready
for this the answer is this the person
never starts okay they just don't start
that's number one number two they start
but they quit because it doesn't work
they don't see results and in this video
I'm going to show you and we're going to
go deeper into why they don't start or
why it doesn't work for them okay so the
first principle is that you're going
against gravity when you're trying to
lose weight it's a very unnatural thing
trying to lose weight the body doesn't
like to lose anything okay losing is a
negative goal your body will fight
losing fat by slowing down your
metabolism you already probably found
this out already okay let me show you
something now if we look deeper I think
the reason why people don't start is
they just don't have the confidence that
they don't know what to do or they'll
quit because they think think they have
low willpower when in fact they just
have the wrong strategy so we're going
to talk about getting a better strategy
uh we're going to go from losing
something to gaining something we're
going to go depriving yourself to
satisfying yourself from stopping to
start avoiding to eating certain things
and focusing on that or cutting versus
cutting calories are going to add
certain things I mean think about it if
you actually do this in correctly you're
going to still crave the wrong Foods
you're still going to be hungry you're
still going to be tired you're still
going to be tempted it's not going to
work you're going to quit and go back to
your old habits so let me just show you
this next part of exactly what to do as
far as a better strategy so let me ask
you a question if we could increase the
results
consistently rid your
Cravings raise your energy up handle
your
Temptations and get you to feel
satisfied would you stick with it would
you start the program okay the single
most important thing to get results is
to lower insulin if we keep insulin
lowered we can actually get you into the
fat burning we can fix a stubborn
metabolism we can fix your set point now
out of all the actions to do the most
important is to have two to three meals
per day no snacking so the less frequent
the meal why because every time you eat
you spike insulin so if we can do less
meals that action is even more important
than what you eat in that meal now don't
use that as excuse to eat junk but but
if you eat six meals a day or all day
long you snack at night that is going to
screw you up so you don't want to do
that so two two would be the best if you
can do two meals and spread it out
nothing in
between that's going to really start
increasing your results and we're not
talking about calorie counting and we're
not talking about depriving you we're
just talking about a better strategy
okay now we got to handle the Cravings
cravings for sugars and carbs that is
merely a potassium deficiency when you
have enough pottassium your body can
store sugar in between meals very easily
and the need for sugar goes way down
and in fact you can fix this insulin
issue by taking more potassium because
potassium um lowers the need for insulin
it lowers insulin but when you have an
insulin problem and if you haven't if
you're not familiar with this I'll put
some links down below about insulin
resistance if you have an insulin
problem you can't absorb pottassium in
the first place so if you fix this and
add more potassium you instantly don't
crave anymore okay so you just have to
prove it to yourself but to do that you
don't want to take potassium you want to
consume more vegetables you need at
least minimum seven cups of vegetables
per day it's not hard to do that just
have a couple big salads and that's it
okay you have to have it consistently
now to raise your energy we're going to
add 3 to six ounces of protein per meal
that's going to spike your energy so the
combination we're just combining things
to enhance and have a better strategy so
we need to make our protein like quality
like fish chicken even beef that's fine
make sure it's uh organic or grass-fed
don't do the protein powders um unless
you maybe do one but don't do soy
protein powder that's really a low
quality eggs are really good um now
handle Temptations okay like Christmas
holidays going out to dinner everywhere
you go you're tempted so you want to get
the junk out of your house get the
sweets on the house and you need to make
substitute
Foods now I'm going to put a link down
below of a whole bunch of amazing
recipes if you haven't seen these before
you can make these and I'm just going to
show you like here this is a
shortbread cookies these are to die for
there is no sugar it's low carb you can
consume this but you have to consume it
in between I'm sorry at the at the meal
not in between the meal so the rule is
you cannot have this in between the meal
or at night you have to have it with the
meal and this is kind of just going to
get you to be satisfied so you can go
longer so I mean the these would if you
had these you wouldn't have to be
tempted to any any type of sugary thing
this is a a peanut butter cookie look at
these These are amazing and they're
chewy you can do this after a meal as
your dessert uh you can do brownies for
example here's these brownies amazing
you can have this at the end of the
meal look at caramel caramel you can
actually have a recipe for caramel and
it tastes just like caramel and there's
no sugar if you had this in your house
you would not be tempted now what I like
to do is I I like to take candy peans
and I have a a recipe below and
shortbread cookies and put them in my
ice cream now I do have a recipe I'm
coming up with for ice cream that you
can make your own ice cream this is my
own type of ice cream that we're working
on we're on the third round the first
round tastes like chalk second round
tastes like um created a lot of
digestive issues this is fun finally we
nailed it in vanilla ice cream there's a
chocolate it's amazing stay tuned for
more but it has no hormones no sugar
lactose free and a lot of fat so this
would be another snack that you could do
so these are just things that you want
to start putting together and starting
to make a program that has more
preparation and you're preparing to do a
successful program rather than just try
to start starving yourself and eating
less calories it doesn't work now to
feel satisfied you need to add fat fat
is is the only thing that will not Spike
insulin carbohydrates and too much
protein will but if you add fat with the
meal you're going to be able to go
longer and then all these snacks that
I'm showing you are filled with fat you
don't have to go crazy with eating a lot
of them just have one but that will
you'll feel like you're not deprived and
you'll go longer without eating so you
can actually do this so all these tie in
together but it's almost impossible to
do this without fat you need fat because
you actually don't Spike insulin and you
go longer you could probably just do two
meals a day so I'm talking about avocado
coconut oil uh butter fattier Meats nuts
almond butter healthy fats that you can
do that allow you to be more satisfied
okay okay for those of you that need
more tools that you need more details I
have the membership site and you want to
definitely check this thing out because
I have over 200 lessons in this
membership program it shows you all the
details of what to eat what not to eat
what to do in social situations how to
overcome all sorts of barriers stress
eating eating out of boredom you name it
I show you what to do to solve that then
I get into body problems how to handle
sleeping issues hot flashes pain because
those could be a barrier for you losing
weight I go into the body types what to
do for your specific body type I have
case studies on body type issues I have
Advanced Techniques on different body
types of what you can do to speed up the
function of the endocrine glands okay we
talk about that there's and this is
released after month one also so the
exercis is released after the second
month uh all the advanced uh techniques
in both interval training and toning and
fat burning types of exercises and then
as a bonus I have this really cool thing
it's called the meal maker you could at
a press of a button select all the foods
that you like for breakfast lunch and
dinner and Bam make your weekly eating
plan you put it in the fridge and you
forget about it you can just follow that
plan so you don't have to think about
what to prepare you've already done that
and this is kind of a a hid
thing that people don't do they don't
prepare for the week so if you have
something that you can quickly prepare
and you can just focus on just doing it
and you have it all planned out you'll
be way more successful so that's a bonus
as long as you're in the membership site
and also this really cool new thing
called a symptom checker okay right now
there's over 104 symptoms okay you can
click on any symptom from fatigue
sleeping problems prostate issues uh dry
skin dizziness ringing the ears and I
will show you all the potential causes
and then what to do about it so this is
linking the cause and effect
relationship to all these symptoms that
took me a long time to create and I hope
you like this bonus right here this
alone is worth this entire program right
here so you get to have access to that
as long as you're on the site too it's
very cool as a reference you can look up
your specific thing and it's very easy
to use and then we have live Q&A
webinars every month where you can have
questions and then we have access you
have access to me personally if you have
a question so um just don't abuse that
because some people are writing a book
and they have questions okay just
constantly um and Page after page after
question so this is meant as a an
occasional quick one question that's not
in here a lot of the questions people
ask are in the in the program so don't
abuse that um so this just is going to
allow you to take it to the next level
so what I want to do next is to apply
all the information that I taught
you and also check out the membership
site I put a link below and I hope to
see you on the inside thanks for
watching
