hi um this is me again and today we're
actually at my house and uh we're just
about to go to the Glenn Harris show
which is uh the Sports Talk and so we're
going to show him how to make a cal
shake that will be delicious and then
you can learn how to do that as well and
also we're going to talk about synthetic
vitamins um I don't know if you know
this but 99% of all vitamins are made
from petroleum they're not made from
actual food even the ones that say
they're natural only have to be 10%
natural ingredients so we're going to
communicate about nutrients and
nutrition I think you're going to enjoy
this so um so enjoy we have my wife my
wife Karen in the in the back
seat and uh she's going to be helping
this out she's going to be PR Shake
honey did you bring this shake did you
bring all the ingredients I thought you
were going to bring it oh my gosh well
we happen to have all the materials I
brought them and we're going to
prepare a really cool recipe for Glenn
Harris now Glenn Harris
typically he says his diet's really good
but he does eat some junk but he
compensates by eating taking a lot of
vitamins but we made sure that it's
Whole Food
vitamins however we're going to give him
something that he can make and you can
make anytime you want it's a cal Shake
made with banana and water very simple
but it's a good way to get kale consumed
in your
body kale is one of the highest nutrient
type foods that you can get in fact one
cup of kale would equal like about 10
cups of regular salad because it has
lots and lots of vitamin A K C and uh
calcium you know when I was in college I
would uh I would drive from Wisconsin
kosha Wisconsin to Iowa and I would
typically get speeding tickets and what
I would do is I always deny it I would
say you know I'm not
speeding you know and I would try to
fight the police officer and I always
got a ticket until
recently um which by the way I don't
speak but occasionally I I might kind of
be a heavy heavy uh heavy handed on the
uh
accelerator and um so I got pulled over
and this time what I did was I just
totally said hey you know was speeding I
deserve a ticket here's my
license I shouldn't have done it and the
cop just said wow okay we're not we're
just going to give you warning now so my
tip if you ever get caught speeding
which I don't recommend always don't
ever deny it just acknowledge what you
did and uh be willing to accept a ticket
and you won't usually get a ticket
that's your legal counsel for the day
that's my legal counsel for the day
that's fabulous I'm sure that you will
appreciate not only your nutritional
advice with your legal counsel see I can
give nutritional advice and legal
counsel all the time legal advice at the
same time back from Eric and Karen burr
from the health and wellness center in
Alexandria and all the studying that
Eric does and stuff he's married with a
family okay he doesn't study all the
time you sitting around not watching TV
they're telling him what on TV all right
um Mrs Berg would you reach over there
please and get that green mess that I
got to drink in a
second all right folks here we are I'll
be 62 years old next month okay I'm
hanging in there man I'm telling you my
knees are beat up and everything cuz I
play a little ball but here we go okay
all my boys out there this is what you
should have been
drinking That's my
boy see Ian all right you can do
it
buy enzymes mean what doc enzymes are
things that are um that help you break
down food and they're necessary to keep
your body healthy they speed up
reactions in your body this stuff is
called kale this stuff has more
nutrition for square little millim than
pretty much any vegetable it's a
cruciferous type but it has like vitamin
A one cup of this is
30,000 international units what about
the you know the berries that they were
talking about on television the AC AI
berries y Beres saying it
right Beres there's a real big thing now
with the antioxidants and there's no
doubt that it has antioxidants but it's
not part of the essential nutrients that
you need they they they're not talking
about the food they're talking about
some Berry that's going to supposedly
increase your health there's no doubt it
might increase it for about this much
but what's missing is your diet you're
not looking at having enough of the good
things in the
diet if you have a hard time doing a
program the first step to do is forget
taking anything out of the diet just put
the good stuff in for about 2 weeks so
in other words before you eat anything
you eat the good stuff and then if
you're still hungry then maybe have the
bad stuff but your Cravings will go away
as you increase the nutrition in your
body making it easier to complete it and
stick to it long term right that's going
to do it for this Sports Talk thanks for
joining us for Eric and Karen uh and the
entire Channel a I'll see youall
tomorrow I'm Glen Harris we go in
friendship cuz that's what it's all
about and eat eat
good eat
organic okay my brother my good friend
take care see you people you don't want
a diabetic episode I said if it's bad
you will if you've ever been tired in
your life add triple tired to that you
wake up tired what I've been doing is
for a long long long long time so um and
you you know you people say well how do
you know you don't get sick you mean
you're not sick all the time you don't
have your body full of acid all the time
you alkaline your body you don't get all
you know so people see me in the streets
man you know all that stuff I not really
I don't know all that I just know what I
do and I know Basics you know I want to
know something I call I tell people all
the time you do not die for nothing
die because you're sick oh no he was in
good health no he wasn't something was
wrong he may not have known it right but
you don't die for nothing I just
disciplin myself to the point where I
haven't had a candy bar and I love candy
bar and I keep telling people the way
you break the Habit is to say you love
it but you don't want
it for the Berg Health show I'm Glenn
Harris see you next
time um I think we did good I think uh
good show and I think uh um got some
good questions uh so I hope you uh
learned how to make that kale shake and
um you should try it it's really good
it's very easy we're going to start a
membership uh program very soon stay
tuned and you we're going to make all
sorts of really creative healthy foods
that don't take a lot of time and keep
things interesting cuz I know some of
you are on the um liver enhancement and
you possibly might get a little bored
with those Foods I know it's hard to
believe but this will make it very
interesting so you can continue it and
stick to it so I will see you next time
next week so stay
tuned
