so someone had a question about what is
colostrum can I do a video on it well
here you go so what is colostrum it's
the first form of milk from mammals
including humans okay so I look at
colostrum as super food for your immune
system especially in a growing infant
okay now what I'm going to talk about is
using this as a supplement okay for
various conditions all right what would
I recommend it for well any type of
inflammatory condition especially of the
GI system if you're an athlete and you
want to improve your performance and
recovery it's a good thing to take and
number three chronic steroid use let's
say for example you had some type of
arthritis or skin condition where you
needed a lot of steroids over a period
of time and now those steroids don't
work anymore
what are you gonna do and your immune
system is shot colostrum it can actually
repair that or let's say for example you
took a lot of antibiotics and now you
have antibiotic resistance and you're
trying different things so yes you need
to take different probiotics but to help
the gut heal colostrum can help you I
also recommend it for any type of
mysterious GI symptom whether it's some
type of bloating or pain in your gut or
you have fibromyalgia or you have
chronic fatigue syndrome also it's great
for allergies and even asthma so as far
as the amounts let's talk about that
because it reacts with your immune
system so if you take too much you
potentially could have a reaction so I
would recommend taking about 1/4 of a
teaspoon in some water right before that
take a small amount and take that over a
period of time maybe a week or so until
your body gets used to it and you can
start to increase it to the point where
you're out one teaspoon in a day it
comes in a powder I would also recommend
getting a grass-fed colostrum okay is it
expensive
yes but it's higher quality and it seems
to work a lot better alright guys so
there you have it my summary on
colostrum
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
