so the big question is how can you
dissolve those little crystals of
calcium carbonate in the inner ear to
get rid of vertigo that is a topic for
today and I'm going to explain this
without using any medical tacnical terms
to make it really simple the big problem
with vertigo is yes you're going to feel
like you're spinning but you can also
have this uh nauseous feeling feeling
sick so it can be very devastating a lot
of people have this condition and they
go to the doctor and they might do
surgery they might do exercises which
are great but then the question is how
do you get rid of these crystals so they
don't come back and mainly what's
causing this vertigo in most cases is
this little calcium crystal in the wrong
part of the ear they're floating around
and they're going to interrupt the
communication between the hairs the
nerves that go into the ear into your
brain and this is going to affect your
balance your ability to feel like you're
stable in face and so what is going on
here it is totally normal to have these
crystals in the ear but they should
normally exist in another part of the
ear and this is what I want to explain
so in this first compartment of of the
inner ear you have these calcium
crystals on top of a membrane which is
basically a layer of gel and under that
you have these little tiny hairs that
are then connected to nerves that go to
your brain and so what is the purpose of
these little weights they're like little
paper weights
well the purpose is to add Mass to the
gel and by adding mass or weight to this
gel you're going to get more sensitivity
to the hairs and that sensitivity is
going to relate to gravity in position
of the hairs and so your body has
perfectly designed this uh interesting
structure where you have this kind of
gel with a kind of a paper weight on top
to allow a mechanism to easily know
where you are in space and you have
about roughly about a thousand of these
crystals per ear but what's not normal
is when they kind of get
dislodged and go further down the canal
into another part of the ear where
they're going to create problems so
these calcium crystals are floating
through this lymph fluid and in a normal
healthy person that lymph has a very low
concentration of calcium and normally
you should be able to reabsorb that
calcium within 20 hours however there
are reason reasons why this calcium
might not dissolve very fast and that's
what I want to talk about now now number
one you could have head trauma that can
jar some of these little paper weights
into the wrong part of the ear you can
have an infection that does it there are
also certain medications that can also
cause this problem and then you have age
just getting older can cause this
problem because as you age you start
losing these calcium crystals and end up
in the middle ear however I found some
additional information that will pretty
much solve every single one of these
conditions now they've done testing on
this and they found some interesting
correlations between people that have
vertigo those people have higher
concentrations of calcium in the lymph
so if you have higher concentrations
you're not going to dissolve it nearly
as fast if at all and there's some
additional associations that I want to
mention one big one is this higher
association between people with
osteoporosis
and vertigo now what is up with that
well we have one topic calcium when
people have
osteoporosis they have a lot of buildup
in calcium in the soft tissues and
people with vertigo also have a higher
concentration of calcium in the lymph so
what is the key nutrient that you need
to take to reestablish this calcium that
nutrient is vitamin D think about What
vitamin D does in your small intestine
it helps you absorb calcium by a factor
of 20 TX and then I also found that
people that have vertigo uh have a
tendency to have low vitamin D levels in
fact most of the population has low
vitamin D levels especially as we age so
this is what I'm going to recommend
minimally 10,000 I use but I would
recommend 20,000 I use of vitamin D for
this problem now I would also recommend
always taking vitamin K2 with vitamin D3
but also I highly recommend making sure
you always always take vitamin D with
magnesium because vitamin D won't work
without magnesium and magnesium also
naturally counters calcium buildup but
in the meantime you probably need to do
these exercises to push the calcium from
the canals into another part of the ear
to prevent your vertigo and for that
information watch this video right here
