you know I have a video on
inactivity and how that is an actual
cause of all sorts of diseases but today
we're going to talk about exercise in a
very unique way all it takes is just a
little bit of exercise to produce
significant health benefits and I'm
talking about lowering your risk for
certain diseases and increasing your
longevity living longer it doesn't take
much exercise so hopefully this video
will inspire you to start exercising
doing some type of physical activity on
a regular basis because exercise is the
most potent natural medicine for living
longer and countering diseases and I'm
going to recommend over time that you
really work on
establishing a fitness Reserve which
correlates to a health Reserve that
extra bit of Health buffer to counter
these stresses that come in on our body
and affect us in a negative way the more
Fitness you have in your reserve it's
like an abundance of Fitness all sorts
of great things can happen you become
more flexible with your metabolism your
eating plan as well and not have as much
damage in other words you raised up your
level of Health to a certain degree
where you can get away with more stuff
versus other people don't have that
luxury and unfortunately those are the
people that tend to go off the program
more often so if you think about it even
if you're a smoker even if you have
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or
diabetes or you're overweight or have
high blood pressure if you're exercising
on a regular basis those things are not
nearly going to have a negative effect
on your body if you have this Fitness
Reserve so check this out walking only 2
to 2.5 hours per week not per day per
week can give you a 20 lower mortality
rate another study talked about
exercising 11 minutes a day giving you
10 percent lower mortality rate here's
another one called vigorous intermittent
lifestyle physical exercise just by
doing three to four short bouts of
intense exercise like roughly about a
minute each can give you a forty percent
lowered mortality rate now if you were
to Beef It Up to 11 bouts of this short
intense workouts like a minute each
spread out through the day it was
calculated lowering your risk for
cardiovascular disease by 65 percent and
a decreased risk in cancer by 49 so this
is pretty cool because it's just short
little bursts of exercise so you know
let's say for example you're in the
basement of your house and you just use
the stairs to run up and down the stairs
a minute right and then you go to your
office and do your whatever you're going
to do and then you come back and do it
again and do it again it can be any type
of high intensity exercise it could be
just taking a break and doing some
burpees or doing some push-ups or
sprinting up a hill it's pretty easy
anyone can do a minute workout and you
just do it repetitively another study
showed 10 to 59 minute workout every
week
okay just once a week can decrease your
mortality by 18 percent so over and over
and over they've shown that it doesn't
take much exercise to help you with your
health when you're exercising you're
doing a lot of interesting things to the
inside of your body especially your
mitochondria the energy Factory of your
body you're increasing the size and
numbers of your mitochondria which
happen to be behind most diseases most
diseases are related to problems with
your mitochondria including cancer so
anytime you can strengthen your
mitochondria you can counter these
diseases the other thing that I'm going
to recommend is if you have the option
of going for a walk after you eat
if you've eaten carbohydrates in that
meal you have a chance to burn off those
sugars and then they don't affect you
and this is one of the ways that
athletes uh can get away with eating
more carbs the amount of exercise that
Fitness Reserve really protects your
body big time and developing more
Fitness also improves your insulin
sensitivity so if you had insulin
resistance at one time developing more
of a fitness Reserve can greatly help
your blood sugars and allow you to get
to a place where your insulin now
finally works if you're struggling with
like the dawn phenomena where you wake
up with your blood sugars higher well
one way to cover that is just to build
up your Fitness reserve one thing I
think that's really important is to find
some type of Fitness activity that you
really enjoy that you're going to do
that you're not going to procrastinate
for example with me I really enjoy
climbing rope but if 58 years old and I
weighed like a hundred and like 88
pounds and I broke my left shoulder I
just can't quite do what I used to do
with rope on me but I love it it's a
great workout so I got something called
the Relentless rope trainer where I can
mimic climbing rope and do a great
workout I'll do like a hundred rope
climbs in a row and I'm good for an
entire workout it's I mean it only took
me like maybe four maybe five minutes
and it's a great workout it works the
entire upper body the core and
cardiovascular at the same time and I
used that several times a week another
thing that I'm using right now for
flexibility training is not necessarily
high intensity but it's for stretching
it's called the mobility stick it really
helps to mobilize and add stretching of
the upper and lower extremity which can
greatly enhance sleeping stiffness and
stress especially if you sit behind a
desk most of the day so I do a lot of
research behind the computer all day so
that really comes in handy so the the
point is you want to break up your day
by scheduled little burst of exercise
and I would recommend even setting the
timer to do that so several times a day
if you can work yourself up to like 11
that would be the ideal situation but
you know just several times a day is
definitely good the other point I want
to make is that our bodies are
constantly exposed to stress and
exercise keeps the stress off our body
one very unique tool that I use heart
rate variability technology which I may
have some information Down Below in the
description and this device could be
used to help you figure out where you
are on your Fitness level when you
should exercise how long you should
exercise when you shouldn't exercise
because it's all about measuring your
stress and Recovery cycles and exercise
is a controlled stress that you can add
into the mix and it'll help you
determine the intensity of exercise the
volume of exercise and your recovery of
exercise and HIV by itself is an
independent predictor of mortality from
heart attacks now another thing that you
can kind of add to this exercise
is a sauna if you have access to a sauna
if you have a sauna if you can go
somewhere to sit in a sauna and you do
that four times a week that can add a
significant benefit if you can also add
intermittent fasting huge benefits for
increasing your longevity another thing
that I personally like to do is get out
in nature go for hikes I do that on a
regular basis if I would have known back
then what I know now I would have kept
up this exercise and been very very
consistent I would have been even
healthier if you have not seen my video
on how inactivity can be the cause of
certain diseases check it out I put it
up right here
