I'm back for another short video this
time on aloe vera I had a question about
it my opinion on it so let's just talk
about it
so aloe is very nutrient dense it has a
lot of minerals vitamins and
phytonutrients it's primarily good for
two things one sunburn or acne okay so
it's good for the skin also it can help
us rias's and the scalp and digestion
specifically things like acid reflux or
GERD ulcers and inflammation as in
Crohn's IBS silly ACK things like that
and it's also really good for
constipation because it can act as a
laxative you just want to make sure if
you're getting a low that you don't get
the version with a lot of preservatives
and chemicals you want to get it as
natural and as concentrated as possible
it also has antibacterial effects it's
good for your blood sugars good for the
hair it's good for the immune system and
it has antifungal properties but here's
the thing anytime you take any remedy I
don't care what it is you're treating
this symptom you're not really getting
rid of the cause so when you do research
on LL it's mixed all over the place
why because of the big variable on
someone's diet if your diet sucks
because it's filled with garbage this
remedy will not work and this is really
the basic problem of Medicine it focuses
on symptoms not underlying causes now I
can see if you get sunburned right this
will work great on your skin because
sunburn is not a dietary deficiency of
something but just as a side note if you
do have a burn one really good remedy is
vitamin D now normally you get vitamin D
from the Sun but you don't want to get
any more Sun if you're burned but if you
take vitamin D actually clears up
sunburn pretty quick that's just a side
down but I would recommend aloe vera and
a lot of other remedies only after you
fixed your diet okay because chances are
you probably won't even need this once
you fix the diet but I think people in
general especially in the medical field
do not connect the dots between
all these symptoms that they're having
and getting the diet corrected if you're
new to my channel and you don't know
about keto and in a minute fasting I put
a link down below thanks for watching
hey if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
