hey guys today we're gonna talk about
something kind of disgusting someone
wanted to know why do I have sticky
tari black stool on keto okay so for
those of you that have this let's kind
of go into why you might have this it's
basically unabsorbed fat when you are
transitioning from running on sugar for
many many years and then you're going to
actually burn fat and you're going to
consume more fat it's going to take some
time to make this transition or this
adaptation you have to make new enzymes
you have to make more bile your whole
body has to adjust to it in that
transition phase which is just temporary
you may end up with some fatty stool too
much fat in the stool so still my float
might be greasy it might leave skid
marks on the toilet and that condition
is actually called steatorrhea which
you're overloading the colon with more
fat than it can actually handle now
there are other causes to this but if
you're just starting keto and this
starts happening the most likely reason
is because you're in the transition
phase and you're kind of overloading the
colon with too much fat at this point
because your body hasn't adapted to it
here are some other reasons and I reason
I want to bring this up is that if you
make the changes that I'm going to
suggest and it doesn't solve this
problem and it goes on for a period of
time get with your doctor and check
because there could be an ulcer possibly
or a hemorrhoid pancreatic disease you
could have exocrine gland insufficiency
which basically you're not producing the
sufficient enzyme that the pancreas is
supposed to and then you can't break
down certain food particles it could be
I ain't too many iron pills side-effect
from some medication and the list goes
on and on and on so when you overload
the colon with more fat than it can
handle you're getting an incomplete
digestion of fat and you can at the same
time how deficiency is a vitamin A like
your vision at night vitamin D vitamin E
vitamin K omega-3 because of course
these are fat soluble nutrients okay
so if we take a look at right here we
have the stomach it has a certain amount
of acid your body is designed to have a
certain concentration of this
hydrochloric acid and if you have the
right amount of acid then you'll be able
to trigger the bile release from the
liver and then the gallbladder will have
enough bile in a certain concentration
to release at a meal so there's a lot of
problems that can happen with this right
here and one can be you don't have
enough acid in which case you know I
recommend betaine how to chloride or
outside a vinegar to start to build up
your stomach acid but realize that your
body actually can adapt to this new diet
over a period of time and actually start
making more acid just because it needs
more acid not just to break down protein
but also has a function of releasing the
bile now what does the bile do it's kind
of like the detergent that breaks down
the grease but it's not breaking down
the fat to the smallest particle that
the body can use it just breaks it down
to a certain level it needs help from
the pancreas so the pancreas makes this
thing called lipase which is an enzyme
that breaks down lipids and this enzyme
takes what the bile did to a certain
level and breaks it down to the smallest
level so the body could start using it
so there could be potentially a problem
with the pancreas there could be a
problem with the gallbladder there could
be a problem with the stomach there can
even be a problem with your friendly
bacteria not having enough because the
friendly bacteria helps recycle the bile
you recycle like over 90% of your bile
so in finding the cause it could be a
problem with this this this or even the
lower digestive system but the biggest
suggestion I'm going to give right now
is simply to give it more time so your
body can adapt and possibly cut down
some of the fats the other situation
that this might occur is when you go to
Rome at one meal a day so here you are
doing three meals and then two meals and
then you go down to one meal a day were
you doing this math especially in the
beginning you doing this massive meal
because you're thinking oh my gosh I'm
not going to eat for 23 hours I better
really
a lot and you overload the system with
just too much food too much fat and then
you have this right here that could be
another situation in which case again
give it more time let your body adapt
and you can also support your system
with various things like outside a
vinegar like betaine hydrochloride which
is an acidifier like purified bile salts
do I put a link down below for more
information about that but purified bile
salts will help you break down the fat
and you have to take this after you eat
not before and you take the acid before
the meal so you drink it up cider
vinegar or take them in tablets before
the meal and then after the meal you can
even take digestive enzymes okay so
that's another thing that you can do
just to assist this whole process you
can even take a friendly bacteria to
also help you in this process all right
so basically what I wanted to do with
this video is just to increase your
awareness and what's happening you don't
to freak out
it happens with quite a few people it's
temporary and just give it some time and
definitely support your system in the
process thanks for watching hey guys I'm
not sure if you have my app yet dr. Berg
app it's totally free you should
download it okay this is what it looks
like you click it it gives you all sorts
of great resources I have all my YouTube
videos on this out okay and it's
regularly uploading the most recent ones
all the YouTube videos are also
converted to audio versions okay so you
can use it when you're walking
exercising driving your car I have a
mini course on there I'll be putting
additional courses I have a lot of
recipes on there this is new and also
PDF resources so there's various
downloads PDFs that you can get as well
and if you wouldn't mind after you
download it check it out
give me your unbiased review and tell me
how you like it
I want to know
