hey today we're going to talk about
hyper what's the difference between
hyper thyroidism and hypo well I'm going
to talk about hyper hypo any gland in
the body I want to give you some
principles on that hyper means too much
excess and hypo means a deficiency or
not enough of something so if relating
it to the thyroid for example um let's
just take a look at um how this works
you have a gland that originates or
communicates a hormone hormones are
Communications so the gland makes the
hormone it produces and receives the
hormone going back because these
hormones are on a um kind of an onoff
feedback loop and so they come back and
they influence over here and they call
that uh negative and positive feedback
so if I were to talk to you right now
and you were to receive that message
through your ear into your brain and
then give me some acknowledgement that
would be the feedback talking about so
then I would feel I would be heard and I
wouldn't need to continue talking
anymore so a good example is just with
your kids if they're listening to you
and they comply with doing the dishes
then you don't need to say anything else
right so but if that thing is ignored oh
my goodness then that gland will start
working hyper mode and start producing
more and more and more communication so
in some cases what causes a hyp
is the failing of the return
communication to turn that thing off
because the off switch is not is broken
okay so that's one thing and um so
that's one thing and then the other
thing is that the
environment your glands are very
sensitive to your environment and stress
and whatever you're experienc in your
environment stress can definitely cause
a hyper mode uh especially in the
adrenal gland the stress gland on top of
the kidney if you're always stressed out
that adrenal is going to pump a lot of
adrenaline and cortisol out and you
start getting weight you you can't sleep
and you start breaking down you start
getting older all these wonderful things
right so I had this lady who um had this
problem and she went on a very very long
trip overseas in a part of the country
that is uh on some country that's very
very laidback and chilled out all of her
adrenal symptoms just cleared up like
that all of her endocrine symptoms that
she had from a hyper State just
completely went away and she started
losing weight and she was not actually
cutting calories and she was eating
worse actually eating more fat and more
calories and things and even sweets so
she comes back eats less eats better and
then falls apart again so I know for a
fact that stress can majorly influence
your glands your gland health health and
they usually kind of what they'll do
they'll initially make it hyper and then
you burn out and then it becomes a hypo
so hypos can come from a long-term
burnout of pushing pushing pushing
pushing accumulating stress getting old
and then just kind of going
downhill but also your foods can
influence this as well and especially
with the gland called the pancreas when
you eat sugar that pancreas responds by
pumping out insulin to lower the sugar
and blood so if you're doing
this too much and I love I love how
people say well I'm just eating normal
amounts of sugar wait a second what is
normal amounts of sugar the average
person has 145 pounds of sugar a year
like even a a cup of so juice for
example has like what 13 teaspoons
that's like way way way way too much and
that's enough to really jack up and
Hyper that pancreas to the point of
creating a a trauma every time you eat
something like that and then eventually
becomes a hypo and you get diabetes type
1 where you don't produce the insulin
anymore and then you're uh you're pretty
much screwed so diet can influence the
gland stress and one more thing it's
called endocrine disruptors and um those
are the chemicals in the environment
that's that's the food the chemicals in
the food the hormones in the food the
animal products the genetically modified
foods the pesticides in the foods all
that greatly influences the gland
because it acts like estrogen that's why
they call it um not just endocrine
disruptors but estrogen disruptors as
well so an endocrine disruptors anything
that mimics estrogen so we're going to
just shut that thing down and we're
going to create um little cyst and
nodules so if people have like nodules
in their thyroid or a cyst in their
thyroid or a growth or fibrocystic
breast or or Cy on the ovaries what that
comes from is environmental estrogen
mimickers and so in that case they need
to clean that up clean up the diet and
start consuming foods that are
anti-estrogenic like the cruciferous
vegetables um and one thing about those
cyst as a remedy calp is a really good
uh thing for nodules um especially of
the breast and the ovaries the ovary and
breast respond very very good to seek
help
FYI that's like seaweed um so those are
the three things that highly influence
whether someone's hyper or hypo hyper is
more of an endocrine disruptor situation
unless it's the pancreas and then it's
sugar well unless it's the adrenal and
then it's
stress but the point is that any one of
these can either make you hyper or hypo
and you just have
to do this one last technique to figure
it out ask yourself
when did you start noticing signs of
hyper or hypo and then what occurred
just before that and you're going to
find you're going to get a clue is a
diet change a stress change or an
exposure to some endocrine disruptor
hope that helped I'll see you in the
next
video
