hi guys I wanted to do a quick video on
high levels of blood urea nitrogen when
you do the ketogenic diet okay where
does that mean and what do you do about
it
okay blood urea nitrogen fun is
basically the protein waste coming from
the liver protein normally breaks into
something called urea alright so if
there's too much of this be UN and the
kidney it could mean that there's
several things going on we're going to
talk about all the potential issues it
could mean yeah kidney damage but it
could also mean that your liver is
damaged or you're consuming too much
protein or you have excessive exercise
and it's too much for your recovery
because you're breaking down so much
muscle protein and it's going into the
liver and the kidney and it's showing up
as high levels of bun okay so too much
exercise without enough recovery could
do it low far right but most the time
it's because the person is not consuming
enough vegetables which puts strain on
the kidney or the liver and help you
flush out this waste
so here's simply what I want you to do
and then go get another test start
beefing up your vegetables make sure
it's between 7 to 10 cups of raw
vegetables okay huge salads you can also
throw in some raw green juice powder
which actually will help you it's more
concentrated and dandelion greens are
really good for the kidney and the liver
in your salad so in summary these are
the potential causes of high levels of
bun go ahead and make some changes and
see if it improves hey tell me what you
think about this video go ahead and
comment below and give me your feedback
