the more I look at Health the more that
you cannot create Health without stress
and some bit of
distruction you've heard the concept no
pain no gain or what doesn't kill you
will make you stronger I mean what's up
with that so today I'm going to do a
little bit of a deep dive into this term
hormesis now what is this term hormesis
what does that mean it's a term to
describe two things that might oppose
each other in outcome and I'm going to
give you a lot of examples but you know
I think we all know that um when we
exercise we're creating destruction in
ourselves and then the outcome of that
is something that's stronger it's
healthier it's more fit so hormesis is
really about a controlled dose of stress
and deep inside ourselves we have this
very interesting uh adaptation mechanism
and the system that actually is
controlling this is part endocrine
system and part autonomic nervous system
so both of these work together to to
help your body adapt to becoming
stronger and the key word is adaptation
and you probably heard of the concept of
um survival of the
fittest it should be called survival of
those who can adapt the best so with
hormesis you can adapt from various
stresses radiation exercise stress cold
stress heat stress like SAA things like
that also reducing your oxygen and
increasing your CO2 can create a hormone
IC effect and even various plant
chemicals a lot of different
insecticides pesticides and even
fungicides of course they're in very
very low doses because they're meant to
kill these small little insects but when
we consume them we're creating a
hormetic effect so let's just take for
example sulfurane like in broccoli
Sprouts or radish
Sprouts what it does is it triggers
certain proteins certain chemical
Pathways one protein that it triggers is
called a heat shock protein that
activates certain things that allow us
to strengthen our
detoxification enzymes so here we are
exposed to a small dose of a poison that
strengthens our own ability to get rid
of poisons in our liver we have these
enzyme systems called Phase 1 Phase 2
detoxification where we can take a
poison and turn into a harmless particle
well guess what triggers that system the
sulfurane this poison you're causing all
these different enzymes and proteins to
then rebuild and repair and so the
rebuilding and repair mechanism won't
occur until you trigger it so in other
words exercise
induces
microinflammation that then allows our
bodies to get rid of inflammation and
then we get into this wild concept of
starving our bodies right we call that
fasting and all of a sudden all of these
amazing things occur our brain cells
start growing more our mitochondria
starts increasing in number our immune
system gets regenerated from new stem
cells deep in our genes from years of
adaptation the different mechanisms that
were strengthened and created to counter
starvation so we could survive because
when you think about it starvation can
kill you if you go on too long but short
term it's amazing same thing with
exercise right you can overtrained to
the point where you're completely dead
right but just a little bit of exercise
is really good same thing with cold
therapy right I mean think about it it's
only so much time you're going to be
able to spend in this uh you know 35
degree temperature before you're going
to have problems each person has their
own individual tolerance for certain
stress that they can take uh to be able
to do this we cannot create Health just
by being sedentary all the time and
doing nothing now there's some other
interesting counterintuitive things
about Health too and this is not a
hormesis thing but it's just very
contra-intuitive right because we used
to think that if we cut the amount of
fat that we eat then we will lose our
fat well we found that that didn't work
because people tend to change the type
of calories to more carbs right and then
that converts to Fat then we have
another concept of the more sugar that
you eat the less sugar you will
eventually absorb why because your body
develops this adaptation this resistance
against it it's called insulin
resistance it's like a protective
mechanism our blood only really has
about a tpoon of sugar in it to be
normal average person consumes a lot of
sugar so we're dumping all the sugar and
this is not normal so our body protects
itself with insulin resistance to the
point where now you can't really absorb
sugar that well and it creates problems
because now the brain cells for example
can't get fuel and then you have all
sorts of issues another counter intu
intive situation is becoming more
sterile the more that we clean our
bacteria and get rid of bacteria and
sterilize ourselves especially when
you're growing up as like babies or
small children the more you set yourself
up for getting sick the more allergies
you get kids that live on farms have
very strong immune systems kids that are
overly clean get sick a lot more often I
mean you can't create a strong immune
system if you never get sick the action
of getting sick exercises your immune
system and creates your defenses I mean
the same thing goes when you take an
antibiotic right you're destroying
getting rid of all this bacteria and
what do you end up with an overgrowth of
pathogens you have stronger pathogens
that are now resistant against that
antibiotic so it comes with a package
and then you have um like when you take
ant acids right and then you end up with
more heartburn how can that be well just
understanding the mechanism what causes
heartburn is this acid that is
regurgitating up through the valve it's
called an acid reflux right it takes an
acid to get rid of the acid when you
take apple cider vinegar or Bane hydroc
chloride you're gon to find your acid
reflex goes away why because the true
cause is a lack of acid not too much
acid when you don't have enough acid in
your stomach the valve doesn't close
here's another one this is interesting
when you don't expose yourself to the
sun you put yourself more at risk for
getting certain types of cancer now wait
a second we've all been told that the
Sun causes cancer right well maybe not
the sun gives this vitamin D a vitamin D
deficiency really can set you up for
cancer because it lowers the immune
system we need the vitamin D desperately
for every single part of our immune
system here's another one that's
interesting the more dieting that you do
in your lifetime the more weight you're
going to gain and that's really a truth
when you start to diet especially doing
it in correctly you start
to develop this extreme
efficiency with your metabolism to the
point where it becomes very very
efficient it can run on just a little
bit of fuel this why it's so hard to get
rid of the fat now to make your fat
cells more inefficient the term for that
is called mitochondrial uncoupling where
you're wasting a lot of energy and you
can do that with getting in the
ketogenic diet you can do that with
doing fasting you can do that with cold
therapy but an efficient metabolism is
Created from going on lots of diets so
the theme of this video is you cannot
create Health without some a bit of
stress and exercise would be a good
place to start so if you want to check
that video out I put up right
here
