hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about intermittent fasting and
hypoglycemia okay now I know there's
certain conditions of hypoglycemia where
uh you need to consume some glucose or
you're going to die because your blood
sugars are below 50 I'm not talking
about that situation I'm talking about
the situation where your blood sugar is
low let's say it's like 70 or it's or
it's even normal and you have the
symptoms of hypoglycemia which is kind
of called subclinical hypoglycemia where
you don't really fit the mold but you
definitely um have a lot of the symptoms
okay let's just cover the symptoms first
you
have eating food makes you feel better
okay headaches excessive hunger can't go
from one meal to the next without
feeling shaky or moody or fainting
fatigue
weak irritable nervous Li headedness
those are all symptoms of
hypoglycemia um you know this blows me
away like the the medical treatment for
this if you look it up basically they
tell you to consume 14 to 25 grams of
sugar okay that's kind of like uh
recommending or giving an alcoholic
who's on the rebound uh some alcohol
some tequila right that's the same order
of magnitude because you're basically
guy's going to feel good but then he's
going to get worse right the same thing
with this if you cannot fix
hypoglycemia with giving the person
sugar you're going to just keep them
going keep because about as soon as the
insulin spikes then this the sugar
crashes so what happens what causes
hypoglycemia is an overreaction of
insulin where the insulin goes too high
maybe you consumed a lot of sugar in one
meal you're going to create a real big
spike in that insulin and then the
sugars are going to come crashing down
okay there's other I mean there's other
causes too like let's say you're a
diabetic and you're taking insulin you
can create hypo glycemia because you
took too much or you're type two and
you're taking a a metformin which you're
taking too much and it ends up too low
if that's the situation if you are doing
a ketogenic diet or not doing a
ketogenic diet or you're doing
intermittent fasting and you end up
you're on medication you're a diabetic
and it ends up going low what that means
is you are taking too much you have to
back off that medication get with your
doctor because you don't want it to go
too low typically um a lot of times
doctors will ignore the fact and they'll
send you home with a little thing of
glucose pills where you can keep raising
it that worsens the situation you want
to kind of adjust it so you don't it
doesn't go too low so the need what the
goal over time is to decrease the need
for medication to keep your sugars
around normal so it's not too low not
too high just perfect so what causes
hypoglycemia is basically too much
insulin okay that's usually High insulin
that comes from sugars refined carbs
hidden sugars is breads pasta cereal
crackers biscuits waffles pancakes
muffins and then we got the juice we got
the alcohol hidden MSG all these other
things that's one cause number two is
low glycogen what does that mean your
body stores glucose as glycogen they're
a little bunch of glucose molecules
strung
together uh with potassium you need
potassium to store glycogen by the way
so in your liver for example in the
muscles when you store the sugar if you
don't have enough potassium you could
end up with a hypoglycemic reaction low
blood sugar because you're not holding
or you're not storing the sugar properly
or let's say for example you work out uh
intensely you do a marathon whatever and
you didn't cons eat anything you can end
up with low blood sugars because you
just tapped out all your glycogen
Reserve or let's say your liver is
damaged fatty liver curosis of the liver
hepatitis and you don't have the
capacity to store Sugar you might wake
up in the middle of the night just
completely low blood sugar sugar
headache starving whatnot okay and then
the other cause is insulin resistance
whereby your body has symptoms of low
insulin because it's resisting it yet
High insulin because the body if it
senses low it starts making more an
average person with insulin resistance
makes seven to 5 to seven times more
insulin than a normal person so again it
comes to high insulin so here you have a
situation where um it's sub clinical
doesn't test always on a blood test and
you have all these symptoms but it's
coming from an insulin problem and you
keep getting tested they say your blood
sugars are normal but you have all the
symptoms that was my
situation um of course I was eating
every 3
hours um and eat the wrong food so every
time you eat you spike insulin okay
every time you eat so that's again
that's what can create insulin
resistance is too frequent of an eating
schedule
six meals a day bad advice now if the
adrenals are burnt out if you have
adrenal fatigue and you don't have
enough
cortisol that can also affect uh the
sugar because cortisol turns protein and
turns things into sugar very quickly so
again if you don't have enough cortisol
you can end up with low blood sugars
just from that so there's different
causes okay now how do we correct that I
mean it's almost almost like how you
going to do intermittent fasting if
you're hypoglycemic you can't go for
many hours without feeling all these
symptoms so the first thing you have to
do is you have to give up sugar you have
to get rid of the sugar and refined
carbs okay number one that will greatly
help you if you consume protein by the
way that will also increase your blood
sugars and you'll feel a little better
from that um but you have to cut out the
sugar number one number two you don't go
to in minute fasting um right away you
have to do it it on a gradient slowly
okay so the first thing you do is if
you're at six meals a day go to 5 meals
a day okay then go to four meals a day
and then don't eat any sugar and then
three meals a day no snacking add more
fat at the meal to go longer make sure
your potassium is high a lot of
vegetables will also are necessary to
fix this okay and then you eventually go
uh when you wake up in the morning you
can go longer and longer before you
you're hungry okay that means it's all
healing up it's improving you're
becoming less
hypoglycemic to the point where now you
can get up in uh just like myself I
didn't eat until it was 12 okay 12:00 at
noon so basically the first meal 8 and
then I I won't eat until it's like 4:30
and then I'm done for the day but that
is in a minute fasting that will
actually correct
hypoglycemia now again if you start to
do this too fast you can end up with
symptoms if you're hyp if you're a true
hypoglycemic if you don't have blood
sugar problems you can do it faster but
the point is we need to do this to
correct this and we need to give up the
sugar all right thanks for watching you
I just wanted to take a moment out to
thank you for your amazing feedback that
you guys are giving me it's just
mind-blowing the successes the wins I
created a link down below so you can
actually type out your full success
story and if you have a before and after
with weight loss that would be awesome
and if you don't have a success with
weight but other things just put an
image of yourself and your personal
success story and I would love to read
it and also share it with others so I
want to just thank you in advance for
doing that but there's a link down below
fill it out and I can't wait to read it
