so in this video I want to discuss
something called c-diff okay that stands
for a microbe called Clostridium
difficile I want to discuss a remedy
that you may be interested in especially
if your antibiotic resistant okay it's a
very common infection a lot of people
get exposed to it when they work in a
hospital like you have nurses and
doctors and people that work in nursing
homes get it so here are the symptoms
severe diarrhea cramping abdominal pain
inflammation in your colon a lot of
times it occurs after you take an
antibiotic there's over 500,000
infections every single year 30,000
related deaths and 15,000 direct deaths
caused from this microbe so it's a very
nasty very dangerous microbe so the real
big goal is to restore your friendly
bacteria the thing that's actually going
to protect you because you're going to
be susceptible to getting its infection
once you lose your defenses so you
really want to find a really good
broad-spectrum probiotic and start
taking that but as an immediate thing
there's two remedies that I'm going to
recommend one is black seed oil and
number two is myrrh extract don't get
this one in an alcohol base get it in a
tablet form these two can potentially
act as a natural antibiotic without the
side effect so if you have the
combination of taking a friendly
bacteria and these two over time and
also of course working on your eating
especially in a minute fasting that's
going to be really important the
combination of those things will be very
beneficial to help you overcome this
microbe because the problem is every
time you take another antibiotic it
weakens your system and it increases
your chance of getting it again and
again alright thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
