so today we're going to talk about
oxidation okay a very exciting topic
originally this meant adding oxygen to a
compound and the loosening of an
electron okay when you lose an electron
from an atom you create a free radical
so these atoms have paired electrons as
an example you have this plate and
you're spinning it right on your finger
and it has two weights on it and you can
balance that plate as you spin it okay
but a free radical is when you remove an
electron and you have what's called an
unpaired electron so it just has one
weight on a plate and you're spinning
this thing well guess what it's gonna
fly off and break something well in the
body it's going to start damaging tissue
DNA etc so that's the problem with free
radicals okay and it could come from
adding an oxygen to some other compound
now the definition has expanded to the
creation of free radicals without the
oxygen another example would be biting
into an apple if you leave it exposed to
oxygen it's going to turn brown right
but if you add an antioxidant like lemon
it doesn't turn brown so what an
antioxidant does is it donates an
electron to make things more symmetrical
and stabilize this atom and antioxidants
always come in a group or a network in
the food this is why when an antioxidant
donates it becomes now unstable and it
needs to borrow from another antioxidant
and this is why you need a network of
antioxidants so let me give you some
examples of an oxidant the top oxidizer
is glucose okay so what's gonna happen
if you have high sugar in your blood
your body's going to metabolize that
it's gonna create a massive amount of
oxidation okay it's called Ross okay you
don't need to know the long term but you
just need to know this is oxidation on
steroids so you have all this oxidation
all this free radical damage from
consuming a lot of glucose now it's
interesting when you consume
antioxidants and a lot of different
nutrients act isn't an accident like
zinc
lynnium even though there are minerals
they're not like vitamin C for example
they act like an antioxidant then you
have vitamin E vitamin C even vitamin D
and even ketones can all act as an
antioxidant to reduce the complications
of diabetes for example and that's what
it's really doing it's minimizing the
damage control but glucose is at the top
of the list next one vegetable oils
highly unstable they're always cooked to
stabilize them but typically they're
omega-6 fatty acid that becomes very
unstable I'm gonna talk more about this
in a second and then we have iron think
about when you have like rust if you
combine oxygen with iron you get rust so
iron and very high amounts in your body
is very very dangerous because it's
going to create a lot of oxidation so a
deficiency of iron is very very
dangerous but an excess is also very
dangerous pollution and the environment
chemicals in the environment and just
having low antioxidants because you
don't like vegetables okay that can
actually create an imbalance so when you
have too much oxidation versus
antioxidants that's called oxidative
stress okay because it's not in balance
now let's come back to this vegetable
oil which is really not even vegetable
oil it's seed oil
mostly GMO we're talking about soy corn
cottonseed in canola these are the four
GMO vegetables that you see in the
grocery store in so many of your
products highly processed has trace
amounts of glyphosate which is an
herbicide and it can create this thing
called advanced lipid oxidation end
products so it creates more free
radicals it creates inflammation in the
body and it depletes the antioxidant so
it depletes you about it mancine on a
mini vitamin A and that's one of the big
problems when people go to restaurants
or they go to fast food restaurants
they're using these oils and they keep
reheating it over and over and over and
they might reuse this for a week or two
weeks and it all ends up as this dark
highly processed
highly oxidized grease in a grease pit
and there are certain companies that
come along and we'll take this
restaurant grease because you can't put
it into the sewage and they will take it
back to the plant and they will recycle
it okay and guess where they put it back
into animal feeds I printed this off one
of the websites and one of the companies
and this there's a couple little quotes
here that's quite interesting vegetable
oils are produced from the freshest
recycle raw material freshest really and
stabilized with ethoxy Quinn for maximum
shelf life now what is it that foxy
Quinn Heath AXI Quinn was developed by
take a well guess Monsanto in the 50s he
foxy Quinn was initially registered as a
pesticide then in 1965 reclassified as
an antioxidant interesting he foxy queen
is allowed in the fish industry in
Norway as a feed stabilizer
so is commonly used in food pellets fed
to farm salmon not well caught by the
way ethoxy Quinn is used in pellets to
feed chickens on chicken farms in 2017
the European Union suspended
authorization for use as a feed additive
of course in America we still use it
welcome to America the agency and I'm
talking about the agency in Europe found
one of its metabolites to be geno toxic
that means toxic to your genes in
mutagenic that means it can generate
mutations so this is just another reason
why to do keto healthily okay for you
for those of you that are new I put a
link down below but if you're going to a
restaurant realize you might be getting
some of these oils alright thanks if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
