hey guys today we're gonna answer the
question how much alcohol will influence
not just your weight loss but your
ability to stay in ketosis all right so
we have ethanol pure alcohol has seven
calories per gram now a carbohydrate is
only four calories per gram and that
will block your weight loss and that
will block your ketosis but this has
more calories but ethanol does not spike
your insulin directly and we know
insulin is affected by carbohydrates and
insulin blocks weight loss we also know
that ethanol is not stored in the body
like glucose as' so all the ethanol in
the body has to be removed from enzymes
made by your liver so if we're just
looking at this information you may
think that it doesn't affect your weight
loss because it's not gonna stimulate
insulin and your body's just gonna clean
it up and you'll be fine but here's the
problem
ethanol is highly oxidative which means
it creates a lot of stress in the liver
your body considers it a toxin and so
all that oxidative stress eventually
causes inflammation and eventually it
can lead to cirrhosis which is scar
tissue and a fatty liver okay and they
actually have a condition a fatty liver
condition which is caused by alcohol but
here's the big thing ethanol blocks fat
burning it takes priority over the
metabolism of fat so if there's alcohol
in your body your body is going to stop
burning the fat and it's gonna focus on
this danger situation and try to get rid
of it through the use of enzymes so all
your metabolism is gonna be focused on
getting rid of that alcohol not burning
fat so depending on how much alcohol you
drink it can literally block that
burning for a day two days even three or
four days most alcohol has added
carbohydrates most people don't just
drink pure ethanol
drink beer wine other types of alcohol
with with a lot of sugar in it now if
you research the recommendation for
drinking alcohol and all the benefits of
drinking alcohol our government will
tell you to drink two drinks per day if
you're a man and one drink a day if
you're a woman and they will tell you
that you will actually benefit the
cardiovascular system right now recently
there's been a new recommendation based
on another look at some of the studies
that are already out there and they
found that the benefits from alcohol
actually are not there in fact it will
increase your risk of death and this
happens so many times with so many
different products they constantly
switched the recommendations before the
trans fats were good now they're bad
before sugar was good now it's bad and
now they're telling us the alcohol is
bad well hundred to even become good in
the first place but if you're interested
in more information I put a link down
below but you probably already know what
I'm going to talk about and that is the
influence of the alcohol industry over
government research okay now when you
see government research okay realize
that it's not as independent as you
might think they usually partner with
someone who is helping funding the
research and they actually partner with
the actual industry that's related to
that research the whole point of this
video is just to let people know there's
no health benefits from ethanol so just
don't be surprised if you don't
experience the full benefits of ketosis
so if you're gonna drink don't do it
frequently don't be surprised if it
slows down your progress do things to
make up the damage I'll have a video on
that below you can check it out if we
compare the alcohol with the added carbs
I would consume alcohol without the
added carbs and you'd be much better
especially if you're not going to overdo
it alright guys thanks for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
