tell me when you ready roll okay so I'm
going to show you guys another technique
related to the shoulder okay so it's a
quick technique it's completely
different from my other videos so you've
had shoulder problems for a little bit
go ahead and raise the arm up and how
high can you go without it starting to
hurt
right here okay so you can do this to
either shoulder okay doesn't matter now
I in the past I've done videos on the
gallbladder
this one's gonna be different okay and
I'm gonna show you how to do it and I'm
gonna explain why it works so you're
gonna lay in your stomach yeah okay so
the problem is on her right shoulder
right so we're gonna work on the
opposite calf right through here and I'm
going to press right into the cap and
work all this up through here now it's
gonna be tender on the opposite side
right through here so I'm just going to
work on this I'd like to work on the
Achilles tendon right through here and
really just kind of massage this for
about I don't know two hours no just
kidding just about a minute or so okay
so we're gonna do that right through
here so you're gonna work on that okay
now sit back up okay so now go ahead and
raise the arm up now yeah better yeah
okay that's better how much better on
the scale from one to ten like okay so
it's like almost 100% yeah okay awesome
so now why does that work because when
you walk this shoulder follows that foot
okay unless you walk kind of funny so
you go back and forth the shoulder and
feet alternate and there's a connection
there between here and here those
communication lines are call the nerves
and so you can affect one part of that
nervous system and affect the other just
with acupressure so you can work on the
opposite calf for the shoulder go ahead
and try this guys if you have someone
with shoulder pain
and then put your comments below and
tell me how it works it's a great little
technique remember don't do them the
same side doing the opposite and do
before range motion and after and also
if it doesn't work 100% of time then it
could be your gallbladder and I put a
link down below of how to do that
alright thanks for watching
hey guys a quick survey question I want
to know what topic you would like me to
do a video on so each week I'm coming up
with different types of videos but I
would rather have you tell me what
you're interested in so I put a link
down below please fill it out
