[Music]
you
[Music]
hey guys so we have a special guest
today Frank - Fano is here and I'm
really happy to interview him he he's
done a lot of personal and also work
with the carnivore diet as well as
coaching other people so I wanted just
to talk to someone who's done it for a
while and kind of go through some
questions and I think a first thing I
want to say is like it's amazing that
you interviewed that vegan guy I don't
know how the heck that you got through
that because I was like just printing
the the guy is literally insane yeah you
know I'm always in the ballpark of you
know there's no such thing as bad
publicity
right and I went into that podcast
hoping and this was with vegan gains for
those of you who don't know but I went
into that hoping hey maybe I can get
some information across maybe I can
educate some people maybe I can help
some people out by going on this but it
ended up just being like he wanted to be
right you know how debates end up being
I'm surprised I had the patience to get
through it to be honest probably had to
go for a long walk after that because
the guy is just literally he's
everything that you said he just flipped
it and he he sent his whole intention is
to invalidate make nothing of destroy
and that's what is his mission is he's
like he's not trying to like educate
people on how to eat you know healthily
at all no that's that that was my
problem if I brought something up he
would say it's a lie and if he brought
something up that he was actually lying
about I wouldn't I would really give
credit to what he was telling me because
I was assuming the studies he was
linking he was interpreting them
correctly unfortunately when I looked at
them after a one example was he said
okay iron causes whatever was bowel
cancer and or it was iron caused
something it was something to do with
cholesterol and iron levels being linked
to cancer but what they actually did was
they took cholesterol out of the body
they spun it in a centrifuge with iron
sulfite and they saw that the
cholesterol oxidized so it was just the
methodology of the study was completely
incorrect the dosage of the iron sulfide
with the cholesterol was completely
incorrect just really misinterpreting
and lying about things and I mean that's
just what the way the world is man
whatever people see at face value
whatever they however they think is
right at the time being that's what a
lot of people are gonna understand but
yeah hey lesson learned what you can do
yeah I know I every time they do a video
on me an anti dr. Berg video everything
my my views go up my subscribers go up
and so they actually just flow attention
and I'm like they don't realize that
they're promoting my channel and I I
don't I don't ever watch them but it's
just ridiculous the nice thing is
regardless of what anyone next like
regardless of what anyone says
negatively about you as long as your
demeanor is nice and the way you convey
yourself is correct who cares yeah at
the end of the day you're always gonna
that's the way I looked at it you know
if people come to my channel and see my
videos regardless of how did the bay
wane regardless of how he framed it
people are gonna see me and their
opinions gonna change yeah they're gonna
observe the sanity there and like
they're gonna ignore the other guy not
to dwell too much on this part
I've had people you know send me things
like he like filmed his grandfather
having a heart attack he you know made a
video about furious Pete getting cancer
joking about it you know he's obviously
he has some very I mean there's some
psychopathic stuff he talked about like
hurting people animals and and there's
the funny thing that I can't get over is
uh he was eating grapes out of his
girlfriend's feet in one of the videos
of yet on his channel
it was completely ridiculous I was like
oh my god this guy a hundred percent no
I think he needs some more DHA and I
think he has blood sugar problems I mean
some b12 - oh yeah definitely just yeah
good case study on that so I wanted to
just dive right into a couple things you
know I always kind of like to start out
with just the basic definition of the
word food which comes from the
derivation nutrients which is we eat to
get fuel and nutrients and so pretty
much all of the things that I promote
and push out there's um if you can find
a diet that can provide your nutrients
and you can provide the right fuel I
think you're gonna be healthy and so one
of the advantages that I have is that
I've worked with a lot of people over 29
years in practice like just you know
until you work with
one-on-one with all these different
types of cases you you know you may or
may not get it right but we've gotten
great success with this with a healthy
version of the keto plan so that's what
I'm recommending however I think that
you know you you brought up some good
points in your videos and I want to just
talk to them but I I personally find
that when you go carnival you drop your
insulin down I mean you're going zero
zero carb and you're really dropping
inflammatory conditions across the board
so you're gonna get amazing results with
a lot of conditions especially
autoimmune and also gut issues and
digestive issues and probably allergies
and all sorts of things so I'm really in
favor of it there's a couple things that
I I want to bring up regarding the
vegetables in a little bit but I want to
first find out from your viewpoint
what's how do you handle the situation
of consuming too much protein I mean is
that an issue because like what like for
example Shaun Baker recommend I mean
like when one video he's get like what 3
or 4 pounds of meat you know so I think
first I have to say that you know about
6 years ago when I started this diet I
actually came across the carnivore diet
and it was called the zero carb diet at
the time and when I read information on
the zero carb diet I said well this
isn't when I follow because I advocate
towards nutrient density towards
maintaining a ketogenic metabolism I
advocate for keeping the caloric density
high while maintaining as low of a food
volume as possible obviously eating 4 to
5 pounds of ribeye a day does not do
that so when I saw this zero carb diet
six years ago I dismissed it and I just
came up with my own idea of like paleo
keto and after doing that diet for about
three and a half four years that's when
I started making YouTube videos but when
the carnivore diet became really popular
I said okay I have to kind of market
myself towards these people because I
didn't really have that great of a
viewer base and although I don't
consider my diet to technically be
carnivore because I have other
requirements their idea is just eat meat
all day drink water that's
mine is based around the nutrients
around the science around these things
so although my diet loosely fits under
what those people do there's a lot of
other things that separates it and to
touch on the four pound of protein a day
that's Ron Baker's doing you know I did
a video last week where I compared the
nutrient density of like ten common
foods you know we looked at meat we
looked at liver we looked at Easter's we
looked at salmon roe we compared the
nutrient content of these foods and
these foods like liver and oysters made
it looked like oh what's the point of
even eating muscle meat so someone like
Shaun Baker who's eating four pounds of
her by a day I mean is he getting
calories is he getting fat I have a
couple problems with that I mean I did
try that you know I'm a very objective
person a very open mind that I was like
okay maybe this guy does have something
I'm missing so I go to the store I buy
I've always been eating grass fed
high-quality pasture race stuff I spent
seven dollars a dozen on eggs at the
Union Square Green Market you know crazy
stuff 14 dollars a pound for raw butter
and I said all right let me go get these
grain fed steaks from the supermarket I
was so thirsty
I was so hungry I could not satiate my
appetite this 4 or 5 pound of meat thing
that a lot of people are doing on this
diet I don't think it works for a lot of
people and I don't think it's successful
for a variety of reasons not only does
protein and just muscle meat in general
lack a lot of the satiation aspects of
organ meats and nutrient-dense foods it
it doesn't necessarily always have good
macronutrient ratios and my one pet
peeve is he literally only eats ribeye
and if you look at the butcher yield of
an animal ribeye is like 3 percent of
the animal and how could you justify
consuming just ribeye steaks when in the
past if we were to consume an animal the
only fatty parts of the animal would
have been the kidney fat the suet the
trim fat the brisket the brain you know
there are very very specific parts of
the animal that we would have had to
have even to get the fat and ribeye is
like an unnatural source of that so the
original question was the concern about
high protein yeah like how do you is it
just a high protein diet or is it can
you
make it a moderate protein diet so the a
lot of the veteran zero car people there
are there's a family I believe that's
been on this diet for like 20 years and
all they eat a steak there's another guy
who only eats is pretty much a steak and
ground beef on this diet and the wisdom
of these zero carb veterans has
unfortunately created this almost
cult-like mentality that you're just
supposed to eat meat and drink water and
when they don't go into specifics like I
mean obviously chicken and pork have a
drastically different omega-3 ratio of
beef but if you do increase the nutrient
density of the diet and you do choose
the right foods the macronutrient ratios
should fall in line with you know 70 80
percent fats a 20 percent protein I mean
in some cases of people with a very high
lean body mass we might see some
variance there we might see 60 65 % fat
the rest protein but you know consuming
4 to 5 pounds of per by a day and
consuming incredibly high amounts of
protein is not how the diet should be
especially considered the main thing to
consider here is these people are
cooking their meat fairly thoroughly and
when you heat meat to well done like
ground beef you're degrading about 50
percent of the B vitamins you the fat
soluble vitamins you don't lose too many
unfortunately there's not a lot of fat
soluble vitamins and muscle meat so
that's not really a concern but one big
reason a lot of these people are eating
4 or 5 pounds of steak is partially
because they're not getting as many B
vitamins as they should because of the
cooking time and I mean this can be
alleviated by a food like liver because
liver might literally have ten times the
amount of vitamin b12 that muscle meat
has and even if you cook the liver
you're still retaining a large amount of
the vitamins but III think the main
principle of the diet should be eat fat
to satiation eat organ meats eat
nutrient-dense foods muscle meat should
be on the back burner so to speak it
should be the last thing you consume and
and most meals you have if you do
consume high quality fats if you do
consume organ meats and nutrient-dense
foods most of the time you won't even be
hungry for protein unfortunately you
know those elements of protein not being
too nutri
and not being too satiating a lot of
people fall into the trap of consuming
you know four to five pounds of meat a
day on this diet and they're saying I'm
hungry I can't say che my appetite some
people are even gaining weight and then
they go to the forums they ask for help
and advice they get is all your body
needs nutrition just eat more meat but
that doesn't make any sense because
muscle meat doesn't have nutrition in it
right so I think I've given you I mean a
little bit of information to work with
there so yeah I agree and I think that
if you're gonna do this diet I think
you're doing it right because not only
you're doing the organ meats and you're
doing fish eggs and things like that
but you're you're consuming a lot of
this almost raw or not overly cooked
yeah and that's the other point is like
when you cook you know even when you
you're gonna you're gonna vitamin C
definitely is effective pasteurization
and high heat so yeah we didn't even
touch my vitamin C there yeah so you're
busy knock it right out so can you give
us an example of what what you'll eat in
a given day yeah before I go into that I
did want to mention a lot of the stuff I
talk about is based on kind of like what
indigenous groups used to eat and it's
important to keep in mind that these
indigenous groups that did consume meat
every single one of them consume plant
food even the Eskimos and the Inuit did
consume small amounts of plant foods and
the majority of these hunter-gatherer
groups did consume I would I think the
estimation is about 65 to 70 percent of
their calories from animal foods but
that's a caloric percentage if we look
at food volume you know plant foods tend
to be much higher volume for their
caloric density so these plant foods
were present in these indigenous diets
but the reason I'm bringing this up is
because these indigenous diets consumed
both raw and cooked animal foods they
consumed certain foods raw certain foods
cooked and even on one animal if they
slaughtered a reindeer they preferred
the upper leg marrow cooked and the
lower leg marrow raw they preferred the
head cooked they preferred the liver
Roth there were very very specific
preferences in these indigenous groups
and we can assume those tie-in generally
to the nutrient density of the food so
what whether you try to argue for a raw
diet whether you try to argue for a
cooked diet whether you try to argue for
a diet for your plants when you actually
look at what humans used to eat and and
even looking at blue zones now blue
zones pretty much eat hunter-gatherer
diets it's just blue zones have less
animal foods that hunter-gatherers used
to have that brings up a good point
because um I mean can you imagine a raw
Brussels sprouts I mean the taste I mean
I was talking to my buddy the other day
and we each had different theories about
why we started cooking food my theory
was along the lines of a lot of the
parts of the animal are very difficult
to consume in a raw state the tougher
meat his theory was when a lot of the
megafauna died off and we started
gathering plants that we had to cook
plant foods to eat them so that we just
threw the meat in with the plant food so
there's a bunch of theories on why we
started cooking our food but a large
majority of plant foods are you know
ideally if you take them out of nature
and you can't consume them in their raw
state they probably shouldn't be
consumed in a large amount in their raw
state but to tie back to foods I eat in
a day usually I generally have nutrient
goals that I try to meet so in
particular DHA and omega-3 ratio is the
most important thing for me in my diet
so I make sure that all the meat is
sourced from a high-quality and that I
include a high source of DHA whether
it's brain tissue bone marrow fatty fish
salmon roe fish eggs are great most
people are probably more familiar with
like caviar and Kura tobiko
more common names for it the second goal
I usually strive for is a high vitamin A
intake retinoic acid and the only real
source of retinoic acid in an animal is
deliver you could look at every other
tissue on the animal nothing comes close
to the retinoic acid content of liver
it's like twenty-four hundred percent
it's like something crazy it's like
almost 3,000 percent of the daily value
but if the next best food are like eggs
at 30 percent it's not even close but
what's important to keep in mind is with
that high retinoic acid intake your body
stores fat soluble vitamins for the
winter
so your body doesn't just want a bunch
of vitamin A you need to consume other
fat soluble vitamins if you're consuming
large amounts of vitamin A so I need to
make sure to match that vitamin A with
the k2 with the vitamin d3 because if
you're consuming liver in nature
realistically speaking you're gonna be
out in the Sun there's other parts of
the animal you're going to consume and I
mean we do see preference for organs and
animals I mean I don't know if you heard
about there's a story where like killer
whales were just eating the shark's
liver and leaving the rest you know when
bears hunt and they're already fattened
up for the winter and there's plenty of
salmon around they'll literally kill the
salmon they'll eat the ROE and they'll
leave the rest so there is preference
for these organs by animals in nature
but if we actually look at realistic
ratios of you know how much does a liver
way how much does an animal way you know
we can kind of gauge okay for livers to
pounds the meat yield is 40 pounds maybe
two pounds of liver per 40 pounds of
meat makes the most sense so once I
achieve my omega-3 intake and my vitamin
A intake I generally look for vitamin k2
as it's very important for calcium
metabolism and it just it's bunched in
with the fat side of Ottomans in you
know metabolizing t3 helping retinoic
acid you need to consume it in balance
and although liver does have some
vitamin k2 the main source is
high-quality animal fats and I think
this is the main thing people overlook
is in order for an animal food to be
nutrient dense it has to be in an
environment where it's consuming
nutrient-dense food so when a cow eats
grass you know grass has a vitamin k1
the cow converted to vitamin k2 the
grass has carotenoids that the cow
converts to retinoic acid that the grass
also has just nutrients that the cow can
convert through the bacteria in its
stomach into the linoleic acids that the
body and the humans can then convert to
EPA and DHA if the cow is not eating
grass then where is it getting its
nutrition from if the corn and the soy
feed that the cat was consuming does not
have these nutrients in it it's not
going to be present in the food
that's why if we look at like milk from
the supermarket and then compare it to
like a raw raw cow cheese from France
you know oh well why does that raw cow
cheese have literally every vitamin and
mineral you know why are there
indigenous groups that literally only
ate you know the Swiss only ate cheese
and rye bread but now it's saying that
milk doesn't have nutrients a lot of
this ties in with the food quality and I
think one of the interesting theories
behind that is you know no one really
thinks fish is unhealthy but people will
try to argue that meats unhealthy
sometimes and the thing with fish is a
lot of fish that people consume you know
more of a tends to be wild caught in
higher quality than the meat so I think
a lot of that ties in there and by
achieving a high omega-3 intake by
achieving a high vitamin A intake and a
high vitamin k2 intake I inherently get
all of my other vitamins because if I'm
consuming liver liver has vitamin C
liver has pretty much every vitamin and
mineral you need in large amounts if I'm
consuming omega-3s and vitamin k2 the
foods that are high in k2 are also very
high in vitamin E so I mean
unfortunately I would argue that 90 very
high percentage of people on the
carnivore diet are not getting these
nutrients because you need to eat
incredibly specific foods to obtain them
and you know although I'm making it
sound a little difficult that can be
just eating some liver with some fish
eggs with some fish but a lot of the
time these are foods that people
generally don't want to or don't enjoy
eating right yeah so so what what do you
do with like people you consult that
just you know I can't I can't find high
quality like liver for example they're
gonna go to the store they like and they
just can't afford it what do they do
hypothetically speaking you want a
worst-case scenario I'm really broke
yeah I have no I can't afford this food
yeah like for like for example like one
of the companies that I recommend is the
us wellness I don't get any kickbacks
but the point is that I do know that
their farms are
really good and they grass finish
everything and they take care of the
soil so I know that they you also have
organ meats that are kind of mesh into
the liverwurst and they have heart and I
like the quality but it's hard to find
that high quality even at the healthy
store where you gonna find it so you now
you're you're gonna have to find a farm
or you're gonna actually have to order
online somewhere so how do you overcome
that barrier but but either way that
tends to be prohibitively expensive for
a lot of people right unfortunately so
so food sourcing is a big thing I mean
I'm in New York City I've I used to work
as a bartender in New York City
restaurants and I built some
relationships with food purveyors so I
have unusual access like I'll go to the
wholesale fish market that sells fish to
all the restaurants in New York City and
the guy will sell me 20 pounds of
flounder roe for 20 bucks you know like
I'll go to I'll get a case of farro
Island salmon for $6 a pound I'll go to
master purveyors and I'll buy rolls of
grass-fed ribeye for four very I don't
want to say the prices people are gonna
get mad at me but but I will get
incredibly good prices on me because I
have taken the time to find high-quality
sources but even outside of those
sources I go to local farms on eat wild
calm
there's also maybe I think real food
calm and you can even look on your local
Craigslist to find these farmers and
even these local farms on eat wild I
mean you think hey maybe they're gonna
try to gauge people because they're in a
city area but the food tends to be very
affordable I've seen organ meats from
four to seven dollars a pound
beef fat trim fat tends to be very very
cheap if you want to get some of your
calories from that but the sourcing
thing I can't it really is an
understatement this food sourcing is the
most difficult thing to do on this diet
Bar None the amount of time I invest in
food sourcing just to give you an idea
the other day I went to the Asian fish
market to buy a couple mackerel I went
to the Union Square green market to buy
some eggs I went to this other place the
farm to buy some raw high-quality cheats
I had my meat purveyor deliver some
great
ribeye I go to a halal market no it's
it's crazy I go to a halal market in in
the Bronx and I get my kidneys fresh
lamb kidneys all the lamb organs and
then sometimes I even go down to the
live kill markets and get some freshly
killed duck so there is a lot of time
that I personally invested in the food
quality you know I'm calling up
fisheries in the summer to see what the
access to salmon roe is so that's a
barrier yeah it's making it back to
practical I can go to my local
supermarket hush some supermarkets do
have very affordable grass-fed beef my
supermarket sells they were selling New
York strip steaks from Australia for
$5.99 a pound but the liver and the
organs and that stuff that's where it
gets difficult right anybody can you get
oyster 's and shellfish and clams pretty
easily
yes but that comes into a price issue
not everyone can afford paying 6 to 7
dollars a dozen for eggs that are soy
free and pasture raised
not everyone can find a high-quality
grass-fed fat source and I did a video
on budgeting the zero carnivore diet and
hypothetically the cheapest thing you
could do is I mean you could get really
cheap ground beef for like a dollar
fifty two dollars a pound and it
probably has e.coli in it but or and
then you can get eggs
you know how cheap they sell the
conventionally raised eggs in the
supermarket like a dollar it doesn't so
hypothetically speaking you could follow
this diet for two to three dollars a day
now the problem with that is you're
pretty much just getting calories and
macronutrients because the
conventionally raised stuff is not
really nutrient-dense I mean it will
have some nutrients in it you know the
eggs will have some DHA the eggs will
have some vitamin A eggs will have some
vitamins not nearly as high as pasture
rates and when we're saying
conventionally raised stuff has lower
nutrients than grass-fed stuff we're
literally talking in some cases five to
ten times the amount of vitamins and
certain fatty acids so it does make a
significant difference so if you were
following a diet of conventional eggs
and grass-fed of ground beef and you can
only afford to do that the real solution
would be certain supplements such as
fish oil
liver oil vitamin k2 supplements by
doing that can you try to replicate what
the nutrient density in the diet should
be I mean it's better than nothing yeah
right it's safe to say and I mean
vitamin d3 is an understatement
I think almost everyone needs to be
supplementing vitamin d3 but the problem
with vitamin d3 is and this doesn't tie
in as much to the diet but the reason
it's so important for zero carb
carnivore is because if you do increase
your vitamin intake you need to get
adequate d3 as well your body wants to
store d3 for the winter too but when you
take an oral supplement of d3 the
metabolism is drastically different than
the Sun and the main concern is when you
consume excess amounts of vitamin d3 I D
think it
no no d3 just vitamin d3 right
what about k2 well when you when you
take like massive doses of vitamin d3
potentially you can get hypercalcemia an
issue because you because you also need
because Kate Kate Kate uu works with d3
and they help balance the blood levels
of calcium so these people are doing
massive amounts over 100,000 I used and
they're not too crazy they're setting
themselves up for calcification and
definitely definitely an importance in
just over all vitamin balance you know
if it's impractical if it's a crazy high
dose but to my understanding excess
vitamin d3 from supplementation will
cause those problems but excess vitamin
d3 from the Sun it gets metabolized way
differently right it's beneficial your
body is not going to to turn the excess
vitamin d3 from the Sun into anything
negative or harmful whereas it doesn't
really know what to do with the
supplemental version different metabolic
pathways that's just something very
important to mention on the carnivore
diet if you are diving into these
supplements it's unfortunate you know
the calcium RDA is way too high and the
d3 and the k2 rdas are way too low and
and no one understands and people tend
to try to do extremes
I've heard people I've heard me
taken hundred thousand IU of vitamin d3
and I'm like dude what are you trying to
kill yourself like look take a look at
as people age they get stiff they get
calcium deposits their body starts to
calcify they get the arteries become
calcified they get calcification on
their eyes so like and then they're
taking 500 milligrams of calcium
carbonate I'm like now so it's funny
because calcium carbonate the
bioavailability is like miniscule it's
like yeah I think it's like 5% yeah it's
like eating literally chewing on the
cement and that wall out there yeah it's
crazy so and then I want to bring up the
point just and vegetables in general I
personally do better when I eat
vegetables I don't have any problems and
and one of the reasons why I recommend
higher quantities is specifically
potassium just because the I know our
das are not I think it's it's a bunch of
crap it's arbitrary but it's kind of a
reference that there's some truth to
them yeah but as far as potassium goes
higher amounts of potassium are needed
your body can get rid of excess amount
of potassium definitely way more than
excessive amounts of iron so the kidney
can do with it but I find I do much
better when I do higher amounts of
potassium things but if you have a
digestive problem I think or SIBO
whatever you're gonna like blow yourself
out because you're gonna get all sorts
of issues but when I actually go lower
on the vegetables I just don't feel
quite right my own body so so I have
quite a few people doing this with great
success so I'm not about to put everyone
on the car number but I think it's I'm
recommending it for people with
digestive problems immune problems
autoimmune then I want to bring up a
point about phytonutrients like like
there's a there's a really great this is
a really this is a good book that I
wanted to show you this is like all the
research on endocrine disruptors by the
World Health Organization like these
endocrine disruptors in environment
including
frickin DDT in and the metabolite dde
is actually their finding and residues
in our bodies and infants and it's and
you got all the different we're like
swimming in a sea of chemicals so the
phytonutrients in certain cruciferous
vegetables they have properties of
increasing phase 1 phase 2
detoxification enhancing our own ability
to rid these poisons so I just see a
real nice benefit with that and so I'm
just gonna get your comment on that yeah
I mean so we're talking about like
carotenoids ellagic acid reservatrol
resveratrol flavonoids I don't okay all
three carbonyls talking about all these
things the first thing was electrolyte
imbalance and I think the carnivore diet
and I've spoken to a lot of a lot of my
clients have had issues with irregular
heartbeat and arrhythmia on the
carnivore diet and these you know if we
look at the Inuit Eskimos they didn't
salt their food because they didn't grow
up with salt on their food and right now
on people on the carnivore diet are
assaulting their food pretty heavily now
meat without salt on it has fairly good
ratios of sodium to potassium to
magnesium as soon as you put a little
bit of salt on your food that's where
things can really get problematic
because you salt your food it's a please
potassium which depletes magnesium and
you go in this vicious cycle that never
ends of trying to restore your
electrolytes you get crap I noticed that
when I saw my food I get cramping and
I've noticed that if I salt my food I do
feel better when I consume higher
potassium things like seaweed and try to
drink a lot of high mineral water and
and take potassium or magnesium
supplementation and some like let's say
I eat a quarter pound of prosciutto
because I'm Italian you know there are
some extreme cases of sodium intake
where there is a benefit to consuming
high potassium foods and I think
considering you know there are a lot of
minerals that are bound to oxalates
in plant foods and there's a lot of
inhibition of phytic acid but
potassium isn't one of those potassium
citrate in these foods is generally
highly bioavailable and I think it can
benefit a lot of people on the carnivore
diet that are assaulting their food that
do have electrolyte problems I think
that's the glaring issue now and and no
one's going to a very small percentage
of people are going to be willing to go
on a very lightly cooked me diet without
salt you know that is not tasty that is
not fun to follow that is like it really
is a chore to do something like that and
that's really the only way you can kind
of keep your electrolytes in balance
some people have and this is really
anecdotal a lot of people can sort their
food heavily and they have no problems
with it I was reading some I think I
forgot what year it was I think was the
18 or the 1900s there was a civilization
in one of the Nordic countries that was
literally consuming a hundred grams of
salt per day it's some crazy amount from
the salted fish they had and they were
able to tolerate it and someone like me
if I put a gram or two of salt on my
food without adequate potassium
magnesium I'm thirsty I'm be hydrated
like crazy so there's a drastic
difference in people's kidneys ability
to handle sodium intake and this tizen
allowed with the carnivore diet and
whether or not you should be including I
mean I think seaweeds are great food
seaweed has a very high amount of
potassium
I think seaweed is like 900 milligrams
of potassium per serving has a decent
amount of magnesium like 80 milligrams
of magnesium and the sodium in seaweed
is fairly low so that there are
definitely some electrolyte issues on
the carnivore diet that and and if
you're consuming a Shaun Baker diet 4 to
5 pounds of ribeye heavily salted I
would be surprised if less than half of
the people had electrolyte imbalance
problems on that guy
but to go into the benefits of
phytonutrients I think if you're looking
to increase the overall nutrient density
of your diet beneficial bacteria I
really think there's a reason that every
industry group did consume plant foods
in fairly large amount and the
Aborigines they consume literally
thousands of different wild plant foods
thousands of them and
one of my primary beliefs of their
consumption of these plant foods ties
back into the electrolytes the magnesium
the potassium and all of those things
and I mean in regards to specific
phytonutrient functions it's just so you
know it's it's so difficult to argue
against them with all the beneficial
things that we do see in them I think
the one thing to just tie back to and
and my general opinion on plant foods is
you know what is the plant food you know
are you buying some mutant Apple the
size of your head or are you buying like
you know an organic Fairtrade small Fuji
apple I think there's something to
consider when you're buying your plant
foods whatever plant foods you're
consuming you know is it a what's that
boxed wine that college girls drink I
can't remember this is mad dog 20/20 no
I don't hold on hold on let me just a
second something silly Franzia Franzia
so you know there's a big difference
between drinking Franzia wine and
organic biodynamic French wine right I
think the biggest thing for me for plant
foods is the food quality really ties in
here because if you're consuming wild
blueberries as opposed to mutant
blueberries the sugar content is going
to be lower you're going to get more
nutrients for what you're buying there's
gonna be a significantly higher
phytonutrient content in those foods and
it's more beneficial
you know it's for me I mean see wheat is
an excellent example because seaweed is
a very low caloric density food but it's
so high in minerals it's it's literally
a I can't really think of a food a plant
food that I would put as high as seaweed
for mineral intake it's just - I mean
yeah it's it's amazing and and same with
the iodine in it all the elements it's
it really is an amazing source of
nutrition and that's the power of high
quality plant foods it's unfortunate
that a lot of the plant foods that
people do go to buy aren't high quality
but I think you know I did a vegan
debunking video yesterday and I ended
the video on the note that we really
need to support you know local
sustainable agriculture with our dollar
and try to spend money on high-quality
foods you know there's a big difference
between those vegetables and those
fruits you buy from the farmers market
and and what you're getting in a grocery
store not only that you know the variety
and not sticking to the same foods and
you know preparing certain foods raw
certain foods cooked there there's just
so much more to to nutrition than anyone
can really have time to do the research
for or take the time to understand but
at the end of the day I always just tie
back to that what is the original
quality of the food you know where did
this fruit or vegetable originate how
was it grown now is an heirloom variety
you know if you're eating sourdough
bread for instance you know einkorn
wheat is the first week that ever was so
you know there's a huge difference
between eating high in corn sourdough
bread and Wonder Bread that's you - you
might as well not call one of them bread
in a way right I always tell people like
I get all the time like well how do I
eat on a budget I said well you just
need to get a better job
and you seem to get him I hate to break
it to sorry like when you look at what
the average I look up statistics for
this for my budget video the average
person spends I believe seventy to
eighty dollars per week in groceries but
their food expense is like 150 so people
are going out to eat they're going out
to drink they're buying $5 Starbucks
coffee and they're not putting their
money where it should be so people are
spending five to six hundred dollars per
month but people don't feel comfortable
spending that much money in the grocery
store but that's what I do I do spend
you know four or five $600 some months
on food instead of going out to eat
some people might spend $200 on a dinner
on a Friday night and then say oh I
can't spend money on groceries they do I
assume Inc you do some in a minute
fasting yeah I mean I used to fast and I
do one meal a day and sometimes I
remember in the year 2017
I literally fasted for one quarter of
the time so whether I mean literally
you know three out of the 12 months of
the year I wasn't eating and that might
have been you know one or two days a
week at times it might have been two
weeks straight at other times so I did
incorporate fasting to some degree and
although I hate to say fasting is a way
to save money you know it's there's a
lot of health benefits to it and I just
don't see it's like you could list all
the benefits of fasting and as soon as
you bring up oh you could save money
it's some people's eyes light up they
really do
yeah I mean you're dropping
significantly I mean you're not eating
six times a day anymore you're not
snacking on all the expensive little
protein bars so I think that you you can
easily just go eat one meal a day and
increase the quality of food and that's
your that's your better health insurance
right there that's what I tell people I
mean I don't know what else to tell them
other than I don't have a secret source
that really cheap healthy food I don't
it's like the farmers spend a lot of
energy making these foods and you know
they don't make a lot of profit so I
really invest in them as well yeah it's
it's it's funny how much I mean you're
spending three thousand dollars a month
on health insurance I'm sure you're not
really getting your money's worth you
know it's unfortunate but yeah now
you're paying for everyone else that's
just how it is what do you know exactly
so I just wanted to bring up one point
about the anti nutrients like phytic
acid you know cuz I get this a lot
people say well tanana nutrients gonna
block absorption of iron and zinc and
it's gonna create a problem so I wanted
to get get your take on that because
there's some more I want to talk about
on that point yeah it's I don't think
anti nutrients are like some issue that
we should be talking about themselves
it's more about in the context of what
diet are you consuming them in because
if a vegan it it's more in the context
of a vegan diet if you're on a vegan
diet not only is your diet deficient in
key vitamins and minerals you're
consuming incredibly high amounts of
these anti nutrients you're consuming
incredibly high amounts of Antin
treants on a nutritionally deficient
diet and you're not preparing this foods
properly
certain foods like oats if you look at
how the Gaelic used to prepare oats they
would soak them they would ferment them
they would reduce the phytic acid
content if you look at the phytic acid
content of various nuts and seeds you
know which ones you should be soaking
you know which ones you shouldn't
macadamia nuts for instance I love
macadamia nuts because they have aloe
phytic acid content if you look at the
fighting as a content of foods and you
look at indigenous preparations they're
supposed to be soaked or prepared in a
certain way but the biggest issue with
the anti nutrients is in the context of
a vegan diet that is high in
anti-nutrients it's you know if someone
is consuming and I always like relating
to Blue Zones because American dieters
consume 70 percent of their calories
from plant foods and 30 percent of the
calories from animal foods Blue Zones
same exact thing the difference is the
food quality Blue Zones are technically
consuming 30% animal foods as well but
those animal foods are not cheeseburgers
and hot dogs those animal foods are raw
milk raw dairy pastured pork wild caught
fish and if we look at that plant foods
they're consuming they're not consuming
Wonder Bread they're not consuming a
pound of like oxidized almonds they're
not consuming improperly prepared
legumes they're still consuming they are
still consuming traditional foods high
quality preparations of these foods and
the food quality is really what ties in
here are you preparing the food properly
does it have the original nutrient
content it's supposed to have do you
have adequate nutrients from animal
foods in your diet that's or that those
are the important questions to answer if
you want to look at phytic acid itself
and look at that as a function it
doesn't make nearly as much sense
without analyzing the overall context of
the diet yeah those are watching just to
clarify what that means phytic acid has
some properties the anti nutrients that
block certain minerals but it also has
some anti-cancer properties too you know
I I know some people won't even look at
this but if if you look at when I used
to recommend in practice I would see
some great ruse
and if you were to even look on Amazon
some of the products ip6 that's where
you'd find a version of phytic acid I
mean there's some quite interesting
high-level reviews like 85% five-star
reviews of of seeing changes there
polyps going away PSA the prostate
indicator going down my theory behind
that is phytic acid will bind to excess
excess phytic acid will bind to excess
minerals so if you're taking something
like ip6 I would assume that it's going
to take if you a lot of people do have
access calcium and excess iron in the
digestive tract in the bloodstream so I
think it definitely ties in there with
removing the excess minerals yeah that
would be a very easy explanation behind
the mechanism about what that does it
almost mimics fasting in some cases in a
sense of like making sure your body has
the minimal amount of nutrients and
needs right excess yeah and I think that
you know excess iron is is a problem
because we don't have a good way of
getting it out of our system as well and
especially if people are doing the DES
fortification of the grains that's the
wrong iron and you're gonna get you're
gonna raise your iron in as you age it's
very oxidative it's very creates a lot
of free radicals and it destroys the
arteries and the tissues and the even
can cause cirrhosis of the liver so
going crazy with specially with iron
supplements a bad bad idea I was reading
a study and I believe I cited this study
in my vegan versus carnivore nutrients
video that iron metabolism is increased
dramatically when consumed with fight
MMA and what we can say is you know
what's the source of vitamin A and iron
in nature animal foods so we can safely
say if we were going to consume iron in
a natural way outside of supplements
that it would have been in the presence
of vitamin A so I think a lot of the
problems associated with iron is that
now we're
as you said in the artificial waste from
the fortified foods from the supplements
ways we shouldn't really be getting
hired exactly
awesome this has been very very good so
we touched on a lot of points was there
anything that we missed so I just took
some notes beforehand so we did we
talked about some vitamins we talked
about vitamin d3 one thing I did want to
mention was the reason a carnivore diet
might might work well for a lot of
people is that they're just efficient in
the nutrients that are you know b12 fat
Seibel vitamin deficiencies it's
definitely worth mentioning that people
that are consuming a low amount of
animal foods and have been consuming a
low amount of animal foods their whole
lives might actually be deficient in
vitamin b12 they they could see a lot of
benefits from consuming more vitamin k2
more retinoic acid more vitamin d3
that's definitely worth mentioning and
the main thing i wanted to mention was
how inaccurate the food databases are on
animal foods it's it's unfortunate if
you look at a u.s. database for meat the
reason the vitamins are low is one
because it's not a high quality source
the vitamin A the retinoic acid or the
vitamin D content in a steak might be
insignificant if it's grain fed and not
only that they don't test for a lot of
the nutrients I use a German database
it's forgive my German pronunciation
it's called now word Trek nur de and
when I look up foods on that database
they have an extensive nutrient
breakdown of everything and they test
for vitamin C they test for vitamin k2
they test for all the fatty acids they
test for all the minerals they test for
all the elements so when people look up
a piece of liver on chronometer and it
doesn't say that liver has every single
vitamin and mineral there is it's
incorrect I think that's just the main
thing people need to understand is that
animal foods correlate directly to how
they were raised if you have up
conventional feedlot cattle or pig or
chicken or even eggs the nutrient
content is not going to be what it
should be and unfortunately I think
that's gonna be something that's I mean
it's gonna continue to be overlooked for
a long period of time I don't think I
mean if you look up I actually got
quotes from laboratories on what
nutrient testing costed and and that was
like well that makes sense because just
getting vitamin k2 tested in a food is
like $350 oh my gosh
just getting vitamin d3 tested is $350
if you wanted to get all the fat side
with vitamins tested in one food it's
about $1,500 and that's not including
all the fatty acids that's not including
all the minerals that's not including
all the vitamins if you want a full
nutrient analysis of what that German
website did in the United States labs at
least I'm sure the United States
laboratories are gouging me it would
probably cost you four to five thousand
dollars per food so let's say you had a
food you wanted to test like raw butter
not only would you want to test multiple
versions of butter you might want to
test versions of butter from different
farms but just for one food for just
variability you'd have to test one food
three or four different times it just
gets I think this data would be
excellent to have but at the end of the
day we could just use assumptions pretty
much to say you know what tissues and
what parts of the animal do have these
nutrients well I just want to touch on
that cuz that's a really valid point
because people don't even look at the
quality of food I did so one of the one
of these products that I use is raw
wheatgrass juice powder that I get from
Utah and I would go out to the farm
where they grow this stuff so it's grown
on an ancient seabed and the quality is
just working over the top and they're
taking this this grass and then they're
converting it into a powder within like
a very short period of time so under low
heat snuffing over 106 degrees so what I
wanted to do is I wanted to run the labs
on that it was it was four thousand
dollars just to run the basic nutrient
profiles right and I also compared it to
the top - you can say competitors
people that are also selling a very
similar product the Greenes products
just to see the difference and I posted
on my um my website but what I found was
there's b12 in there I'm like what
there's no green I mean can't get b12
from from greens or it's not it's
impossible basically was growing within
the the flora the bacteria of the of the
grass
yeah well the soils are so depleted now
that nutrients are so insignificant in a
lot of cases and in the front the farmer
that was growing this he was on the edge
about sterilizing his product because he
didn't want to have like eco Lance's no
you're not gonna get you eaten coli
you're gonna get that with a very
unhealthy farm so you want to preserve
all these these friendly microbes within
the plant so that was interesting but
the fight out that the carotenoids were
off the chart compared these other other
brands so the source of where you get
this stuff is like that is the key right
there it's yeah it makes you really
start to question because if you have a
product like that that pretty much
replicates what a wild version of a food
is it's really difficult when you go
into the supermarket you're thinking to
yourself was that really grown in ideal
circumstances and and this really comes
with experience and culinary knowledge
and understand experiencing a lot of
different foods but once you've tasted a
dozen different I remember a couple
years ago I went to all the supermarkets
in the area and bought every blueberry I
could get my hands on and I compared 15
different blueberries and if you do
something like that you will understand
you know what dictates the quality of
the blueberry how does one taste does
the and I think a really good way to
understand this is if anyone's ever
messed around with mineral powders if
you put sodium potassium magnesium and
calcium in water generally depending on
the proportions one will taste
predominantly more than the other but if
the minerals are in proper proportions
in the water it will taste good and
that's a good explanation behind why you
know certain beef might taste better
than other beef
and I personally I detest the flavor of
lamb I really don't like lamb but if you
put a lamb chop in front of me next to
most
beef ribeye steaks the lamb actually
tastes better and I think the nutrient
density of the food
I think the mineral content the vitamin
content you can literally taste those in
the food and especially in the case of
beef fat and things like that it will
literally tastes nutty and sweet and
more complex so I think our senses
colors taste can really help us dictate
the quality of a lot of these foods
absolutely awesome well thanks for the
time that you spent doing this this is
really really awesome I uh I know you're
probably busy preparing for your next
videos unfortunately a lot of work it
really is but thanks and I'll talk to
you soon hey know this is what I'm
looking forward to seeing the response
man okay great
