hey guys I had another interesting
question will in a minute fasting or
skipping meals cause golf stones okay
it's it's actually a good question the
first thing you need to understand is
what causes golf stones is a lack of
something called bile B il eat okay bile
is made by the liver it's stored in the
gallbladder so during a given day the
gallbladder will store and concentrate
the bile to make it really really really
powerful okay so if we have very
concentrated bile sitting in that
gallbladder that's not going to actually
cause a stone it's not gonna sit there
and cause a stone at all what causes
stone is a lack of this substance right
here now the other thing that triggers
bile is saturated fats okay and that's
why people that go in a low saturated
fat diet they end up getting gold stones
because they don't have enough
stimulation of the bile so and even
diabetics for example or people who eat
frequent meals or consume a lot of carbs
they're gonna dry up their bile they're
gonna deplete their body even more and
get golf stones that's why there's a
higher incident rate of getting gall
stones if you're diabetic so when we do
keto we're increasing more fat to
release more bile in a minute fasting
we're allowing the body to concentrate
more on file so we have this super
concentrated bio and we have more of it
to make sure we don't get gold stones so
to answer this question it's a big fat
no all right thanks for watching hey if
you enjoyed this video press subscribe
and I will definitely keep you updated
