today I'm going to show you how to
cleanse your liver within 3 days I've
done every single cleanse that has ever
been invented and I'm going to tell you
many many cleanses that I've done I've
gotten sick I start the cleanse and then
I'm in bed for two weeks this particular
liver cleanse that I'm going to talk
about is very different than my usual
cleanses that I talk about in a lot of
other videos where I'm talking about
drinking apple cider vinegar lemon
drinks Ginger but they're not going to
even Produce close in results of what
I'm going to show you today the question
is how does your liver actually clean
the body what are the things that are
the most powerful so we can speed this
process up we have the detoxification of
the poisons and chemicals whether it's
medication the chemicals in your food
alcohol Etc and then you have also the
cleaning of all the dead cells the waste
the pathogens that are in your body if
you've ever taken Biology this is a cell
and inside the cell you have these
different things and this little thing
right here is the garbage disposal of
the cell that's called a lysosome okay a
lome is the little incinerator the
garbage disposal that burns up the waste
and cleans up the dead cell and it
actually helps recycle dead cells and
pathogens like microbes and viruses and
bacteria and fungus and turns all that
into new cells so that whole process is
called autophagy so the body is actually
eating some of its own tissue and it's
recycling this waste into new cells so
let's go through the seven things that
trigger autophagy starting with the
maybe the weakest uh trigger to
autophagy and that would be certain
phytonutrients has a mild effect of
triggering this autophagy this recycling
effect then number six we get the
ketogenic diet cutting down your
carbohydrates then number five we get
into exercise okay exercise will trigger
autophagy then we get into sleep okay
when you sleep you go through this
process then we get into calorie
restriction okay when you cut down your
calories that also helps this process to
occur and then number two we have water
fasting and water fasting is basically
you're not eating anything except you're
drinking water but there's one
additional thing that is three times
more powerful than water fasting and
that is are you sitting
down dry fasting no food and no water
dry fasting hands down is probably one
of the most powerful things you can do
to stimulate autophagy and truly cleanse
the cells and and I'm not talking about
doing dry fasting for 12 days okay
that's for a different video I'm talking
about doing dry fasting for only a day
so in other words you start dry fasting
sunrise and then you stop at Sunset and
at first I didn't think there was
anything to this but the more I got into
it I'm like wow this is incredible
because one day of dry fasting is
equivalent to 3 days of water fasting
you've probably been told that you can
only survive
3 days without water I'm not going to
get into that in this video but that's a
complete myth that's absolutely not true
and that's just because when you stop
drinking water what happens is your fat
cells as they're
burned start releasing a lot of water
but my whole point on this is we're only
talking about 12 hours of not drinking
water okay so you're going to be fine
you're going to greatly enhance your
immune system another benefit is your
kidneys and your liver finally have a
chance to rest sometimes we have this
idea that we have to drink all this
water to flush the toxins out right
guess what you're doing all day long
when you're drinking a lot of water
you're peeing okay so you're causing
your kidneys to work really hard to get
rid of this extra water another cool
benefit is mental Clarity you're going
to grow new brain cells when you do this
and another big benefit is your
inflammation is going to come down and
what's also cool about this is you're
going to go to sleep and you're going to
get more hours of dry fasting as well
this second part involves getting rid of
toxins poisons chemicals and this
happens in the liver it happens in the
kidney it happens in different parts of
the body as well you have these enzymes
that go through this series of steps
that take the poisons and then they
break them down to the point where
they're harmless and so this program is
kind of like what's called omad which is
one meal a day what are you going to eat
that one meal of the day and by the way
you'll eat that when the sun sets you're
just going to eat two things some type
of cruciferous vegetable and you're
going to eat meat well what is a
cruciferous vegetable broccoli brussels
sprouts cauliflower arugula now you can
do broccoli sprouts and that's going to
be like 20 to 50 times stronger than
adult broccoli and you can have that in
a salad that would be considered a great
thing you can do kale or even blend kale
and you drink that as a shake then you
get something called bok choy and then
the other thing that I consume a lot is
cabbage different forms raw sauerkraut
is really awesome because it's fermented
so then we get to the Meat part now meat
is loaded with certain amino acids which
are the building blocks of protein some
of these amino acids work in different
ways uh like for example glutamine helps
build up your glutathione which is the
most powerful antioxidant in the cells
to help you get rid of you know free
radicals and things that create rusting
in the body meat also has iron as well
as the B vitamins which also help you
detox and if we add on top of that this
dry fasting you have a sure winner to
help clean out not just your liver and
your kidneys but the entire body and
you're going to do this three days a
month now one last Point how do we
prevent the detox reaction that a lot of
people get when they cleanse well with
this cleanse we're not necessarily using
herbal remedies to push toxins out of
the cells however anytime you do any
type of cleansing anything the key is
making sure that you do not have any
bile sludge or any type of blockage
within the little bile ducts and those
are little tubes between your liver and
your gallbladder you know some people
might have gall stones but a lot of
people have like Gall sludge and what
happens is start a cleanse and it backs
up to the liver and they get really sick
so it wouldn't hurt before you do this
to take some bio salts okay in a
supplement you can also do another type
of Bio salt that I've recommended in
other videos called tadka okay and I'll
put that down below if you want more
information on that
you can also use food to help thin the
bile one of the best things to thin the
bile would be to consume beets one last
thing is apple cider vinegar with water
I've known of people who started to
cleanse and they get this this rock
right stuck in their stomach and they
become really severely constipated and
it happened after they started to
cleanse and the quick remedy that I
always give them is some bio salts and
on an empty stomach and that starts
opening up this sludge and they get
relief within hours so don't forget that
now since we're talking about the liver
and phase one phase 2
detoxification there's a little bit more
information about the liver that you
really need to know about and for that
information watch this video right here
