let's talk about the nine benefits of
heat therapy now the big
contraindication of using heat as a
therapy is for acute injuries if he
recently created an injury where there's
inflammation and you put heat on it it's
gonna make it worse you want to use cold
heat is really good for chronic
conditions especially chronic injuries
so here's some examples a hot shower
steam room sauna jacuzzi
infrared this is a certain wavelength
using light
there's infrared a which is the deepest
B and C so B would go one millimeter and
C is only going to penetrate the the
first lining of cells on your body so
they're used differently for different
conditions
there's a lot of data on this right here
I'm not gonna get into that in this
video I will do a more detailed video
just on that because there's a lot to
talk about contrast
bath therapy where you're alternating
from cold to heat now I really like
doing a hot shower cold shower alternate
back and forth because it's really
simple to do and you don't need any
special equipment you just need a shower
so the nine benefits would include
decreasing inflammation in your joints
as an arthritis especially chronic old
injuries decrease muscle spasm usually
compensating for an old injury
decreasing pain decreasing pain in
general but again if it's acute injury
use cold
number-6 it reads the waste out of the
area and it decreases co2 because you're
driving in blood flow in oxygen with
cold therapy you're pushing the blood
out of an area and if you alternate with
ithi repair you put it back in and if
you're doing it alternately for an
injury for example I recommend keeping
the cold on until it goes through
certain stages of intense pain and then
numbness and then apply the heat for
about you know ten minutes and then we
apply the cold go back and forth number
eight decrease stiffness number nine
increases your recovery especially after
a workout so let's talk about why it
works
certain genes in your body that kick in
and are expressed when you add heat or
cold and they do different things
there's one protein called the heat
shock protein that I want to talk about
and basically the response to stress
heat and other things as well
oxidative stress heavy metals infection
so it's a protein that responds to a
certain shock in the body or a certain
amount of stress that then causes your
body to adapt and do better but this
specific protein is very interesting
because it protects the cell against Mis
folding and that's what I want to talk
about briefly because this is very very
important if you take a look at a lot of
the chronic diseases out there all
Simon's Parkinson's even diabetes you
have a situation where you have an
accumulation of certain proteins in the
neurons in the cells that are the
endocrine gland cells they can cumulated
in the organs and these aggregates or
these accumulation of these proteins can
are non-functional and they clog up the
function normally what happens is you
have you the blueprints of the cell are
copied into something called the RNA
which are basically a code for making
proteins in the body I'm not just
talking about hair nails and skin I'm
talking about all the enzymes the
machinery that actually makes up the
body and so this genetic code goes into
a factory okay it's called a ribosome
it's a little protein factory that is
read and then turned into a certain
protein so this comes out and then it's
activated or folded okay so this protein
is folded in a certain shape to make it
functional and it looks pretty wild
because it's all over the place it's
like that and so now this protein is
activated and it can go and do its work
whatever that function is there are
proteins that do a lot of different
actions they can even they can sometimes
they contract
sometimes they relax sometimes they spin
sometimes they pump sometimes they can
walk and move they do all sorts of acts
in the body but when you actually add
stress in this area and especially heat
think about when you heat up food it
destroys that enzyme and it makes it
very inactive because enzymes are
sensitive to heat but if we're adding
just a little bit of heat we turn on
this protein right here and we can
prevent the Mis folding of this folded
protein miss folding is basically going
to make this protein and active it's
gonna clump it up more and get it all
sticky and things like that so this
protein can prevent this from happening
which is very very cool just as long as
you don't heat your body up too much I
mean you don't want to put your body in
boiling water that would be very very
bad and one last thing I'm going to talk
about is that when you add fasting okay
or in a min of fasting your body goes
through a condition called a Toph Ajit
and Netaji what it does is it cleans up
old damaged proteins as in miss folded
proteins that's what it's cleaning up
it's taking these miss folded proteins
and stuff that's creating all these
problems and it's breaking it down into
amino acids that you can use as brand
new raw material to make tissue alright
thanks for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press the button
below and I will keep you in the know
hey that runs
