so I wanted to create a video on this
situation that can occur where you have
slightly higher blood glucose but you're
still in ketosis okay because normally
the way it works is you have high sugar
and low ketones haikyuu tones and low
sugar but what happens sometimes is your
blood glucose might go up but you're
still in ketosis so why does that happen
but before I tell you that let me just
get into why you might have high sugar
doing keto okay
excessive protein for dinner tonight
could create a spike in blood sugar the
next day okay that's one thing so make
sure you have a moderate amount of
protein the two car back reap you start
adding more carbs unknowingly and when
you have to kind of look at them and
reevaluate you're like wow I'm doing too
many carbohydrates so that could be a
situation and then frequent meal so
you're doing too many snacks
that'll do it or your cortisol is too
high so when people go through stress
okay they're gonna have higher levels of
cortisol the peak time of cortisol
happens about 8 o'clock in the morning
so if you're actually checking your
blood glucose in the morning at 8
o'clock and find that it's pretty high
it could be from the cortisol that is
being spiked because your body's going
through some stress or something but
typically for everyone it'll be slightly
higher it shouldn't be that much but it
would be slightly higher nothing to
worry about but just make note of that
but here's what happens when you
actually do a healthy keto plan and
you're doing in a minute fasting you are
lowering insulin
now remember insulin suppresses blood
sugars it pushes blood sugars down so
now we don't have the quantity of
insulin but we still may have insulin
resistance because that takes a while to
to correct in the body so if we have a
lower amounts of insulin and insulin
resistance your blood sugar might go up
a little bit more okay but you're still
being ketosis so you might still like
show like 1.0 or 1.2 1.5 and your ketone
levels and have blood sugars that are 90
to 105
that's totally normal
it's just gonna take time for this to
heal and then you'll see it'll come down
it's basically all that means it's
you're in a transition phase and there's
nothing to worry about
so as long as you're feeling good you
have a lot of energy and everything is
good I would not worry about it at all
but I just wanted to point out this fact
this can happen and it's because the
insulin is going down but you still have
insulin resistance which does take a bit
to actually correct that all right
thanks for watching so we've been
getting a lot of success stories but I
don't have your success story yet so
click the link down below and upload you
before and after I want to actually hear
about your success story I want to see
your before-and-afters and every week we
do featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
