so today we're going to talk about
another reason why you might be getting
fat that goes beyond the consumption of
carbohydrates and frequent eating okay
it's actually the antibiotics
okay antibiotics do increase weight gain
this is the reason why they give
antibiotics to animals okay to make them
bigger it's a growth factor now you
might be saying well I don't consume
antibiotics so therefore I'm good
right well 80% of all the antibiotics
sold in the US are given the livestock
that's a lot and 2010 63,000 tons were
given to livestock it's a lot of
antibiotics right so that's one exposure
number two in 2010 Monsanto got a patent
that classified glyphosate as an
antibiotic so all the GMO foods like
corn and soy and beet sugar cottonseed
canola that are the grocery store and
there's a lot more are exposed to
glyphosate okay so that's another
exposure
so this spilling off into the
environment into our water supply and
there's another report below I'm going
to put a link down below that showed
that 36% of water samples through
various places around the United States
showed higher levels of glyphosate in
our water supply
okay 36% now you might say that's kind
of low but 69% of the samples showed
higher levels of the breakdown product
of glyphosate because over time it turns
into another chemical so we're getting
this chronic exposure from the animal
products to the tap water antibiotics
that come from medications from the
other foods that we consume that are you
know sprayed with glyphosate to the
vegetables that are sprayed with
glyphosate what I find even more
interesting is that the EPA has set the
drinking water maximum contamination of
glyphosate at 700 micrograms per
liter that's like a lot that's
incredible you would think would be like
point zero zero zero one micrograms per
liter but no it's 700 micrograms per
liter that's up that's a tremendous
amount of toxicity that's allowed in our
water supply okay so what are we gonna
do about this situation number one focus
on consuming organic foods both
vegetables and meats and things like
that okay if you can't consume organic
100% of the time at least make sure your
meats have an on the label has never
been given antibiotics okay I think that
would be really important because
sometimes the way that they word it
allows antibiotics to be given to the
animals number three get a filter for
your house don't drink tap water filter
it and before get a good probiotic to
start building up the microbes because
this imbalance in microbial health after
the exposure of antibiotics can really
affect your not just your weight but
your overall health alright guys so go
ahead and comment below and tell me your
thoughts and considerations on what you
think about this topic so I want to know
about what you think about this video so
please comment below and tell me what
you think
