so I had another question recently on
shellfish in relationship to them having
heavy metals and is it okay to consume
those Foods I'm going to give you my two
cents we're talking about shrimp lobster
crab mussels oysters and there are other
ones as well now the good thing about
shellfish is that they're loaded with
minerals and trace minerals like zinc
for example and selenium
and they also have a good amount of
omega-3 fatty acids and they're very
high quality sources of protein so
that's the positive the negative is that
they do come with a package heavy metals
cadmium Mercury even lead okay so for
that reason I would recommend not
consuming them as often I would say once
per week if you're pregnant don't
consume them at all and get your trace
minerals from an organic sea calp
harvested from a very healthy part of
the world
um while caught is usually better than
farm-raised however
just because something is well caught
doesn't mean it doesn't have heavy
metals as well but overall wild caught
is just higher quality now here's the
good thing about shellfish it has
selenium
selenium helps to detoxify Mercury and
other heavy metals because this is
involved in certain enzymes in your body
that actually protect you against heavy
metals so that's good
of course you'd want to avoid like shark
king mackerel and swordfish which have
very high amounts of heavy metals
specifically Mercury and when you buy
shellfish you want to find out where it
comes from so on the label okay you're
going to see something that says country
of origin labeling or cool and it's
going to tell you where it's from
however if it's frozen there's going to
be two labels and you want to pay close
attention to where it's originally from
versus where it's manufactured so they
might ship it in from a place that is a
very polluted ocean the North Atlantic
is better and the shellfish and fish off
the coast of the US do have stricter
standards but I put a couple links down
below that will help you identify
certain locations around the world and
the levels of heavy metals so you can
actually understand the bigger picture
anyway thanks for watching and I'll see
you in the next video
hey if you're liking this content Please
Subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
