so let's talk about selenium it's a
fascinating little mineral it's a trace
mineral and it's involved in some unique
things
okay so selenium is a coenzyme it's a
helper enzyme in about 25 different
proteins it's a very powerful
antioxidant that's involved in
glutathione glutathione is like the
master antioxidant that helps to counter
oxidation so if there's heavy metals or
chemicals or too much sugar glucose
that's destroying the brain of the
nervous system as in diabetes
glutathione basically protects the
tissues from that damage and that's why
it's really good for diabetics and it
can improve insulin resistance so you
have less insulin resistance also it's
good for the heart if you're deficient
in selenium you have more problems with
the heart so it prevents oxidation it
also helps rid the hydrogen peroxide so
it's it's good for vitiligo for example
where you have the loss of pigment
because of the bleaching effect that's
occurring in that condition so hydrogen
peroxide is actually made by your
mitochondria as a byproduct and when
purpose of this is to kill microbes so
our body does make oxidants to help wipe
out things that are not friendly but we
also have antioxidants to counter those
oxidants then we have the related
function to the thyroid gland selenium
is needed to convert t4 which is the
inactive form of the thyroid hormone to
t3 and then also to reverse t3 which is
another inactive form of the thyroid
hormone so it's intimately involved in
the conversion to make the thyroid
hormones work every single cells of the
thyroid innervates you have selenium
that's involved it's also involved in
the detoxification of mercury so people
are concerned about consuming fish
that's high in mercury for example like
in salmon but salmon also has selenium
and if you have enough selenium you can
make the enzymes to help detoxify or
bind mercury and make it in act
so it helps to protect you against the
damage from mercury
it also can decrease the susceptibility
to certain viruses it can act as an
anti-inflammatory most antioxidants are
anti-inflammatory it also can reduce the
risk of getting infertility in men and
one more point about the thyroid is that
when you have Hashimoto's which is an
autoimmune condition relating to a hypo
thyroid condition and you take selenium
there's been some studies to show that
you can decrease the antibodies to the
thyroid by 21 percent okay so that's
interesting where do you get selenium
Brazil nuts have the most fish in
seafood like in tuna halibut sardines
salmon organ meats meat in general and
eggs it's in other foods as well but
these are the highest the RDAs for
selenium are 55 micrograms
you don't want to go over 400 micrograms
that seems to be the high limit that it
starts to become toxic so a deficiency
of selenium can create a lot of damage
and a toxicity of selenium could also
create a lot of damage so you just need
the right amount thanks for watching so
if you want to get notified with all my
content click the notification bell next
to subscribed
