what if I were to tell you that we could
literally end chronic disease in 10
weeks would you believe me today I'm
bringing on Nina Ty Cults one of the
most credible experts in this area she
is a best-selling author she has her PhD
in nutrition and has been deeply
involved in researching the dietary
guidelines for over two decades I think
you're going to be thoroughly blown away
at this interview so Nina RFK has this
huge goal of getting rid of chronic
disease
and you personally studied this specific
area of chronic disease and the dietary
guidelines for roughly at least 20 years
probably longer than that what based on
the most credible research would you say
is the solution to chronic
disease I think there's no question that
the strongest most rigorous evidence to
support disease reversal is with a
ketogenic or low carbohydrate diet and
what we have is
more than a hundred clinical trials now
which there's no greater amount of
clinical trial research except for on
the Mediterranean diet which does not
have as good results there are more than
a 100 clinical trials showing that with
a ketogenic or low carbohydrate diet
that not only can we reverse type two
diabetes in merely 10 weeks but also
hypertension the vast majority of
cardiovascular risk factors
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease 10
weeks I mean an average Doctor Who's
treating someone with type two diabetes
how many weeks are they treating
diabetes for the reversal rate where you
reverse a type 2 diabetes diagnosis with
standard of care that's
0.1% oh my go clinical trials using a
ketogenic diet often with support from a
mobile app that reversal rate is more
than 50% this is huge I mean this should
be all over the place it should be in
the news
doctors should be using it but they're
not really using it are they I've been
following this for the past 10 years and
I have not seen a single mainstream news
article on the ability to reverse a
diagnosis of type two diabetes using
diet natural means you see an article
every week every every day on OIC or the
gp1s right that tells you that the media
is really informed by the pharmaceutical
companies by which they're also funded
people think type 2 diabetes is
irreversible but that is absolutely
positively not true you can do it
there's credible studies and when we
talk about credible we're talking about
uh the type of studies that they've done
and also the number of participants
right in the length of time it's not
some little observational study the
largest trial ever on type two diabetes
reversal had 300 patients in it the
patients on average had been living with
diabetes for 8.4 years and the majority
of them were on insulin and even so they
reversed more than half of their
patients diabetes in 10 weeks also tell
us about the the reduction of insulin
their medication what in this trial
nearly 100% of the patients reduced some
or all of their medications within a
year the patients come off so quickly
off their medications that's one of the
reasons that people are with diabetes
are counseled to go on a ketogenic with
medical supervision not because it's
dangerous not because it has bad side
effects but because they need to come
off their medication so quickly what is
the general consensus of the medical
profession's thoughts on the ketogenic
diet you know ever since Robert Atkins
came out with his books in the early
1970s there has been a real skepticism
out there about the low carbohydrate
ketogenic diet and back then it was
warranted because were really no good
rigorous studies on his approach even
though he had a drawer full of medical
files but now those Studies have really
been done yet we still see the same bias
uh I would say bias against this diet
and that is for several reasons one is
that you know the American Heart
Association the American Diabetes
Association they're funded in large part
by insulin manufacturers and other drug
companies so they have direct conflicts
of interest doctors themselves also have
these conflicts of interest all their
careers they've been told that low fat
is the way to go so those diets are
really almost diametrically opposed and
it's very hard for the medical community
to change its mind the American Heart
Association the American College of
Cardiology have come after the ketogenic
diet with virtually no evidence just
sort of media campaigns saying keto is
dangerous a ketol likee diet is
dangerous based on in one case virtually
just a spoken presentation with no data
and not even a published
abstract so I think it's fair to say
there's something of a propaganda war
going on against low car ketogenic I
think you could be right it could be on
to something there remember someone
putting something out it was just
ridiculous the definition of keto likee
diet well there might be some
similarities but it not does not
resemble the ketogenic diet right I
can't remember what that diet was but I
like that keto likee diet
that was the study that came out of um
British Columbia by a researcher who
simply gave a presentation on her
findings that for which there was no
abstract for which there was no
published anything it it her study had
not even been registered in any way and
yet they interviewed her they press
released her her presentation they
didn't do that for anything else coming
out of their annual conference
everything else was a legitimate
published study why did they do that why
why do they want to amplify her findings
I mean it's clickbait but also that
headline drives people away from
choosing that option if the American
College of Cardiology is coming out and
saying this diet is dangerous people
listen and I think that is the objective
behind that or what specific foods does
someone have to eat or what have to do
with their foods to achieve the state of
ketosis which is the fat burning you're
eating ideally natural sources of those
Foods so that's eggs dairy meat fish
shellfish very small amounts of starchy
vegetables and low sugar fruits it's a
sustainable diet and this is a key point
it's sustainable because fat and protein
are what are
satiating versus carbohydrates actually
trigger hunger they have done
experiments why they try to force feed
people to eat like a stack of pork chops
and people just can't do it like they're
I'm full I cannot eat another bite let's
say you go try to go from one to the
next and you're not tapping to your own
fat you could actually easily get hungry
real fast your fat stores are actually
like granola bars they're strapped all
over your body and they're there for
when you don't have anything to eat so
when glucose is absent your body can
access those fat stores it's great I'm
sitting here and I haven't had lunch and
hopefully I'm now living off of the fat
stores in my
thighs the moment that glucose enters
into to your
bloodstream your body it's like a bank
teller window just slapping down you can
no longer access your fat stores then
you cannot access your own fat for
energy the dietary guidelines which you
studied extensively people are are
influenced by that dietary guideline is
it quite extensive as far as where it
goes the dietary guidelines are really
the most powerful lever in the country
on what Americans eat for several
reasons one is that by law all federal
food programs are required to follow the
guidelines so that includes the national
school lunch program infant children
feeding programs programs for the
elderly the military which has an
obesity problem equal to the general
population is required to teach the
guidelines second the guidelines are
basically downloaded by health
professionals as the gold standard so
even if you don't know about the
guidelines when you go to your doctor
nurse nutritionist dietitian
they are giving you the guidelines what
is the problem with the dietary
guidelines and is there a little bit of
conflict of interest involved I did uh
was an author on the first ever paper to
systematically review all the conflicts
of interest of the experts that are
appointed to review the guidelines in
the last committee we found that 95% of
that 20 person committee had a tie to
either food or Pharma half the committee
had 30 such ties or more one person had
aund 52 ties to food or
Pharma so I mean there are clearly
influences there that are you know
direct conflicts with the idea that
people need healthy food and there's
certain viewpoints out there that you
know we need to get the chemicals out of
the junk food and this and that but from
your Viewpoint and your experience
working with the the actual food itself
can we actually correct the chronic
disease if we're just eliminating uh a
food additive I think that could only be
beneficial for us there's no reason we
should have such long lists of
ingredients in our food products however
food dyes taken out of Froot Loops is fr
Loops that aren't attractive but still
carry a huge load of starch with them
right so that's carbohydrate so that's
not going to reverse disease I don't
know of any clinical trial studies that
show that removing these ingredients
will reverse chronic disease where we
have the evidence is with a low
carbohydrate ketogenic diet that can
reverse disease we have many clinical
trials on that we must go forward as RFK
J has said himself in an science-based
way the best quality studies especially
for population-wide guidelines that
affect everybody so if in other words
you're saying if I have regular
Pop-Tarts and maybe organic Pop-Tarts
right food coloring this is not going to
correct my metabolic disease you know I
looked at the the amount of sugar starch
and seed oil it's it's actually there's
more in here people know about sugar but
you also have the starch which is not
necessarily listed on the label as
starch it's kind of hidden sugar right
starch molecules are just sugar
molecules holding hands and the moment
you eat them they become sugar in your
body even if that's a whole grain bread
even if that's a dark RI loaf it becomes
sugar the moment that you eat it
unfortunately there really are no good
versus bad carbohydrates because they
all become sugar in your body but I
think the ultr processed food companies
are completely on this they're going to
figure out the way to reduce their
ingredient list and they're going to say
see we solved the problem when in fact
the real data shows that we have to
Target this specific macronutrient which
is carbohydrates which is driving these
diseases right because you look at even
potato chips right it has zero sugars oh
yeah that's a real racket the whole zero
sugar no sugar added that's also that is
meaningless what is the single most
important thing that we could possibly
do to rid chronic disease if we can get
good food advice about what constitutes
a diet that can reverse
disease out to the American public then
we will be able to reverse chronic
disease and we will be able to do it
quickly I mean the study that you quoted
is like 10 weeks that's like a little
more than two months that's like that's
such a short period of time it's amazing
it's possible to reverse type 2 diabetes
in the largest study that has ever been
done more than half the patients reverse
their type two diabetes in just 10 weeks
this is not about doing more research
right I mean we keep doing research and
research and research and people say
yeah the evidence is not out yet but
there's already research done on this
topic we don't need to actually keep
doing it right we have credible data at
least as a starting point I completely
agree we have enough research we have
multiple randomized control clinical
trials showing that disease reversal is
possible and there is not a need for
more research at this point although
more research is helpful and needed but
we can absolutely start based on the
research that we have here we have
actual intervention trials on real
humans that shows how the body actually
responds far better source of data and
we don't need to wait to act on it out
of all the tests that a doctor can do
yes we have blood glucose test right we
have A1C is there any other test that
would be important for a medical doctor
to test uh as maybe as a some to catch
as a preventative type test testing your
fasting insulin will allow you to
identify your steadily worsening
metabolic
Health decades literally decades earlier
before you get a diagnosis of type two
diabetes so it's critical that we test
people even kids with fasting insulin
levels to discover have they embarked
already on this worsening metabolic
Health journey I mean doctors should do
that as a very Baseline test it tells
you much more than your fasting glucose
it tells you more than your lipids that
measurement would just be a fantastic
thing to do you have these
intelligent people but they're just
missing the obvious but I think it's
it's intentional the way people are
taught you know because it's just you
know there's not a lot of money in food
therapy the medical curriculum has been
largely informed by the thinking of
pharmaceutical companies and so you know
doctors are taught that basically you
can try diet and lifestyle interventions
but they largely don't work so there's a
kind of fatigue about diet I actually um
had one student tell me that they went
up to their lecturer in medical school
uh afterwards and said hey Doc do you
know about the ketogenic diet and the
professor said well I'm actually on a
ketogenic diet myself but I'm not
allowed to teach it in the classroom
interesting I can't blame the doctors
they're not getting informed and their
experiences
tell their patients to go on a diet the
diet doesn't work and so it's legitimate
as a doctor to conclude well this kind
of intervention just doesn't work so
I'll have to move on to the pills and
whatever else I prescribe so that's a
rational response to telling your
patients about basically a failed diet
this is just fascinating information and
uh I am very adamant about and you are
too about promoting this solution I'm
like how did you simplify this and
organize in such a way that just it's
just very interesting so I appreciate
that I'm going to put a link down below
for those of you that have not checked
that out definitely check it out because
it's super valuable and it's very easy
reading as well thank you I mean we live
in a time when there are just so few
journalists investigating the politics
the corruption in nutrition I wish there
were more I have virtually no colleagues
so every time I look into something and
find just wild amounts of conflicts of
interest and shoddy science and I wish I
weren't the only person reporting on
this so yes I mean I I would welcome any
journalists out there who'd like to join
me I mean it's a very rich vein to
investigate and for anyone who signs up
for my substack there's so many pieces
there about you know the bad science on
meat and cancer and the conflicts of
interest on that panel the conflicts of
interest at our most esteemed
universities like at Harvard and
Stanford in their nutrition departments
I mean it is it is stunning uh the Wess
is is coming up and uh things are going
to change and I think the future is
bright in this area so thank you so much
for coming on I appreciate that thank
you for having me
