so I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know will
consuming cruciferous increase or
decrease estrogen in my body okay they
were concerned about consuming too much
because they didn't want to increase the
risk of getting cancer because they
heard that cruciferous was a
phytoestrogen
okay a plant based estrogen there are
different types of estrogen in the body
there are types that increase your risk
for cancer and there are types of
estrogen that do not okay so if your
ratio is very very low in the type of
estrogen that is protective against
cancer and very high in the type of
estrogen that increases your risk for
cancer then you want to consume
cruciferous because there are certain
compounds in cruciferous vegetables that
shift the ratio from the bad to the good
so they lower the bad and they increase
the good estrogen that's what it does so
you don't have to worry about it causing
cancer it'll actually help protect
against cancer now a lot of the research
has been done in animals because it's
very difficult to do this type of
research on humans simply because
there's so many variables but we do know
that cruciferous has unique compounds
like indole-3-carbinol for example that
then turn into additional products
called dim I'm not going to give you the
long term for it but dim has the
capacity to create apoptosis which
basically is the killing of cancer cells
DNA protection it decreases the vascular
supply to tumors it will help you
detoxify chemicals in the liver it can
act as an antioxidant to protect the DNA
it also can decrease the spread of
cancer cells and it can even decrease
tumor growth and dim can even be
consumed in a concentrated form as a
supplement one pill of dim is equivalent
to 2 pounds of broccoli and there's a
tremendous amount of research right now
going on using dim in many different
types of cancer another concern that
people have is consuming cruciferous if
they have a slow thyroid or will the
crucifer
slow their thyroid the benefits of
cruciferous are huge okay so you want to
consume cruciferous if you're concerned
about cruciferous depleting your iodine
just take some sea kelp
okay one sea kelp tablet in the morning
will give you plenty but the benefit of
having a little bit of cruciferous each
day is huge
that would be broccoli cauliflower kale
cabbage mustard radish bok choy brussel
sprouts
so in summary cruciferous has certain
unique compounds that shift the type of
estrogen that you have to be more
protective against the risk of cancer
thanks for watching
hey before you go would you mind putting
a comment down below to tell me what you
think about this video
