so I have a question are your feet
shrinking on keto I have so many people
who tell me this now they have to go out
and buy some new shoes after buying this
new wardrobe of losing all this weight
it's very very expensive to do keto by
the way now the reason for that is that
you've been holding fluid you had fluid
retention glycogen which is the storage
of sugar in the body so when you're
doing a lot of carbs you're running your
body off of stored sugar okay it's
called glycogen each gram of glycogen is
bonded to two grams of water so glycogen
is basically a fluid-filled sponge when
you do keto and lower your carbs you
dump all this fluid it's very common to
lose 10 pounds of fluid but many people
lose 20 or more pounds of fluid within
the first two weeks easily so glucose
basically holds fluid okay water follows
glucose so in a diabetic for example
when they have high sugar if it gets to
a certain point where it's too much it
starts to go through you and does not
get reabsorbed to the kidneys so you're
gonna eliminate a lot more sugar and
wherever the sugar goes there goes to
water that's why I diabetic piece so
frequently and they're thirsty so often
it's the glucose so your body is getting
rid of this excess poison I'm sorry
glucose glucose retains sodium so you're
gonna retain water just from that and
also you're gonna be releasing excessive
amounts of potassium potassium is a
diuretic so if you don't have enough
potassium you have too much sodium
you're just gonna retain fluid this is
why one of the recommendations is to
consume a lot of salad or vegetables to
get your potassium and your magnesium up
because you need these minerals for
various things and I can spot this a
mile away if I'm somewhere and someone's
wearing sandals and I'm just looking
down I can see that they have a Dima
they have swelling on their feet and
it's just so tempting to go up to them
and say excuse me ma'am um do you
realize you're consuming too much sugar
yeah
what's your shoe size chances are you're
really a seven and you're just retaining
way too much fluid and it's very
strange because people actually get
offended when I tell them they have
fluid retention I don't know why that is
but getting rid of this excess fluid is
very important because it's going to
take the pressure off the heart it's
going to give you the right amount of
hydration that you need and you're gonna
have less edema and swelling in your
lower legs and extremities all right
guys thanks for watching so if you want
to get notified with all my content
click the notification bell next to
subscribed
