so today I'm going to talk about the
gallbladder and exactly what is a
gallbladder attack let's start from the
beginning and just talk about the
purpose of the gallbladder
the gallbladder is a sac that hangs
underneath your right ribcage and the
purpose of the gallbladder is to store
in concentrate bile bile salts okay
bile salts are detergents they basically
help you break down fats and they help
in the extraction of essential fatty
acids like omega-3 fatty acids which we
need to build body tissue especially
your brain DHA EPA they're
anti-inflammatory as well as fat soluble
vitamins so when you eat food you have
water soluble vitamins and you have fats
I have a vitamins vitamin A de k1 k2
those need to be extracted from the food
so if you don't have bile they don't get
extracted so bile helps to pull those
out and then you also have help from the
pancreas the pancreas releases an enzyme
called lipase that also helps in
breaking down this fat to the smallest
particles so you can absorb it so what
happens with a gallbladder attack
usually you have a stone that gets stuck
in this little tube because the liver
actually makes the bile and it comes
down through these tubes and it's
supposed to be stored in this little sac
right here so if you get a stone stuck
either in the liver you can have a liver
stone or somewhere down here or right at
the opening the back pressure is going
to cause a lot of pain so the symptom
would be stomach pain severe cramping in
your stomach pain underneath the right
ribcage couldn't wrap around the back
you can feel nauseous like you're gonna
vomit right shoulder pain why because
there's a little nerve that connects
with the diaphragm on both sides and
that nerve is called the phrenic nerve
and if there's pressure on the diaphragm
it could refer up to your neck on the
right side so it can cause headaches on
the right side you can create any
problem with your right your trap muscle
over here and even the muscles around
your neck which could he thing cause
though spasm to pull the vertebra out of
alignment and pinch the nerve and cause
pain on the right side I've seen that
many times what's interesting is you
make a lot of bile every day well you're
supposed to anyway you make between 27
and 34 ounces every single day that's
400 to 800 milliliters for those people
in Europe
we're still not at the metric system in
the US but we try to be now the color of
bile is a yellowish brown sometimes kind
of an olive green now another
interesting thing about this bile is
that it takes cholesterol to make bile
takes a lot every day it takes 500
milligrams of cholesterol to actually
make bile and one of the purposes of
bile in addition to extracting the fat
type of vitamins from the food that you
eat is to also eliminate excess amount
of cholesterol so if you have high
cholesterol for example one of the
reasons could be you don't have enough
bile now if there's liver damage okay if
you have a fatty liver or you have
hepatitis or cirrhosis of the liver that
scar tissue that alone could decrease
the production of bile but the big
question is what causes these little
stones that can then lodge and cause
this gall bladder attack right well the
gall stone is mostly made of cholesterol
okay it's a super concentrated
cholesterol stone now based on that
information you might think oh my gosh I
better stop eating cholesterol foods
right because I don't want to get a
stone but remember it actually takes
cholesterol to make bile and also our
bodies make 75% of all the cholesterol
in other words only 25% comes from your
diet so our body makes a lot we need it
to make hormones to support
the nervous system to support the immune
system to support the lining the
membrane around all the cells so
cholesterol is a good thing a
supersaturated amount of cholesterol is
a bad thing now
the problem is if you go on a extreme
low-fat diet your risk for getting gall
stones go up okay now that's weird how
can that be because one of the triggers
for the release of bile is saturated
fats okay so if you cut out fats you dry
up this bile reserve that you have it's
the lack of bile that forms this super
concentrated cholesterol stone so it's
not the cholesterol it's the lack of
bile if you have enough bile and you
have a lot of cholesterol you don't have
any problems okay it's when you don't
have enough oil to be able to keep the
cholesterol thinned sort of speak and
not develop into stones that's where the
problem is so of course the next
question is how do we maintain this bile
how do we make sure we have enough and
what causes a deficiency of bile because
if you research gall stones one of the
treatments is taking bile salts okay to
help dissolve the stones so that's
interesting but there are three main
causes of gall stones there's other
causes but it's just three main ones one
is this if you have too much insulin
okay because you have a high
carbohydrate diet or you're diabetic or
you're pre-diabetic or you have insulin
resistance that right there can deplete
your bile reserve tank causing stones
because if you look at diabetics they
have a higher risk of getting gall
stones so that's why next one is
increasing cortisol so if you're on a
medication called prednisone which is an
anti-inflammatory or you're under a
massive stress that can also shut down
the bile production as well causing a
stone and lastly increase estrogen and
this explains why women who are pregnant
have a higher risk of getting a stone
because the spike in estrogen it also
explains the side effect for birth
control pills which is increased risk of
bile salts as well as hormone
replacement therapy so I think it's
really important to understand all these
factors because by knowing this first of
all you can know if potentially have a
stone number two you can do things to
prevent a stone and it also tells us if
we have a deficiency of either a fat
soluble vitamin or some omega-3 fatty
acid and we can look at this being one
of the major causes because maybe we
just don't have enough file and we need
to actually take a little more bile also
the microbes in your gut are very very
important in the recycling of bile in
fact 95% of all the bile in your body
gets recycled by the microbes so if
you've been on antibiotics or you have
certain key jested issues it could be
that you just need to increase your
flora of good bacteria to help recycle
this bile now let's say for example you
don't have a stone but you still have
gall bladder symptoms it could be the
gallbladder is sluggish because maybe
the bile is too thick not necessarily
enough to create a stone but let's say
that could be one situation well if you
don't have enough bile this will get
thicker and it can create a lot of
issues with the gall bladder and
actually create some congestion some
swelling some pain even though there's
not a stone and because bile salts act
as a lubricant you can get constipation
is one of the big side effects also
you'll get bloating belching and burping
so you can see this bile is just so
important alright a couple last points
okay so because if I don't answer these
some of people are gonna say well what
about this what about that if you have
the gallbladder removed okay
what happens is you're still getting
some bile being produced and it's
trickling down but not to the same
quantity in that case you may benefit by
taking some purified bile salts okay so
that's number one if you have your
gallbladder out and you have diarrhea
there's a condition
which happens when you remove the
gallbladder that you get actually too
much bout coming out in which case you
don't want to take more bile salts
because bile salts will actually create
more lubrication and if you already have
diarrhea you'll have more diarrhea but
one indication for bile salts is
constipation or sluggishness in the
elimination of waste so if you want some
more information about bile salts in
general I put a link down below thanks
for watching hey if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
