hey guys in this video we're going to
share with you a really simple shoulder
pain hack if you have shoulder pain you
need to try this ok so it involves
working on the clavicle now the shoulder
is very complex you have a lot of
muscles you have the scapula you have
the humerus you have different
articulations but I think a really big
neglected area is the clavicle the
collarbone ok the collarbone connects to
part of the sternum and then the top of
the scapula but check this out
you have the sternal Cleo mastoid muscle
which is this huge muscle that comes
down and attaches to the top right
through right there you have the
trapezius connecting to the top part
through here the muscle that raises your
shoulder you have the deltoid on this
side right here that lifts the arm you
have a little hidden muscle called the
subclavius underneath this clavicle then
you have this huge PEC muscle that is a
little bit higher than that and it's
right over this part right here so you
have a lot of major muscle groups that
are attached now if you're involved with
a certain sport that uses a repetitive
movement whether it's golf baseball
tennis you can really create a problem
with this or if you're involved in a
whiplash injury especially from behind
you can create a lot of tearing and scar
tissue underneath this area right here
because there's a lot of ligament
attachments as well and then you have
false you know falling on the shoulder
falling on your arm and jarring the
shoulder and then just exercise in
general maybe lifting too much bench
press straining the muscles in the
shoulder can really create a lot of scar
tissue so I'm going to show you this
really simple stretch that's going to
give you a lot more freedom of motion
within this area right through here it's
really simple you're gonna take your
hand underneath the clavicle okay right
through here you'll take the other hand
right here and you're just gonna lift up
and tilt your head back okay and you're
gonna work your way over this way right
through here and you're just creating a
little space and you might feel a little
pop and it might be very very tender so
go go light but you want to go all the
way out to the end right through here
and really lift lift that clavicle up
and kind of break up those adhesions and
you're gonna compare the right with the
left and do the same thing over on the
opposite side so you're gonna lift and
stretch lift and stretch real subtle and
you're just gonna create space it's
really simple but it creates a lot of
relief on your shoulders alright guys so
go ahead and try this right now and let
me know in the comment section below
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
