hey guys I'm back with another video
today I'm going to talk about some
confusion that some people have on two
topics one is in a minute fasting and
the other is the ketogenic diet
sometimes when you do searches on
ketogenic diet you'll see that it's an
emergency state where your body is being
stressed out that is totally not true I
think the confusion is not understanding
of how your body can adapt from sugar
burning into fat burning fat burning is
a very efficient state when you're
burning fat you're also running on
ketones as well and your brain loves
ketones way more than glucose this is
why so many brain conditions improve
when you put someone on the ketogenic
diet Alzheimer's Parkinson's epilepsy
all sorts of things and then there's
this condition called ketoacidosis okay
which is a dangerous condition but very
rare in diabetics type 1 it's you're not
gonna see this in a normal person that
is healthy okay because the word ketone
is in ketoacidosis they associated being
both the same thing and it's just a big
confusion being in the state of ketosis
is completely different than being in
the state of ketoacidosis okay
completely different situations and
you're not going to develop ketoacidosis
unless you're a type 1 and you're doing
it incorrectly and if a person starts
doing healthy ketosis and eating keto
friendly foods that are healthy they
will never in a million years develop
ketoacidosis if you're a type 1 and
you're not regulating your insulin
correctly and your blood sugars are out
of control well that's when you're gonna
experience problems ok now let's talk
about intermittent fasting sometimes
people think it's starvation ok I'm
gonna use this dictionary Macmillan
dictionary just to define the word
starving ok to suffer and die of hunger
ok that's what starvation means to
deprive nourishment it comes from the
old english word steal or fan which
means to die okay that's what starvation
is fasting is slightly different the
definition fasting is to eat little or
no food or only certain kinds
food okay what happens when you starve
is you already tapped out your fat
reserve and now you're running on muscle
protein and organ protein okay and then
you eventually die it has some side
effects when you're doing fasting you're
tapping out your glycogen Reserve your
stored sugar you're running on your fat
fuel and your stored reserve of
nutrients and the benefit is you live
longer so when you starve you die when
you fast you actually live longer okay
and there's so many health benefits that
occur when you're doing fasting when
you're starving you're hungry when
you're fasting you have no hunger why
because you're running on your fat fuel
alright guys so doing a healthy keto
plan is not a state of emergency it's a
very healthy low stress thing and doing
in a minute fasting is not starvation
all right thanks for watching so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
