hey guys Dr Burke here I want to talk
about pumpkin seeds a lot of people ask
me is it okay to consume those it's a
great food to include into your diet now
as far as a snack have this at the end
of the meal but pumpkin seeds have a lot
of nutrition the number one nutrient
they have is something called manganese
that's a trace mineral trace minerals
are minerals needed in smaller amounts
and primarily it's good for uh building
certain enzymes to help protein for
example if your mother was deficient
when you were
uh being born you could end up with like
things like fallen arches or weakness in
the muscular skeletal system so that
could be one symptom but magnes is
essential for so many different enzymes
in the body then we have phosphorus
phosphorus is the accelerator of the
nervous system it gives you energy
without phosphorus you're going to be
tired also if you're low in phosphorus
you could also have stones kidney stones
liver stones and just calcium deposits
because calcium and phosphorus work
together copper is involved in uh artery
and collagen support so it's necess it's
part of the vitamin C complex in making
collagen and making sure everything is
elastic if you're low on copper your
your arteries and ligaments could be
very rigid and uh inelastic okay
magnesium is really good for blood
pressure and stress very important and
then zinc it's loaded with zinc and that
is really good for the prostate and also
decreasing viral loads especially if
you're getting sick good for sinus as
well omega-3 good for the heart and it's
an
anti-inflammatory uh phal estrogens that
would be good for if you're going
through menopause and you have hot
flashes okay tryptophan which is a
precursor to serotonin which actually
helps you sleep it helps sugar cravings
and stress and vitamin E good for the
heart good for the skin good for
increasing your oxygen carrying capacity
if you take a look at any Mountaintop
you're going to see empty bottles of
vitamin E because it increases your
ability to breathe in high altitudes
because the high oxygen so pumpkin seeds
are awesome to include in your diet one
way that I like to um include those is I
have a a recipe in a video that I'll put
a link down below and I think it's
actually halfway through it you're going
to have to fast forward but in this
recipe I show you how to make chocolate
seeds Okay it's delicious it's like this
chocolate treat with tons of pumpkin
seeds and then you can put it it's
actually no sugar you put it in the
refrigerator and you could every so
often take some of this it's a great way
to consume it or just have them raw or
roasted all right put your comments
below and thanks for watching
