by now I should have had lme disease
over and over again I get roughly about
20 ticks per week I'll be in the shower
and I'm like scratching in my head I'm
like what the heck is this and then I'll
pull out a tick in the back of my scalp
I'll have them hiding in different
places I'll be looking in the mirror and
thinking that it's a mole but actually
it's a tick it's really weird and the
problem I have with the treatment is I
don't like antibiotics and I'm not
telling you not to take an antibiotic or
the conventional treatment or to take it
I just want to give you another view
Point antibiotics don't just kill the
bad bacteria they also kill the good
bacteria so they lower your immune
system and there's a percentage of
people that develop resistance to
antibiotics so now they have things like
chronic fatigue syndrome fibromyalgia
they developed an autoimmune disease
after their treatment of lime so what
I'm going to reveal today is what I
think is the reason I'm not getting this
Lyme disease couple points about ticks
number one there was over 900 different
species of tick a certain percentage can
create lime which is a kind of a
corkscrew bacteria they can penetrate
into tissues that no other bacteria can
get into and this is one way they evade
your immune system by going into certain
tissues that don't have any immune cells
but there's other types of spiralite
infections that create other diseases
like syphilis and something called Rocky
Mountains Spotted Fever which is a bit
rare and so you have this concept of not
ticks will carry this bacteria and also
this other point not all of these
Corkscrew bacteria can create disease
and understanding that is very very
important in preventing these diseases
so here's what happens The Tick attaches
itself in your body and the tick saliva
has this numbing agent so it's really
hard to know that it's on your body this
is why it is so important to check your
body front and back sideways your hair
every single day and on a positive note
it takes a bit of time between 36 and 48
hours which is a really good thing
because you have a little time to check
your body and make sure that there's no
ticks that are creating this effect or
else it would be very bad if they can
create an instant infection first you
might have a little um immune reaction a
little redness but then it can develop
into something called a bullseye rash
that doesn't mean 100% of the time you
have lme disease but it's a good
indicator that you might have it and I
had a bullseye rash two times in my life
and I will explain exactly what I did
for both but I think it's really
important to understand more about this
Corkscrew bacteria and also these cork
screw bacteria can also invade the heart
creating uh palpitations arrhythmias
things like that another way that this
spiral kite evades or avoids your immune
system or immune system detection is by
putting up certain defense mechanisms to
keep them alive once your immune cells
have actually engulfed them and are
eating them by what's called a monoy
which is is a self that eats bacteria
and viruses and fungus they have an
incredible ability to adapt to different
environments but the problem with these
little bacteria they created this immune
reaction and there's a lot of collateral
damage that occurs from your immune
system trying to kill them and this is
why you have a lot of inflammatory
conditions when you have this condition
called lime when I initially got lime's
disease long ago I had severe
inflammation in the back of my head I
had a severe headache my whole body was
like aching like I had the flu and I was
extremely tired but that's the only time
I ever reacted to a tick bite and from
that point on I never had those
reactions and I'm going to tell you why
I think I haven't apparently that
specific bacteria has the capacity to
affect your receptors for vitamin D
because vitamin D is the most important
vitamin of the entire immune system
including the monocytes vitamin D helps
the monoy become very strong and
efficient vitamin D also increases these
antimicrobial they're called peptides or
compounds that help kill Spyro kites
this microbe now is going to be in the
driver's seat it's going to be in
control and your immune cells are going
to be in the back seat like even the
Epstein bar virus or the cytomegalo
virus has the ability to downgrade the
vitamin D receptor because somehow it
knows how important this vitamin D is
especially with enhancing your immune
system's ability to fight but there's
another detail about this that I just
thought was very interesting I want to
share with you the monoy when it comes
in contact with this spoky triggers this
other chemical called interferon now
what is interferon
interferon uh is a compound that
interferes with viruses when a monoy
comes in contact with this bacteria
interferon goes up so it must have some
other functions that we don't know about
now the other thing I was going to
mention about this is something called
the post treatment mint lime disease
this is very common you see people that
had lime they had the treatment but now
they still have symptoms they develop
autoimmune diseases because the immune
system is greatly suppressed because
they can no longer absorb vitamin D and
this is where it gets really interesting
because I take a tremendous amount of
vitamin D on a regular basis I think
it's the vitamin D that keeps my immune
system strengthened it literally
bulletproof me against problems like
lime and this next part I want to share
with you it's so important but it's not
really well known by even doctors
there's two different main systems of
vitamin D you have one system that
controls all the calcium okay and then
another system of vitamin D that is
non-calcium benefits like the supporting
of the immune cells like the support of
your uh central nervous system all your
nerves and then the heart and the
muscles and the intestines and the
anti-inflammatory effect that's all over
here this is a completely different
system this system that controls calcium
and bone that vitamin D is received from
the blood this system over here like
your immune
system is unable to get very much of
this Vitamin D from the blood but this
vitamin D is very locked up mostly
unavailable to this system right here
especially your immune cells the immune
system depends on its Vitamin D from the
Sun from your food which is impossible
because we don't get much vitamin D from
our food or supplements now most of the
research in vitamin
D on skeletal system found that you only
need a very small amount like 600 IUS of
vitamin D to maintain this calcium
support for your skeletal system but
this system over here needs a lot more
like 10,000 I use now what's even more
wild is that this type of vitamin D in
the blood can last for 3 weeks this
vitamin D that comes from Sun food or
supplements only lasts 24 hours in other
words if you're taking your vitamin D
once a week and not every day you're not
going to be able to feed the immune
cells and on top of that that spiralite
has the ability to downgrade the vitamin
D receptor by 50 X if I personally
suspected that I had lime I would be
taking 30 40 50,000 I use of vitamin D
without any question at all that's
probably why I did not develop lime
because really the strategy is going to
be supporting your immune system versus
trying to kill off this infection
because you end up killing off the
immune system the very thing that keeps
you strong and keeps you protected one
additional thing I want to mention is
that they have found these spirro
kites in your tissue underneath your
teeth that's right so if you have an
abscess an infection underneath the
tooth um there's a possibility that you
could have this spyroy as well and the
reason I'm bringing that up is there's
so many problems connected with teeth
infections especially after root canals
because this bacteria is hidden it's
protected underneath uh into the jaw and
it can leak out and create all sorts of
problems with your heart all sorts of
problems with the immune system it can
keep you inflamed and this is why I
always recommend like a biological
dentist or a holistic dentist to really
make sure you don't have these hidden
infections underneath your teeth which
can create a lot of problems this is the
protocol that I think would be a good
idea whether you're going to do an
antibiotic or not I would recommend
taking high doses of vitamin D3 at least
30,000 I use anytime you take vitamin D3
you also need magnesium and you need K2
and you need zinc those are all
co-actors to allow vitamin D to work and
if you're taking high doses of Vitamin D
without those you can actually even
create a deficiency of the co-actors two
other things I think would be really
good to take Japanese knock wheat for
supporting your immune system and then a
lot of garlic now if you wanted to learn
more about a protocol that I used when I
had lime check out this video right here
