but if your muscles are stiff okay and
you don't have good range of motion you
need to watch this video now being in
sports wrestling I've did a lot of
stretching in the past and the way we're
taught is it's called static stretching
where you're actually you know trying to
stretch out a muscle and you're holding
it for 30 to 60 seconds that is the
worst way to stretch now this
information is based on a really
interesting book and I'll put the link
down below authored by Jim and Phil
Wharton now I'm not sure about Jim but
Phil is a physiotherapist and a fitness
coach and has worked with some of the
top runners in the world Olympic runners
okay so this guy definitely knows his
stuff but his information on stretching
is quite fascinating it makes a lot of
sense and I'm going to share it with you
the first point I want to bring up is a
tight muscle a tight muscle is not ever
going to help you it's not going to
protect the joint it's actually weaker
it's more susceptible to an injury and
usually there's inflammation now what
happens when you stretch a muscle after
three seconds is you kick in this
stretch reflex it's called The myotactic
Reflex and the purpose of that reflex is
to counter this stretch and create a
contraction so when you stretch a muscle
you're basically causing the muscle to
fight that stretch okay and start to
contract and so you have the situation
where you're using Force against force
and you can actually injure yourself and
I've done that many many times even
before a wrestling match I would stretch
incorrectly and end up straining or
pulling a muscle very simply this is how
it works a muscle always comes in a pair
so you have one side of the body is
Contracting and then the other side is
relaxing they don't both contract at the
same time and if you have one muscle
that's healthy and it's Contracting the
other one's relaxing you have motion and
so motion is all about the coordination
of this contraction and relaxation and
so the type of stretching that they came
up with is called active isolated
flexibility so very simply there's just
three simple steps all right
you want to isolate the muscle you want
to stretch so let's say for example you
have a tight hamstring okay that's the
back part of your leg what you want to
do is you want to contract the opposing
muscle
as you stretch the hamstring what is the
opposing muscle that would be the thigh
muscle or your quadricep okay so you're
going to be contracting the quadricep
which is going to automatically cause
a communication to the hamstring to
relax it because it absolutely makes no
sense if you're going to try to stretch
a muscle
that you're Contracting at the same time
you want to relax the muscle that you're
stretching right I mean it's pretty
obvious
but if you contract the opposing muscle
you send signals to allow that hamstring
to totally relax so you can stretch it
without injury number one identify the
muscle you want to stretch number two
contract or tighten the opposite muscle
okay as you stretch and then number
three
when you get to the point at the end of
the range of motion we've gone to a
point where you can't go anymore and I
don't recommend going into pain at that
point remember I mentioned the stretch
reflex that kicks in well that stretch
reflex kicks in at three seconds so what
you want to do is you want to stretch it
all the way to the end point for two
seconds okay and then you relax it that
way we avoid the contraction or the
countering of this stretch and he
recommends that you repeat this eight to
ten times per muscle and this could be a
great warm-up before your exercise and
he even recommends this or maybe a
version of this
if you injure yourself you see a lot of
times when you injure a knee or another
part of your body they want to
immobilize it now I think you should
immobilize it if there's a fracture
where there's a severe injury but if
that injury is not that severe it's very
important to add motion into that joint
as soon as possible starting with maybe
a passive range of motion and eventually
going into these stretches right here
which should be very therapeutic in the
rehab but that's a separate topic let's
get back to the stretching so in this
first example bent knee hamstring
stretch with a rope just so you get the
concept you can see he's Contracting the
quadricep as he's bringing this up for
about two seconds at the end of the
range of motion and then he's relaxing
right and he's doing that for eight to
ten times
and this next one he's doing the
hamstring straight leg so he's using his
thigh muscle or quad to contract as he
holds it for two seconds at the end of
the range of motion but this is the best
way to create a really good relaxation
and increase flexibility of the
hamstring now of course you're going to
do both sides now I put those links down
below to get more information but if you
haven't seen my other video in exercise
it's pretty cool I put it up right here
check it out
