so I want to do a quick video in Omega
seven fatty acids okay I've done videos
on omega-3 omega-6 so the word Omega is
the last letter in the Greek alphabet
it's there to represent just the
chemical structure of a certain type of
fat that's all you need to know about it
it's a monounsaturated you don't even
need to know that you don't even need to
know the names which you might need to
know is the benefits of consuming this
okay
it helps blood sugars because it
enhances insulin sensitivity and since
so many people have insulin resistance
this would be something very beneficial
to know about and of course if it
enhances insulin sensitivity it's going
to lower insulin and it's going to lower
cholesterol and it's going to lower
inflammation and it's going to help you
burn fat okay so so it's it's pretty
cool of type of fat the sources of Omega
7 the highest source is something called
sea buckthorn berry and the second good
source would be macadamia nut and a lot
of people take Omega 7 for their hair
their nails because it actually does
help cracking in the nails splitting of
the nails splitting of the hair it helps
your hair shine and it also is good for
ulcers alright there you have it that's
the quick summary on Omega 7 fatty acids
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
about that
