hey guys today we're gonna talk about
hypoglycemia should you increase or
should you decrease your carbohydrates
alright what are the symptoms of
hypoglycemia shakiness nervousness dizzy
hungry cravings and your irritable other
than that you're perfectly fine now what
you need to know about hypoglycemia is
this it's the high insulin that's
lowering the blood sugar yes it's true
that your adrenals or your liver might
be weak and it goes back down but it is
the high levels of insulin that is
pushing the blood sugar down because the
purpose of insulin is to lower blood
sugar when the insulin is high it lowers
the blood sugar when the insulin is low
and will your blood sugar will go higher
okay it goes out of control so in
diabetes type 1 where you don't make any
insulin you're gonna have high blood
sugar and this is why persons put on
medication usually insulin now over here
type 2 it's a little different you
actually have high levels of insulin and
type 2 but because you have insulin
resistance it makes it appear like you
have a low insulin okay inside the cell
so it's basically of all this insulin
but it's not working alright so now
let's talk about the recommendations
that you normally get from the medical
community which I believe is very very
bad advice so you get this
recommendation to increase your protein
okay what they don't emphasize is to
lower the carbohydrates and they
definitely don't emphasize to increase
the fat now take a look at this the real
root cause of hypoglycemia is high
insulin adding more carbs is going to
increase insulin we don't want to do
that adding more protein will increase
some insulin okay adding more fat is the
only thing that's not going to increase
the insulin now it's okay to consume
protein but only if you are on a
low-carb diet because when you increase
protein with carbs you more than double
the in
response you also get this condition
called glycation where you're actually
combining a protein with a sugar
molecule okay and that's really bad in
the body and what's even worse than that
is they're also recommending the six
meals a day to eat very frequently to
prevent the drop in blood sugar and all
that will do is just continue the
problem so you'll never be able to
correct it so here's what you should do
okay
realize that it's the high insulin
causing the problem and by the way it's
totally okay to consume protein just go
with lower carbs okay
increase your fat fat is going to help
you go longer without getting hungry fat
will help stabilize the blood sugars fat
is not going to worsen the situation
okay so we want to do a little more
protein a little more fat you can do
vegetable carbohydrates but keep all the
other carbohydrates low and watch all
the improvements that will occur with
your hypoglycemia so if you've
personally benefited from the
information that I put on the videos I
would love to actually see your success
story too I'll put a link down below so
you can upload your before and after
pictures with your story
