eliminate sciatica pain, chronic low
back pain, regardless of what it's
coming from, whether it's from a
protruded disc, scar tissue on the nerve
root, or even arthritis in your spine.
Did you realize 0.2 mm of pressure on
your very sensitive nerves in your back
or the spinal column produce major pain?
One study has showed an increase to 40%
pain or in some cases way more. And
sometimes it feels like someone knifed
your back. I want to show you how to fix
that. All day long we sit. And the
amount of people that came in with back
pain, whether it was from a fall on
their butttocks, which I've done many,
many times or an injury or you lift
something or you're just sitting all
day. Did you realize that there's more
pressure on your disc when you're
sitting than when you're standing? And
I'm so guilty of that. I sit in this
chair, I mean, a tremendous amount of
time through the day. And then let's
talk about posture, right? So every inch
your head goes forward past the midline
through here, you're adding about 10 lbs
of weight in your upper shoulders. So
you're sitting forward this way, you
know, and this is what people do.
Creates a lot of stress, not just on the
upper back, on the lower back, too. And
then what about when you're driving,
right? You're reversing the lower back
curve and you're sitting there and
you're driving long distances and then
you get home and you sit on the couch,
right? Terrible for your back. Add age
to this, we actually get shorter. What's
happening over time? All this decrease
in space is eventually going to hit some
of these nerves and you're going to end
up with some back pain. This therapy I'm
going to talk about will quickly give
you enough space in your back to give
you so much relief. And I think this is
the absolute hands down best treatment
for the lower back because it has
virtually no side effects. What does
this treatment involve? It's
anti-gravity. Do we have to go to space
to get it? Not necessarily. The therapy
is using the inversion table to bring
yourself gradually almost upside down.
And this reverses the flow of gravity.
I'm also going to show you how to do
this without an inversion table. So, you
don't need anything at all. You just
need a wall. But if you think about it,
an immersion table only cost literally
$100, maybe up to 400 at the very very
top, which is pretty close to like one
treatment going to either the physical
therapist, the doctor, the chiropractor.
You can literally buy an inversion table
and use it for a very long period of
time and do it yourself. Gravity has
been putting pressure on us since we
were born. So what happens when we
reverse this? Reverse the flow. You're
using your weight of your upper body to
pull down on your lower back creating
this negative pressure allowing all this
blood flow. You're also breaking up
adhesions and scar tissue. You want to
do intermittent inversion traction where
you do it for one to two minutes and
then you bring yourself back up and you
bring it back to one to two minutes,
bring yourself back up and you're going
to do that repetitively. And I'm going
to give you kind of a a pattern to
follow and I'm going to type that also
down in the description. It's one of the
most dynamic and effective things you
can do to your lower back. You're
hitting these key areas, the nerve, the
disc, the scar tissue, the lack of blood
flow, all in one treatment. Like I said
before, all we have to do is increase
the space by the width of two pieces of
paper. There's very powerful research
out there that shows that it actually
even increases your flexibility, reduces
the risk of getting surgery for scatica,
and just gets rid of your lower back
pain pretty quick. In some studies, it
shows that it beats taking medication by
35%. Injections of cortisone shots into
your back without the side effects. I do
want to mention something really quick.
Uh if you have high blood pressure, if
you have glaucoma, which is higher
pressure in your eye, or some other type
of heart problem, check with your doctor
before doing this. Overall, it's
relatively pretty safe. It's actually
good for the entire body. Here's how you
want to start it. You only want to start
like 1 to 2 minutes. Not reversing
yourself completely upside down, only by
an angle of like 15 to 30%. Nothing too
crazy, just a little bit for 1 to 2
minutes. once or maybe twice a day for
about a week. Then slowly increase it to
5 minutes at about 60Â° for another 1 to
two weeks. We're talking about 5 minutes
or longer. I'm talking about doing it
intermittently. You might want to do it
for like a minute, come down, bring
yourself up. So, there's little pauses
in between this. That will create the
pumping blood flow in the lower back.
But after about 3 to four weeks, you can
do what I do, which I bring myself all
the way almost completely upside down.
And I'll do that for 2 minutes, okay?
And then another 2 minutes. And I will
go back and forth with that cycle for
about 15 to 20 minutes, three times a
week. When you do this, you're going to
feel taller. You're going to have a lot
less pain, and it's going to feel like
you just got an amazing stretch. Before
I get into the other versions of the
inversion technique, I want to explain
other things you should be doing to
decrease your pain in your lower back
and your scatica. Number one is go on a
low carb ketogenic diet. Why? Because
that is going to severely reduce your
inflammation through the entire body.
Number two, start taking a good amount
of vitamin D. And I'm talking about at
least 20 to 30,000 international units
of vitamin D3 with K2 and with
magnesium. It's 400 mg of magnesium
glycinate. But the reason why you want
the vitamin D as the primary thing is
because the first place for vitamin D
deficiencies to show up is your lower
back. The next thing is to eliminate all
the omega6
seed oils out of your diet. Problem with
omega6 is it competes with omega-3 which
is anti-inflammatory. If you're doing
all these seed oils, what's going to
happen is you're going to start to have
overall higher amounts of inflammation.
The other thing that I would recommend
my fascial stretching when you're doing
low back stretches, for example, like
side bending type stretches, you're not
really stretching the fashcia. What you
want to do is do side bending stretches
and lift your arm over your head and
stretch down the opposite way. This is
why my fascial stretching using the
whole body is so effective. It's kind of
like if you took a rag and it was wet
and you rotated it to ring the water out
and then you bent it to the side. That's
when you get all the water out. That's
exactly what you want to do. Let's say
you don't have an inversion table. Just
get a couple blankets and your pillow
and you can roll them up as you see in
this uh video right here. This is called
yoga's child pose. and you're literally
creating the situation where there's
very little pressure on your lower back
and you're laying over it and you're
creating space in your lower back. It's
going to give you a lot of relief. Why?
Because you eliminated gravity. It's
probably not going to create a major uh
decompression, but it's going to give
you a lot of relief. Next stretch is
called the wall assisted leg up stretch.
You can do one leg at a time. You're
literally lifting up your pelvis. You
can just hold it up there or you can go
back and forth to strengthen it. You're
basically using the wall to uh create a
little bit of an inversion with your
lower back. The next one, you'll need a
uh kind of an exercise ball. And this is
called the lying spinal decompression
with a stability ball. You're literally
going to just lay over this ball. And
the ball is going to be pressing upward
as you're laying over it, creating this
distraction because you're allowing your
gravity for your upper body and your
lower body to go over your lower back.
The last anti-gravity technique is in
the water because when you go in the
water, there's less gravity and you can
float around. It'll gradually decompress
the lower back. Not to the degree that
these other things will or the inversion
table, but it can greatly help you. If
you have sciatica and nerve pain or
lower back pain, your next most
important thing to do, it's a drink for
joint pain and it's super effective.
This is how you make it. Just click
right here. Watch it now.
