hey guys in this video I want to talk
about intermittent fasting and your
thyroid I get this question a lot people
are concerned they're hypothyroid some
of them have hosoo some of them are just
regular hypothyroid and they're like can
I do intermittent fasting okay well
here's the data what really uh messes up
the thyroid is if you go low
calories a low calorie diet now the
difference between intermittent fasting
and a low calorie diet is that it's
really it's simple it's like
intermittent fasting you're still having
the same amount of calories you're just
consuming them not as frequent you're
not spreading them out through the day
okay so as long as you're having a
nutrient-dense meal with all of the
nutrition that you need you're going to
be fine but if you're doing um a low
calorie diet that can be very stressful
on the thyroid because because the
thyroid is already suffering with a um
with the body's ability to make
intracellular enzymes and work correctly
and uh metabolize things so you don't
want to literally put it in Starvation
starvation or low calorie diets put
signals into the brain that um you need
to slow the metabolism down even more so
in other words the way to create a slow
metabolism is to go on a diet lower your
calories starve yourself and then your
system slows down so if we take a
hypothyroid case and we do the same
thing so now we take this slow
metabolism now we really make it slow
okay not a good situation couple things
you should know number one selenium is
the key Trace mineral to help you
convert from T4 to T3 it's very
important hashimotos and um you can get
it in bruise yeast or nutritional yeast
okay that's a good good natural source
or take it as a supplement iodine get it
from celp I have one called Icelandic
celp which has also selenium in it both
of these it's a trace mineral it's not
synthetic it's
plant-based um I also have a plant-based
Trace mineral but if you want more of
the iodine you want to do more seelp for
thyroid it's it's you don't need much
maybe one or two in the morning don't
have before you go to bed because you're
going it's going to keep you up um now
as far as cruciferous vegetables it
could be a factor uh in slowing your
thyroid down especially if you consume a
lot of them but what I like to do
because one of the causes of thyroid in
the first place is high levels of
estrogen how you going to get that out
of your body so you want to consume
cruciferous to kind of because it's
anti-estrogenic to help clean some of
that out so if you're if you're a true
uh and you're concerned just have just
small amounts of cruciferous just to
make sure okay and then up your seelp
and you'll be fine the other um unknown
nutrient that's vital for uh improving
Hashimoto especially is the fat cable
vit vitamin A and vitamin D but mainly
vitamin
A vitamin A has a unique uh ability to
go into the the Deep Cell and affect the
DNA so it's really helpful and vitamin A
is um you can get it in CER oil so CER
oil ver virgin cive oil is a combination
of vitamin A and vitamin D together so
I'd highly recommend that uh if you have
a thyroid issue and also just to support
it through intermittent fasting and
lastly intermittent fasting itself if
done correctly can help you convert T4
to T3 the active form of thyroid hormone
so it will improve the thyroid I think
the reason it does it mainly is because
the gallbladder um helps you convert T4
to T3 and inent fasting greatly improves
the gallbladder conversion okay all
right so those are some tips and thank
you so much for
watching hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
