so I always like to do
um these success stories when you find
an amazing story you want to you want to
share with people today we have special
guest Jim bizat and uh welcome Jim how
you doing I'm doing great thanks for
having me absolutely you know it's
interesting I uh my sister is about I
think eight years younger than me and
she went to school with Jim and he went
to the same
uh middle school and high school and
college and so he was also a wrestler so
we have definitely have something in
common he wrestled heavyweight and I
think two-time National Championship
right yes wow well done
so um Jim tell me a little bit about
um you did you always have Centrio
heavyweight I'm guessing you've been big
for a while right you've been overweight
or I don't I don't know you tell me
yeah I was always on the heavy side you
know always uh always chunky I guess
wrestling was a good outlet for me to
get in shape wrestling and football and
sports I always uh kind of got in better
shape when I was participating in that
stuff and then I'd always kind of fall
off when the season was over and it was
always a struggle so you're going along
for how many years before you said you
know I just need I need to lose this way
I was gradually getting higher and
higher at one point reached 395 and I
was sitting with one of my friends and I
said hey five more pounds and I'm in the
400 club and he said what are you doing
you're crazy stop it so that kind of
dropped me you know down to I think I
got down to 360 and stayed there
probably for the last five years I was
probably in the 350 360 range at that
point did you have any other health
problems yeah I had a lot of health
problems I was hospitalized a couple
times with uh cellulitis in my legs
um
it was kind of I was always kind of I
was just sickly and you don't realize it
at the time but you just think it's
normal you know that that you
occasionally get ill and I and I did
that and I
and then and you just feel like this is
kind of the end you know you're
gradually get older and then you'll just
get sick and die and hopefully you can
make it as long as possible so it's
something you kind of got used to I mean
especially like being that heavy I mean
I would imagine you probably got used to
it but I mean just the weight of like
close to 400 pounds on your joints on
your knees and your back I can't imagine
them but you probably just adapted to it
yeah it just seemed I think everybody
got comfortable with it my family me
um yeah I just thought it was I would
just stay
medicated and
and you know I'm just keep going that
way you know was there something that um
when you started to figure out uh keto
um what what how did you run into Keto
whenever I would shift to a high protein
diet I would uh
I'd lose weight you know I was just kind
of some clicked and I knew how to do it
you know I knew
that if I cut out you know processed
foods and and carbs I would uh lose
weight but
what happened was I went to a wrestling
meet up at Parkside and I seen their
heavy weight get beat and I thought you
know what I'm gonna go I can help this
kid I'm gonna go in the room and help
them so I went into the room and
realized I can't move anymore like I
used to you know I I I can't help this
kid
so I thought you know what you need to
start
start working out start eating right and
I really shifted towards
as much protein as possible and
really cut out
you know
every every carb I could think of you
know and I
and then the weight this is February of
this year that this started and it just
fell off me like
you know it just it was amazing and I
and I did work out throughout the
process but it wasn't like it was crazy
workouts you know it was maybe twice a
week up at the resting room you know
getting on the bike slowly getting back
into I knew how to work out because I've
done it you know pretty much my whole
life and
but this there was something different
and when I really
kind of pushed out the processed foods
and the sugars that
it just changed my life you know it
really did so you went from how much
weight to your current weight now like
tell me how much what you went from to
currently I was in February I was
probably in mid 360s maybe 365 and I
right now I'm 255.
so it's all 100 plus it matched that
short amount of time which was is
really it's crazy that it happened that
fast and uh
you know I I follow kind of the three
like I follow a carnivore
diet but it's almost impossible to stay
that you know that
regimented so but I really don't eat a
lot of fruits and vegetables you know I
think I get I mean I multivitamins is
kind of where I'm getting you know and
and from your advice uh
um organ me is where I get a lot of my
uh my vitamins but I uh I mean I don't
eat any pasta any sugar and I
I just think
yeah I just I agree it's crazy what
happened to me in this short amount of
time it was it's been it's been amazing
it's life-changing you know and it's
been so many different aspects that
that have happened to me it's different
positive things you know
one thing that did happen I I did have
uh I had a seizure
because
I wasn't used to not holding the water
that I had so I I went to my daughter's
softball tournament and spent the whole
day I had some coffee in the morning I'm
kind of nervous when I watch her pitch
so I I uh didn't drink any water
throughout the day I got home and I went
to bed and I had a seizure and I ended
up in the hospital and it kind of broke
it down the neurologist and everybody
that it was heat stroke and dehydration
and maybe a salt efficiency that kind of
caused this thing so I mean that's kind
of a a warning to other people if they
go through this to really keep an eye on
you know their electrolyte intake which
I which I do
you know so
um
yeah I'll just mention one point for
those of you that are watching what
happens when you when you start this
when you cut out carbs you lose a
tremendous amount of water weight and
with that comes electrolyte loss so if
you don't especially potassium too so if
you don't add either electrolytes and
sea salt you're going to end up um
pretty dehydrated so that's just a
really important little Factor I'm glad
that you you figure that out but yeah
that's amazing so Jim when you do uh the
carnivore of course you can get all your
nutrients you just have to know what to
do so you you're adding uh fried beef
liver organ Meats uh eggs uh fish the
omega-3 fatty acids probably and also
shellfish for all the trace minerals and
you can even get some vitamin C from
liver as well and uh you've been doing
that right I mean you're like because so
many people just do the steak which is
it's not going to give you everything a
lot of things but not everything
yeah you know I eat a lot of chicken
liver I eat a lot of beef liver we blend
up the liver and add it to the um to the
beef make hamburgers with it kind of
takes that that funk away from the taste
a little bit
um yeah salt I
no seasonings really except salt I use
sea salt
um
I do go like I said I I if I in the
morning I'll drink uh
a protein shake carnivore protein shake
um
a Premier Protein Bar if
you know if
I try not to get hungry I try not if I'm
I always keep something with me just so
I'm not ever really tempted these days
I'm not I'm it's it's weird how I like
Fourth of July I stood in the tent where
all the food was and just looked around
at everything and I was thinking why
don't I want this food anymore wow and I
grabbed I grabbed a brat and ate a brat
and uh
and yeah it's really has like because
the
the way I feel just out ways that that
need
yeah you know that's that's with me too
when I get to the point where I'm like
you know what I already know what I'm
gonna feel like if I go this other
direction it's like no it's not worth it
because I'm sure people around you are
not doing what you're doing and then and
they're they're probably looking at you
kind of weird but you're like no I'm
good I'm good I do get it my I I think I
got it for a month from my wife until
she started seeing what was happening to
me and now she's probably about 90 on
board you know she eats what I eat and
uh
I seen her eat an onion ring the other
day but uh and she's she's had
miraculous with her skin you know and
and it's just those those little
byproducts of this diet that are just
amazing I feel like my hair is coming
back on the top of my head and you know
it's the weirdest you know skin tags
gone
wow and it's and I I see people that
I've known for 20 years and I walk by
them and they Double Take You know
because they don't recognize me I mean
you I you have those before and after
pictures it's a different a different
person
and so then the people I talked to and I
explained today I was at the gym and I
was talking to a guy and I mean
the results that have happened that you
you just can't deny what has happened to
me so they there's a lot of people on
board you know and I uh
and I appreciate the the info I get from
you and there's several doctors that I
kind of pull stuff from and uh
you know I'm Barry Dr Barry I pull some
stuff from and Dr chafee he's in a kind
of an extremist but I I think you've all
um kind of done this for me and and
thank you for that hey you're welcome my
pleasure that's that's why I do it it's
really it's a lot of enjoyment just to
get people
just at least try it to see that they
can do it and that's why I wanted to
create this video to inspire other
people who are sitting there haven't
done it yet you might want to you know
Try It Out and because uh you know it's
not it's there's like thousands and
thousands of people that we have on the
website just before and afters but
um you know what you did is you just uh
cut out the carbs that's the that's the
most important thing is cutting out
carbs and then um you substituted the
protein and and the fat and then once
you started feeling the difference then
no one can convince you otherwise I mean
you probably also have how about your
energy or even your cognitive function
I I drive when I'm driving through
Kenosha sometimes I look at a house and
I realize I got babysat there when I was
seven that's the kind of weird stuff is
happening with my brain and uh energy
this people say you're working out a ton
right I said I'm not working out a ton
but I cannot not work out I got to be
doing something because at the energy
level is so high you know I probably
rode my bike to the four miles to the
gym today four miles back I lifted but
like it's not crazy I'm not you know
maybe it was a half hour 45 minute
workout and then came back because
otherwise it
that gives me the best if I if I get rid
of this energy I sleep better
and and it really doesn't feel
restrictive of the diet because there's
such a you know people ask me what
you're eating I said anything that any
animal
if it comes from an animal too I eat
cheese still I drink milk and it's the
ultimate Elimination Diet because you
know milk makes my shoulders a little
sore a little bit of inflammation I
think from the sugar and the milk but I
know what it does to me
and uh that's kind of what what's
happened I know you know I know what
everything how everything affects me
yeah you attuned to the food and you can
you you know it's almost good sometimes
they go off just so you could really see
for sure like okay yeah that that's
going to create some inflammation no
thank you
um you know and and when I wrestled
unfortunately I was I had always cut
weight you probably didn't have to worry
about that but cutting a lot of weight
if I only would have known but I know
now I mean back then have been
incredible because I was trying to live
on carbs
and lose weight by just not just
starving for like three days right the
worst worst for your energy and um
so not not that someone wants to do
you know if you're an athlete uh you
know you're gonna have to eat a lot more
calories or else you're going to get
really lean
so um and actually probably more fat too
but um but yeah so this is amazing so
also what about like your your your
exercise and I don't know if you're
still wrestling now or coaching or
working with people
um what about your physical
strength or agility and endurance
it's it is through the roof it's
the muscle mass at this age to be
putting on you know and abs I didn't
have I've never had abs before you know
it's just a whole different
body it really is it's I walk by the
mirror sometimes at night on the way to
the bathroom and I kind of stop and look
at the mirror and I'm just flabbergasted
what has happened and wow it's yeah
it's I didn't I never I couldn't believe
that at this age
I could have this much energy and I've
wrestled I've wrestled in two
tournaments
since this I've lost I've Owen four but
I I went the distance and lost in
overtime the two of these are 30 model
guys that I'm wrestling and I I lost two
nothing to two of them and and over time
to the other two and I don't even mind
you know that I lost because I just
start being able to participate at this
age and I'm gonna do it again I and I'm
I plan on the wrestling season is going
to start here in a minute up at Parkside
and I I plan on being in there working
with that heavyweight and now I can you
know he's going to be a junior and I
hope to give him you know oh like he can
handle and I uh are you are you 51 years
old or whatever I'll be 53 in in a week
and a half yeah okay so now are you
saying you wrestled in like an old
timers tournament or what basically yeah
basically an all-time the Badger State
Games I wrestled in so
I had a couple guys at my weight class
in their early 30s and then I wrestled
in an Old-Timers tournament in Franklin
and uh
those guys were a little younger but
I feel like yeah it's just
and I can't wait to do it again and I
mean the my knees feel better than they
probably ever have you know I I just I
don't have any inflammation is what it
is credible yeah it it is it's
incredible it's if I can only find at
like an old terms tournament around here
I would jump into that and do that if my
wife let me because I I just would love
it because you train you do that for so
long and all of a sudden you like okay
you stop and you have you want to keep
doing it because it's like it's a game
and but um unfortunately there's not
much around in Southern Virginia but
um yeah that would be interesting
because I'm about 180
7 so I guess uh I'd have to maybe lose a
couple pounds for uh the 183.
yeah there there's probably something
down there you could find I think
there's something I'm gonna have to
check it out well I have some serious
endurance because I live in a farm and I
I'm talking about hills I think uh I
mean I know even people that come here
that are a lot younger they can't keep
up because of the environment you know
the high altitude the the work around
the farm um it's like I'm in better
shape now that I was 20 years ago so
yeah totally into it when people say
that in the past I wouldn't believe it
you know but I believe it now you know
yeah I I find it hard to lose my wind
um I'm on my bike going uphill
and I and and yeah it's a whole new it's
a whole new life for me and uh I can't
wait to see what's next you know how
yeah how I how I improve
more you know literally have gotten
younger as you're getting older uh so uh
as far as advice if you were just to
give someone some advice and they're
sitting on the edge thinking you know
what I need to do this but I what what
tip when you give them more advice to
motivate them
it's not as hard as it's not as hard as
you think and I think a lot of people
think especially if they're obese
because I feel like I was obese when you
put up that picture I was obese
um
you you think it's going to take two
years is the ticket's gonna take I
haven't got two years to I can't do this
for two years but it don't and the other
thing is you can have such a large range
of food you can eat from the chicken and
uh and you don't bypass you know in my
brain it's not the animal fats that are
clogging arteries my mom died at 56 in
her sleep from a clogged heart
and it's in her mom the same thing you
know my father's still alive they have
strong Hearts luckily and uh
I don't I don't feel like it's animal
fats that are clogging the hearts it's
it's that gluten in the animal in the
starch mixed together so now in my brain
is I know if I start adding that back
into my diet I feel like it's just gonna
stop everything up again so that's kind
of but the you got to look at it the big
range of food you can eat and I mean if
you look at I know I get some uh I get
some plant-based stuff from my from my
bars and stuff that I'll eat and I think
that's kind of the key too I talk to
people they say I can't I can't give up
chocolate I'm like well have some
protein bars sitting there and if you
gotta have one have one you know but
the mat the big group of foods you can
eat makes it easy you know because I've
tried you know you try if you try to
just eat salad and you deprive yourself
of of of calories to lose weight I did a
juice fast one time for 30 days and I
sure I lost it's like 60 pounds but I
was awfully weak and
I didn't feel like I feel now you know
and then soon as soon as it was over it
was
that ballooned up again right away I
can't do it for any period of time right
this you can live on and if you
and people say well I can't eat a I
can't eat steak with just salt on it I
need to put well then do that if you
have to do that do that to stay on it
you know don't
you know
do whatever you can to stick with it you
know if it takes some vanilla yogurt at
night and with a little bit of sugar in
it do it you know if that's going to
keep you on track because that's what I
do once in a while I have a cup of
vanilla vanilla yogurt to get me through
the evening when I'm want I got the
little sweet tooth you know but I I
think it's easier than you think and the
weight
I told them I tell the people that
question me and and I could tell they're
on the fence I say do it 10 days
you know do it for 10 days cut out all
your carbs and sugars and don't eat
anything that grows for 10 days that's
what I say try that just try it eat you
know eat some beef bacon they say I can
have bacon yeah you can have bacon you
can you know you can drink milk you can
I went for a stint where I was drinking
raw milk I was getting it from a farm
one of my wrestler buddies his dad has a
farm
um and I was going to the farm and
getting the milk and I felt when I was
drinking that even now I feel like I
can't get sick that's one thing my
immune system is so solid right now my
daughter has a cold right now I don't
mind
her you can give me a kiss if she wants
she I'm not getting sick I feel like I
mean that's how I and I really haven't
had any illness besides the the seizure
which I think was caused from the
excessive weight loss and but I haven't
been sick in months and I that's how you
kind of feel like you can't
you know that's why my wife said I think
your hair is getting darker and I said
let me go check and I act like I was
going to fly away because that's how you
it just gets better and better and
better so that's awesome yeah if you're
on the fence and you're thinking about
doing this just kind of write down all
the foods you you can eat and there's a
lot you know if you like chicken you
know eat the skin eat the fat you know
that's my
that's my philosophy and but I do like I
said I do take a multivitamin still
amount of blood pressure medicine I
found out
I thought my blood pressure would just
naturally go down when I lost all this
weight and it didn't and so I kind of
came in it still kind of stayed up so
I have it in the perfect spot right now
it's half of what I took when this all
started
but it's uh you know I take a magnesium
um
vitamin D3 I do take I do get a lot of
sun but I'm gonna again your Cod Liver
uh suggestion will be my winner vitamin
D I believe correct you agree with that
yeah and uh yeah and electrolytes
that's awesome
well I think you inspired a lot of
people uh Jim and then also uh if you
guys are inspired go ahead and comment
down below and tell us uh if you are
gonna bite the bullet jump in and get
started and I will put a link down below
if kind of hard how to start so thanks
so much Jim I think this is a great
great success story I mean it's just
incredible I mean the total the total
poundage is how many pounds I think
about a hundred and well like I said I
was three I was
I want to say 110 is probably where I
went in the doctor's office I got on the
scale she said 352 or 252 and I stopped
I said I'll get back here that's
something wrong with the scale and she
came back in and she zeroed it out and I
got on it and it was 252 and I could not
believe it
so yeah right now I'm gonna it's 100
plus pounds lost since February
incredible
awesome thank you so much and we'll
we'll have to do a follow-up uh in a
while to see how you progress I'm sure I
don't want to get down too low but I
think you're doing great
well thank you it's a it was a pleasure
talking to you absolutely
