hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about asthma I recently had a person I
wanted to know some natural remedies for
asthma and the vitamin D did not work
for this person and that would be the
first recommendation is high quantities
of vitamin D or lots of Sun because it
does work for a lot of people will not
everyone okay so asthma is an
inflammatory condition of the lung of
the bronchial tubes where your bronchial
tubes fill up with inflammation you
start coughing wheezing there's some
spasm in there shortness of breath and a
lot of other symptoms especially going
up a flight of stairs there's also a
great technology a breathing technology
I'll put a link down below that you can
strengthen your lungs by breathing a
certain way and I think that's really
helpful but there's also a huge link
between this microbe this is very
difficult to kill bacteria called
chlamydia pneumonia okay
there's been a lot of success using
antibiotics to kill this microbe but of
course I'm gonna recommend more of a
natural type thing okay so there's three
natural remedies and I'm gonna recommend
that you get and you take number one
chaga mushroom number two lotus rhizome
node okay number three ligustrum seed
okay so now below in the description I
actually gave you the spelling of three
of these remedies so you can either get
them online or at the health food store
but I think this would be a great way to
naturally address this microbe instead
of an antibiotic which always comes with
a lot more side effects alright thanks
for watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press the button below and I
will keep you in the know
hey that runs
