hey guys Dr bur here in this video we're
going to talk about is ketosis safe
longterm okay that keeps coming up over
and over and over again now if you take
if you take a look at what ketosis is
it's running your body on fat fuel okay
not just dietary fat but your own fat so
versus the regular way which is your
running body on sugar or glucose now
what do you think I mean it's just bizar
to me that people think that ketosis or
fat burning is dangerous compared what
what do you think they're burning right
now sugar burning sugar fuel sets you up
for high insulin and out of all the
illnesses or the diseases why people die
heart disease Alzheimer's kidney
problems uh cancer stroke all those are
related to high insulin not ketones
there's no bad thing about running your
body in ketones it's actually the best
fuel for the brain your
brain will run on glucose but if you
give it if you drop the glucose down and
you run it on ketones which is the
byproduct of fat burning it's a much
cleaner fuel it's like running your body
on electric fuel versus uh sugar which
is a dirty fuel because you have the
highs and lows of the blood sugar so
your brain loves the ketones and that's
why they use ketosis in a lot of uh
problems with um um like epileptic
seizures things like that for kids uh
because the brain chills out when you
actually feed it that in fact all the
people that just just have better
thinking concentration focus when they
go on a ketosis diet and especially
longterm okay not a short-term thing
there is no
long-term uh negative thing about
ketosis at all okay we'll cover each
point um in fact it's one of the
original fuels our bodies ran on on fat
in the way back you know in the in the
caveman days because if you think about
sugar the introduction of sugar in the
last 100 years it's like what 140 nine
pounds of sugar per person consumed
right now I mean that's insane so um
sugar fuel is created more problems than
anything especially with belly fat so
essential fatty acids okay so when
you're running your body on ketones
you're running body on fat um the fat is
not just used for fuel it's used to
replace body parts cellular membranes
brain nerve tissue hormones are all made
from fat fat C vitamins are made from
fat there is no essential carbohy
hydrates that you need there's no
essential glucose people think that well
that's how you get energy well you can
get a lot more energy from ketones a lot
more efficient energy what's the number
one symptom a diabetic complains of
fatigue after eating because the the
high sugar just puts you asleep and it
puts the brain to sleep it causes
Alzheimer's it messes with your your
focus um so you really don't need carbs
now you need vegetable carbohydrates for
the vitamins minerals and trace minerals
for sure but the actual carbohydrate in
there you don't need okay and it's a
myth that um you know it's dangerous and
it creates a uh ketogenic acidosis
ketogenic acidosis is basically a
condition where your pH is becoming more
acidic from a diabetic type 1 situation
where you have no more insulin you can't
regulate it that's completely different
doing a ketosis diet healthily okay
you're not going to even get close to
the amount of acids which is a byproduct
um if you have any insulin at all which
you which you do have it's not a problem
so it this is not even a factor um in
fact if you were a type 1 diabetic or
type two this would be the best diet to
put put on because what happens is the
glucose that you're running on burns out
the cells that make insulin
okay next myth is the muscle loss that
you would get on a ketogenic diet
ketones do not equal muscle loss in fact
when you do ketosis with intermittent
fasting you increase the very hormone
that preserves protein especially the
muscle growth hormone so intermittent
fasting increases growth hormone and so
does the ketogenic diet if you're on the
regular glucose uh diet or you're
running on sugar fuel which everyone is
doing you're going to raise insulin and
in insulin will lower growth hormone and
cause more muscle loss take a look at a
diabetic or a pre-diabetic they're
losing muscle tissue okay especially
type one diabetics so we want to keep
the insulin low um here's another myth
ketones are dirty Sugar's clean no it's
just the opposite ketones are clean and
uh it's like running your body in sugar
is like running your body on um diesel
fuel it's dirty especially it gives a
lot of byproducts in the whole met
metabolic pathway some people say that
ketogenic diets create deficiencies yes
they do they do require different
Machinery different nutrients different
B vitamins uh more minerals okay but as
long as you have enough vegetables and
maybe you're adding more minerals
potassium and B vitamins you're totally
fine um I mean think about what happens
when you're you're running your body on
glucose you're depleting potassium
you're depleting uh magnesium and you're
depleting B vitamins and calcium when
you eat sugar like incredible in fact
when you have insulin resistance you
don't the insulin doesn't pull in the
amino acid or the potassium or the
Magnesium anymore so really it's just
the opposite uh glucose running your
body glucose creates way more
deficiencies and here's another point
about raising cholesterol your body
makes massive amounts of cholesterol
every single day for a reason because it
acts as a precursor for hormones it acts
to help repair the tissue especially
when you get older it's the building
block for stress hormones especially and
our bodies make the amount of
cholesterol that would e equal one pound
of better butter or 300 strips of bacon
or 14 eggs a day so if cholesterol was
so bad why does your body make so much
so it's not true that ketosis will
increase your cholesterol in fact what
really makes cholesterol is the sugar in
the refined glucose and the
carbohydrates if you don't believe me go
ahead and cut out the desserts cut out
the sugar for one month recheck your
cholesterol and your Tri triglycerides
it'll come right down to normal then we
have the kidney stones so people say oh
yeah the ketogenic diet creates kidney
stones if you're a vegan okay or you're
running everybody on glucose you're
running uh you're actually having more
oxy Stones guess guess what foods are
high in oxalates spinach beans
grains chocolate
and uh any any carbs that increase sugar
or insulin will actually increase uric
acid Stones so in reality ketogenic diet
will protect you the only thing you need
to do is you have to consume some lemon
juice just to uh start to um help you
balance that out a little bit more all
right so I just wanted to cover some key
points ketosis is is the only way to be
healthy long term and I think you should
uh learn about it get all the details do
it healthily and add intermittent
fasting add more vegetables and I think
it's going to you're going to feel
better and you're going to look better
thanks for watching
