now there's a very specific reason why
fasting helps you to live longer it
activates a whole bunch of genes that
are longevity genes they reduce
inflammation if someone is a diabetic or
pre-diabetic they're much improved and
there are even genes that protect the
cells against disease there are six
things that can destroy your results
okay and you need to know about these
number one doing fast ing for too long
so there's two types of fasting you have
intermittent fasting and then you have
prolonged fasting where you're doing
fasting for a period of time sometimes
people are gung-ho and they push it they
do the same pattern for so long let's
say even they're doing one meal a day
right but they don't feel really good
and they notice that they might be
losing some muscle from that anytime you
feel like crap when you're doing a fast
that pattern is not right for you so you
really have to build up to a prolong
fast you can't just jump in unless
you're pretty healthy now as far as
doing a one meal a day fast versus a two
meal a day that really also depends on
how you feel number two dietary protein
both the amount of dietary protein and
the type of dietary protein are very
important I would not recommend getting
your protein from a plant Source I would
recommend getting it from from animal
protein that is the best protein that
you can consume and out of all the
proteins you can consume red meat is at
the top of the list then we get eggs
then we get lamb then we get fish or
seafood organic pasture raised chickens
are one of the best sources of protein
unless if it's not organic or it's
commercial chicken and those are high in
omega-6 now as far as the amount of
protein I'm going to recommend that each
of those meals you have between seven
and 8 oun of protein now if you're doing
a one meal a day this is more difficult
you're going to have to do like 10
ounces But realize when you do go down
to one meal a day your body becomes more
efficient and the requirement for
protein does go down and there's all
sorts of protective mechanisms that kick
in that prevent muscle loss and also
increase growth hormone I know some
people if they don't get enough protein
they feel weaker so you might want to
just experiment with that and then if
you had too much protein that can
actually keep you up at night all right
the third mistake there's one raw
material that you need to know about as
well cholesterol cholesterol is needed
to make all the sex hormones and you
might also think that I can eat red meat
butter or lard and I can get my
cholesterol that way but all of those
are low in cholesterol it's like between
1 and 2% what is high in cholesterol is
egg
yolks liver and shellfish very great for
cholesterol and we need the nutrients
that also help make these hormones zinc
is at the top of the list it's a trace
mineral vitamin D in high enough Amounts
is very important magnesium is very
important but the one that you don't
need is a lot of calcium the next
mistake number four is to force a
certain pattern of intermittent fasting
that might not align with your body the
best way to figure out what type of
fasting pattern you need is to let your
body tell you let's say you start by
skipping your meal right and then you
have lunch is your first meal and dinner
is your second meal and you do that for
a while to the point where you're able
to find that you're not hungry at lunch
so you push it further and further
forward to the point where you're eating
at 2:00 or even 3:00 so we're shortening
this pattern so you have more hours of
fasting let's say you never really get
to a point where you can do one meal a
day that's totally fine because you're
letting your body tell you when to fast
and so some people can fast very long
and feel great at it but other people
can't let your body tell you how long to
fast next mistake is too much exercise
especially when you're fasting some
people can't handle a lot of exercise
when they're fasting they should be
resting too much exercise is going to
create too much stress and then what's
going to happen you're not going to
recover is well so then we're going to
lose more muscle because the exercise is
a stress and the recovery is where all
the magic happens and the last mistake
is not getting enough sleep most of the
repair happens while you're sleeping
