hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about the biggest
barrier to weight loss and that is
fatigue here's the thing if you're tired
you're not going to lose weight why
because fatigue is not just about
burning fat it's about generating energy
okay so many people are tired during the
day yet they can't sleep at night so the
biggest reason why someone is tired and
there are other reasons but the biggest
one is that you're not sleeping okay so
I want to talk about how to fix the
sleep that's a real big Point um and
just one point um when you're sleeping
you're triggering the growth hormone
that's the main fat burning hormone and
that helps you that's why you burn most
the fat when you're sleeping if you're
sleeping okay so the point is we want to
get your energy up so you can burn more
fat but if you notice what happens when
you sleep there's actually a a cycle a
wave of hormonal flows they're called a
circadian rhythm okay of growth hormone
and it's kind of similar to an
alternator in your car where it's
recharging the battery and that's what
happens there's four cycles of sleep
that you go through that are supposed to
generate the Deep Delta wave sleep so
there's something in your body that
pushes you deeply into the sleep it's
not a passive it's an active thing that
pushes you into the sleep it's the same
mechanism in your body body that helps
you recover from an injury recover from
exercise so let's say you spike your
pulse rate and it's supposed to come
back down there's a system that helps
you recover okay and that system is the
recovery it's the reset it's the
rejuvenator all right it's called and
this is it might be a new word called
the
parasympathetic nervous system okay that
sounds like what is a Paras sympatic
nervous system it's a part of the body
that helps you active
recover it helps you push you into the
Sleep there's a machine that I have that
measures that and a lot of times when
people come in we check them and it's
very really low and it's it's a direct
connection they're they're tired and
that means that they're not recovering
from the day from the stress and they're
not sleeping okay so even when you
exercise this is the system that helps
you bounce back fast and if you exercise
and it takes you a long time to recover
you're not going to burn fat so this is
the system that we need to focus on to
heal so now let's go a little deeper and
talk about how do we fix the
parasympathetic nervous system well
first of all what destroys that system
is an overactive adrenal gland it's a
basically flight or fight being in
stress for for a long period of time
that's what'll do it okay so the adrenal
is really behind that and if you're so
flight or fight which is basically the
opposite of that system called the
sympathetic nervous system you're going
to kind of nullify that parasympathetic
so you'll lose your ability to sleep
recover bounce back from things okay so
there's a couple things you can do to
fix that system number one you can
either do nutrition for the adrenals or
you can do ACU pressure for the adrenals
now I put a link Down Below in the
description which I highly recommend
that you watch and I show you how to do
acute pressure for the adrenal glands
okay so you can watch that and you're
actually not directly doing acupressure
on the adrenals you're working on the
soft tissue around the adrenals which
indirectly creates a nice relaxation
effect with the adrenal so it's going to
help you the other thing is the
nutritional aspect there's a product
called adrenal night formula it's not a
sleeping pill it's an adrenal
rejuvenator to help this system repair
you take one before bed okay so the
combination of the acupressure and the
nutrition is really awesome to fit fix
the sleep cycles
okay that's one thing now once you sleep
for a period of time you're going to
notice your energy is going to improve
you're not going to have as much fatigue
then at that point then we plug in more
and more exercise to start spiking the
growth hormone but you don't want to do
that before you're sleeping you can do
long walks and things like that but the
goal is to have you sleep at night so
you have energy during the day it's very
very rare to find someone who has a lot
of of energy that can't lose weight most
people that are stuck with weight loss
are always fatigue okay so the biggest
weight loss barrier is fatigue and the
key is focusing on getting energy by
enhancing the sleep okay all right I
will see you in the next
video
