hi guys someone asked a question
recently regarding what's the best
source of a magnet 3 the problem is they
didn't want to do the fish oils because
they go rancid so bad and it's hard to
find a high quality fish oil and I agree
with that unless you're getting virgin
cod liver oil and you consume it very
rapidly chances are it's going to be
oxidized and turn rancid unfortunately
because the fish oils are very very
fragile a better source of omega-3 is
krill oil now krill is the small
shellfish similar to shrimp and it's
loaded with a real healthy fat called
EPA and DHA as well as something called
phosphatidylcholine which actually
protects the cell membrane and you need
a strong membrane around the cell to
have cellular communication you have
sodium potassium pump that generates
energy from that membrane if there's any
damage within the membrane then you're
gonna have a problem with energy
production you might end up getting
fluid backed up into the system so
that's very very important also in
absorbing
certain elements and nutrients that go
into the cell and if it's weak you can
actually be more susceptible to getting
viruses okay so you don't want to lose
the sodium potassium pump you don't want
any destruction of the cell because that
can affect the mitochondria also if
there's damage to the cell membrane you
won't be able to synthesize amino acids
in protein as well as you would but I
think people don't realize that 44% of
that cell is made from cholesterol and
phospholipids again another point
why consuming a good amount of fat is
important and not doing a low
cholesterol diet which actually starves
off your cell membranes and krill oil
also contains something called Astro
xanthine which not only has great health
benefits but it will preserve the oil so
it will not turn rancid like fish oil
alright thanks for watching hey if
you're interested in finding out the
underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quiz
