today we're going to talk about the
benefits of marshmallows I'm sorry
marshmallow root okay you definitely
don't want to be consuming marshmallows
because it you know it's slightly high
in sugar corn syrup is the first
ingredient and then sugar probably not
cane sugar it's going to be beet sugar
so we have GMO GML GMO that's corn sugar
dextrose they make it synthetically from
corn so that's another GMO modified food
starch which is something that will
spike your insulin by 300% other than
that it's perfectly healthy but it makes
things taste better than it really is
gelatin and tetrasodium pyrophosphate
which is a preservative
now marshmallows have been around for
about two thousand years the Egyptians
originally came up with a cake made from
marshmallow root and honey in grains
okay then come fast-forward to I think
it was like 1905 a company came out with
marshmallow candy which they actually
used marshmallow root in this candy
nowadays when you try to buy a
marshmallow they leave out the
marshmallow root they take this
concentrated sugar mix puff it up with
air and come up with this spongy
marshmallow which you can then use over
your campfire as you caramelize that
sugar which basically you're gliding it
you're basically making these sticky
proteins that are gonna clog up your
arteries but other than that
marshmallows are totally fine let's talk
about the benefits of marshmallow root
they have a very large amount of
something called musalla CH which is a
thick gooey substance like a fluffy
marshmallow compound but marshmallow
root is really good to help soothe mouth
ulcers any type of irritation in your
throat stomach ulcers gastritis any type
of inflammatory condition in your
stomach or or in your small intestine or
large intestine or ulcers in your
intestine it's an anti-inflammatory and
it's also very beneficial to support
your mucous membranes so it's good for
the sinuses it's also good for the skin
and a lot of people take it with other
things as a colon cleanser
and some people even put it on their
hair because it's good for your hair so
I just wanted to mention the benefits of
marshmallow root not the benefits of
actual marshmallows
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
