all right so today we're going to talk
about the so called healthy fat that I
avoid like the plague the consumption of
this fat has increased over a thousand
percent in the last 40 years over 40
million tons of this stuff has been
produced in 2007 around the world now
it's 2019 now so it's probably a lot
more and of course most of this fat is
GMO this fat makes up 50% of all edible
vegetable oils and in one study I'll put
a link down below it showed that this
fat was worse than consuming fructose in
causing excess weight causing a fatty
liver increasing your risk for diabetes
and insulin resistance and increasing
liver damage and inflammation and we're
not just talking about the liver that
inflammation can also affect the
cardiovascular system as well and the
fat that I'm talking about is this soy
oil I mean just try to go to the grocery
store and find a food that does not have
soy oil in it it's in all the dressings
I'm talking like the majority of
dressings I have to constantly search
around just to find one I'm trying to
find something with olive oil and soy
oil is the number one ingredient it's in
most processed foods it's in condiments
it's in all the chips the cookies the
breads I mean go ahead and look for
yourself you're gonna have a hard time
finding a food that does not have soy
oil in it and not to mention going out
to dinner at a restaurant and I'm not
just talking about you know fast food
restaurants I'm talking about other
restaurants to use soy as their primary
oil in cooking things with we mentioned
snack foods mention breads and chips but
most infant formulas contain soy oil and
what amazes me when you go to the
grocery store is that it's in so many
foods and what does that mean it means
that people are buying this stuff and
they don't connect the dots between soy
oil and all the complications that it
creates so the next time you go to
dinner ask the waiter what type of oils
do you guys use to cook your food in
and when you have to grocery stores
start reading labels to increase the
awareness of just how insidious this oil
has become alright guys thank you so
much for watching
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
