hey guys in this video we want to talk
about how to get rid of dental plaque
realize the plaque is what's called a
biofilm there's microbes involved
there's a little shell around these
microbes involved there's bacteria so
here's three different ingredients that
you can use one is tea tree oil okay
four drops in a little mixture xylitol
which is an alternative sugar it's a
sugar alcohol it doesn't have any
alcohol in it but it's it's a great
antibacterial and so is this this is an
antimicrobial and it has certain
phytonutrients that destroy
microorganisms so both of these work on
the plaque and this will actually break
up the membrane in the biofilms to the
point where the plaque will start
dissolving and then we have coconut oil
which also by the way is antibacterial
antimicrobial and so you would use three
tablespoons one teaspoon is on the top
and four drops of tea tree oil you can
mix up and basically use this over a
period of a few days because all you
need is like one teaspoon of this
mixture in your mouth you hold it there
for 10 minutes okay then you rinse you
do that each day and slowly you'll see
less and less plaque formation the good
thing about these ingredients they're
non-toxic so they're not gonna put more
chemicals in the body there's different
formulas out there in toothpaste and
mouthwash the problem is they add two
chemicals so this is a real great
natural way to actually break some of
the plaque without giving the toxic
effects alright guys thanks for watching
hey guys I'm not sure if you have my app
yet dr. Berg app it's totally free you
should download it okay this is what it
looks like you click it it gives you all
sorts of great resources I have all my
YouTube videos on this app ok and it's
regularly uploading the most recent ones
all the YouTube videos are also
converted to audio versions ok so you
can use it when you're walking
exercising driving your car I have a
mini chorus on there I'll be putting
additional courses I have a lot of
recipes on there this is new and also
PDF resources so there's various
downloads PDFs that you can get as well
and if you wouldn't mind after you
download it check it out give me your
unbiased review and tell me how you like
it I want to know
