hey guys today we're going to talk about
potassium again I'm just really
fascinated with this mineral you may not
be very excited about it but I think
it's really interesting I want to talk
about the fact that potassium has the
ability to protect your kidneys heart
and arteries now we're told the opposite
we're told that potassium might cause
Kitty damage but that would only occur
if you have chronic end-stage kidney
failure okay that's rare what about in
every other situation now there's one
study I want to mention I put a link
down below and yes it was done in mice
but check this out they deprived my sub
potassium for two to six weeks that's it
and they actually found kidney damage
the kidneys were filling it with fat
becoming calcified atrophied means
shrinks necrotic it was breaking down
and basically creates necrosis of the
filtration unit which is degeneration of
the filter and that's what the kidney is
if the filter filters your blood and
here's another study I'll put the link
down below and this is quite incredible
talks about potassium protecting against
stroke it allows cerebral arteries it's
arteries of your brain to carry blood at
high pressure without damage this is
incredible because so many people were
at risk for stroke especially diabetics
especially people with blood sugar
issues and it's such a simple fix you
consume more potassium foods and we
can't forget blood pressure potassium
has ability to lower blood pressure and
decrease the risk of kidney stones I
mean how many people are on blood
pressure medication and they're not told
to increase their potassium they're not
told to increase their vegetables
they're told to decrease their sodium
decreasing your sodium has like this
much effect increase your potassium has
a much larger effect on blood pressure
all right now let's talk about potassium
deficiencies and what causes them number
one
a low potassium diet persons not
consuming enough of vegetables laxatives
diuretics which people take to lower
blood pressure when the actual cause is
low potassium but the diuretic depletes
the potassium all right cortisol now
and in the form of prednisone which is a
medication which is an anti-inflammatory
or just high levels of cortisol from the
adrenal and this is the stress hormone
that can deplete potassium all right and
ayah bt's okay from several mechanisms
from the standpoint of stored glucose as
glycogen in order to store glycogen you
need potassium so if you don't have
enough potassium you're not gonna be
able to have enough glycogen and then
you're gonna blood sugar problems okay
so you're gonna have highs and lows from
that alone when you have instant
resistance you can't absorb potassium
that well usually diabetics become
diabetic because they're eating too many
refined carbohydrates refined
carbohydrates are a lot of carbohydrate
in the refined state without potassium
like for example table sugar now cane
sugar by the way if you consume cane
sugar as a whole food it is loaded with
potassium molasses has a lot of
potassium that's the waste product from
sugar but the pure refined white sugar
is completely void of potassium so when
you consume it you deplete yourself of
potassium because one of the symptoms of
a high pulse rate is low potassium then
we have other refined carbs in the form
of wheat when you take whole-grain
usually get some potassium but when you
refine it you deplete the potassium not
to mention the B vitamins and other
nutrients the symptoms of a potassium
deficiency are not only high blood
pressure but fatigue and loss of stamina
you don't have that endurance like you
had at one time leg cramps constipation
and there's many others but the bottom
line is if you want to protect your
kidney your arteries in your heart start
consuming more vegetables I'm gonna
recommend salads and other greens but
realize that we need 4700 milligrams per
day okay that's a lot you would have to
consume 7 to 10 cups of salad or
vegetables each day alright guys thanks
for watching I'll see in the next video
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
