so recently had a question about
allergies what is the best remedies for
relieving allergy symptoms okay
these are natural antihistamines number
one is stinging nettle root this is
normally good for inflammation in
general but it's really good for sinus
congestion mucus things like that
number two betaine hydrochloride you're
going to develop more allergy symptoms
in an overly alkaline state okay so when
you acidify the body you actually lessen
the histamine effect the mucus effect
histamines create runny nose fatigue
tiredness things like that so when you
acidify the body that will actually
improve that situation and it also
activates the immune system so it can
work a lot faster you can get this in a
pill form and take it even on an empty
stomach there were three Spanish black
radish okay you can even either consume
this in your salad or you can even juice
it one time I took I used a daikon
radish and I juiced I think 11 or 12
ounces of this juice and I wanted an
experiment to see what happened if I
drank the juice right I drank the thing
while I was plugging my nose and little
did I know it was a very spicy radish
okay and it burned all the way through
my body but I tell you one thing it
cleared up the mucus or really fast so
Spanish black radish and just radishes
in general are really good for mucus and
also the deep mucus that might be
impacted in your sinuses and lastly
vitamin C okay most people know that
vitamin C is good for mucus or allergies
and colds and things like that if you're
going to take a synthetic version make
sure you also at the same time take a
whole food complex okay because if you
take too much of one part of the vitamin
C complex you can deplete the other
factors because vitamin C in nature
always comes in a complex alright well
thanks for watching hey guys so there's
a whole bunch of people that really need
this information so press the share
button and let's get it way out there
