let's talk about what to do if you have
food poisoning so food poisoning is
simply you've consumed through some food
either bacteria a virus or a parasite
and now you are sick
here are the symptoms nausea vomiting
diarrhea fever abdominal pain normally
your body will overcome this within two
hours to up to two days could be a
little longer sometimes a little shorter
depending on your strength of your
immune system so in other words you need
to let your body do its thing I can't
tell you not to take an antibiotic but
the problem is that what if it's a virus
it won't work and there's other side
effects from antibiotics I'm going to
show you a more natural way to deal with
this and realize if you have vomiting or
diarrhea
you're gonna lose electrolytes okay so
you want to put those back in especially
if it becomes chronic but your body
basically is just trying to get rid of
something when you have vomiting or
diarrhea another side point is if you
have diarrhea and you immediately take
something to try to stop the diarrhea
you're basically retaining the microbe
so it might not be the best idea instead
of just allowing your body to get rid of
it but here are some natural things you
can do you guessed it apple cider
vinegar okay or somebody called betaine
hydrochloride
these are acidifier if you're doing
apple cider vinegar you can take two
tablespoons in some water you can get
both of these together in one pill what
you have to realize is that the purpose
of the stomach acid is to kill off these
microbes so they don't create a problem
so it could be your stomach acid was
already weak and some microbes bypassed
that and they got into the system and
they started creating problems but the
more normal the stomach acid the more
protection you're going to have but in
the meantime if you take apple cider
vinegar it'll actually help to speed up
the process of overcoming this so this
would be number one and this is very
very important next thing after you have
no more diarrhea okay because you want
to let it cycle through and if you're
having chronic diarrhea you better add
the electrolytes back in but after the
diarrhea is done you want to take
activated
charcoal okay you can get them in pills
you can also take bentonite clay both of
these are great for toxins poisons and
even food poisoning so these to act as a
sponge to contain the toxin and
eliminate it and also understand if you
have diarrhea your body's trying to get
rid of something so don't stop it from
doing its normal process and another
thing that would be very very good to do
would be to fast okay fasting is going
to take the stress off your digestive
system you're going to allow the body to
work faster to correct the situation and
then when you start eating it probably
would be a good idea to consume
something fermented or pickled like
pickles sauerkraut or something like
this this is pickled vegetables and I
love these I get these from the farmers
market it's from a company called number
one sons and check out these vegetables
they're amazing I put this on my eggs
every single day when I consume my first
meal about 1 or 2 or 3 o'clock and it
tastes delicious but adding something
fermented or pickled just makes it
easier to digest alright I'll see in the
next video hey if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
