so we're to create a short video on
aluminum toxicity and what you could do
about it
we're constantly exposed to aluminum
aluminous very toxic to our bodies it's
in our water supply if you have a drip
coffee maker you're exposed to aluminum
in baking powder cookware medications
especially any acids deodorants and the
big one vaccinations it's been estimated
that a child by the age of 18 months has
been exposed to 4925 micrograms of
aluminum it can lead to autism
Alzheimer's cancer kidney dysfunction
and bone problems like osteomalacia
which is a weakening of the bones not
quite to the level of rickets but a
deficiency of vitamin D so there's
definitely a blockage of vitamin D when
you have too much aluminum all right so
that's the bad news the good news is
this silica water because silica has the
ability to detoxify aluminum from your
tissues and also it can prevent the
build-up there's some really interesting
research I put some links down below get
a good filter start to eliminate
exposure of aluminum and if you suspect
you're toxic with aluminum I put some
links down below check it out do more
research in this area right here all
right thanks for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
