the number one superfood for your hair
there's going to be four Foods we're
going to cover the fourth one's going to
be the most important one if you want to
get your hair back let's start with
number one first bamboo shoots now
you're probably saying bamboo choots
like you can eat that yes they have
different forms you can get a canned you
can buy it online bamboo shoots not only
are very high in potassium and trace
minerals they are very high in something
called silica silica is essential to
build up the hair protein silica can
make your hair strong elastic it could
prevent it from breaking it gets rid of
the brittleness in hair but also it
helps your skin too it's great for
wrinkles it's even good for your joints
it can help strengthen your bones as
well number two wild caught salmon now
of course salmon is loaded with
nutrition great protein but salmon is
known for its high levels of omega-3
fatty acids the other cool thing about
wild caught salmon is that it's loaded
with vitamin D3 nearly every single
problem with hair loss can be improved
with vitamin D3 especially part of the
root of the hair where you have this
follicle vitamin D controls that whole
environment it actually can activate
dormant hair follicle stem cells this
will increase the density of your hair
so sometimes people will have thinning
of the hair this is what they need to
consume more of let's move to number
three egg yolks what's in an egg yolk
egg yolks are loaded with something
called Biotin and people take biotin to
help their hair it's a necessary thing
so if you don't have enough biotin you
can't even make keratin keratin makes up
the hair improving the shaft of the hair
and make sure that it's strong so you
don't have this thinning hair that is
falling out that's fragile and weak and
it can break easily on top of that egg
yolks have all the fat soluble nutrients
which are really important to support
hair growth and the structure of the
hair itself the other important thing
about uh the egg yolk is it's loaded
with cholesterol now you might think oh
that's a bad thing no cholesterol is the
precursor for all of the key hormones
that you need for your hair if those are
not correctly produced or regulated in
the right amounts because you don't have
enough cholesterol that can affect the
hair also it'll make it shiny give it
that luster help strengthen the actual
shaft of the hair as well plus eggs are
loaded with sulfur sulfur can also help
the scalp of the hair and that is kind
of like the soil for the hair to grow
into and then of course egg yolks also
have vitamin D which I've already talked
about now let's get to number four which
is the most important food that you
could possibly eat for hair growth and
other benefits of your hair and this is
grass-fed liver now you can do beef
liver lamb liver but if you don't like
liver you can get these in capsules or
if you can find a good recipe cook it
with onions the absolute most
concentrated nutrient-dense food that
you could possibly consume it has
virtually every single nutrient in very
high amounts super high amounts of iron
iron is necessary to help transport
oxygen to your scalp the most common
cause of hair shedding is an iron
deficiency there's two ways to get an
iron deficiency in your blood number one
is to be deficient in Iron which beef
liver can satisfied really quickly but
also if you're deficient in Copper that
won't allow the iron to work correctly
in the red blood cell to feed the hair
oxygen well guess what beef liver is
loaded with copper as well and not just
copper zinc in the right ratios and zinc
is very very important in preventing the
more powerful form of testosterone
called DHT that has a tendency to burn
out your hair and cause hair loss zinc
can help prevent that zinc also is
necessary in the formation of creating
hair and protein synthesis especially
for your hair beef liver is loaded with
folate and B12 in copper help reduce the
graying effect of your hair just as an
FYI of course the folate and the B12 are
in the best form available the iron in
beef liver is a heem type iron it's so
much more bioavailable than any iron you
can get from plants or supplements and
on top of that beef liver is loaded with
the most bioavailable form of vitamin A
not the precursor beta carotene but the
active form of vitamin A called retinol
and vitamin A is is essential for
allowing vitamin D to work because
vitamin D is also in liver and we know
the importance of vitamin D in hair
growth through helping regulate sebum
which is the oil on the gland to make
your hair look very very healthy and to
prevent this drying out effect of your
hair and we also have another thing in
liver called biotin I've already talked
about that biotin will help increase the
structure of the hair of the shaft so
your hair becomes thicker stronger more
elastic Fuller look as well is the
growth of hair itself and getting biotin
from grass-fed liver is way better than
getting it from a supplement if you had
an antibiotic and all of a sudden your
hair starts becoming a problem then you
need more biotin or actually you need
more grassfed liver anyway I wanted to
keep this video real short but I wanted
to give you some really important foods
for the hair and now you know the most
important one thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next video
