so I'm going to do a short video on
vitamins uh there's one distinction
between synthetic vitamins and Whole
Food concentrates that I really really
want to make because so many people are
taking the wrong ones annoyingly when
you get a vitamin that's prescribed by a
doctor that you have to get from a
pharmacy then you know for a fact it's
synthetic and that includes all those
prenatals now what are synthetic
vitamins there are man-made vitamins
made from petroleum
colar and they synthesize them to sort
of make them the same as natural
molecules but what what's missing is
that in nature nothing comes in these
fraction oid individual parts of
vitamins in nature you always have the
whole complex of vitamins um and not in
high amounts in very small amounts so
even though you have high potency
vitamins that are synthetic the reason
why your urine is so yellow is because
you're just peeing it out because it's
almost toxic to your body the only
benefit of itic vitamins is a shortterm
use maybe doing a detox but that's it
you never want to take them long term
now I'm not even saying focus on natural
vitamins I'm saying focus on Whole Food
concentrates and you have to look on the
label and read the ingredients where
does it come from if you cannot
pronounce the chemical then we know it's
made from synthetics so let's just take
Vitamin C complex in nature vitamin C
comes with with multiple parts we have
have a scorc acid that's the antioxidant
portion and that's so funny because
antioxidants really are the inactive
part of the vitamin C complex they're
not the active part they don't really
they're like the eggshell to the eggs
they're like the banana pill to the
banana um they're there to protect the
guts of that um vitamin but most people
think that this is the active portion
and they take it in high amounts and
think they're getting some benefits um
let me just tell you the the only
benefit you would get if you were had a
cold or something with the acidic nature
the acidifying nature of ascorbic acid
because when you make the body more acid
when you're sick it tends to increase
help the immune system fight The Sing
Off better but you'd be better off
taking apple cider vinegar not ascorbic
acid because when you take high amounts
of synthetic vitamins it tends to
deplete the other Associated parts that
normally come with that vitamin complex
and that's why
too much scopic acid you end up with
bleeding gums spider veins that's the
side effect um why because you're going
to be creating deficiencies of vitamin P
vitamin P are all the bioflavonoids
they're routin they're they're the ones
that help um the arteries the strengthen
the the gums and the teeth the
capillaries without vitamin P you'll get
varicose veins and spider veins vitamin
J now you say well wait a second I never
heard of vitamin J well what's the first
vitamin that was ever discovered take a
while guess it's not vitamin C it's
vitamin A then comes B then C then D
then e then f and g and it goes right
down through all the way up to I think
um J and H and even have vitamin U so
those are vitamins that are just they
were discovered in that order so vitamin
J is the anti- pneumonia vitamin it
helps you breathe it helps um with
oxygen carrying capacity especially when
you go up a flight of stairs so if you
go up stairs and you can't breathe it
could mean that you need more vitamin J
or you have problems breathing copper in
in vitamins you always have a mineral as
part of the connecting part so all
vitamins have as their base some mineral
with vitamin C it's copper copper is not
just like a metallic a rock like you
would have like a copper penny it's it's
in an enzyme form so it's really easy to
digest and the enzyme the name of it is
called tyrosinase which basically is um
one of the key u minerals to help you
build up collagen in your joints and
your arteries and things like that and
so then we have K that's a um it it
helps you clot so it helps prevent
bleeding and there's certain drugs that
are blocking vitamin K like um um like
the rat poison catin which people take
to prevent strokes and things like that
so you can't they can't really consume
much of vitamin K vegetables but the
point is that what you want to do is you
want to look for vitamins that come in
their whole
complex um Parts not as a synthetic you
want to avoid the synthetics and because
the synthetic vitamin C is made from
corn starch which by the way has no
vitamin C and sulfuric acid those two
things it's kind of weird that you're
getting vitamin C without without a raw
material that comes from vitamin C or
has vitamin C in it but that's how they
make it it's cornstarch and sulfuric
acid what's the bottom line only ever
consume food or a whole food
concentrates and you'll stay out of
trouble
