alright guys so today we're gonna talk
about type 1 diabetes should they do
keto or should they not do keto to
minimize the risk of ketoacidosis okay
so first thing let's talk about what is
a type 1 it's a situation where the
cells that make insulin are
dysfunctional they're not making insulin
anymore so you have no insulin
production okay so you have to take
insulin why because insulin lowers blood
sugar and if you don't have an insulin
you're going to have very very high
blood sugar levels and that's really bad
now let's say for example you're a type
1 and you forget to take your insulin
your blood sugars will rise okay so
let's say for example they get up to 300
or more milligrams per deciliter okay
that's pretty high so when you have this
high sugar and no insulin you can't
absorb the glucose because insulin is
like the key that opens the door to
allow the glucose to go in the cell no
insulin
you can't that glucose can't get in no
exception your brain your brain can
absorb glucose because it's not
dependent on insulin so mentally you
might feel fine but there's a lot of
other problems happening with the body
now what the body will do if you can't
use glucose if your body is going to
break down fat in the fatty acids and
ketones same thing with muscle and even
organs it's going to start breaking
these down to deliver some fuel to such
a degree that potentially your ketones
can get very very high so if they're
over 9 up to like 15 that can be very
dangerous but realize this is happening
because the person's not taking their
insulin okay
and they're probably requiring a lot of
insulin too because they're not on the
right eating plan the more carbs that
you eat the more insulin you need when
you do ki tell the need for insulin goes
way way down so if you don't have to
take as much to regulate your blood
glucose
you're gonna have less ketoacidosis now
realize that when the ketones are that
high you're getting a lot of acid in the
body so your pH can change to go more on
the acid side and that's very dangerous
and this is why it's so important when
you're doing heat out to do the healthy
version of keto and I'm talking a lot of
vegetables the vegetables have alkaline
minerals that help buffer this acid
situation so it's going to be really
hard to get this condition if you're
consuming a healthy diet because what
happens if you have high blood sugar and
you're not taking enough electrolytes
from either vegetables or externally
then you're gonna actually lose your
electrolytes you'll lose potassium
because when the if you have high sugar
even like above 225 you're gonna start
spilling off glucose into your urine and
with that comes a lot of electrolytes so
you can lose your electrolytes and you
need these for heart function to prevent
arrhythmias and and not to mention a lot
of other things as well so we have the
severe dehydration with no electrolytes
it's very dangerous high sugar which
creates a whole bunch of issues
ketoacidosis which actually is very very
dangerous but if you understand this
mechanism you can prevent this problem
number one make sure you monitor your
blood glucose levels so then you can
know how much insulin to take because
when you go on a keto plant then you
need for insulin goes down so what's
going to happen you're gonna not need as
much overtime you're the healthy version
of ketosis to make sure that you're
taking the electrolytes if you are ever
in a situation where you have
ketoacidosis and you have high levels of
ketone if it's above nine what I would
recommend is to start taking
electrolytes very fast potassium
magnesium and even sodium because those
things will help buffer the damaging
effect from that acid but if you're
doing healthy keto you'll never end up
in that situation the first place
alright thanks for watching
so if you've personally benefited from
the information that I put on my videos
I would love to actually see your
success story too
I'll put a link down below so you can
upload your before and after pictures
with your story
