hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about a hidden cause of diabetes type 1
actually in some cases type 2 as well so
alloxan targets the beta cells of the
pancreas those are the cells that make
insulin okay
and diabetes type 1 is a destruction of
the beta cells and your pancreas this
chemical is used to induce diabetes and
laboratory animals ok so if you've been
watching my videos and applying all this
information to your body you have no
worries at all because you're not going
to be exposed to a locsin because
alloxan is really in the refined flour
products when you combine the bleaching
product that they used for flowers to
make it into white white flour
it's called chlorine oxide it combines
with the protein in the flour to form a
Locsin so really Locsin is made from
something that bleaches the flour so I'm
talking about the flour to make breads
pasta cereal crackers biscuits waffles
pancakes pastries those type of
carbohydrates so then when you get into
what causes this diabetes in children
for example they say what's autoimmune
yeah but what causes autoimmune
conditions and this could be one of the
causes so the question is how many
children that you know that literally
live on white flour products and of
course you're gonna probably hear that
alloxan is safe for humans and it's only
toxic for mice and rats and things like
that
but of course they probably never are
going to do a study with alloxan with
humans because it's too dangerous
hey guys so thanks for watching and
definitely share this video because
really we need to get people not to buy
this toxic food anymore hey if you
haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know hey that rhymes
