hey guys Dr Berg here in this video
we're going to talk about white tongue
okay this is really an overgrowth of
candida the condition is called
candidasis and basically candida
normally is a friendly thing in your
body you have 20 different strains of
candida but this yeastlike structure
this microbe can turn into a fungus um
if you basically take antibiotics or
steroids or birth control pills or
insulin so normally in the body you have
four 400 at least 400 different types of
species of friendly bacteria friendly
yeast friendly mold friendly fungus and
then when you kill off um the good
microb some of these bad guys can start
over taking over and so what most people
do they think that um they should avoid
fermented foods because there's lactic
acid or there's some fermentation there
might be some yeast and they think that
if I consume the friendly yeast it's
going to turn into bad yeast but really
to correct this situation you need to
build up your friendly Flora your
friendly microbes your friendly yeast um
and so that would be in some of these
fermented vegetables like you have um
like sauerkraut
kimchi um Keir is a fermented uh product
uh from milk um apple cider vinegar
these are all very very essential to
eventually get rid of this stuff now
what happens when you have an imbalance
of it's called flora and in your
digestive tract um if you add too much
to this it can create a little bit of a
reaction and that's when people think
that that's a bad thing so they avoid
all of it but what you want to do is you
want to start off very very small and
work up to it if you have no you don't
have a lot of good friendly bacteria and
you dump a lot of probiotics into your
system or friendly yeast you can stir up
an immune reaction so I always like to
go slow so you want to add these
fermented foods slowly and of of course
you're going to have to avoid um like
just milk in general any milk products
unless it's kefir okay and even then
some people have a problem with the milk
type issues but normally you should be
fine the other thing you want to avoid
is of course sugar because that's going
to feed this thing more than anything um
now I like to instead of taking just a
regular probiotic um there's a thing
called effective microbes and this
effective microbes is a combination of a
lot of friendly yeast and things that
you can take to start not only building
up your friendly bacteria but building
up most of the other microbes in your
system I'll put a a link down below of
where you can get it I I'm not
associated with this company so um I'm
not going to tell you what brand to get
but I'll just put some information to
research effective microbes because I
believe that they work a lot better and
these effective microbes um you it's
almost like you don't need to
refrigerate them they last forever you
take just a small amount and some water
before bed and then they start growing
in your system and to build back up your
good yeast and bacteria so it can kill
this off um it takes a bit of time and
you go slow okay so I'll put a link down
there but I just wanted to mention uh
like things like scraping the tongue
trying to sterilize your body does not
work it's an inside problem you have to
fix the overall uh balance of microbes
and then eventually uh clear this out
okay thanks for
watching
