hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about in a minute fasting and your
adrenals so the question is should you
do intimate fasting if you have an
adrenal body type or we have weakness
with your adrenals or high cortisol etc
now if you do a search on this you're
going to be told that you shouldn't do
them in fasting if you have adrenal
weakness so I disagree let me explain
why now normally when you do
intermittent fasting your blood sugars
come down but if you have a pre-existing
hypoglycemia or a low blood sugar
situation what will happen is the
adrenals will work a little bit harder
to stabilize your blood Sugar's because
one of the purposes of the adrenal is to
increase cortisol when your blood sugars
start to go low and counter this drop in
blood sugar and that's why another name
of course all is called glucocorticoids
because it's a glucose hormone to help
release glucose from the system and help
normalize blood sugar so it's a
protective mechanism against blood
sugars that go too low so if you have
hypoglycemia and you do intermittent
fasting you might notice symptoms of low
blood sugar as you transition into
fat-burning okay which could take I
don't know three days a week maybe two
weeks okay but that's really easy to
solve you just add more fat add more
vegetable during the meal moderate
protein and that's going to carry you to
the next meal but as far as intermittent
fasting being bad for the adrenals
that's not true because the adrenals are
just doing their job just like if you
had an infection the adrenal glands
would have to stimulate the white blood
cells to fight off the infection is that
bad no it's just a normal function of
cortisol I mean if you exercise for
example and you stimulate testosterone
is that bad now that's a normal thing
that happens when you exercise it
stimulates certain hormones now if you
were an adrenal body type or you have
adrenal fatigue I do recommend you do in
a minute fasting because intermittent
fasting will take a tremendous amount of
stress other stress oxidative stress
from your body it helps decrease
inflammation okay so right there the
need for cortisol
to be released is going to be a lot less
because you're not going to have the
inflammation because this is very
therapeutic for inflammation so your
immune system starts kicking in it
starts working better so that's going to
take more stress off the adrenals but
what I think that actually happens if if
someone has a pre-existing low blood
sugar situation and they do them in a
fasting and they feel like crap and then
they eat and they feel better
someone's going to conclude Oh in a
minute fasting is going to be stressful
to the body so it's going to be
stressful for the adrenals and one last
point if you're going to do in am in
fasting and you're having a hard time
just do a gradual do it very gradual
until you're very comfortable and the
body will start to change over to
fat-burning and it'll be easier and
easier alright thanks for watching so
we've been getting a lot of success
stories but I don't have your success
story yet so click the link down below
and upload you before and after I want
to actually hear about your success
story I want to see your
before-and-afters and every week we do
featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
