there's so many things that contribute
to either getting healthy or creating a
disease and there are many things that
people are doing that create this health
or disease but today we're going to talk
about something different something that
a person is not doing that's
contributing to a disease and this is
called an Omission those omissions are
really hard to see so whether an
Omission being something that's lacking
in your diet or in your environment you
don't really see those things because
they're invisible so today I'm going to
talk about how the lack of physical
activity no motion can affect your genes
and it is significant it's actually
quite fascinating
um I talk a lot about nutrition and food
and things like that but I don't think I
have any videos in this one topic and
how that impacts your health it's quite
interesting so before we get into it go
ahead and type down below how much
physical activity or exercise you do on
a weekly basis let's first cover this
definition of the word
sedentary and that means a person has a
tendency to sit for a long period of
time the derivation comes from the Latin
word which means sit if you're sanitary
you sit a lot either watching TV during
computer games or whatever here's the
problem our bodies were developed to
survive with a lot of motion and so if
you really evaluate and look at the
genetics inside our bodies
um boy does inactivity create a lot of
problems both in the activation of
disease promoting genes as well as the
inhibition of Health promoting genes
because our genes have developed long
ago with motion our bodies now because
we're so sedentary create a lot of
issues just because of this lack of
motion in fact if you look at physical
inactivity that comprises 31 of the
population 15 years or older so let's
talk about how that impacts our health
and the study that I'm going to
summarize right now is just comparing
people that get less than 2.5 hours per
week of physical activity to those who
get more than 2.5 hours of physical
activity their risk of breast cancer
goes up by 22 percent mortality
increases by 41 that's your risk of
dying just with physical inactivity
incredible cardiovascular disease
increases by 43 percent your risk for
getting diabetes increases by 85 percent
death caused from cardiovascular disease
from diabetes is at 92 percent gallstone
risk increases by 49 colon cancer
increases by 85 percent risk of stroke
increases by 117 percent just from
physical inactivity mind-blowing you
know we have this concept that taking
time off having leisure time is going to
increase our survival you know sitting
on the beach doing nothing that might
help for a little bit because it's going
to reduce stress but not for a long
period of time you need to be staying in
motion to reduce stress now I have a lot
of personal experience on this if I
don't physically keep my body in motion
boy I have have all sorts of
inflammation all the years of old
injuries and arthritis start talking to
me I am a perfect textbook on this topic
because I have to exercise or I don't do
well in fact my body or my genetics is
developed for a lot of physical labor
outside like chopping wood or cutting
trees down how do I know that because
every time I do that my body does so
much better I sleep like a baby I have
no stress physically I feel the best
versus those times I do nothing I think
in my life between my late 20s and my
early 40s I don't think I exercise
very very much at all and that was a
time where I had the most problems in
fact for me I don't think it was until I
got into my like early 40s that I really
started to take exercise seriously on a
daily basis but now we know why exercise
is important because it activates
certain genes that increase your health
increase your survival I mean just
exercise alone will increase your
cognitive function and a sedentary life
will decrease your cognitive function
and your overall mood and it really
messes up your cholesterol values as
well they found that people that are
inactive have a much worse lipid profile
people that are inactive have more uh
sympathetic nervous system activation
which is more flutter fight which leads
to more stress and lack of high quality
sleep people that have less physical
activity have higher blood sugars they
have more insulin they have more insulin
resistance this is why just exercise
alone can greatly help your blood sugars
as well as help you fix that insulin
resistance you see this goes Way Beyond
just exercising for weight loss you want
to exercise for major health benefits
and another big reason why I personally
exercise is it reduces inflammation now
that comes with a a little explanation
because you can over train and keep your
body in an inflamed State
when I reviewed my DNA profile
my greatest weakness was inflammation
okay and especially if I over exercise
which explains a lot early on when I was
in high school wrestling and college
wrestling boy did I go into the season
really strong
but you exercise every single day for
like two hours and I would go home and
exercise twice a day and so I was over
training my jeans are not designed to
over train some athletes are lucky and
they have genes that they can repair so
fast in fact they have evaluated Elite
sprinters and their genetics are
designed for massive power incredible
recovery their collagen repairs really
fast they're less at risk for getting
injured so unfortunately I don't have
those jeans I wish I did but for the
majority of the population you really
want to make sure that you don't ever
over train but at the same time
for your own Survival your own health
you need to do regular consistent
exercise and uh very quickly you could
find out what type of exercise you need
by doing different types of exercise and
then seeing how your body responds to it
some people are much better with power
type intense exercise maybe with a
shorter duration that's me whereas other
people might do much better with
endurance type exercise I have the body
that is not good for marathons or any
type of endurance type exercise so this
is why I do short bursts of high
intensity exercise with lots of rest and
lots of sleep so very simply three
recommendations okay number one
consistent regular exercise based on
whatever you respond to now it doesn't
have to be exercise it can be any
physical activity it could be working
outside would be the best or it could be
inside anything that increases motion
would be be a valid therapy and the
thing I like about physical work is you
also are productive doing it versus just
you know being on a treadmill number two
make sure your sleep is good if you have
problems with that I put some videos
down below for you to watch and number
three this is a really big problem for a
lot of people and this relates to
exercise you always always want to keep
your inflammation low so this would mean
don't over train eat foods that are
anti-inflammatory
and I want to just mention this one
little Point there's a lot of research
out there that people will tell you that
red meat will cause inflammation it
causes cancer it causes this causes that
but they really don't differentiate
between the grass-fed grass finished
meat versus grain fed you know the
regular meat that you get in the grocery
store which these animals are fed
omega-6 grains which increase the
inflammation versus the grass which
gives them omega-3 fatty acids so really
there's a huge difference if you're
consuming grass-fed grass finished
animal products you are eating a food
that is anti-inflammatory now the same
thing with fish right you have Farm fed
fish versus wild caught especially
salmon so all the seafood is very very
high in omega-3
omega-3 is extremely protective against
inflammatory genes and against over
training when you're exercising vitamin
D is another really really important
anti inflammatory nutrient it's the most
important about soluble vitamin
especially during the winter you need to
take vitamin D and even during this
summer months it's becoming more and
more common for people to find out they
have genetic weaknesses with absorbing
or activating vitamin D in which case
explains a lot it explains why their
immune system is low explains why they
have aches and pains because vitamin D
is intimately involved with so many
different biochemical reactions so
vitamin D is at the very top of the list
as far as important nutrients fasting
kind of goes along with exercise as far
as the ability to influence your genes
it's called epigenetics and so if you're
doing a lot of snacks that's bad you
need to do intermittent fasting okay and
also exercise those two items should be
emphasized just as much as what you eat
now since we are on the topic of
physical activity I did a really great
video on explaining
the basics of exercise and how you can
use that to optimize your results check
it out I put it up right here
