hey it's dr. Berg and we're gonna answer
another question here dr. Berg what do
you think is going to be the next
superfood okay so alright so I've talked
in many of the other videos about
superfoods like cruciferous and kale and
a wheatgrass juice and all that but I
believe that there's another food that
it's going to be very popular I wouldn't
say it's the top of the list but it's
definitely loaded with nutrition okay
this food that has tons of vitamin A so
it's almost comparable with kale believe
it or not but it's a unique type of
vitamin A it's an animal source and it
has no irritation of your liver or
gallbladder so it's totally fine and it
has a load of vitamin D right vitamin D
to help with your bones and calcium
transportation and a lot of people are
low in vitamin D by the way and vitamin
E and vitamin F now you probably haven't
heard about him enough but vitamin F is
like the reciprocal hormone to vitamin D
they work together so without vitamin F
you may have more viruses coming out of
remission if you get sunburned it's hard
to get rid of this sunburn so this food
I'm going to tell you about will really
help to protect against the sun rays and
radiation and vitamin k2 now what does
vitamin k2 that is a type of k vitamin K
that is really good for your bones and
your teeth to prevent dental cavities
it has lecithin which is the antidote to
cholesterol it actually will not
increase their cholesterol because it
has the antidote to cholesterol
it has selenium that's a trace mineral
and iodine which is very very important
and omega-3 and omega-6 fats and medium
chain triglyceride fats now what does
that mean it means that it's a healthy
fat that does not convert to fat it
doesn't make you fat and
you guess what food this is butter
that's right now butter you've been
taught that butter is bad for you and
it's going to clog your arteries right
in fact I was the guy originally telling
people to avoid saturated fats because
it's going to destroy your liver but in
reality there is no study right now that
says that consuming butter will in any
shape or form increase the clogging of
your arteries okay if you can show me
one I will be glad to look at it but you
will not find one but someday I'm going
to find out who they is who are pushing
this out I think they came out with
margarine and then basically they push
butter down but butters been used for a
long time I like this one called Carrie
gold you can get this at the grocery
store it's an Irish butter and the
reason I like it is because it's
amazingly delicious so you can consume
butter alright and it has it's one of
the few foods that has lauric acid
lauric acid is anti tumour anti cancer
it's good for weight loss and metabolism
the only other food that lauric acid is
in is coconut oil and breast milk so you
have a choice butter coconut oil or
breast milk I don't know where you gonna
find the breast milk but let's stick
with the butter or coconut oil so it has
all these great things it has all these
fat type of item ins and it doesn't turn
into adipose tissue it doesn't clog your
arteries and it's actually easy to
digest because it bypasses the lip the
liver and the gallbladder doesn't strain
the gallbladder like other types of fats
like believe it or not unsaturated fats
like olive oil is harder to digest and
butter so I consume a lot of kale and I
will sometimes just take a TSP of butter
and I'll take that in the evening and I
find it really helps my sleep because it
actually enhances the absorption of
calcium from the vitamin D and vitamin F
so you I suggest you can cook with
put it on your vegetables but don't be
afraid to consume butter real butter
organic hormone-free or this stuff right
here which is grass-fed okay so check it
out and I'll see you the next video
