hey guys today I'm gonna answer a
question someone want to know if I get
cancer
can I just consume cruciferous do I need
chemo so just want to cover this topic
now this information I'm gonna talk
about is not to replace your medical
care check with your doctor before doing
anything okay I'm just trying to
increase your awareness on a couple
things about cancer number one in order
for you to get cancer you have to first
have damage within the mitochondria some
type of mutation or alteration in the
DNA trigger by something there called
carcinogens okay you take a look at this
book right here the book on toxicology
which is a study of poisons it goes
through all the different chemicals
there's quite a few of them in our
environment and all the different
diseases and different types of cancer
that it can be related to and then we
have this is by the World Health
Organization talking about endocrine
disruptors these are the pesticides
insecticides herbicides the fungicides
in the environment and how they can
affect not just cancer but other
diseases as well mainly within the
enterance system there's a combination
between animal studies and human studies
very interesting data now what I wanted
to bring your awareness up is
chemotherapy I don't know if you realize
this but the contribution of
chemotherapy for a five-year survival
rate is only 2.1 percent now let's just
take for example bladder cancer normally
you have a 78% chance of surviving five
years chemo adds another 2.1 percent
that is so so insignificant not to
mention all the side effects and all the
other damages for secondary infections
and the suppression of the immune system
now lung cancer has a 56 percent
survival rate up to five years in chemo
would add another 2.1 percent
it's just very very insignificant a lot
of people don't realize that and I'm not
recommending not to take chemo or to
take it I'm just giving you the data of
the actual improvement it's very very
small but what I want to talk about and
concentrate on is this right here
cruciferous vegetables now will
cruciferous cure your cancer I have no
idea but
as for a preventive thing I think it's
very very powerful you wouldn't
necessarily take chemo to prevent cancer
right
but cruciferous definitely there are
many different types of cruciferous
vegetables bok choy kale cabbage
broccoli Brussels sprouts
collard greens radish etc and it's very
difficult to determine the risk lowering
effects of cruciferous simply because
there are so many other variables what
else is the person eating what
environment they're in what's the
person's history so it's very very
difficult to determine that but in
general cruciferous does decrease the
risk of certain types of cancer and it
does this through different effects
there's basically six different things
that cruciferous can do for a person
number one it has the potential to
detoxify carcinogens and I'm talking
about the chemicals in the environment
it's almost impossible not to be exposed
by these chemicals to your food the
environment the grass that you walk on
the golf course that you play golf on I
mean it's just it's all over the place
the cool thing is that cruciferous can
dismantle these through the liver now
you have certain mechanisms and enzymes
already in your body that can do this
but consuming cruciferous vegetables can
also give you additional enzymes to help
turn poisons into harmless particles is
called phase 1 phase 2 detoxification so
that's number one number two it can
induce or trigger apoptosis what does
that mean apoptosis is a situation where
your cells commit suicide so if a cell
becomes damaged there's a certain
mechanism where it can actually kill
itself and this way you can get rid of
damaged cells that have some alteration
that could create problems so this is a
good thing and your body does this
millions of times a day okay but with
cancer cells they lose the ability to
self-destruct so you have this
alteration that keeps growing growing
growing growing cruciferous will help
cancer cells can
suicide that's really powerful
cruciferous has a lot of antioxidants
phytonutrients that actually will help
clean up the free radicals that are
created from all these these chemicals
in the environment so that's a very
powerful thing right here also
cruciferous has the ability to balance
out estrogen not necessarily increasing
the volume of total estrogen but what it
can do it can balance the ratios
reducing the bad harmful estrogens and
increasing the good ones next thing you
can do and this is really really cool it
has the ability to protect against DNA
mutations and damage mutation means a
sudden change within this lifetime
genetically okay so these chemicals can
alter your genes there's nothing to do
with being passed down by your parents
but let's say you're exposed to a
certain chemical and all of a sudden
they start creating all sorts of
dysfunctions in your body so cruciferous
can protect against this alteration
which is very very powerful and lastly
it can decrease something called
angiogenesis angiogenesis is where these
blood vessels start feeding the tumor
okay or the cancer cruciferous has the
ability to inhibit this new circulation
or blood flow to this tumor in cancer
and that's very very powerful as well so
if you combine consuming some
cruciferous vegetables on a regular
basis okay with healthy Kido that drops
the sugar that feeds cancer and do
intermittent fasting and periodic
prolonged fasting I think that will be
the ultimate strategy to help you avoid
cancer in the future
thanks for watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
