hi guys I want to answer the question
why am i creating so much salt after I
consume vegetables ok well that's
because vegetables are really high in
potassium and very low in sodium in this
book on page 122 I list most of the
vegetables that people consume and the
potassium and sodium ratios now check
this out
you need 4700 milligrams to a thousand
milligrams of sodium so 4700 potassium
1000 sodium that's a 4.7 to 1 ratio when
you consume large quantities of
potassium you're gonna need more salt to
balance it out because they work
together let's take a look at avocados
an avocado has 874 milligrams of
potassium and only 16 milligrams of
sodium
okay so 874 to 16 that's a that's way
off right broccoli 505 milligrams of
potassium 42 milligrams of sodium and
then we have celery 344 milligrams of
potassium to a hundred and three
milligrams of sodium celery has a lot of
sodium compared to these other ones and
then we have kale 296 milligrams of
potassium 229 milligrams of sodium
lettuce is 324 milligrams potassium to 8
milligrams of sodium so now you can see
why people crave salt now of course
unless you're consuming pure celery
you're not going to get your sodium so
here's what you can do number one you
can consume more sea salt in your food
consume more olives salty cheese salty
nuts and seeds and here's something else
that I do I add salad spectacular which
is a spice blend to my salad and I put
about two tablespoons of sea salt into
this shake it up and I'll put this on
the salad to make sure that my sodium is
high because if you're starting as low
you may get fatigue muscle fatigue and
you may even get muscle cramps in your
legs alright so now you know why you
would get salt cravings after vegetables
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know
hey that rhymes
