hey guys I wanted to create a quick
video on the purpose of HGH human growth
hormone this is a very very important
hormone as we get older it decreases
however when you exercise you can
increase it by four hundred and fifty
percent when you do in a minute fasting
you can increase it by thirteen hundred
percent of your female and up to two
thousand percent of your a male ok so
this is a really amazing hormone some
people get injected with it I don't
recommend that I recommend doing things
naturally to stimulate it so I'm gonna
put a couple videos down below of how to
trigger human growth hormone but in this
video we're gonna talk about what it
does there's basically nine main things
it does with a lot of smaller things as
well but it helps you strengthen bone if
you actually have broke your bone growth
hormone comes in there and helps you
repair it so it will actually make your
bones very very solid and prevent
osteoporosis okay number two it builds
muscle increasing muscle mass it works
with testosterone okay so it also helps
libido impotency things like that number
three it's a main fat burning hormone
okay it will help you lose weight before
it helps stabilize your blood Sugar's
when you're not eating okay when your
fasting helps to stabilize it tells the
liver to release the sugar that's stored
in there okay and it also mobilized the
fat okay number five it stimulates your
immune system so it helps you prevent
getting sick number six it helps you
convert t4 which is the inactive version
of the thyroid hormone to t3 which is
the active version so it helps make the
thyroid hormone available to you in it
activates it number seven it increases
your vitality because growth hormone is
an anti-aging hormone it keeps you young
it keeps you strong it helps slow down
the aging process number eight it
improves your sleep your quality of
sleep
in fact growth hormone is mainly active
when you're sleeping that's when it does
its work and number nine it improves
your cognitive function
memory focus concentration alright
thanks for watching
hey guys I want to personally invite you
to a new Facebook group that I just
started called dr. Berg's Kido and in a
minute fasting lab ok so I created this
so we can share our successful actions
what worked what didn't work the results
so I put a link down below so go ahead
and sign up and I'll see you inside
