there's a lot of people who have a
deficiency of stomach acid that creates
all sorts of issues there's a really
simple test that you can do to figure
out if you potentially don't have enough
acid in your stomach I'm going to show
you that in fact I'm going to show you
three different tests okay the test is
called Riddler gastric acid reflux Point
test and so since your stomach is kind
of right up underneath the lower part of
the sternum and kind of going a little
bit down below that what you can do is
you take your breastbone okay the bottom
of your breast bone where it ends okay
there's a little piece of cartilage
there and you go one inch below that
okay and then you go one inch to the
left
and you'll hit your rib cage right at
that point that is the location where
you press into the rib cage and just see
if it's tender if it is overly sensitive
it could mean that you have a deficiency
of hydrochloric acid there's two other
tests one is a baking soda test you get
some regular baking soda in the morning
on an empty stomach and you take a
fourth of a teaspoon in a glass of water
like eight ounces dissolve it drink it
down Okay now what's going to happen if
you don't have enough of this
hydrochloric acid in your stomach is
you'll start burping okay so if you
start burping within one to five minutes
then chances are you don't have enough
acid because baking soda is alkaline
it's going to start neutralizing the
acids but if you have enough acid you
won't have this burping and then the
third test you can do is just to take
some betaine hydrochloride which is the
kind of the antidote or remedy for low
stomach acid and then with a meal take
one one before right before you eat
something chew the food go take another
one and then what you do is you'd keep
adding a little bit more of this betaine
hydrochloride with each meal okay so
what's going to happen is if you have
enough stomach acid okay and you drink
this
it's going to cause you to burp within
one to five minutes okay so if you're
burping that means you have enough
stomach acid okay if you don't burp that
means you probably don't have enough
acid so those are the three tests that
you can do to kind of figure out if you
have low stomach acid beyond the
symptoms of low stomach acid which I
want to get into and the symptoms would
be like indigestion would be number one
gas bloating
acid reflux gerd anything that kind of
reflux into the esophagus would usually
mean low stomach acid but relating to
this topic I'm going to talk about
another thing that's extremely common
um as we get older it's called atrophic
gastritis and this condition is like in
50 percent of the population over the
age of 55 or a version of it okay
because sometimes it could be
asymptomatic and you might not even know
you have it but because it's so common
you should be aware of it so here are
the symptoms
you start getting atrophy of the lining
of your stomach so your stomach actually
starts to shrink now the cells in the
stomach also start to shrink and those
cells make hydrochloric acid so guess
what you're going to get you're going to
get lowered amount of hydrochloric acid
so this is one of the big reasons why we
start losing our stomach acid as we get
older just because the cells start to
shrink okay and
a certain percent I'd say 10 of people
who have atropic gastritis have it
because of an autoimmune disease okay so
that's another aspect to this so there's
chronic inflammation involved with this
and so we have low hydrochloric acid but
you have to also realize that the same
cells that make hydrochloric acid also
make something else called the intrinsic
factor and what's that that's this
protein that gets released by those
cells travels down to the small
intestine and connects up with your B12
to allow for absorption and if you don't
have enough intrinsic factor you're
going to be deficient in b 12. which
you're going to notice fatigue anemia
neurological problems
lowered cognitive function
and there's a lot of other symptoms that
can occur from a B12 deficiency you're
also going to be low on folate now as
I've been doing deep dives into DNA boy
across the board
so many people cannot absorb B12 and
folate okay so those are just two
nutrients that a lot of people need more
of also without the stomach acid the
person's not going to be able to absorb
iron too well so they're going to be
anemic from an iron angle so we have
anemia from B12 an anemia from Iron so
you're going to be kind of lethargic
kind of tired dragging loss of energy
you also will lose the taste for red
meat the tolerance of eating meat maybe
you can have a little bit but too much
just does not digest That's a classic
indication that you need more
hydrochloric acid
if you're not digesting protein okay
especially red meat that can show up in
a loss of muscle a loss of amino acids
which can lead to a lot of other issues
and so this is what we see when people
get older there's a loss of muscle and
so this lack of hydrochloric acid is a
huge connection to that because of
what's happening to the stomach and like
I said before other symptoms would be
indigestion gas bloating and I also
mentioned cognitive decline
also brittle nails okay or weak nails
and that's probably due because a lack
of collagen as well as iron you might
also experience restless legs in women
you'll see thinning hair you might
experience acid reflux or and this might
be a new one for you alkaline reflex
wait a second what is alkaline reflux
well a good portion of the time when
they evaluated this reflux material they
found that it's not just pure
hydrochloric acid it's many times mixed
with bile salts being regurgitated from
lower in the small intestine up into the
stomach bile salts Are alkaline okay so
you're going to get this alkaline reflex
but
bile salts are very
irritating to your esophagus they act as
like a detergent they can kind of start
dissolving things so we have this
combination of like acid that's
dissolving the esophagus that can come
up through the throat and then we have
the enzyme pepsin which is a very
powerful protein enzyme start breaking
down the protein of your esophagus and
then we have this detergent that can you
know bile that can irritate the
esophagus as well you can imagine you
can have all sorts of corrosive or
almost like the the esophagus and even
the larynx can be starting to be highly
irritated creating kind of a chronic
cough and soreness in the throat
Etc so it could be a major problem now
another common symptom would be muscle
cramps or muscle twitching why because
it's not just iron that doesn't get
absorbed with an alkaline stomach you
have the other minerals like potassium
magnesium rosacea is another symptom
like the red cheeks of low hydrochloric
acid and you see that a lot in probably
women more than men but men can have it
as well that would be a perfect reason
to take some something to support that
stomach acid or should I say a clue that
you need stomach acid another common
symptom would be chronic halitosis bad
breath okay because if you're not
digesting you're getting a lot of
undigested material and that can create
fermentation in the wrong place and that
can lead to a problem with your breath
what is the actual cause of this
atrophic gastritis one primary cause is
this H pylori my microbe right and I
have done videos on this and so that's
one cause but here's the thing that
microbe stays in remission if you have
enough acid in the stomach
so anything that lowers
the hydrochloric acid in your stomach
can kind of bring on this H pylori like
junk Foods or even taking antacids or an
antibiotic and so if it is a h pylori
problem there's a really good natural
remedy it's called sulforaphane it's in
broccoli Sprouts or a broccoli micro
greens it's also in cabbage cabbage
juice so the sulforaphane Apparently can
put this microbe back in remission and
so if you have just low hydrochloric
acid then betaine hydrochloride is an
answer to start taking to help fix these
this problem
but
many times the lining of the stomach is
inflamed so if you take betaine
hydrochloride it can irritate it so what
you're going to have to do is fix
the inflammatory condition before you
start to acidify the stomach and that
could take
some months so how do you do that one
way is to start consuming certain things
like cabbage juice or wheatgrass juice
powder with some water can actually help
soothe and help heal the stomach lining
because the chlorophyll content but
you're just going to have to start
eating healthy with
zinc zinc is going to help heal that as
well and so you want to do that over a
period of time until the inflammation
goes down a good probiotic would be
important too and the way that you know
that you have inflammation in the
stomach or even an ulcer is when you
take this patane hydrochloride or even
apple cider vinegar things get worse
okay you get this burning sensation
so that's just one point about that but
I will say taking B12 and folate would
be important if you have this problem
because your body is probably not
generating this intrinsic factor so
you're probably deficient and so you
need to take something
in the right form and I'm talking about
the the right form of B12 in in folate
and the right form would be
methylcobolamine
and methylfolate both of those together
and you probably have more energy if you
do that but I wanted to just bring up
these different tests that you can do to
determine this low stomach acid it's a
really common problem and for more
information on what's really causing
this low HCL and some additional
Solutions
I put up this video right here check it
out
