let's talk about the benefits of an SS
seed it has a certain licorice taste but
it's not licorice it has a good amount
of iron manganese these are two trace
minerals it can improve your mood it can
support a stomach ulcer it's
antibacterial it can actually have
effect on your blood sugars and
inflammation and decrease coughing and
it also has a very unique vital nutrient
that can increase saliva production so
if you don't have enough saliva you can
have some aniseed you can consume this
in a powder or an oil or a supplement
but the biggest effect from aniseed is
with decreasing stomach bloating
decreasing stomach cramps
the feeling of nauseousness and gas and
indigestion
why because aniseed increases bile
production and for those of you that are
vegan and you can't do bile salts this
would be a great alternative because it
also has effects of reducing gall stones
and constipation because bile can help
lubricate the colon and decrease
constipation and lastly I just wanted to
mention if you have stomach bloating
interment fasting is probably the best
thing you could do because it takes the
stress off the gall bladder but let's
say for example you're doing one meal a
day or eating two meals a day and you
still have bloating this would be a
great natural remedy without any side
effects so if you want more knowledge on
how to create a healthy body subscribe
now and get daily notifications
