hi guys I'm back with another video and
I had a question what is the sickest
country in the world can you take a well
guess you guessed it the US of A that's
right it has one of the highest death
rates of any country in the world over a
hundred million Americans have either
pre-diabetes or they're a diabetic
that's one third of the entire
population
now what's behind this is insulin
resistance
I would imagine probably 65 to 70
percent maybe even 80% of the population
has in some resistance because you have
to have that for a period of maybe 5 10
even 20 years before we even get
pre-diabetes so this is really a symptom
of high insulin of course they're not
making the connections how the highest
obesity rates per capita in the world
welcome to America one of the highest
rates of heart disease and upper
respiratory infection I want to talk
about the bigger countries not countries
that have maybe 15,000 people or islands
or something like that
because there are certain small
countries and even islands that are even
worse but their population is like
15,000 so I'm not including them in this
evaluation but this is the question that
I have we have this conflicting piece of
information here we spend the most for
health care and 3 trillion every single
year yet we have the worst health ok now
wait a second we're spending all this
money to get the absolute worst health
you would think if you put more money
into it you'll get healthier right so I
want your opinion about this down in the
comments below tell me what you think
the problem is and how could we solve it
did you realize that 25% of this 3
trillion are spent on admin costs insane
and then the cost of drugs in America is
off the charts and another big expense
on the cost of health care is defensive
medicine because doctors can get sued so
the cost of malpractice is off the
charts and so they're forced to do more
testing which is just more expensive
so tell me why you think America is so
unhealthy in the comments below and then
I'm gonna give you my opinion right here
okay why well it's because there's very
little health in health care in America
that's why they call it medical care
because it's all about medicine there's
not a lot of money in promoting health
care I really really like what they did
in Japan they came up with a law and I
you've probably seen this another video
metabolome
okay where every year men and women of
the age of 40 to 74 have to give their
waists measured okay and Men it should
be 30 3.5 or 85 centimeters for those
people in Europe that use the metric
system and then women thirty five point
four inches or 90 centimeters okay so if
it's more than this the companies are
penalized like ten percent of a certain
amount I'm not sure exactly what amount
and that goes to paying for the elderly
healthcare which makes total sense
because the size of your waist really
tells us what's going on with your
insulin if you look down right now and
you can see your belly
chances are you have high insulin and
you have insulin resistance which is
behind that and I know if you're on my
channel you've heard this a million
times but this is for the new people
that have never heard this before high
insulin is behind so many different
problems metabolic syndrome high blood
pressure high cholesterol high sugar
belly fat and the list goes on and on
and on I problems kidney problems cancer
by the way loves sugar okay and the
reason why people have high insulin is
because they have high carbohydrate high
sugar diets and cancer just loves to eat
sugar also high insulin leads to a
massive increase of heart attacks
increasing clots increase strokes a
fatty liver and all the complications
that come from that decrease cognitive
function Alzheimer's is type 3 diabetes
now it's interesting
you have to have high insulin for 10 to
12 years before becoming a pre-diabetic
and then becoming a diabetic and the
biggest shocker is that it's rarely ever
tested they never check a fasting
insulin or they never check for insulin
resistance that would be a test that's
called
coma - I are okay they don't test this
very often the exact test that would
pick up this problem is not tested but
people are getting symptoms like high
blood pressure high cholesterol belly
fat fatty liver before they get
pre-diabetes so those are definitely
some of the symptoms but these are
symptoms this is the cause right here so
go ahead and tell me what you think in
the comment section I want to know
thanks for watching if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
