hey guys Dr Burg here listen I wanted to
do a video on endurance athletes and
ketosis there's been this huge debate of
should I do carbal loading when I
exercise should I do high fat there's a
lot of confusion there's a recent study
by the Journal of physiology that I want
to I put a link down below it's
fascinating actually they compare doing
a low carb high fat with a high carb
lowfat diet and there's one other group
too which is kind of in between but this
is what they found they found that um
these athletes burn 2.5 to three times
more fat than the other group that is
significant so they became fat burning
machines uh also there was significantly
lowered glycogen usage because the
concern is that you're going to tap out
your glycogen or sugar reserve and end
up with fatigue in muscle weakness but
that did not happen now um the idea that
energy only comes from carbohydrates is
absolutely false you don't need to do
the carbo loading now there were mixed
reviews on some of the studies that
showed that you're going to get better
performance with higher carbohydrates if
you actually read the article you're
going to notice that a lot of these
athletes did short-term ketosis they
were not fully keto adapted if you're an
athlete and you jump into this ketogenic
diet too fast you're not going to
perform well because your cells have not
adapted so the study that I'm going to
show you below uh revolves around
athletes that have been doing it for
over a year or more so in the future if
you see some conflicting data make sure
you read the article and see if that
athlete was really Keet to adapted over
a longer period of time not a shortterm
jump in after one month and see if they
perform better all right put your
comments below I want to know what you
think hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely
so take the quiz now and we'll send you
report
