hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I
want to talk about the biggest weight
loss mistake okay so this is a little
technique that I use okay I'm going to
show you what I use sometimes here's
what you do if you want to find out the
truth of something you want to research
the most
credible Authority driven website like
the American diabetic Association or the
American Heart Association okay or the
American art arthritis Association or in
this case since we're talking about
weight loss I'm going to take the
Obesity Society this is the most
scientifically based leading peer-
review journals you know World round
researchers and find out what they're
recommending and do the exact opposite
why because they always get it wrong so
let's just take this website it's called
TR treating obesity it's called uh let's
see treat obesity seriously. org okay
and I put a link down below this is
hilarious this is what they said on
their website take the pledge I believe
obesity isn't just a problem it's a
disease well first of all it's not a
disease it's not a disease you're
treating like a disease it's a symptom
of poor habits and the wrong thing okay
it's not like just a disease that
spreads there's a pre-step that you
become obese okay it says right here
here that warrants serious
evidence-based treatments and this is
what they did they switched the whole
problem to a disease it's very
political nutritional and physical
activity guidance okay so the first
recommendation that they recommend out
of all the recommendations is eat a diet
with whole grains Okay and there's other
things too but whole grains is the first
recommendation which is interesting okay
check this out intense Behavioral
Counseling drug therapy and surgery so
they're they're recommending that
healthy treatment right agree to learn
more and help more I treat obesity
seriously so what they are doing is they
basically switched a symptom to a
disease okay now let's just take coal
grains Okay because they're recommending
nutrient-dense Foods right makes sense
sounds logical but why do they pick
grains let's take a look at bread for
example let's take whole wheat bread
okay
has no vitamin C it has no Vitamin D it
has no vitamin A it has 1 milligram of
vitamin E that's not a lot okay it has
less than between four and % of the B
vitamins no B12 very low in B vitamins
okay so the only thing that has of any
significance is manganese and selenium
it doesn't have a complete amino acid
profile
it doesn't have a complete fatty acid
profile it has a lot of starch it's one
of the highest Foods on the glycemic
index and the insulin index what does
that mean it means that it turns into
sugar and it increases insulin it makes
you obese okay I promise you if you eat
a lot of bread you're going to get fat
okay so here's the
tip okay find out what everyone is doing
what they're recommending especially
what their the authorities are telling
you to do and do the exact opposite okay
I promise you will be very very
successful all
right so I'll see you in the next
video
