so I wanted to do this quick video on a
question that someone had about using
the microwave oven okay
now the type of radiation that you're
getting with microwaves is non ionizing
radiation it's still radiation but it's
of course not as dangerous as getting a
cat scan or x-rays but it's still giving
you radiation which can create some
problems now there are some long-term
studies that do show that using the
microwave may give you a cancer-causing
effect in laboratory animals especially
rats so if you are going to feed your
pet rats definitely do not use the
microwave and they can't produce
cataracts and one of the big questions
that people want to know is that if I
use my microwave is that going to lower
my nutrients compared to other types of
cooking and the answer is absolutely yes
it can reduce your nutrients from 5 to
40% or more depending on how long you
cook the food in the microwave I mean
just by using the microwave for 60
seconds you can inactivate key
phytonutrients from 96 to 100 percent
versus steaming which is only 11% using
the microwave can also increase the
glucose and insulin response it can
increase more free radicals it can also
oxidize cholesterol which is another big
problem and on top of that if you're
cooking food in a plastic container
you could potentially release up to 44
different chemicals including benzene so
my recommendation is this if you're
going to use the microwave don't use it
on a regular basis but then secondly try
to use it for the minimum amount of time
so if you have something you're gonna
cook that takes a long period of time
let's say three or four or five or six
minutes use your stove and lastly and
most importantly I would not cook in
plastic I would use either glass or some
type of material that you're not going
to leach out chemicals alright thanks
for watching
so if you enjoyed this content I have a
favor to ask you
if you wouldn't mind writing an unbiased
review I put a link down below for more
information on how to do that and thank
you in advance
