hi guys someone recently sent me a link
to the number one rated diet can you
take a well guess what it is it's the
DASH diet okay in fact the keto diet was
very low on the list I think it was like
last place so oh well I guess we're
going switch over to the DASH diet now
because it's been rated as the number
one diet by the US News and World Report
okay sounds pretty credible I mean us
news and World Report actually if you
look them up it's really owned by a
media company
who sells advertisement yeah so really
the big question is who's rating these
diets okay well you can't find that out
they don't really tell you and what is
it based on is it based on actual
results or advertisement probably
advertisement because this diet is
promoted by the American Heart
Association and many governmental
agencies so could be some conflict of
interest there but this is the problem
that I have with this diet uh it's a
lowfat diet
High grain diet six to eight servings of
grains lean proteins fruit which I don't
have a problem with fruit in general but
if you're trying to reduce your insulin
and you're doing four to six servings of
fruit that's going to bump you out
snacks popcorn bread sticks crackers but
whole wheat and non-salt pretzels okay
again you don't want to be snacking with
this this is going to raise insulin and
and then we have the margarine which is
a trans fat that's not about health so
the person that sent me the link wanted
to know my opinion on this diet now if
you're living on pure junk and sugar and
you go to this diet it's definitely a
step up but if you have insulin
resistance and you have a stubborn
metabolism I don't recommend it do the
Keto Plan with intermittent fasting
thanks for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press the button below and I
will keep you in the know hey that
rhymes
