hey guys I wanted to do a video on some
of the differences between palm oil and
coconut oil there's been a lot of
attention on coconut not a lot on palm
oil now palm oil has gotten a bad rap
because what's happening in the
environment so you want to make sure you
get something that's eco-friendly
sustainable but this talk is not
necessarily on that piece of the puzzle
it's mainly on the health benefits of
palm oil in fact there's no other crop
that can yield as much oil per acre as
palm and it absorbs fewer pesticides and
chemical fertilizer then coconut oil and
corn oil and soy oil so it does have its
advantages now the majority of saturated
fat in palm oil is called palmitic it's
44% okay and palmitic acid also has
gotten a bad rap from some of the
studies so mainly these studies if not
all the studies are done on refined
isolated plum attic acid which does not
come in nature very very few if any of
the studies were done on actual palm oil
itself now I do want to put three links
down below of some pretty hardcore
credible studies that show that
saturated fats are not dangerous
especially the compared to unsaturated
fats so I'll put those down below and
you can check them out now palmitic acid
can be used for energy by the body
coconut oil is nine times lower palmitic
acid but it's very high in lauric acid
which then turns into mono lauren which
is really good for the immune system
it's antiviral antimicrobial now there
are many other types of fatty acids and
coconuts that actually have additional
health benefits and a good portion of
coconut oil is medium chain fatty acids
which are really good to increase energy
and also help you make ketones now
what's interesting about palm oil is
that it's very very high in vitamin E
okay now vitamin E in nature always
comes in a complex and the other half of
the vitamin E complex are composed of
compounds called tocotrienols and I
recently purchased this book called
tocotrienols vitamin e beyond taka Falls
it's a mouthful
but this book shows you all the amazing
research of the vitamin E complex it
says right here vitamin E is a
collective name for a family of fat
soluble compounds so it has a lot of
different things in it tocotrienols move
more freely and more efficiently within
the cell membranes then due to corals
especially in tissues with saturated
fatty layers such as the brain and the
liver now typically when people get
vitamin E from the health food store
they don't realize they're getting a
synthetic version of vitamin E and only
one little tiny fraction of the vitamin
E complex tocopheryl
okay they're not getting the whole
complex so I'm just gonna summarize
what's in this book right here because
the benefits of taking vitamin E and the
whole complex are huge anti-cancer anti
tumor neuroprotective it counters
radiation damage that's incredible
actually there's benefits of regrowing
your hair and that's why I'm going to be
putting this ingredient in my hair
formula as well very soon I mean by the
mini is one of the main antioxidants
that protects the inside of your
arteries from oxidative damage so it's
quite incredible
so palm oil has one of the highest
sources of the vitamin E complex and
palm oil also has vitamin A now it's
true that it is a pre vitamin A it's a
beta carotene in alpha carotene but some
of that does convert into retinol which
is the active form certain cultures in
Africa for example that have a high risk
of going blind are consuming palm oil in
getting improvement with eyesight
because one cause of blindness is a
vitamin A deficiency and it also has
quite a few final nutrients one called
the phytosterols which are the
precursors to steroid hormones okay so
like cortisol for example as a steroid
hormone to help fight stress here's a
really good source of palm oil right
here red palm oil loaded with vitamin A
and vitamin E okay you can check it out
right here this is what it looks like
right here looks pretty healthy now I
know some of you are gonna ask in the
comments section how much vitamin E in
vitamin A is in coconut oil and the
answer is close to zero okay I think
there's like point zero zero one percent
there's not much at all so coconut oil
has its benefits but palm oil has some
additional benefits that I wanted to
increase your awareness of but just make
sure that if you're going to buy some
make sure it's sustainable eco-friendly
alright guys thanks for watching
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
