hey guys I wanted to create this short
video on a question that someone had do
the type of carbs matter on keto as long
as you keep your carbs within 20 to 50
grams does it really matter what type of
carbs you should consume and the answer
is absolutely yes
then what's more important is to do the
low glycemic carbs and if you're not
sure what the low glycemic means I put a
link down below to get more data on
there so the GI or glycemic index is a
scale of all these carbohydrates and the
effect that it has on blood Sugar's so
the higher numbers spike blood Sugar's
more than the lower numbers and at 100
you have glucose but there are things
that are above 100 like for example
Multi dextran okay that's like between
106 and hundred and thirty-six it's like
way up there so it does matter the
quality or the the type of carb that you
consume on a keto plan so let's say for
example you're doing 20 grams of carbs
per day but those carbs are you know
sugar or high-fructose corn syrup
Multi dextran rice puffs potato chips
for example or bread a white bread you'd
be much better off consuming more carbs
berry vegetable carbohydrates and
there's some other ones that are low on
the glycemic index so you want to get
that chart and study it and stay on the
low end because if you're consuming even
smaller amounts of carbs but they have a
stronger effect on blood sugars it will
not only throw up your blood sugars and
prevent you from staying in ketosis but
the next day you're gonna be starving
for carbs so recently someone gave me a
protein bar which was keto or so-called
keto friendly and the problem is the I
couldn't see the ingredients because the
rapper was stuck to itself so I couldn't
see underneath it so I said well execute
a friendly it's gonna be fine so I
consumed it and the next day I was so
hungry in the morning and then I had to
go online and I found out the
ingredients so the type of carbs were
higher in the glycemic index and so it
created this spike in blood sugar and
then a drop and then the hunger the next
day so if you're trying to do in a
minute fasting and you have these hidden
sugars it's gonna make it really hard so
the type of carbs do matter stick with
the low glycemic and if you're trying to
lose weight you can stay with the higher
amount of carbs as long as they're the
right carbs all right guys
I'll see you next video so I want to
thank you for being here and watching my
videos if you haven't already subscribed
go ahead and do so so you can stay
informed of future videos
