okay had some requests on this topic I'm
in college I wanted to Quito don't have
a lot of money okay I've been there had
the t-shirt there are times in college
where I had just a tiny bit of money and
I had to stretch that for a long time of
course I didn't know any better and I
would consume the refined carbohydrates
you know the bread the cereal the pasta
the ramen noodles which then stimulates
hunger and causes me to eat more and
more food so you do want to keep your
carbs low and you do want to do in a
minute fasting that right there is gonna
save you a lot of money all right so if
you have the option of having like
Trader Joe's or Costco in your area go
there you're gonna get it a lot cheaper
but the first food I'm gonna talk about
his bulk salad you can even go to the
Giant and get really inexpensive salad
okay and you have your bowl it's not
that expensive and that way you have
your greens sardines are a really good
go to a protein source and as omega-3
fatty acid both DHA and EPA those are
the two active forms of omega-3 fatty
acids plus it's a great protein source
if possible get the sardines with the
bones and the skin it's not a necessity
but it gives you some additional
benefits Kerrygold butter okay
the butter with your food is going to
satisfy you a lot more you can get this
from Trader Joe's or Costco very very
inexpensively now and it's grass-fed
hamburger okay now if you can't afford
grass-fed at least get organic okay
because that's even though these animals
are consuming grains at least they're
consuming organic grains okay Costco and
BJ's is starting to carry very
inexpensive organic meat products number
five chicken thighs wings when you
actually shot for chicken there's a lot
of different cuts and things like that
these two can't seem to be the least
expensive number six summer sausage now
you may need to find this at a healthy
store but it's not that expensive it's a
lot less expensive than other types of
meats but you can actually just cut off
the amount that you want keep in the
fridge and it's a good source of fat and
protein the one that I use is without
dextrose okay and number seven my
favorite eggs you can get pasture-raised
organic eggs for under five dollars okay
like four dollars and forty cents and if
you do three eggs a day it's like a
dollar a day a little more than a dollar
a day for your protein if you do three
eggs per meal that's just a little more
than one dollar for your protein source
in you're getting one of the best
sources of protein in healthy fats and
other nutrients but I would highly
recommend eating a lot of eggs and no
it's not going to increase your
cholesterol you bring a cabbage very
expensive a very good source of vitamin
C and other nutrients and it's
cruciferous so you can slice up some
cabbage you can saute it or mix with
your salad it's pretty good
squash this doesn't necessarily have to
be organic because you're not eating the
outer portion but you're cooking it and
you're getting a good protein source and
it's not that expensive
all right guys there you have it your
keto friendly foods on a budget so if
you're enjoying this content go ahead
and share it with someone that could
really benefit from it
