today I'm going to talk about the
benefits the side effects and the
dangers of alkaline water now naturally
when you're drinking water from a spring
or from a well or an Artesian well it's
going to be alkaline and it's alkaline
because of the minerals calcium
magnesium which are both alkaline but
definitely people have this idea that
anything acid is unhealthy or it will
cause sickness and anything alkaline is
healthy which is absolutely not true
because in our bodies we have a lot of
different acids nucleic acids as in your
DNA you have hydrochloric acid as your
stomach acid you even have lactic acid
that's in your colon to help you digest
you have amino acids and fatty acids so
just because something is acid doesn't
make it bad okay we have this scale of
acidity and alkalinity and right in the
center is seven which is neutral and
distilled water is neutral and as the
numbers go up okay above seven okay so
you have 7 8 9 10 11 12 all the way up
to fourteen things are becoming more
alkaline and just so you know at the
very top of the list like 14 which is
extremely alkaline you have things like
drain cleaner bleach which is I think 13
and soap which is you know it could be
anywhere between eight and ten so those
are all uh alkaline then as we go lower
we get things like lemon juice and apple
cider vinegar and tomatoes and of course
soda those are all acidic but when we
talk about pH in our body
most the time we're referencing our
blood pH which normally should be
slightly alkaline so if neutral was
seven your blood is 7.34 to
7.45 and I think the biggest myth about
pH is that
it's very difficult to change your pH by
taking something and I'm talking about
changing the pH of your blood so whether
someone's eating more alkaline food or
more acidic food
that pH in your blood is probably
unlikely to change our body tends to
control and regulate the PHS of the
different parts of our body so for
example your saliva should be slightly
alkaline your blood should be slightly
awkward your stomach should be very very
very acidic but your small intestine
that goes right after the stomach should
be alkaline yet the large bowel should
be acidic not like the stomach but
slightly acidic of course we have the
gallbladder in bile which should be
alkaline so we don't want to alkalize
the body okay that's not a smart thing
to do and primarily the reason for that
is because when you take something
that's alkaline and specifically I'm
talking about alkaline water you are
going to alter the stomach's pH which
should be between one and three very
acidic and doing that is going to come
with a package like you may end up with
heartburn acid reflux gas gerd you might
have an increased risk of infection you
might have hair loss you might have
arrhythmias and I'm not talking about
alkaline water from the spring or
Artesian well or some type of water that
you would get naturally with the
minerals and I'm mainly talking about a
water that's created maybe from a
machine or something that has nothing to
do with minerals so there's a machine
out there that you can get that
alkalizes the water and they don't add
minerals to it they put electricity
through the water and they alter the the
water and take out the acidic part
leaving this water very alkaline I
remember in practice once testing
someone's urine after they use this
machine for about two weeks and the pH
of their urine which normally should be
acidic was like nine which is extremely
alkaline for your urine and so this will
really put them in a situation where
they're very susceptible to having
infections they can't kill off microbes
that well so there is some huge side
effects from drinking a lot of extremely
alkaline water but there's not going to
be any side effects from drinking your
Spring Water that's alkaline or some
bottled spring water that has a lot of
minerals in it because it's made
alkaline in a natural way so here's some
missing information that that you need
to know the pH in your stomach should be
between one and three very very acidic
and the purpose of the acidity is to
help you break down protein is to help
you absorb minerals also absorb B12
as well as to kill off pathogens right
I'm talking about bacteria fungus
parasites that could be in your food
okay it's kind of a natural barrier your
immune barrier and so as we age we lose
this stomach acid people that are taking
antacids are putting their pH in their
stomach in the wrong direction Because
the actual cause of heartburn GERD and
acid reflux most of the time is this
your stomach acids are not strong enough
and that valve at the top of the stomach
is not closing so you're regurgitating
acids the thing to do to correct this is
to take more acids not to take less
acids or not to alkalize the stomach
with anything that just makes it worse
so if we alkalize the stomach we start
developing a condition called hypo
chlorohydria or like no acid in your
stomach which is called a chlorhydria
and in that situation not only are you
not going to be able to digest protein
so these undigested protein particles
get into the small intestine into the
large intestine and then it starts to
affect the immune system in a negative
way you may start developing allergies
there's an interesting study done on
mice where they got rid of the stomach
acid fed them fish
and they developed allergies to fish
protein which is interesting so not
being able to digest protein can
increase risk of getting allergies can
create gas and all sorts of like things
like constipation the other important
thing about stomach acids is to be able
to absorb iron
calcium magnesium zinc potassium without
having stomach acid you could easily be
deficient in these minerals not to
mention the vitamin B12 so all this can
create anemia and it can lead to many
other issues and of course this acid
kills off microbes so if you can't kill
off microbes you end up with microbes in
your small intestine okay and that term
is called small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth which is a pretty nasty
condition so that means every time you
eat you're going to feel bloated and it
usually is created because your stomach
acid is not strong the side effects from
people taking antacids are the same as
those who have not enough stomach acid
so those are some of the side effects of
alkaline water now should we drink
acidic water well personally I found
that when I drink carbonated water and
it's slightly acidic and I actually can
digest better especially if I add a
little teaspoon of either apple cider
vinegar or maybe some lemon juice now
since we're on the topic of peach or you
want to just talk about one more thing
if you actually develop a condition
called alkalosis which your pH is
definitely way too alkaline so here are
the side effects from having alkalosis
number one you are going to have low
potassium you're going to have low
calcium that calcium is going to bind to
protein now this calcium is unavailable
for the muscle contraction relaxation
effect and you're going to start having
these weird Twitches it's called tetany
sometimes it's underneath the eye
sometimes it's in the arm it could be
anywhere in the body it can also affect
the heart rhythm you can start
developing heart arrhythmias the muscle
is greatly affected in an alkalosis
state so either the muscle is going to
be in spasm it's going to be crampy it's
going to be in pain it's going to be
weak but overall you're going to have
some really abnormal Sensations in the
body but both nerve wise and muscle wise
and it can even get so severe that you
can go into either a seizure or a coma
we don't want alkalosis and we don't
want to be too acidic we want to have
the right pH for the right part of your
body having the right pH especially in
our stomachs will allow certain enzymes
to work the enzyme that helps you digest
protein is not activated unless you have
the strong acid and the same thing with
the small intestine certain enzymes like
for example for carbohydrates are
activated when it's alkaline but like I
said before different parts of your body
require different PHS you know where I
live right now I actually have Spring
Water okay and it comes from a spring
and we recently drilled for water at a
different location okay and they had to
go I think a hundred and thirty feet
below
Rock they had to drill through Rock like
Granite to find this water and so I
asked the guy said like where does that
water come from and he said well we
don't really know some people say it
comes from the rain and snow that melts
through and it seeps through the soil
and it gets into the Earth and it kind
of forms these little pools and Pockets
but my thought is how does it get
through these rock formations and so
what I learned about that it's still a
theory and where this water comes from
so it got me curious so I did another
Deep dive into where our water really
comes from and I found some really
interesting information they actually
found the chemistry of water which is
not in the water form it is basically
hydrogen and oxygen embedded into a
mineral and apparently this came from a
volcano so it was very very deep they
actually calculated it to be about 400
miles deep into the Earth and apparently
which is even more interesting there's
an enough water down there or at least
pre-water that can turn into water to
literally fill up an ocean so the
advantage of these minerals in water
okay give us some additional health
benefits but only if they're created in
a natural way not from a machine that
alkalizes the water which omits that
help from the minerals now since we're
on the topic of water if you have not
seen my video on carbonation in water I
put that video up right here check it
out
