so today we're going to compare popcorn
with the puffed rice cakes now of course
we're not going to talk about which one
is keto friendly because you already
know that both of them are not keto
friendly but when I was 16 years old I
got a job at a theater and I was
officially the popcorn maker I would
make unbelievably delicious popcorn and
I headed down to a science I would never
burn it it tasted delicious
it was non-gmo back then and we I think
we cooked it with peanut oil and at the
end of the night I would fill a garbage
bag full of popcorn bring it home and my
dad and I would eat the entire thing
within probably two nights so I ate it a
tremendous amount of popcorn I loved it
but I don't need popcorn anymore but I
do know that a lot of people crave it
they love it but let's just talk about
the difference between popcorn versus
rice cakes if we look at the glycemic
index which is an index that determines
how fast your blood glucose is elevated
okay so the glycemic index for popcorn
is 79 so that's pretty high but the
glycemic index for rice cake is 82 much
worse now if we just take let's say 3.5
ounces which is a hundred grams it's not
that much you can see it contains a lot
of carbs 78 grams of carbs if we minus
the 15 grams of fiber it comes out to 63
grams of net carbs so right there that
exceeds the 50 grams if you're on the
ketogenic diet so it's very difficult to
eat any amount of popcorn and stay in
ketosis and the other problem is that it
turns into sugar so fast even a small
amount is going to affect your blood
Sugar's so when you're on the ketogenic
diet the types of carbs that you should
have shouldn't be the ones that are high
on the glycemic index now when we do
with rice cakes we have a whole lot of
nothing because it doesn't have any
fiber it has basically zero nutrition
it's low fat though right
it's pure starchy carbs with some sugar
so this is really gonna spike your blood
Sugar's actually a lot more than popcorn
now most of the corn like 95% is GM oh
okay unless you're doing organic and if
you're going to the movies they'll put
some type of butter flavoring on it
which is a chemical that potentially
could lead to a lung disease so it has
some side effects so it's not just the
popcorn it's what they put on the
popcorn the so called butter sometimes
it's trans fats and some people eat the
caramelized popcorn which has the sugar
in it so all these things add to the
glycemic index spike and of course then
you have the oil that the popcorn is
cooked in if cottonseed canola corn oil
soy oil they're all GMO Americans
consume a lot of popcorn like 60 quarts
per year per person there are traces
amount of nutrients in popcorn but the
intense heat through cooking definitely
destroys a good portion of the
phytonutrients now if we get to rice
cakes
we have arsenic rice contains arsenic
also the puffed rice as in cereal or
those puff rice cakes contains a Locsin
now there's an interesting book by a guy
by the name of Paul stit entitled
beating the food giants and pulsed it
was a food biochemist and he would do
experiments on these different cereals
and in this book he talked about when
you heat rice and you puff it it
releases this poison alloxan which is
very toxic to rodents like mice and if
you look up alloxan and animal studies
it shows that it can induce diabetes
type 1 now I realize that these are
animal studies not human studies and
there is no studies that show that
alloxan has any effect on humans now in
summary if we compare rice cakes to
popcorn they both have some major
disadvantages but if you were going to
do organic popcorn without this stuff
right here
popcorn might be slightly better than
rice cakes alright thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
