before I came in here I last year I was
diagnosed with crohn's after having
suffered for about 10 years I was
diagnosed with colitis 12 years ago so
for the last several years I haven't
been able to eat any fruits or
vegetables or nuts or anything like that
so apparently my whole system was out of
whack and then since being on this diet
for the last month um everything is I
guess so balanced now that all the
things that I could never eat before I'm
able to so salads and fruits and nuts
and vegetables and all those things that
I couldn't because my digestive system
wouldn't accept it I can eat and I'm
feeling better because I'm eating the
right things I didn't understand that
balancing out all those adrenals is what
I needed to do so now my Crohn's is in
remission and I take probably about 20
pills a day because of it so I'm hopeful
my plan is to start trying to come off
some of this medication and be feeling
well because I'm well and not because of
all the medication I have to take
