so welcome to the third video in this
last technique we're going to get rid of
the last component of to back pain and
it has to do with an old injury to the
tailbone or falling on the buttock so a
lot of people will fall on the tailbone
the force travels up the spine and gets
stuck right underneath the oxy put so
we're going to we're going to stretch
this out we're going to take our finger
and we're going to hook it up underneath
the oxy put and then we're just going to
Rock It Forward and stretch it like
Saran Wrap we're going to rock our hand
around the oxop put pushing like
shearing bringing the forehead down
bringing the finger up we're just
creating
space and
stretching the dura that's connected to
the oxop put and as we come
down it's they're going to it's going to
be a little bit sore because there's a
lot of energy still stuck there so a lot
of times the patient will say well I
fell it when I was 3 years old and I'm
50 now well that that energy still gets
stuck there and so we want to pull it
out we can use our thumb and we're just
going to rock it up like this stretch it
forward like
that maybe for like a minute or so and
we're just creating space in the whole
spine and you're going to be quite
surprised how their back pain is going
to go right away especially if they had
a history of a tailbone
injury because when you actually fall
you really create a shock wave that puts
the um duramater in a in a contractile
state where it's guarding and then it
makes the person shorter and compressed
and it will always be pulling on that
lower back okay so that's just the last
technique for the lower back it's simple
but it's very powerful uh go ahead and
apply this to all your patients that
you're having challenges with and I I
think you're going to probably want to
check out the entire technique because
in the other techniques we're going to
show show you how to do some real new
things on extremity stuff the way they
teach us in school for knees and
shoulders honestly make it worse okay
drop table trying to adjust the joint
that is not going to work this other
technique that I developed will get rid
of shoulder pain like that knee pain
it'll be amazing uh extremity stuff hand
carbal tunnel TMJ fom myalgia planer
fasciitis and a lot more stuff for the
low back as well
so I hope you check it out and uh apply
what you learned so
far
