hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about calcium deficiencies okay and
a lot of the other videos I cover
calcium excess where a person is too
much calcium in this video we're going
to talk about what if you're deficient
first of all I believe most people have
enough calcium but there are certain
situations that you can be deficient and
so let's talk about them
number one back pain and neck pain if
you have like chronic pain and you've
tried everything it could be you just
need a little bit of calcium or bone
pain or poor posture or muscle cramps
okay again these could also be other
things too like a potassium deficiency
magnesium deficiency joint pain so all
of these could be a calcium deficiency
it could come from your die you're not
consuming enough healthy foods that have
calcium let's say for example you don't
consume cheese because you're allergic
to milk for example well that could be
one reason but you might say well I'm
getting my calcium from vegetables right
like spinach well some of those
vegetables have phytic acid which
prevents the absorption of calcium right
there
so we're you're going to get it you can
get it from nuts and then on the other
hand you can have a problem with the
parathyroid where it's
hypoparathyroidism which could also
create a calcium deficiency as well
that's a little bit rare but that could
happen it could be that your medications
are depleting your calcium as well it
could be you're consuming too much sugar
which depletes calcium that's another
reason or you're drinking too much
coffee because caffeine depletes calcium
or your stomach it doesn't have enough
acid to absorb the calcium mineral so
there's a lot of reasons why you can be
deficient in calcium but if you have
some of the symptoms you might want to
try calcium orotate make sure you also
take it with magnesium because you don't
ever want to take just calcium by itself
so calcium magnesium work together but
calcium orotate is a really good source
of calcium because the orotate helps the
calcium Penant
right deep into the cells alright thanks
for watching so if you don't have this
book you might want to check it out it's
entitled it's not lose weight to get
healthy it's get healthy to lose the
weight healthy ketosis and in a minute
fasting check it out I put a link down
below
