hey guys I want to talk about pickle
juice okay pickle juice is one of those
great remedies that works on a lot of
different things but it's loaded with
electrolytes it's a combination of
electrolytes and lactic acid where where
you have all the different the acids
that actually help the electrolytes go
into the body so it's the ultimate
remedy for night cramps if you're waking
up in your cramps and your toes or your
calves this thing will knock it out fast
okay just a little bit you can drink
probably maybe an ounce or two of pickle
juice uh it's good for hiccups it's
awesome for heartburn now you're saying
well why would this acidic juice with
all this acid help heartburn because
this acid actually allows for your your
stomach to become more acid and that
valve to close tighter so there's less
acid coming up this way it's also good
for PMS it's good for blood sugar
control it's also good for hangovers I
mean I use this on the weekends if I'm
going to be drinking large quantities of
alcohol usually Mad Dog 2020 or L Brusco
or some high quality alcohol I will
always just drink pickle juice and that
I don't I don't get a hangover and I'm
being very sarcastic I don't drink I'm
just kidding around the last thing I
want to mention is if you're going to
get pickle juice make sure that you do
not consume pickle juice with sodium
benzoate okay that's
preservative so try to find the pickle
juice with just um pickles and salt
without any of that extra sugar or
anything else all right thanks for
watching I'll see you in the next video
hey guys thank you so much for watching
I really appreciate it please click the
share button below and I will see you in
the next
video
