okay here is the update I've been doing
Dr Berg's adrenal program for about 5
weeks now and I kind of call it four
weeks because we went on vacation
there's video earlier if you watch that
one we went on vacation and I gained 4
PBS and had a great time and well a lot
of stress and fun and ate whatever I
wanted so gain 4 lbs it's been a week
since I've been home from that vacation
and I'm I am down
8.8
lbs in one week since getting home from
the
vacation I made some adjustments based
on Dr
Berg's um feedback that he gave me
before just before going on vacation um
I hadn't had time to make those changes
and I also tried to lighten up my meals
a little bit because I realized that my
digestion wasn't working as smoothly as
I wanted it to um so
those two things and I I think I talked
about it before I also
drank um wheat grass juice every day
wheat grass juice I usually put some
lemon juice in it and a little bit of
stevia and makes it taste absolutely
fabulous and I actually love it I could
drink it all day long um so it's
detoxifying I can tell and getting junk
out of my system and that has been
really good for
me so I just have to say my 3 months are
up because I originally purchased this
with the 3month plan you had a choice to
buy the 3mon or the full year and I've
never stayed on anything more than 3
months anyway so I just decided to save
some money and do the 3month plan um but
I have
absolutely just purchased the the rest
of it they gave me an offer to get the
rest of the year and absolutely I'm
taking it absolutely I am so thrilled
with the amount and depth of information
that takes care of every concern or
problem that I have
um I love it I absolutely love that Dr
Berg has done the hard work and gone
through all the boring books and the
science and the hard part behind it all
and brought it to us in these videos
where he's to simplified it and made it
available to everybody and anyone I
absolutely appreciate that he's done
that for us I know that my mind in this
foggy state that it's been in for the
last who knows with adrenal exhaustion
whatnot did not even have the capacity
to read one of the books that he has had
to read to kind of get red down and
understand the science of how every
little organ works and its importance in
our life and um I mean he's got to have
it because otherwise
how can your
mind comprehend all the stuff that is
packed in his brain honestly he's got to
be doing something right to keep his um
his mind in such good working order
anyway so yes I'm thrilled to Fork over
the money I don't think it's expensive
in the big scheme of things it is the
best money I've ever spent in my life I
think it's an exceptional deal it's
affordable to everybody and anybody um I
honestly honestly believe that it's
worth making any little bit of
sacrifice to fit this into your life
into your budget if you can because I
really really really have noticed a huge
difference all told I am
down
um about 17 lbs since
starting and my energy is improving and
you can probably tell it in the videos
from the first video till now I'm just
better my mind is better equipped to
handle my day-to-day tasks and
challenges I have five children and
husband and life is busy and I am just
better equipped I think I'm calmer um
more
understanding um I just think think that
I'm improving for sure and there's still
areas that I need to work on and so I
just keep researching and digging and
there's so much information in those
videos if you don't catch it the first
time around you'll catch something new
the second time
around and I've had huge aha moments
huge aha moments where he has given a
solution to something that I didn't
think there was a solution for something
that I dealt with earlier in my life
that the doctors had nothing but a pill
to give me um absolutely thrilled so
excited so
helpful best money I've ever spent hands
down yes I paid for this out of my own
pocket I'm not getting any
reimbursements or compensation for
saying this I just want people to know
that if you've been wasting your money
on program after program after
program you won't be wasting your money
if you buy Dr Burg's adrenal online
program it is absolutely worthwhile and
if you throw a little comment under the
videos with an issue or problem that
you're having he gets right back to you
he's very quick to respond with simple
easy suggestions that are
lifechanging
so that's my thoughts on the matter and
hope you have a fabulous day
