someone had the question do you actually
lose nutrients when you freeze
vegetables and the answer is no you
don't but some of the vegetables that
you're freezing
you have to blanch okay which means
you're taking a vegetable and you're
putting it in boiling water for one to
three minutes and then you're gonna put
it into ice-cold water and then you're
gonna put it in a bag maybe chop it up
and put it in the freezer at zero
degrees Fahrenheit and that blanching
process depending on how long you blanch
it you're gonna reduce certain nutrients
so on average you'll reduce vitamin C by
25%
folate by 35% and b1 by 10% now the
purpose of blanching is to destroy some
of the enzymes just some of the enzymes
so when you freeze it it will last
longer in the freezer because enzymes
are heat sensitive now put a link down
below for more specifics on this but if
you were going to blanch asparagus for
example you would put it in boiling
water for two minutes
green beans three minutes broccoli three
minutes Brussels sprouts three minutes
cabbage one minute carrots 2 minutes
cauliflower three minutes
eggplant four minutes squash three
minutes now of course you don't have to
blanch kale or berries or green peppers
or tomatoes you can just chop them up
put them in the freezer and they will
last for at least six months now what I
like to do is I like to take kale and
freeze it because I use it in different
shakes I will mix the can with the
berries and water and make a nice little
shake because if you just buy kale and
keep it in refrigerator it can go back
pretty quick and because you're losing
some of the nutrients when you're
blanching I recommend half of your
vegetables being raw and the other half
can be cloaked or slightly cooked the
best way to do it was to saute
vegetables then next best thing is to
steam them alright thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
