my name is Norma sentner and I came to
see Dr Berg because I was uh I'm
overweight and uh I wanted to make a
lifestyle change um I'm big into at
least researching the um natural
Alternative Health you know vitamins
minerals things like that um I was
having issues in my abdomen and from the
information that I read about Dr Berg
and and the video that I saw online um I
actually saw his video a link to his
website off of natural news and um I
just went there and was listening to
everything he was saying I'm thinking oh
wow some of that really applies to me so
here I am I just found out that um some
of the issues that I was having in my
abdomen were had a lot to do with what I
was eating um some of the things I
thought was okay is not real
okay
um I found out that I had a blockage and
that uh I guess through stress and not
eating right that I was actually really
sluggish and you know they do that
little stress test on you and um I
didn't I don't really know what else to
to tell you
um I
don't um I'm just sluggish I I don't I
have many eating the right Foods because
of you know all the chemicals and stuff
I guess it's in the food out there and
what I thought was healthy it's not
exactly healthy for me so and going to
my primary doctor for well over two
years I wasn't really finding out the
answers that I needed and you know
putting that Band-Aid on you as well I
guess basically what they were doing and
he's actually got to the root of the
problem I don't have heartburn anymore I
heartburn was a big issue for me every
single day and now I don't have
heartburn so that all has to do with
just trying to eat the right stuff to
clean out my system um my issue is with
adrenal I mean I believe in alternative
uh methods to getting well medicine food
um what was that old saying uh
Hypocrites used to say or like um uh let
food be your medicine let let the
medicine be your food so
I'm I think you'd be crazy not to come
see a doctor like Dr Berg who can
actually show you an alternative to what
modern medicine has this is so much
better than you
spending it's better to spend the money
that you're spending now for your health
so that you live instead of waiting till
you're too you're too old to be able to
do anything about it
um I
just he
um I I think that it's it's much better
that you do the alternative stuff now
with him and at least he'll sit down and
he he's doesn't push any pills on you he
doesn't try to give you a Band-Aid fix
he tells you straight up this is what it
is this is what you need to take care of
this is what you need to do first when
we're done with this then we'll move to
this and it's all about getting you
healthy so that you you don't have to
pop pills and all that so he's all about
you the patient and not
how much money he can get out of you
like all the other doctors
are
