so editor the question will consuming
more fat boost my metabolism okay let's
talk about that there's a couple factors
that you need to know number one out of
all the type of foods that you can eat
fat is the lowest on the insulin index
and what you need to know is that
insulin is the hormone that not only
stores fat but it actually prevents you
from tapping into fat so what really
affects the metabolism more than
anything is the amount of insulin in
your body and that also relates to how
much insulin resistance you have because
your body's is going to make more
insulin and slow down your metabolism to
the point where no matter what you can't
lose weight so if you wanted to speed up
your metabolism you want to keep insulin
low also fat is the thing that will
satisfy you and allow you to do
intermittent fasting a lot longer
because it is essential to allow
yourself to go longer without eating and
not being hungry okay in a minute
fasting is the other tool to really help
reduce insulin and heel insulin
resistance to the point where your
metabolism is a lot faster so fat is
really a key thing to help you heal your
metabolism now just to give you another
example there's another diet out there
called the ideal protein diet okay I'm
going to talk about that the good thing
about ideal protein is it is low carb
okay
so you're going to lower insulin and you
are going to lose weight and they do
recommend vegetables okay great
the bad thing about ideal protein is
that it is low fat low fat proteins now
the problem with that if you're going
low fat guess what you're going to be
hungry all the time you're not going to
be satisfied and this is why they
recommend four meals a day and the other
big problem is that they're recommending
these powdered protein meals okay the
quality is extremely low soy soy protein
isolates you
so oil which is GML milk proteins whey
protein which is very low fat protein
which is the highest thing on the
insulin index okay and then some
synthetic vitamins so it's very low
quality protein that is low fat and this
is why you have to consume the frequent
meals you're gonna lose weight initially
but because they're low quality proteins
your hair's gonna be dry your skin's
gonna be dry I've noticed a lot of
people when they do it they look older
it's not a healthy thing to do and I
also noticed this in my clinic when
people come in after doing it for a
period of time a lot of them have
gallbladder problems and liver problems
and even gall stones because when you go
low fat higher protein it's really hard
on the liver combined with doing this
high omega-6 fatty acid GMO soy powder
and also the milk that they're using is
from cows that are fed GMO grains so
we're having a combination of some
inflammatory proteins which is not good
for your liver when you go through phase
1 then phase 2 phase 3 phase 4 so you
you start this diet you lose the weight
and then these other phases like phase 3
you're allowed to put the grains back in
you're allowed to put some of the sweet
things back in okay and then the
maintenance program I want to talk about
that this is what they recommend in the
maintenance program it's an easy
maintenance program okay breakfast you
can actually start eating whole wheat
bread and cereal again you can do yogurt
and cottage cheese as long as it's low
fat you can do your fruit or fruit juice
okay and coffee and then for lunch you
can have meat and fish preferably lean
meat no sauces side dish vegetables as
much as you want wow that's great and
then they go fats are tolerated because
they can't be avoided I don't understand
what they mean by that
dairy products cheese accompany with
your salad cottage cheese low-fat and
then yogurt low-fat yogurt with all the
carbohydrates
okay afternoon if you want a snack
choose the following fruit yogurt
whole-grain muffin or some dark
chocolate dinner now check this out
150 to 200 grams of complex
carbohydrates you have to weigh it and
cook it so there's three types starchy
foods like potato grains wheat buckwheat
corn or pulses lentils field beans and
chickpeas to summarize you can choose
from rice pasta lentils peas beans
potatoes wheat as they contain complex
carbohydrates the important thing to
remember is that your dinner must
contain little or no fat this is the
same same old same old fat phobic idea
that so many people still have ingrained
in their minds but you can end your meal
with a not too sweet dessert like cake
rice pudding indulge in an evening
dessert because you never had one at
lunchtime so again this is why people
have the problems they're trying to lose
weight they're not trying to get healthy
and the other idea that you have to lose
weight to get healthy well guess what
you're gonna actually lose weight you're
not going to be any healthier you're
gonna look older you can have problems
in your gallbladder and you go right
back on the thing that created the
problem in the first place now lastly I
want to differentiate two things you
have the metabolism okay then you have
weight loss well eating fat boost my
metabolism or will eating fat help me
lose weight two different things okay
fat is not going to lower your
metabolism it's going to help your
metabolism because it's eventually going
to improve insulin resistance however if
you're consuming a lot of fat your
body's going to break down a certain
portion of that into ketones which you
can then run your body on is fuel so
potentially if you're consuming too much
fat it might help your metabolism but
you may not lose a lot of weight
especially in the beginning especially
if you have a slow metabolism because
the fat that you're running on is the
dietary fat the MCT oil so you may need
to make
adjustments in the process of doing this
especially if it was slow metabolism and
keep your fat within certain ranges you
don't want to go low-fat maybe just keep
your fat within the normal complex that
it comes instead of adding MCT oil for
example maybe just eat the fat that's
normally in the meat or the hamburger
and the dairy and the fish or even the
chicken so don't take the skin off keep
all that in there but just maybe not add
that so I just wanted to emphasize this
one little point again so you really get
it we don't want to go low-fat that's
gonna help us it's gonna satisfy us it's
gonna reduce hunger it allow us to do in
a minute fasting longer it's not going
to affect insulin but you may need to
adjust the dietary fat and drop it down
after you get into ketosis okay and
you're not hungry anymore maybe even
down to 75 grams per day this is not low
by the way but don't start doing like
the chicken without the skin or the low
fat burger or the low fat meat always
consume the fat that protein comes with
so for example with cheese you do whole
milk cheese you're not doing low-fat
anything you just don't want to go
low-fat because your hunger is gonna be
high and you need that fat for the
gallbladder to release bile and the fat
is used structurally to build the brain
the nervous system your skin and your
immune system alright thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
