hey guys had another comment from
someone that said I can't do Kido
because my cravings are too strong okay
so I understand that so let me just
explain something keto and in termina
fasting will rid your cravings
permanently okay we don't expect you to
do an eating plan with cravings that's
not workable okay so what we want to do
is get rid of the cravings and I think
it's important to understand why you
have cravings in the first place check
this out
this is a graph of normal blood sugars
okay as soon as the blood sugars go
below normal
it's called low blood sugars or
hypoglycemia you're gonna start craving
so that's a low blood sugar situation
the reason why it's going low is because
you have high insulin so simply we have
to know how to lower insulin there's
three possibilities here you have carbs
protein and fats carbs trigger insulin
so we must do a low carbohydrate diet
protein will stimulate insulin if it's
too much so we want a moderate protein
diet we can do vegetable carbs though we
want to do vegetable carbs and then fats
have zero effect on insulin so the
secret is consuming more fat with the
meal more fat moderate protein low carbs
but a good amount of vegetables alright
now there is a transition phase that's
going to occur when you're going from
your sugar burning to your fat burning
and a lot of times to start this process
it takes three days before your cravings
go away now we could speed this up if
you add a good electrolyte powder with
good amount of potassium with B vitamins
from nutritional yeast and apple cider
vinegar with each meal okay that will
speed it up to about a day and a half so
that cuts the time down in half 1.5 days
so the worse the craving is the more you
need to do this because the reason why
you have the craving in the first place
is you
have a problem with insulin alright and
this will correct it thanks for watching
if you're enjoying this information and
getting something out of it please give
me an unbiased Google review I put a
link down below thanks
