now of course we all are going to get
old eventually but it's not necessary to
age before our time and of course most
people don't like their wrinkles so they
treat the wrinkle and they treat it with
creams and serums and Botox all these
different things rather than treat it
from the inside out what people need to
realize is the Aging appearance in the
outside of the body is actually
happening on the inside as well and when
we're talking about wrinkles we're
talking about collagen and connective
tissue the fascia that surrounds all of
our muscles and all of our body will
become stiffened and caus us to be in
this certain posture which is usually
slumped over and many times by the age
of 40 we've lost 25% of our collagen in
our connective tissue So today we're
going to talk about how to prevent this
problem as well as reverse it if you
have it and of course I'm talking about
premature aging I'm not talking about
completely stopping the aging process
that is going to be impossible there is
a certain enzyme in the body and this
enzyme actually breaks down collagen so
what are the things that triggers this
enzyme to go higher certain antibiotics
you also have ultraviolet radiation
you're out in the sun excessively
burning yourself too much now that can
also trigger this however I still
recommend that you get a lot of sun okay
and I'm going to talk about that at the
very end of this certain section but let
me just make this understandable the
more sugar that's in your body the more
it's going to lock up protein and it
clogs everything up okay and if you have
a lot of that going on because you eat a
lot of refined sugars then you're going
to look really old okay just as a side
note I want to EXP explain something
about sugar everyone's like afraid of
sugar and they're trying to avoid sugar
and they'll start reading the labels and
say wow this doesn't have very much
sugar but it has a lot of carbohydrate
what is that carbohydrate it's starch
starch is a bunch of sugar molecules
connected together so starch is sugar
and when we talk about starch we're not
even talking about like the starch and
vegetables like a salad or even a potato
we're talking about severely alra
processed starch that is called either
maltodextrin modified food starch way
worse than actual sugar even though
there might be no sugar in something you
have to understand the label there could
be other starches which is just
basically hidden sugar but there is
something it's vitamin D vitamin D helps
protect you against the loss of collagen
this is why I recommend everyone should
be taking at least 10,000 IUS of vitamin
D3 for many different reasons one being
the protection against the premature
aging and also there are certain cells
in your body that make collagen the most
potent stimulus of collagen
is exercise adding Motion in your body
versus being sedentary all you have to
do is start using the body and it'll
start to make more collagen now as we
get older we're more susceptible to
having injury on our joints so there's a
couple things that I always recommend as
we get older to focus more on the plank
exercise where you're holding a push-up
position that's not easy you're holding
tension but you're not moving your
joints and you're strengthening your
collagen just from that there's also
another type of exercise called Ecentric
exercises where you're lengthening the
muscle you're not Contracting the muscle
so let's say you start off with a
push-up position and then you just
slowly let yourself down okay it creates
a super amount of tension and stimulus
of collagen also if you're on a pull-up
bar and you pull yourself up and then
you slowly let yourself down you're
lengthening the muscles one of the
things that will really strengthen
pretty much all of the collagen in your
body is to do sprinting but you do it on
a very gradual level to the point where
you are basically causing your body to
adapt to that motion but also all the
vessels around the heart the valves the
tissues because it's not just about
looking younger it's about being
healthier all over then we get to
nutrients there are certain nutrients
that we need to make collagen at the top
of the list is Vitamin C so our bodies
need Vitamin C to help form collagen and
there's two things that block vitamin C
one is sugar and the other is smoking
and by the way as a side note the best
uh food that has the highest amount of
vitamin C is raw sauerkraut so a couple
that a day you'll get 10 times your rdas
for vitamin C the next most important uh
co-actor or helper for collagen is
vitamin K2 vitamin K2 is known for
keeping your cartilage your ligaments
your tendons the fascia and your skin
nice and useful and where do we get
vitamin K2 you can get it from eating
liver egg yolks and you might be able to
get it from some butter as well the next
co-actor I'm going to talk about is
magnesium magnesium allows your body to
make collagen magnesium is involved in
300 different enzymes in the body it
also allows that vitamin D to work which
actually prevents the breakdown of
collagen where do we get magnesium dark
chocolate almonds and spinach and things
like that the next co-actor and this is
really important too zinc zinc keeps
your skin very youthful zinc also speeds
up wound healing and where do we get
zinc from oysters have the most zinc you
can also get it from red meat and also
liver and then the last co-actor I'm
going to talk about is copper copper you
can also get in oysters red meat
shellfish liver and dark chocolate I
also want to touch on something thing
that can really make you older is Ideal
Protein it's very very crappy protein
it's probably the combination of that
protein and very low fat and all the
other artificial stuff that just makes
someone look older and they would have
problems with the gallbladder and the
liver your quality protein is important
too instead of doing this plant-based
isolate type proteins or even any other
uh plant-based proteins I would just
recommend mostly grass-fed beef but
realize when you consume a lot of your
protein just from chicken like lean
turkey meat even pork you're getting a
lot more omega-6 fatty acids you're not
getting as much omega-3 fatty acids but
when you have grass-fed grass finish
you're getting a a much better ratio
another thing that's really important uh
is autophagy it means self- eat okay and
you're eating damaged proteins and then
turn those into new proteins it's kind
of an anti-aging effect and to achieve
that one thing you can do is do
intermittent fasting so you're not
snacking all the time you're doing maybe
two meals a day maybe one meal a day and
your body is healing so that's another
thing that's really important and then
there's sleep if you yourself or you
know people who haven't slept for a
period of time they age quickly because
of the stress and the cortisol that
occurs too so we need a lot of sleep and
exercise can help reduce stress but
there's something else too I want to put
on your radar if you've never heard
about this you should check it out one
of the most powerful antistress hormones
is called
oxytocin and there's a way to basically
make your own cultivated dairy product
with a very specific microbe to grow
that in a milk culture that you consume
a half a cup of this every single day
and the cool effect that it has on your
body is that that microb releases
something that travels up through a
nerve called the vagus nerve right up
into the brain and it goes right into
the hypothalamus and there's receptors
waiting there to be triggered and so
that particular microbe in sufficient
amounts releases a lot of oxytocin which
greatly helps your sleep and greatly
lowers your stress to the point where
you can actually rejuvenate your skin
and your muscles so in this video I've
given you more than enough to start
reversing some of the aging process and
definitely to prevent the premature
aging or wrinkling of your skin and if
you want more information how to
increase your oxytocin I put that video
right here check it out
