hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about brain fog I used to have
brain fog really really bad and yes it
can come from a lack of sleep but most
of the time it's a problem with
something called insulin resistance it's
a
pre-diabetic state where your blood
sugars are a problem you can have either
insulin resistance which means that your
insulin is too high but it's not
connecting with the brain it won't go in
there because you're eating the wrong
Foods or it could be another situation
called hypoglycemia which is low blood
sugars which again you're not getting
enough insulin to the brain so people
think that you have to eat sugar to get
energy in your brain that's not true
what we have to do is get the sugar out
of the diet and force your body to live
off uh the other uh non-carbohydrate
sources of fuel like fat fuel or even
some protein fuel okay so to get rid of
brain fog it's actually really really
easy and I'll just kind of evaluate what
someone eats and um first thing I'm
going to do is you know handle the
obvious thing cut out all the sugars
that includes honey agava nectar and and
I'm going to tell you to start reading
the um labels especially the sugar grams
not even the carbohydr grams but the
sugar grams you're going to be shocked
to find out how much sugar is in food
it's like off the charts even plain
yogurt has 10 grams of sugar that's too
much the question is how much sugar can
we have we want to go as close to zero
as possible
okay so we don't want to add the sugars
all those protein bars it's sugar if you
take protein and you combine with sugar
you really Spike insulin you really
create a situation in brain fog so those
those those protein bars that you have
are creating the brain fog okay and then
hidden sugars that could be like juice
fruits alcohol things like that there's
a lot of sugar in that and also of
course the obvious the breads the pasta
Cal crackers biscuits things like that
we want to get that out because that's
not going to help in fact oatmeal is
also in that category as well now we
also want to have huge salads because we
want the vitamins and minerals if I
don't have a huge salad for two days in
a row I don't feel right in the head
like I need that potassium and that
nutrition to feel clean so the
combination is very important and yes we
need healthy protein but you don't want
to do too much protein just a little bit
just enough to feel satisfied maybe 3 to
6 o
big salad and some healthy fats like
maybe a little bit of olive little uh
breed cheese peanut butter some fat to
allow you to go longer without eating so
very very simple if we can just have you
do these simple things right here your
brain fog should improve unless you have
another health problem like a sleeping
problem a digestive problem inflammatory
conditions some other issue but
typically this is the first step with
most people and it should work all right
see you in the next
video
