let's talk about the basics of how to
burn fat it's very important and this is
not about cotting calories this is about
your hormones if you understand the
hormones that burn fat and how to
trigger them versus the hormones that
store fat and how to avoid triggering
those you can be very successful I mean
it blows me away when someone goes to
the doctor they go to an endocrinologist
and they assess their hormones and they
might say that you have low testosterone
so we're going to give you testosterone
but what about the diet
that is rarely talked about but today
I'm going to talk about natural things
to either increase or decrease your
hormones related to one thing fat
burning out of all the hormones related
to fat burning is this hormone called
insulin it's made by the pancreas it
does a lot of things but one of the main
things it does is it helps you store fat
let's take a look at this book right
here called medical physiology in the
absence of insulin all of the effects of
insulin causing storage of fat are
reversed so if we want to increase fat
burning we must lower insulin you cannot
burn fat if insulin is too high you can
be doing all these other things to
increase all the fat burning hormones
but if this fat making hormone called
insulin is elevated it nullifies all of
the other hormones that help you lose
weight this is why this information is
very important because let's say for
example you go to the gym or you're
exercising right and then you have this
preworkout protein bar that's loaded
with sugar you basically nullified your
ability to burn fat or let's say you're
working out and you drink your Gatorade
filled with glucose you just nullified
that workout the other really
interesting thing about insulin is all
it takes is a little bit of carb to
block a lot of weight loss for a period
of time so let's say for example I don't
know every other day you drink a little
bit of wine or maybe you have a piece of
bread just a little bit of carbohydrate
your ability to burn fat just went way
down now it could take 24 hours or
longer to burn fat you can't just sort
of do it a little bit you have to just
be all in and do it for a period of time
to see the results when we talk about
what triggers insulin we have
carbohydrates okay what are
carbohydrates you have starches you have
fiber and sugars fiber is the only one
that will not Elevate insulin so you
don't have to worry about Foods very
very high in fiber like green vegetables
like salad they have so much fiber so
little starch that it's not going to
elevate insulin hardly at all but
typically you want to aim for less than
50 grams of carbs per day not per meal
per day but if you really want to speed
it up I would bring it down to like 20
or even less than 20 carbs per day the
other thing that elevates insulin is
eating in general it's better to eat
less frequent so this is called
intermittent fasting it's not just the
carbs it's not just the frequency of
eating that causes the elevation of
insulin it is also the seed oils they
basically trigger insulin resistance
they create a lot of inflammation of
cellular damage and out of all the
things that parallel the trend of
obesity it's the seed oils that parallel
obesity the most which is interesting be
careful at restaurants it's in salad
dressing the other thing that elevates
insulin is MSG mono sodium glutamate
there's a debate with mono sodium
glutamate I mean there's if you look
this up it'll say oh yeah no it doesn't
Elevate insulin it won't cause weight
gain have you ever been to uh a fast
food restaurant where they just load you
up with MSG or even like a Chinese
restaurant what you're going to notice
is that about an hour later you are
hungry and it's a lot of hidden sodium
which is going to make you thirsty and
if we trick the brain into thinking it's
getting some protein when it's really
not you know within probably an hour and
a half you're going to like start
craving something the next hormone is
estrogen estrogen can make you fat too
if you've ever heard about estrogen
dominance um that's like a woman that
has excess weight in the lower part of
her body and you can Elevate estrogen by
giving someone birth control pills uh
hormone replacement therapy things like
that all right the third hormone to talk
about is cortisol very important I'm
going to show you this book right here
this is called Encyclopedia of medical
illustrations endocrine system okay
let's take a look at this right here you
see this guy right here see that belly
it's coming from the adrenals so the
adrenal glands are pumping out the
stress hormone called cortisol and it's
pushing the fat in the
midsection let's take a look at this one
right here
too boom this is too much cortisol you
can see the belly so the body is going
to grab protein from the leg and the
glutamic Maximus which is your butt
muscle and convert that into sugar and
then fat right in the belly when you go
through stress or you take prazone which
is a synthetic version of cortisol you
can gain a lot of weight not just in
your belly but in your face too like
they called it a moon face so cortisol
directs the fat more in the midsection
more than any other place around the gut
as a survival mechanism you also
sometimes will get a buffalo hump in the
back of your upper back and this
cortisol will also nullify the fat
burning hormones okay which I'm going to
talk about next like testosterone and
also and this is very important insulin
will nullify all of your fat burning
hormones how do we lower insulin this is
like the most important action number
one to lower insulin you must lower your
carbohydrate below 50 gram I would lower
it below 20 gram per day I would do
intermittent fasting okay eat less
frequently I would also take apple cider
vinegar in your water I would consume
berberine it kind of mimics the
medication Metformin which has to do
with controlling insulin resistance but
without the side effects okay cinnamon
is another really good herb as well all
right and then estrogen it's just about
avoiding estrogen avoiding things that
mimic estrogen that would be like uh
certain chemicals in the environment so
you want to do more organic and then
cortisol how do we lower cortisol stress
reduction physical work around the house
to get your attention off stress go for
long walks take vitamin B1
all of those are very important but
there's one more vitamin D vitamin D
will help you lower cortisol all right
let's switch over to the fat burning
hormones okay there are two main
hormones that kind of work together
growth hormone which is also an
anti-aging hormone and another hormone
called igf number one insulin like
growth factor number one it's a similar
function to growth hormone probably the
best um ultimate workout would be
sprinting with growth hormone and igf
number one intense exercise good
sleeping moderate protein and
intermittent fasting the next hormone is
testosterone here's a hormone that a lot
of men are taking and you can increase
it by making sure that you either
consume foods high in uh zinc or make
sure you're eating enough
cholesterol cholesterol is the building
block of testosterone and other hormones
so if you're on a Statin or if you're on
a low saturated fat diet you could be
starving off your testosterone the next
fat burning hormone
glucagon glucagon will be nullified when
you increase insulin glucagon is
triggered by a moderate amount of
protein and intense exercise very
similar to growth hormone in igf number
one all right the next one is adrenaline
adrenaline is increased with exercise
adrenaline is also a neurotransmitter
and then you have the thyroid hormones
T3 that's the active form of the thyroid
hormone the way that you increase
thyroid hormone is to remove the things
that are blocking the thyroid hormone
like a fatty liver like a problem with
your kidney like an iodine deficiency or
a selenium deficiency or an estrogen
dominant situation because if you have
too much estrogen that can block your
thyroid but the thing you need to know
about exercise is that exercise really
only contributes to about 15% of your
overall weight loss however it can
really greatly lower your stress and
help you sleep to really make this whole
program work so even though it
contributes 15% if you don't exercise my
viewpoint is it's going to take a lot
longer to get where you need to go based
on this information you now know how to
burn fat and you know the relative
importance between the fat burning
hormones and the fat making hormones
especially insulin and cortisol those
are the dominating hormones that will
nullify the rest now since we're on the
topic of weight loss there's one more
Associated condition that's very
important to get a full understanding on
and that is insulin
resistance I put the video up on that
right here check it
out
