so today we're going to talk about table
sugar versus I for just corn syrup okay
when you read labels you'll see table
sugar you'll say sugar pure sugar you'll
even see sucrose if it says sucrose or
table sugar or pure sugar nine times out
of ten it's going to be beet sugar not
cane sugar beet sugar is cheaper than
cane sugar and it's GM oh okay 95
percent of all the beet sugar in the US
is genetically modified so it's Roundup
Ready and they allow up to 15 milligrams
of glyphosate which is that chemical per
kilogram that's just way too much now
when we get to high fructose corn syrup
it's also GMO because it's made at a
corn the process that they make I for
dos corn syrup is very confidential but
one big difference between high fructose
corn syrup and sucrose whether it's made
from beet or cane sugar is this the way
that glucose and fructose is bound so
with beet sugar and cane sugar it's kind
of a 50/50 split glucose and fructose
but it's bound together
50/50 ratio high fructose corn syrup has
about a 58 to 42 similar but it's a
little bit more glucose but the unique
thing about this it's unbound so the
significance of it being unbound is it
creates a lot more liver damage when you
consume high fructose corn syrup you
create a similar effect as drinking
alcohol so you're gonna be problems with
inflammation in the liver eventually
scar tissue so you will eventually get a
fatty liver if you if you consume too
much but here's the problem kids have
the highest consumption of high fructose
corn syrup it's actually 72 grams per
day that's crazy
and when you consume a refined sugar it
pull out the nutrients that pull its
vitamins even like with cane sugar for
example they pull out the vitamins and
the minerals and they put that as
molasses so they give you this
completely empty carbohydrate what's
going to happen it's going to deplete
you of those nutrients because it takes
two
nutrients especially b1 and other B
vitamins to metabolize and break down
and use that trigger so when you consume
the sugar you are depleting a lot of B
vitamins and one of the conditions that
you can develop from consuming too much
refined sugar is a buildup of lactic
acid and that's called lactic acidosis
so you might find that it's hard to
breathe you might get restless leg
syndrome and there's a lot of other
issues as well but here's the thing no
nutrients in the refined carbohydrate
deplete to the nutrients and it gives
you a lot of oxidative stress and your
arteries in the nervous system and the
brain and the eyes and this is the
problem with the diabetic they have high
levels of sugar in the blood and it's
oxidizing the tissues mainly for the
eyes the kidney the heart and the
nervous system and brain and then you
get the complications of diabetes if you
were to at least consume sugar with the
nutrients let's say for example you ate
sugar cane with all the vitamins and
things in there or you had fruit for
example or even if you took nutrients
while you're eating the sugar you would
actually experience less side effects or
less complications you would get
diabetes but it wouldn't you wouldn't
have the degree of complications and
side effects not that I'm recommending
that but if you are a diabetic and
you're on keto and doing in a minute
fasting and you're healing it's very
important to add more of the nutrients
in the body to lower the complications
so even though your blood sugars might
still be high in this transition phase
the nutrients that you're taking are
protection against this oxidative stress
so in summary there is absolutely zero
benefits of consuming any of these
sweeteners and even exposing your kids
to these sweeteners there it's so easy
to use the alternatives xylitol for
example tastes almost identical to sugar
arethe rotol is a great alternative
sweetener stevia some people don't like
that but it's it's good and certain
things but not others monk fruit the
same thing so if you're new to this I
put a link down below for more data on
alternative sugars so you can completely
avoid beet sugars you
Piper just corn syrup thanks for
watching hey before you go would you
mind putting a comment down below to
tell me what you think about this video
