welcome back everyone I have a special
guest today to talk about some real
interesting uh
effects of doing um
infrared
um on gout and uh his name is Dr Ben
Pearl he's a podiatrist and uh he's been
in the field for quite some time so
welcome to the interview doc oh thank
you for having me I've been following
you for a while and uh I really like the
varied approaches that you take you know
give people some armamentarium that they
can do right right from the home in the
local drugstore or health food store
that's like that's great because you do
the same thing you uh you're I think you
you kind of think outside the box I've
watched some of your videos so that's
why I wanted to interview and just kind
of pick your brain
today I want to kind of focus on this
gout a lot of people have gout and they
they don't like to take the medication
because it could potentially create some
wild side effects so
um I know you have various Therapies in
your clinic if we could just uh focus in
on this red light red light therapy and
there's different types of red light
that we'll talk about on gout and so
thanks for being on and I won't take too
much of your time but um a couple
questions to get right off the bat um
so it's a little confusing for people
when they talk about red light because
you have
different spectrums or different
wavelengths you have the the far and the
near infrared
um can you just simply explain like is
there much significance with therapy or
is it do does these different types of
frequencies create different effects
right so I think when we're talking
about what most people
talk about in terms of infrared and LEDs
these are very safe units that have
nice musculoskeletal benefits nice
clearing out of joint synovitis and
tendonitis and you know we're talking
specifically about gout can even do
things that help cell permeability which
as you know is the exchange of ions and
uric acid is essentially something that
the body is over producing so it can
help with that whole process of cellular
uh exchange and the cell getting rid of
the waste byproducts as far as the
spectrums which you mentioned the lower
levels aren't as strong so they're going
to require more time more more dosage
time to apply them but there's nothing
wrong with you talk about the the
frequencies closer to visible light like
the I guess it's the the near or the far
or not yeah it's the near right near
infrared right right got it right
as we get into things like laser at you
know different amplitudes then we have
accompanying heat and then there those
obviously are more clinic-based
situations although there are as you
know uh and on the market now home uh
laser units that are
um the FDA has approved for home use
distribution and the best way to do that
is really to go online and do your due
diligence to make sure that they're you
know legitimate uh uh devices but those
are getting into a like a different
spectrum of light and and they have uh
their own uh effects and what some
people do is they'll do combinations of
therapy where they'll do some at
different frequencies and
that has the effect of the body
not getting used to one particular
frequency and even within a frequency
treatment when you have the ability to
change Cycles as some protocols uh where
you can change Cycles you'll get
different lights uh operating at
different intervals that can have also
potentiating effects on healing the body
so when you do infrared on a patient
that comes in with gout typically
are you going to use a specific
protocol are you going to do it like a
mixed frequency or are you going to
because I know some I guess some red
light therapies have multiple
frequencies are you just gonna can you
give me more specifics on maybe what
someone could do at home related to the
red light
right I would make sure that they just
look that it is a bona fide infrared
unit that has
you know looking at the reviews and uh
making sure that the company is not just
giving you something that is they're
purporting to be at you know a certain
standard and I think that would be the
best way to vet that out
um you know as an example this one does
not have the one that I have in and that
I'm using in in conjunction with another
modality does not have uh multiple
frequencies associated with this will
this will put out one frequency uh what
we can do is we can adapt you know the
time uh on this one
and I'm all about trying to do mixed
modalities of energy so that you know
you're having the body get different
effects that can work in Tandem and in
Synergy totally
um so if some let's say someone has gout
and they apply this therapy to their
their toe
um how long would an average treatment
would be like 10 minutes 5 minutes 15
minutes what would you do I think I
think if you're applying the home-based
units you want to go about 20 minutes at
a minimum and it would even be good to
do that twice a day interval so you
could do it morning and night and as you
know
the Nader points of the metabolism you
know typically in you know early early
in the morning and and later in the
night you know as our body is kind of
coming to a more uh lower uh relaxed
phase or those are the points where
these attacks generally are more
prevalent and the blood flow is in
vigorous Etc so those are good timing
points that you could apply at the
therapies and you know it also happens
to coincide with the work schedule for
most people totally and then tell us a
little bit about
um excuse me
um what kind of results does it happen
right away does it take some time
multiple treatments a week or so or two
weeks what's your thought on that I'm
glad you mentioned that because
you need to be doing especially with the
gout flare some of the things that you
mentioned on your videos to affect the
uric acid production and excretion in
tandem with I would not want somebody to
think that this is a standalone this is
part of a puzzle and this is one piece
of the puzzle where we're using energy
in complement with other things that
we're doing with diet modification
obviously clearing out with hydration so
that the body can resolve the Gowdy
attack now for longer term maintenance
that's something where you might have to
just cut down to like a once a day
maintenance treatment as opposed to
doing two treatments a day as you know
one of the big culprits to gout is this
fructose right and so many people don't
don't connect how much fructose they
actually consume and they think oh yeah
I'm eating natural fruits well that has
some fructose in it and so does normal
table sugar has fructose
um and um you know from a evolutionary
standpoint
um you know we didn't consume nearly the
amount of fructose that we do now and
fructose really turns into uric acid at
a pretty high rate
um but even the evolution just fruits
right in general
um if you take a look
uh at where certain fruits came from the
amount of sweetness was like way way way
lower we've hybrided these fruits to the
point where we're just like flooding the
body with so much fructose so that's one
of the things that I found if someone
just cuts that out
huge huge changes in the intensity of
the gout so we definitely need to
take in consideration the diet part
um and certain things that really spike
it and even if you're on the ketogenic
diet Xylitol apparently uh can increase
what's called pseudoga which could be
oxalates and things like that can
irritate that toe so you know I'm on
keto diet I'm not eating any fructose
I'm not eating sugar but you're doing
tons of Xylitol that can be like a
hidden thing but that's why I wanted to
bring you on because there's two things
that I want to talk about which is
infrared and also electromagnetic type
therapy too you use that can you just
touch on that therapy as well because
that can also be something that like a
home therapy as well yeah yeah so I'm
going to show you first uh a larger base
unit that I have here and I I like this
so much
Dr Byrd that I have one of these units
at home what what it basically is is a
copper wiring that produces a magnetic
field uh and it's Electro charged and
unlike
you remember the craze with magnets in
your shoes they just weren't high enough
Gauss to affect the bigger changes that
we would be looking for for Cellular
Exchange what is the word Gauss what is
that is this is that just a level of
magnetic energy or what is Gauss so so
Gauss is the power the electric power
charge so for instance some of the mats
that are widely available now and I
won't get into names and advertising but
they're widely available they've been uh
sort of the rage for health and wellness
they'll have something like .6 Gauss
okay and those are great for health and
wellness this particular unit goes up to
four thousand gals now you don't know
yeah yeah
so you have to be uh making sure for
instance that if I had this near my
chest that I don't have a pacemaker
because it would interrupt it would
interrupt dropped the signal on my cell
phone if I put this right up to it and
you'll see that you know the jacket
lines
Etc so this is a larger thing these are
closed Loops so they are purported to be
safer than what's emitting from this
from the cell phone in terms of the in
terms of the energy and that's you know
I think a relevant Point
um as with anything you have to do your
due diligence if you're looking for a
home unit and there are sites that
review some of the home units that for
several hundred dollars as opposed to
several thousand dollars you can find
what it is is a smaller ring unit so
instead of you know have being housed in
a big plastic it might just have a
smaller Loop about the size of a quarter
uh or a half dollar and it's a very
flexible copper wire ring and there
might be a couple of these that you
place on the let's say it was gout on
your big toe for instance and then the
Box you know the power charge unit will
be a much smaller it'll be you know this
probably about the size a little bit
like half a loaf of bread kind of energy
unit as opposed to a much larger
microwave uh size unit
um I like the ones
that generate more in the uh let's say
several hundred cows than the ones that
are 0.6 Gauss not that there's anything
wrong even at those lower levels they've
been shown up regulation of bone
production even at 0.6 Gauss because the
frequency or the Hertz is also important
that's the other key to the puzzle
so the more sophisticated the unit the
more options on frequency my unit for
instance goes up to 7 to 60 hertz on the
frequency and some of the smaller units
they just won't have as many options on
the frequency Cycles
so on a gout situation what kind of
frequency or Hertz would you use
I go all the way up as sometimes as high
as uh the 60 percent which is about 2500
Gauss and I would do the frequency cycle
going from about seven to about 28 Hertz
uh and what it does is it will go
through an oscillation of that
particular frequency for let's say two
minutes and then jump to the next
frequency and so on and then just go in
a loop and I think you mentioned when we
talked before that you can actually see
some difference in swelling just by one
treatment right and swelling comes down
right in some cases I've been able to
measure the circumference of the body
part and it'll decrease let's say in the
ankle three quarters of a centimeter and
I do these measurements and I've done
them on some of my videos to just
document different cases uh so that
people have an idea of the range of
things to expect because every every
patient responds a little bit
differently as as you know
that's great so okay so electromagnetic
fields and then also um which I talked
about the dangers but if it's controlled
like that in a ring I think it's going
to be a lot better
um have you ever heard of um
using like methylene blue with the light
to potentiate the effect
I like that idea because of the color
spectrum so it's something that I'll
have to research you know so this stuff
is is all related I mean it it comes
down to as Elemental as like thinking
about photosynthesis and and how light
affects plant uh energy production it's
the same basic core idea with this with
the different application so anything uh
color related is going to have uh some
effect on energy
yeah it's uh some fascinating new data
and even they're they're doing it right
now researching on cancer where they're
taking the methylene blue which is kind
of like has some really interesting
properties to your mitochondria and then
throwing a photo because the infrared
can penetrate the body so it penetrates
in the body and it potentiates the
treatment in the mitochondria and it
works on that
electron chain which is kind of just
like the the conveyor belt of electrons
and so
um since most
problems are
mitochondria related
um then you're you're going right at the
heart of this thing so that's something
that'll be interesting to experiment on
just adding methylene blue because
methylene blue tends to go where you
need it and it has some fascinating
effects of mopping up electrons if you
have a leaky mitochondria and then of
course in the big toe
what I would be interested in is we'll
just have to experiment on them but take
methylene blue do the these other
therapies and see which see what creates
the biggest effect but um because we're
we're trying to deal with
at the bottom level to sell we're trying
to improve the cell function right we're
trying to get rid of stuff we're trying
to make sure electrons aren't creating
so many free radicals and uh
um and so this goes yeah this goes hand
in hand with that uh in terms of ion
exchange our cells basically our sodium
potassium pumps so people think back to
chemistry physiology oh I remember
something about sodium and potassium
with the nerve and vaguely about the
cell but every cell whether it be a bone
cell smooth muscle cell has sodium
potassium exchange so our our bodies are
basically like batteries that respond to
energy and what you mentioned with color
if we can you know just like our car you
know a dark Upholstery and we're
absorbing more light so there's there's
definitely implications there and I'll
be curious to see once I do the
literature search how that might be able
to be incorporated into protocols
yeah so so I've been doing some videos
recently on
um
you know looking at oxygen and CO2
looking at different PHS inside and
outside the cell how can you you know
because in order to have a battery to
have this energy uh built up in the cell
uh then to keep it normal you need these
gradients these differences these these
two different
um either two different electrolytes two
different ph's two different
um
gradients of concentration so you create
this flow and when we're dealing with
crystals building up waste building up
lactic acid building up
um there seems to be some damage in the
membrane so I think the wave of the
future is going to be
going away from drugs and more to these
natural things so but it's brand new
it's like people are just now starting
to look at it but there's not going to
be a lot probably of
research because there's not a lot of
money in doing some of these simple
things unfortunately especially with
methyl methylene blue because you can't
patent it anymore it's like
um it's one of the first drugs but it's
seems to do some Wonders on
um restoring the oxygen into the
mitochondria mopping up the excess
electrons so you can uh you can then
heal the mitochondria so
yeah so anyway I just wanted to throw it
out there to your point about research
too I was speaking with a company that
um is doing an IRB on
cellular healing for wound healing for
like diabetics with electromagnetic in
particular so you can like infra
infrared or oh for for an
investigational review board where
they're submitting to the NIH
the uh and just so people understand why
isn't there more research on this well
to do an IRB first you have to have
funding you have to have an application
to the government several thousand
dollars so you really have to believe in
your product to even start that the
second layer is with the pandemic
things have gotten pushed to the back
seat so if there's a cancer research
grant that is going to be at probably a
higher priority even though you would
think oh my gosh diabetic ulcers it's
it's a pandemic of diabetes in our in
our uh till a two cities Nation with you
know obesity and so forth but
nonetheless those are very slow to get
to the review board to even take action
to start the study so that's why even on
things like you said where oh there's
not as much money even on when you have
a company backing to we'd like to you
know move this science forward it is
just glacial speed sometimes I know
it's crazy but anyway I really
appreciate your time I know you probably
you have a patient sitting there but um
listen
um I'm gonna put your website link Down
Below in the description so people can
get a hold of you
um for maybe other related issues as
well that they might have but thank you
DOC for spending the time and I
appreciate it and uh we'll follow up
with some some additional information in
the future
I really enjoyed the interview Dr Berg
thanks so much for having me on your
your program I continue to learn from
you I love the idea of collaboration and
uh exchange of ideas
and
um I'm telling you if folks Dr McCoy's
little thing with the that he was doing
in the the old Star Treks that is uh a
reality now uh we just as you mentioned
we want to dial in on the protocols so
that we have as much science backing
each study that we do each patient
though becomes a part of the discussion
where you have anecdotal to build up the
body of uh knowledge
awesome
great thanks much
