all right in this video I want to
clarify carbs from sugar do you just
avoid carbs do you worry about sugar on
keto it's a little confusing alright so
when we do keto we're talking about net
carbs not total carbs what our net carbs
basically take the total and minus the
fiber
okay now fiber is carbohydrate but it
doesn't have any response on insulin so
this is why we deduct the fiber because
it's not going to raise the insulin the
less fiber we have the more that
carbohydrate is going to spike blood
sugars okay and it's then gonna raise
insulin so we're always focusing on the
net carb and making sure it's between 20
and 50 grams or less okay so with keto
you don't want to go above 50 grams if
you have a slow metabolism and you want
to lose more weight just go down this
way cut the carbs even more but we're
operating off of net carbs not total
carbs you don't want to count or even
have vegetables in your equation at all
okay and I'm talking about leafy greens
and other vegetables so I'm not talking
about like tomatoes carrots beets which
have a lot of fiber but they also have
more sugar so you may want to count
those in your equation but as far as
most like salads Brussels sprouts count
you do not need to count that in fact we
want you to eat more of that food
because of the the minerals and some of
the vitamins like vitamin C you also
need to understand about the glycemic
index that is the index of all the
carbohydrates and how carbohydrates
influence your blood Sugar's things that
have less fiber more sugar spike the
blood sugars faster so it's going to be
higher on the glycemic index okay foods
very high in fiber but low in sugar are
gonna have hardly any effect in the
glycemic index
let's take celery for example it might
be high in carbs but it's mostly all
fiber in no sugar so it's gonna be
extremely low on the glycemic index so
fiber
the sugar response now let's take for
example a potato one potato it has 37
grams of carbs but it has some fiber
4.7 grams so then we get a net of 32.3
carbs okay so that's it's pretty high
alright not a lot of fiber but look at
this the sugar is low so we do want to
look at the sugar and use judgment but
other foods might be higher and sugar
but it all really depends on the fiber
and also the type of food and the
glycemic index you have to kind of think
of all three of these variables because
we're talking about a raw potato as soon
as you cook it or fry it or bake it the
sugar goes straight up and vertical this
is why potato chips french fries are
very high on the glycemic index because
those carbohydrates are broken down into
the simple sugars okay so that's what
we're trying to avoid the foods that
spike the sugar very fast
let's take bread for example one slice
of bread has 12 grams of carbs 1.9 fiber
giving us a net carb of ten point one
okay sugar is one point six but realize
we're just talking about one slice okay
so this is just this is pretty high
the problem with bread is not only is
this high on the glycemic index but the
specific fiber in grains has phytic acid
and phytic acid depletes certain
minerals definitely the zinc so it can
create a lot of problems from that alone
not to mention the glycemic effect and
how fast it breaks down in sugar and
also the gluten in there which a lot of
people are sensitive to so on a keto
plan we don't recommend grain or grain
fiber for that reason you want to get
your fiber from vegetables okay you
don't want to do starches or rice for
example
now what about fruit okay well you have
an apple we
is 25 grams of carb 4.4 fiber giving us
a net carb of 20.6 okay pretty high but
look at the sugars 19 grams of sugar
this is like eating a candy bar and let
me give you a real live example several
years ago I was consuming apples as a
snack between lunch and dinner and
apples as a snack in the evening with my
peanut butter and I had a lot of apples
and I was at 211 pounds on that 180 and
all I really did was cut out these
snacks of Apple and peanut butter
so apples will definitely keep you from
getting into ketosis now berries are
much better because they're less sweet
than fruit and higher fiber than fruit
and they're lower on the glycemic index
one less point about a potato if you
were to consume a raw potato okay with
this low sugar right here you probably
be totally fine so you can go ahead and
have a raw potato but of course the
pleasure from raw potato is not very
high so anyway I wanted you to think
with the variables you have to think
with the fiber think with the net carbs
think with the glycemic index I'll put a
video down below to give you a little
more reality on more on what this is and
I also want to mention one last thing
and that has to do with what's called
the insulin index if you haven't heard
about that I put a video down below you
can check it out but that would be all
the foods that are non carbohydrate and
how those affect your insulin level all
right thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
