hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about healthy ketosis in in a minute
fasting verses the South Beach Diet
okay now the South Beach Diet was very
popular about ten years ago you don't
really hear much about it now I'm going
to tell you why first of all they allow
you to do six meals a day okay right
there that's gonna really spike insulin
every time you eat you spike insulin
you're gonna it's gonna be a problem but
the reason why I even lose weight and
phase one is because you're gonna avoid
the refined carbs your fruit in beans
okay so you're dropping your carbs
you're gonna lose weight and if people
are used to junk and go to this it's
like wow I lost all this weight of
course they're gonna recommend lean
proteins just like so many other diets
and the problem is the leaner you go the
more you spike insulin insulin is the
hormone that will prevent you from
losing weight and of course some healthy
fats but they're also recommending some
unhealthy fats like been a call for
example that's hydrogenated soybean oil
that is not healthy that's a trans fat I
don't know why they can claim on the
label it's no trans fat when it has
hydrogenated soybean oil which by the
way is GMO and again this diet is not
focused on the quality of food they
don't mention organic or grass-fed it's
mainly pretty much you know conventional
this is for 14 days okay so you're going
to lose some weight and then you go to
Phase two
now that's we're gonna add the fruit and
one good car vegetable starch beans
fruit whole grains so they have to stick
the grains back in there you can have
two servings of alcohol per week ok so
what's gonna happen and now your weight
loss is going to slow down an average
person will never hit their goal in 14
days okay they have a lot more to loose
so you're gonna go from here to here and
now the weight loss is gonna slow down
alright
and probably stop completely and you're
gonna probably go off the program I
never go back on it but then if you ever
make it to phase 3 you can pretty much
eat anything you want but in moderation
and that is the worst advice because as
soon as you allow just a small amount of
the wrong things especially sugary foods
and things like that
you're gonna completely raise insulin
and
any potential of losing fat because the
insulin is just too high and again
they're gonna recommend six meals a day
let's keep that insulin spiked so this
is why it's not popular because it's not
a healthy diet it's a diet that promotes
insulin and it's not going to last long
you're not going to see it forever
because it's not a long-term solution
but I'm going to recommend is doing
healthy keto and intermittent fasting
something that you can do as a as a
long-term healthy lifestyle it's a long
term because you're allowing the fats in
there what we're not allowing is the
frequency of eating so where you're
eating less you can really heal insulin
resistance you can lower insulin and
that diet allows you to consume more fat
so you're really satisfied so you have
no hunger no cravings and anytime you
have that you can do it long-term it's
not that you're starving when you're
doing in a minute fasting you're
basically living off your own fat so
intamin fasting is not starving you're
actually eating something but you're
eating your own fat so the meal that
you're eating is your own body reserve
okay so that's that's a way to go if you
stick in this diet you'll never do it
long enough to fix instant resistance so
you're always running on sugar so the
blood sugar drops now you're gonna be
hungry you're gonna eat and then because
it's low fat protein you're gonna
actually it's gonna you're gonna feel
better when you eat but it's gonna drop
again now you're hungry again and you
never really hit your goal okay so I'm
gonna put a link down below if you want
to learn more about this you can check
it out thanks for watching hey tell me
what you think about this video go ahead
and comment below and give me your
feedback
