hey guys I want to do a short video on
ketosis and diarrhea all right so now
let's say for example you start the
ketosis diet and you with diarrhea what
the heck is going on right well first of
all one thing that you're adding that
you're probably not adding you've not
had in your diet is is more saturated
fats the fat especially saturated fats
will trigger bile b i l e it's actually
produced in the liver and it's stored in
the gallbladder you need it to break
down fats the big trigger is sat ated
fats so people that don't have a lot of
saturated fats um don't have as much
bile okay so bile is a lubricant it
makes the colon lubricated so if you
have too much of it you will have
diarrhea okay so what what you're going
to do is you just have to Simply cut
down the amount of fat so your body can
get used to it your bile will adjust and
diarrhea will go away it's that simple
now if you have diarrhea and there's
obviously the kale shake that you just
consumed then we know that's a different
situation okay that you just that means
you can't digest that kale sometimes
people have diarrhea and it's all just
like greens and things so anything that
comes through you undigested is
something you're going to have to avoid
right now until you can figure out what
to eat but you're going to have to
alternate what you eat to maybe some
vegetables that you can digest all right
thanks for watching hey you probably
already subscribed but if you haven't
press this little button down below and
I will keep you updated
