uh my name is Timothy Morris and I'm
here because I have a a problem losing
my belly fat and I because I have
trouble sleeping getting the full
night's
rest I think his uh evaluation was very
thorough and accurate and um he even did
an acupress uh uh stress elimination
technique on my neck and I feel 30 40%
better well other doctors wanted to
focus on uh medication and wanted to
um give me uh medications for for blood
pressure as opposed to trying to find
out what was causing my pressure to be
uh
Borderland and they didn't want to focus
on my diet and my lack of sleep and
things of that nature they wanted to
just medicate
everything well Dr Berg was very
thorough thorough he didn't it wasn't
like a factory assembly line where he
was rushing us in and rushing us out he
took the time to explain everything he
he did stress tests and uh urine samples
and and and uh blood pressure
test I would tell them they had nothing
to worry about because Dr Berg uh he's
he like I said he takes time to explain
everything to you and um he he doesn't R
you he he uh answers any questions you
have well I felt uh tense in my neck
area where he where he did the acupress
and and after five or 10 minutes it feel
is tense back there or or tight back
there in my neck
area
