I'd like to share something about
insulin that you probably have never
heard before and this is extremely uh
revealing because most people are
sitting on a confusion relating to
insulin don't even know it's a confusion
and then at the end of this everything
is going to make total sense there's a
lot of great
truths that you can figure out by
looking in a subject that involves
paradoxes and conflicting information
and in this area there's some
conflicting information
that we need to sort out conflicting
information is where you have fact a
conflict with fact B right
you can't have two facts that conflict
right one of them is not a fact
so when you get these conflicting facts
you just have to go deeper and just
figure out what is going on but then you
usually can find some really interesting
information let's talk about this in
relationship to insulin the main reason
why keto works okay for so many problems
and intermittent fasting is the benefits
of reducing your insulin so anytime you
reduce your insulin you get all these
amazing benefits and so there's even
books on
hyperinsulinemia which is a state where
you have this High insulin in the blood
so even if someone's a type 1 diabetic
they have to take a lot of insulin and
of course the more they take the worse
things are for their health right I mean
the idea would be to take the minimal
amount
but if we go through the function of
insulin okay most people do know that
insulin lowers your blood sugar that's a
good thing other people might know that
insulin helps your muscles grow okay it
has an anabolic effect on your muscles
and this is why even certain um
bodybuilders might take insulin or
consume carbs to increase their insulin
so they can develop their muscles but if
insulin is so bad or so dangerous in
high amounts why does it help you with
your muscles okay that sounds like a
real positive thing well when you start
looking into the other purposes or
functions of insulin you find some
fascinating fascinating information you
may have seen where I talk about people
using insulin spray to spray
insulin up their sinuses into this
barrier that goes into their brain to
help dementia wow that's interesting
because I thought like type 3 diabetes
is considered Alzheimer's and the more
insulin the worse off you are for your
brain and your cognitive function right
but why would they use this nasal
insulin spray to improve the symptoms of
dementia also insulin is
anti-athrogenic it means that insulin is
actually supportive
for your arteries hmm interesting
because we hear so much about how
insulin destroys your arteries
contributing to the plaquing and
cladding and calcification and heart
disease now this is another thing that's
very interesting and I you probably need
to be sitting down to hear this
insulin actually lowers your LDL the
so-called bad cholesterol now that's
totally conflicting of what most people
know that too much insulin increases the
bad cholesterol LDL especially the small
dense particle size which is very
pathogenic to your arteries now here's
another one insulin is the vasodilator
and it helps to lower your blood
pressure yes it's totally true go ahead
and look it up but what about this thing
called metabolic syndrome where you have
high blood pressure you have high LDL
and you're pre-diabetic how can that be
here's another one insulin actually
lowers the production of glucose in your
liver it's called
gluconeogenesis so in other words
insulin reduces
gluconeogenesis the formation of new
sugar in the liver now what about all
these people who are diabetics or
pre-diabetics
that wake up in the morning with Dawn
phenomena where they have high blood
glucose but they have not eaten any
carbs the day before they had no sugar
where is that Sugar coming from well the
liver is making it well insulin inhibits
that process now I already mentioned
this thing with muscles so insulin helps
you develop and grow new muscles it also
prevents the breakdown of muscle
protecting against muscle atrophy all
right but why do people with high levels
of insulin like hyperinsulinemia have a
very high incidence of muscle atrophy
fascinating all right here's another one
insulin helps you absorb potassium and
magnesium yeah
but how can that be if people with high
levels of insulin in the blood hyper
insulinemia have a deficiency of
potassium and an efficiency of magnesium
I mean it's even correlated with the
more insulin you have the less potassium
you're going to have the less magnesium
you're going to have in your body here's
another one that's interesting this
involves the adipose tissue
there's a term called lipolysis and this
basically is a term to describe the
breakdown of lipids or fats and Insulin
suppresses lipolysis which is a
breakdown of fat so it preserves adipose
tissue for a survival mechanism it
prevents the release of this fat but
what's interesting with people that have
a lot of insulin in their blood they
have an aberrated dysfunctional
suppression of this lipolysis it's not
that they're going to start losing
weight at least initially but they will
lose fatty acids from the fat cells that
end up in the arteries okay creating
high levels of blood fats or lipids okay
and yes I'm talking about triglycerides
and yes I'm talking about cholesterol
and LDL so again we have another
conflict of these so-called facts all
right here's another fascinating one
insulin is a potent anti-inflammatory
wow I mean this completely goes against
what so many people have been taught
that insulin creates more inflammation
like in a diabetic where they have all
this insulin in their bodies type 2 for
example they're just filled with
inflammation right how can that be I'll
get to that point in about 30 seconds
okay just one last point I want to bring
up about this is that insulin is also an
antioxidant it has antioxidant
properties completely the opposite of
what occurs when people have all this
insulin in the bloodstream they have
oxidation free radical damage they have
these these massive complications from
diabetes so it's another conflicting
piece of information I mean just go
ahead and look up the symptoms of
hyperinsulinemia that's too much insulin
in the blood you'll see higher risk for
sleep apnea you'll see lower
testosterone when in fact insulin
actually normally is supposed to
increase testosterone you also see high
levels of uric acid well did you know
that insulin is supposed to help you
lower uric acid interesting and you also
see a release or excretion of potassium
with high levels of insulin but insulin
is supposed to actually preserve or
retain potassium so what the heck is
going on here okay well here's the piece
of information that will make everything
make sense and it has to do with the
control of insulin you have the pancreas
the beta cells that make insulin and
it's sent to the body and then it goes
through the blood and then it gets
connected to an insulin receptor
it's the receptor that sends back
information the cells that make insulin
to tell that cell how much to make or
how little to make so really the brain
of this whole communication feedback
loop is the receptor and when that
receptor becomes resistant as an insulin
resistance then we no longer have the
function of that hormone the function of
insulin can only exist if the receptor
is receding that insulin correctly and
then it tells the body what to do an
insulin resistance we actually have an
insulin deficiency we have an insulin
lack and all those negative things I've
just talked about relating to insulin
relate to a deficiency of insulin not an
excess yes you may have an excess of
insulin in your blood
but it's not affecting the receptor so
really in diabetes in all these other
conditions what we're really dealing
with is a deficiency problem now knowing
that allows everything to make sense
when I went back and forth between the
function of insulin and the problems or
conflicting information of of insulin
really we're talking about sufficient
insulin versus a lack of insulin but
it's all coming from that insulin
resistance okay that's the problem now
knowing that information will then Focus
your attention on how do we fix insulin
resistance well it's high levels of
insulin that creates the resistance okay
so the more that you increase that
hormone the less the receptor is going
to work the more carbs that you eat the
more insulin resistance you're going to
have it's the frequency of eating okay
that creates insulin resistance it's
also excessive amount of protein can do
it because this excessive amount of
protein turns into sugar but then we
also have other things too that can
create a worsening effect of this
receptor insomnia
stress cortisol like a lot of cortisol
certain medications like prednisone
which is cortisol but stress is a big
one also trans fats also omega-6 oils
like all the ones that create
inflammation and then inflammation in
general will create this insulin
resistance so how do we fix this problem
we get on the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet we do intermittent
fasting okay those two things are going
to be the big things and just so you
know
um like a type 1 diabetic right they're
taking roughly 40 to 80 units of fast
acting insulin a day with about 25 to 30
units of the slow acting insulin every
single day that's a tremendous amount of
insulin and insulin is not cheap it's
very very expensive well at least in
America now I did a video of someone
recently was a type 1 diabetic who was
dependent on this insulin and after they
went on the ketogenic diet and did
intermittent fasting they only had to
take two to five units of the fast
acting insulin that's two to five units
that's compared to the 40 to 80 units
that they were taking before I mean
that's an incredible drop in the need
for insulin especially since the morning
sun you take the more resistance that
you create are there other things you
can do to speed up the process to reduce
this resistance in the insulin receptor
the answer is yes regular exercise
extremely beneficial and of course the
obvious reduce your stress get more
sleep but apple cider vinegar in a
regular basis like a tablespoon in your
water can be very beneficial for blood
sugars and Insulin berberine is a really
good herb that has been known to help
with this situation also cinnamon put a
little cinnamon on your your toast and
I'm just being sarcastic but cinnamon is
good also chromium is really good zinc
is really beneficial vitamin D is very
beneficial magnesium is really good
potassium will also help and omega-3
fatty acids will also help and just so
you know the only two things that won't
increase insulin are fat and fiber
this is why large salads are going to be
very beneficial in your plan as well as
increasing the fat okay in your diet
which won't trigger insulin too much in
fact there's a insulin index that I talk
about that the more fat that protein
comes with the Lesser effect on the
insulin versus the lean proteins lean
proteins are not good for insulin so I
hope everything makes sense now and just
to keep it simple but I think the next
most important video for you to watch
would be on this insulin index thing
very interesting that way you can learn
about the foods to eat in the foods to
avoid and I put that up right here
