so many people think that iodine is only
good for the thyroid but it actually
extends beyond that even though the
thyroid gets the Lion Share of iodine
but it's also concentrated in the
salivary glands okay why because iodine
is antimicrobial antibacterial antiviral
anti-parasite so it can help you there
it's also in the cereal Spa of fluid
which is the fluid around the brain and
the Brain itself and that is why in a
growing child it's important to have
iodine um because if that child is
deficient it could affect uh the
learning ability the IQ and the general
intelligence uh it's in the stomach it's
also in the breast tissue and the ovary
tissue uh mainly to help regulate and
buffer excessive amounts of estrogen now
it doesn't give you more estrogen what
it does is it balances it out a bit it
will lower the bad and increase the good
so it's really good for things like
fibrocystic breast or cyst in the
ovaries which basically is an estrogen
dominant situation
and iodine just brings it down to
balance it out it's also in the eye and
in the inner ear if a pregnant female is
deficient in iodine the child could come
out with hearing issues as well so it
buffers estrogen it's great for the
immune system really good for sinus it's
an anti mucus uh mineral uh good to
improve ADHD it's really essential for
um fertility as well as IQ okay the rdas
which is the recommended amount would be
150 micrograms not milligrams but
micrograms but the most concentrated
Source would be from celp because it
concentrates the iodine in the sea water
and make sure if you're doing celp it's
a high quality celp uh one capsule of
celp would give you about 150 or even a
little more than that micrograms to give
you the daily amount all right thanks
for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press the button below and I
will keep you in the know hey that
rhymes
