so I'm gonna answer another question
it's gonna be a quick video on quinoa
can I do quinoa on keto okay what is
quinoa it's a seed but it's a little
different than the other cereal grains
okay it's a seed from the tall leafy
plant so it's kind of called a pseudo
cereal grain grows three to nine feet
it's pretty low on the glycemic index
it's actually 53 however it can still
spike your blood sugars now it is
gluten-free but it's usually processed
in manufacturing companies that also
process wheat so it could be exposed to
gluten but it does have a similar
compound to gluten which can create a
similar inflammatory reaction in your
gut and the feedback that I get from
people is that when they consume it not
only is it similar to grains and flour
products but it also bumps them out of
ketosis because it spikes the blood
sugar alright guys I wanted to keep this
short no you can't do quinoa on keto
you're enjoying this content go ahead
and share it with someone that could
really benefit from it
