hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I
want to talk about the 12 scientific
benefits of weak but before I do I want
to give you a disclaimer um I'm going to
put some links down below of a lot of
research that was done on weft and in
some cases it was significant
Improvement other Cas cases it was minor
but they did show some benefit so I'm
not making any claims here about wecraft
as far as curing and medical conditions
okay you can just do your own research
down below when you click the links all
right number one ulcers there's been uh
several studies that show that wheat
grass is really good for uh healing skin
okay not just on the outside but in the
inside like ulcers in your gut in the
small intestine and even from diabetic
ulcers all right uh burns from radiation
or actual fire uh we crafts can help
heal that because it's a good skin
healer uh it also improves the topical
steroid withdrawal syndrome which
if you use steroid creams for a period
of time what happens and you stop using
them your body is so deficient in that
uh prazone or cortisol that it starts
getting inflamed and red and very rough
well this would be a good thing to take
orally and even put on topically to help
improve that number four insulin
resistance because weak grass improves
uh glucose sensitivity and actually
allows the insulin to work a lot better
number number five
anti-arthritic so it helps arthritis and
uh it helps uh your joints uh six blood
building in this condition called phemia
major which is basically a very severe
anemia that's a genetic disorder where
uh the person is very exhausted and
tired um this has showed some positive
improvements okay uh number seven
ulcerative colitis that's like an
irritation in your colon because the
colon is basically an internal skin a
weak grass is great for that number
eight reduce toxicity from
chemotherapy there's a there's some
studies I'm going to put down there you
can check that out but U people that are
recovering from chemotherapy breast
cancer uh there's great improvements uh
from the toxicity because they they feel
very sick and the key with uh
chemotherapy is is how fast you can
recover from it you know not get a
secondary infection okay and then number
nine anemia because we has known
benefits for a blood Builder okay so
then we have liver
detoxification um the purifying effect
of weakr in a juice powder or whatever
has great properties to help cleanse the
liver and um it has phytal nutrients
that help dismantle chemicals in the
liver too number 11 anti-asthmatic it's
good for asthma and also
antiallergy interesting okay so just to
recap weat grass is a powerful healer
and can be used for many different
things thank you for
watching
