hi guys I have a question are you salt
sensitive or potassium deficient so many
people are told that they salt sensitive
and they need to avoid sodium right well
guess what did you realize that your
body needs a th000 milligrams of sodium
and if you're deficient in sodium here
are the symptoms headaches fatigue
lethargy nausea weak
muscles yeah because sodium is an
electrolyte okay now in your body sodium
and potassium work together okay they're
they're kind of a pair of minerals they
work together we need four times as much
potassium as we do sodium so instead of
accepting the diagnosis that you need to
cut down your salt try this experiment
and see if it doesn't really fix the
problem especially for blood pressure
raise your potassium you can keep your
so your your sodium at th000 milligrams
that raise your potassium to the normal
level and see what happens you're going
to find find out that your blood
pressure will probably come down and
you'll feel a lot better um but we need
a lot of potassium now the question is
where do you get potassium you get it
from large amounts of salad you need to
consume between seven and 10 cups of
vegetable or Salad every single day to
get your potassium um not from bananas
bananas only have 300 milligrams per
banana so you have to have like 10 or 12
bananas but I would do it from salad
okay you can do it you can enhance it
with a supplement as well but I would
recommend you do it from actual food as
much as possible now the an average
American consumes
3700 milligrams of sodium per day so
that's a lot of sodium and they only
consume a, milligrams of potassium so
they have it just reversed and this is
where the problem is these people are
not salt sensitive they're just
potassium deficient
now in the 80s we had this Spike of
blood pressure in so many people were
all of a sudden diagnosed as salt
sensitive and I want to talk about that
for a second because there's something
else that happened in the 80s that
probably could have caused this
so-called problem okay this problem with
high blood pressure it's the
introduction of high frutus corn syrup
in a major way high frutus corn syrup is
in pretty much replaced our sugar not to
mention sugar itself High frus corn
syrup and sugar actually deplete you of
potassium and retain sodium yeah that's
what I just let me just say it again
when you consume high fructose corn
syrup which is in all the juices it's in
so many foods you basic and the sodas as
well you basically cause the retention
of pottassium I'm sorry retention of
sodium and the depletion of potassium so
you lose your potassium when you consume
sugar or high frose corn syrup so that's
another another cause of of of why
people are potassium deficient so we
have they don't get it from the diet
they consume a lot of sugar and then
they become potassium deficient but
they're retaining the sodium and they
get fluid retention I mean the amount of
people that I used to have come in my
office and look at their ankles and
they're just swollen they're puffed out
all I do is I add in the vegetables I
cut out the hyto corn syrup I put them
on the correct eating plan and they dump
tons of fluid and it's so easy
plus the hidden in the hidden uh MSG in
the junk Foods monosodium glutamate uh
modified food starts the same thing that
is a hidden source of sodium mono sodium
so that you can get a lot of fluid
retention too if you go to a Chinese
restaurant for example or a fast food
place they have built in there a lot of
sodium that's hidden so again what we
want to do is we want to
um increase your pottassium don't worry
about cutting out your sodium too low or
you're going to feel weak and you're
going to get a headache uh but just get
the junk out of the trunk s to speak and
let's see how you can do with your
numbers with your blood pressure and
with your health thanks for
watching where am I going with this
press the Subscribe
button forgot the last part and I'm
going to see you next time am I gonna I
will press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
