today we're going to talk about a trace
mineral that can greatly help someone if
they have a condition of excessive
blinking jerking twitching and other tic
like motions there's various conditions
like Tourette syndrome or tardive
dyskinesia or dystonia involving
involuntary repetitive body motions
could be anything grimacing sticking
your tongue out smacking your lips and
the list goes on and on and on now
there's a certain part of the brain
involved in suppressing these abnormal
muscle movements is called extra
pyramidal and sometimes not always
people develop certain involuntary
movements as a side effect from taking
certain site drugs or tranquilizers for
a period of time now it could also occur
from having some type of damage to this
part of the brain now it just so happens
that this part of the brain needs a lot
of manganese not magnesium but manganese
to function and there's some interesting
research on taking this very inexpensive
trace mineral ten milligrams three times
a day in improving these symptoms and
sometimes it's a combination of taking
something that's depleting your
manganese or other nutrients and not
consuming the foods high in a certain
nutrient manganese is in spinach it's in
almonds it's in brand now the problem is
spinach and almonds are high in oxalates
and oxalates block the absorption of
manganese so if you're consuming a lot
of these you're probably not going to
get enough manganese also bran in grains
which we don't recommend is loaded with
manganese but this has something called
phytic acid which blocks manganese which
is a trace mineral so if you're
expressing your symptoms I really don't
believe that you're gonna be able to get
enough manganese from your diet you're
gonna have to take it as a supplement
ten milligrams three times a day if
you're gonna do this also add in
magnesium because magnesium is also
involved in a lot of other coenzymes as
a helper molecule involved in the
biochemical processes
also add vitamin b3 that's called niacin
but let's look at some other effects
that can occur if you're deficient in
manganese
all right blood sugar problems you can
be you can have insulin resistance
pre-diabetes or even diabetes you can
have a problem in mineralizing your
bones and you can end up with
osteoporosis or osteopenia you can have
impaired growth so if your mother was
deficient in manganese when she was
pregnant with you you may not reach your
full growth also you may have skeletal
structural abnormalities you can have
skin rashes low manganese can increase
your risk for epilepsy having more pain
and inflammation muscle spasm and having
excessive amounts of ammonia because
manganese is involved in something
called the urea cycle which is involved
with breaking protein down and making
sure that this is detoxified so you
don't build up too much ammonium so if
you know of someone who has this
definitely get them to try manganese to
see if it can actually help thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
