so today we're gonna talk about the most
important blood test that you should get
it's extremely vital yet no one's
getting this test done okay and it
measures something called insulin
resistance and the name of the test is
called halt ma ir homeostatic model
assessment and what they do is they
actually measure fasting glucose and
fasting insulin the problem is that when
you measure just glucose you actually
never see the what's happening with the
insulin and I'm gonna explain why this
is so important but insulin resistance
is rarely ever tested yet is probably
one of the most common problems out
there it's behind nearly every health
problem especially of a chronic nature
we're talking about metabolic syndrome
we're talking about syndrome X we have
high blood pressure high cholesterol
pre-diabetes fatty liver etc even cancer
cardiovascular problems problems with
the kidney problems with the eye just
having belly fat and of course diabetes
insulin resistance is at the heart of
that definitely get this test done an
optimum level would be between three and
eight low would be less than three high
is greater than eight if you're lower
than three it could mean you're on the
ketogenic plan and you're doing in a bit
fasting or potentially if you're not on
that plan it could mean diabetes type
one where you don't have enough insulin
but anyway I wanted to first of all tell
you this is a very important test and
then explain a little bit about insulin
resistance all right so what causes
insulin resistance what is it okay first
of all insulin resistance is a problem
more with the receptor the endocrine
system is a superior communication
system we have glands and we have
hormones and it follows the law of
communication so we have the pancreas
that sends a signal communicates to a
cell and the signal one of
one of the hormones is called insulin
that's when we're going to talk about
and it's supposed to connect into the
cell right here and then there should be
a feedback mechanism that sends another
signal back letting the pancreas know
that that information was received okay
and then this will stop but what happens
is when you increase too much insulin
okay so we're talking about amounts and
we're talking about also chronically
over time the cell through its
protective mechanism start shutting down
and this is this also explains why you
have antibiotic resistance too many
antibiotics or drug resistance if you go
to a I don't know a concert where
there's very loud music okay a rock
concert and in the next couple days
you can barely hear anything because
your receptors in your ear start
shutting down that sound to protect
against the damage from that high level
sound so this is a protective mechanism
because too much insulin is dangerous to
the body so that's exactly what it is
your body is trying to protect you by
developing insulin resistance okay now
the problem is if this is resisting you
don't get the feedback so the pancreas
keeps communicating it starts talking
more and more and more because no one's
listening to the communication so just
try this with a friend or relative just
ignore them and see what they do they'll
just keep talking alright in volume they
might shout at you but this is what
happens so when you have insulin too
much insulin and then you start
developing insulin resistance so insulin
resistance comes from too much insulin
okay sounds pretty obvious but the
insulin resistance then will cause a
fatty liver and the fatty liver can
correct cause more insulin resistance
and insulin resistance can cause more
insulin so it's just you can see that
it's a it's a vicious cycle so what
causes too much insulin several things
one is too many refined carbohydrates
sugar starches things like that
also frequent eating regardless of what
you eat so if you're eating every three
hours which basically that's what's
recommended they will tell you to do
that and by the way they will also
recommend that your carbohydrates are
65% of the total calories being
carbohydrate that's what they recommend
I'll get today in a second so we have
carbohydrates and frequent eating okay
that's why we have all the healthy
snacks and the snack foods and then a
fatty liver will also increase insulin
because it causes more insulin
resistance and then insulin resistance
causes more insulin so you can see that
it's not just the carbohydrates there's
other things that can occur as well all
right so the two things that we need to
solve if we're going to fix this problem
we need to normalize insulin and then we
had to decrease the time that your body
is exposed to insulin and this is why
health Aikido is a lower carbohydrate
diet and intimate fasting really brings
down the insulin because you're not
constantly exposing this receptor to
insulin that's how you reverse it and
another thing that happens is when
people do keto if they have a very
severe problem with insulin resistance
okay and they they're gonna have a fatty
liver and they're gonna have a belly a
lot of times they will get upset or
complain that the belly is not going
away fast enough in the first couple
weeks you have to realize that the first
place that a person loses that is in the
liver okay
the liver will dump the fat first before
you lose this right here in the process
you might also gain more proteins which
are a little bit heavier per volume
because when you fix instant resistance
you can finally start absorbing amino
acids insulin resistance blocks a lot of
a lot of things nutrients like like
potassium vitamin D vitamin C minerals
so when you have insulin resistance you
can't absorb nutrients anymore and all
this extra sugar that can't go in the
cell they
Scalise being converted to fat it's
being crammed in the liver around the
organs around your belly and there's no
limit to work and go so it just kind of
spreading over and filling everything up
so there's going to be a certain point
in time that this mechanism is going to
break down because your pancreas can
only work for so long before it becomes
exhausted
especially the cells that produce
insulin and now we're going to have less
and less insulin okay if your diet has
not changed and you're still doing the
carbohydrates that are recommended
because they told you to do that what
will happen is your blood Sugar's will
start going up because we no longer have
the insulin to push the blood Sugar's
down so now we get pre-diabetes
and then diabetes okay so diabetes takes
time but what happened first is insulin
resistance because there's too much
insulin and that's the reason I'm
recommending this video is because very
few people even know that there is a
test for insulin resistance called Homa
IR and they rarely get it what's mainly
focused on is the blood Sugar's to check
the blood sugars so let's just talk
about the medical treatment real quick
for that so what is the medical
treatment for insulin resistance
metformin is one okay problem is if you
take metformin and you don't fix the
diet it continues because metformin does
help the receptor receive more insulin
but you haven't really fixed the deeper
issue which is the carbs just being
dumped in and Plus this has some side
effects as well which we're not going to
get into in this video and also what
happens because of the consequences of
too much insulin in all these different
problems the medical treatment is really
just to treat all the complications for
example of diabetes so they'll treat
your high blood pressure the high
cholesterol they might thin your blood
and so you're you're just in this
situation where you have all these
symptoms being treated where the actual
root cause is being ignored so the
question is why are these people
that's stupid they can't see the obvious
or is it for other reasons I'll let you
decide
but in the medical profession there's
just a lot of confusion on what causes
what and what's related to this and this
is associated with this and we have
brisk factors and people don't know what
to do but they do recommend a diet okay
they recommend a diet now who is they
exactly I can't really tell you exactly
but I know it's a combination of the
USDA the FDA government agencies with
the food manufacturing companies
together with the medical profession as
one group I don't know exactly what you
would call that group but we've just
we'll just call them then but the
mainstream recommendations are 65% of
your total calories being carbohydrates
now that is 293 grams of carbohydrates
on a diet composed of 1,800 calories
okay now with keto
we're recommending 20 to 50 grams 293
grams of carbohydrate you will create so
much insulin resistance it's crazy so I
find this fascinating because we're we
have this group that has these
recommendations that is causing insulin
resistance yet we put the same group
that caused the problem in charge of
fixing the problem what is wrong with
this picture this I'm good and I want to
show you a couple more things related to
the food pyramid this is what's
recommended half of your plate should be
whole grains like whole grains are a lot
better than refined grains right second
recommendation eat sugary desserts less
often they don't even say don't eat
sugary desserts they say eat them but
less often what do you think people are
gonna do they're gonna snack on them
through the day oh here's another one
this is a good one occasional choice is
not every day okay so they're not
telling you not to eat these but just
eat them occasionally cakes cookies ice
cream sausage hot dogs because of the
fat so they kind of mix these all these
things in together because of the fat
right but what about the carbs and then
here's one by fruit that is dried frozen
and canned as well as fresh fruit
why don't they have the fresh fruits
laughs and lastly top your fruit salad
and baked potato with low-fat yogurt
okay all right guys in summary sorry for
this long video but this is the test
that you want to get called home ir ask
your doctor to get this test look at it
see where you are and get on keto and
if' I have a link down below of exactly
how to do this how silly thanks for
watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
