so today we're going to talk about the
hidden deficiency in a condition named
Potts okay that stands for postural
orthostatic tachycardia syndrome okay
this is a condition which involves the
inability to tolerate different
positions so let's say the person gets
up too fast or just even gets up in
general and they're feeling dizzy they
have to sit down or they get up and they
have this huge spike and pull straight
like 30 points okay there's a problem
with a system called the autonomic
nervous system so this condition is a
dysfunction of the autonomic nervous
system that is in the background that's
not working correctly there's a lot of
other associated symptoms connected to
this dizziness fatigue pain fibromyalgia
neurological tingling in the feet and
the hands anxiety depression and many
many more so basically if you do
research on this you'll see it's very
complex it's a syndrome really no one
knows what to do about it
they'll say well take some electrolytes
take this there's medication for this
but if you take a look at another
condition called berry berry the
symptoms are very very similar berry
berry is that vitamin b1 deficiency as a
deficiency of thymine thymine is
intimately involved in autonomic nervous
system function in other words it's a
key player in the normal function of the
autonomic nervous system both the
sympathetic nervous system and the
parasympathetic nervous system and if
you look up a lot of the symptoms from
Barry Barry you'll see that they match
this pretty close so the way you would
become deficient in vitamin b1 would be
many different things consuming a lot of
refined sugars and carbohydrates and
going through stress I mean the stress
could be anything anything that would
shock the system but specifically
stresses that can deplete a vitamin b1 1
being vaccinations there's a connection
between being vaccinated and ending up
with this condition I think because it
will deplete your b1 either from having
a heavy metal toxicity which can affect
that or some type of immune response
now the other
thing is that a lot of times doctors
don't recognize b1 subclinical
deficiencies right they're looking for
some classic berry berry deficiency like
waiting till you get every single
symptom as compared to maybe a slight
version of this deficiency that shows
some of the characteristics of having a
b1 deficiency there's a test that you
could do is called wreath recite trance
Kido lace which is a great test to
determine if it's maybe a subclinical
deficiency because this measures the
function of b1 in your body now it's
really actually difficult to find a lab
to do this test a much easier thing to
do is just to take b1 and see if this
condition improves I would also
recommend taking in addition to higher
amounts of b1 take nutritional yeast
because that way you have all the B
vitamins there to prevent any other
deficiencies so if you have this
condition called pots definitely start
taking b1 do some research on this and
comment down below
hey guys so there's a whole bunch of
people that really need this information
so press the share button and let's get
it way out there
