are you too scared to do in a minute
fasting okay well that's what someone
told me this weekend and I want to
explain what I told her okay so she was
trying to get on the program she could
do the ketogenic diet but she had a
problem with fasting because she was
really really nervous that it was gonna
be too painful she didn't want to starve
okay I don't know why she didn't want to
starve she was fearful of extreme hunger
and muscle loss because she has to eat
so frequently that when she doesn't eat
she just freaks out it's like a
stressful situation when your body goes
into this flat or fight mode and the
interesting thing is that every time she
eats she's never satisfied she's she
constantly has to eat food she can't
lose weight and she can't sleep as well
there is a way to do it that is not
uncomfortable because here's the thing
the benefits are huge that go way beyond
just weight loss cognitive improvements
with your focus in memory and mood
elevation but your inflammation drops
your brain actually can grow new cells
so here's what I told her okay you start
with three meals no snacks the key is
adding more fat to the meal fat is very
satisfying it'll allow you to go longer
without eating okay
now her thought was well my gosh I'm if
I eat all this fat how am I gonna lose
weight I said here's the thing your
first goal should not be weight loss
okay it should be hunger loss so the
first goal of intermittent fasting
should be to get rid of your hunger so
you actually can do in a minute fasting
you're never going to be able to do that
with hunger okay and cravings it's going
to be impossible so you have to add fat
and you have to drop carbs and then
what'll happen you're not going to be
hungry as much and that's gonna allow
you to go longer and longer to the point
where you can drop out your breakfast
and now you're at two meals and you
start pushing these together closer and
closer and as you key to adapt if you
want to cut down the fats you can do
that but not initially so the fat really
is the key to allow intermittent fasting
to actually work and get your body need
ketosis so you're not
running on glucose anymore because
that's all about craving and being
hungry because I mean look at this you
only have 1,700 calories of stored sugar
okay that's like maybe six to eight
hours but you have about over a hundred
thousand calories of stored fat you have
an unlimited capacity to store fat our
bodies were designed to use fat fuel but
now that the frequent frequency that
people are eating realize you're going
for no hunger no craving and if you keep
your carbs low this should happen pretty
quick and you start to drop off these
meals push it to two meals if you want
to go to one meal that's great but get
comfortable with this first all right
thanks for watching so if you want to
get notified with all my content click
the notification bell next to subscribed
