so recently I had a question from
someone who is vegan and they're on on
the keto plan and they wanted to know
what is the most important things to do
okay so in this video we're gonna talk
about the most important nutrient that
you should do if you're a vegan trying
to do 'quite out one of the challenges
that vegans have on keto is difficulty
keeping your carbs low keeping your
protein high and also making sure that
you're doing enough b12 iron vitamin A
because the vitamin A in plant foods is
really a pre vitamin A that has to
convert also getting enough vitamin D
but you can get better D from the Sun
and also likens okay trace minerals
might be difficult to get but the big
nutrient that seems to be always
deficient is these essential fatty acids
okay there's actually two of them okay
let me show you we have the omega-6
fatty acids and the omega-3 fatty acids
okay this is the one that I'm not
worried about because this is very easy
to get so the one I want to talk about
is the omega-3 fatty acid called alpha
linolenic acid and actually you can get
this pretty easily in walnuts chia seed
flaxseed and a lot of other foods now
here's the problem this by itself
doesn't really do you much good unless
it converts into these other healthy
fats right here okay EPA in DHA these
two fats are vitally important if you're
a vegan because you're not consuming
fatty fish like salmon or cod liver oil
so you're not going to get it okay but
the problem is that the conversion from
ala to DHA is only two to five percent
okay
and the conversion of ala to epa is only
five to ten percent and if you're
consuming large amounts of the omega-6
that can decrease these numbers even
more epa and DHA are really important in
brain physiology nervous system
physiology it can act as an
anti-inflammatory very very important in
stabilizing your mood preventing
depression anxiety and also to maintain
your cog
function but if you're a vegan you can
easily get these if you take microalgae
this is the nutrient you want to take if
you're on keto to make sure that you get
both of these right here simply because
you're not going to get the conversion
so go to the health of store or online
and find the vegan source of omega-3
fatty acids and make sure it has both
epa and DHA thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
