there's one very important nutrient that
prevents a lot of health problems
vitamin K2 if you have calcium in your
arteries vitamin k2's job is to remove
it but you have other soft tissues as
well so this is the hip joint vitamin K2
tells the joints to release the soft
tissue whether it's arthritis calcium
deposits it tells it to be released into
the blood the other function of vitamin
K2 is to make sure calcium goes from
that blood into the bone and it binds
very tightly to your bones and your
teeth so when you don't have enough of
this vitamin K2 you get a lot of soft
tissue calcification and you also get a
lot of bone corrosion like osteoporosis
as well as cavities and the reason why
we have vitamin K2 is because it's very
very dangerous to have too much calcium
in the soft tissues we're supposed to
have it directed into the bone and your
teeth but it's not normal to have it in
other places so our body has this whole
mechanism of keeping it in the right
place and so the question is where does
vitamin K2 come from it can either come
from our Foods or it can be converted by
certain microbes in our gut from another
vitamin called vitamin K1 and vitamin K1
comes from Leafy grains and so of course
if you're not eating a lot of Leafy
grains you're probably not getting
enough K1 so the next question is what
type of foods are very high in this
vitamin K2 one is called NATO that's
fermented soybeans this is something
they consume in Japan maybe areas of
China Nat has the most vitamin K2 a lot
of people take it if they have a heart
problem and they're at risk for a stroke
and what's interesting is that here we
have this n it's very high in K2 but it
also seems to counter the effects of
vitamin K1 the next highest food with
vitamin K2 is goose liver it's also high
in chicken liver beef liver I cannot
consume liver I do have uh Cod Liver but
other types of liver I can't consume cuz
I just don't like it next Food it's in
eel when's the last time time you had
some eel probably never so those are the
foods that have the most vitamin K2 okay
there's a lot of other ones I'm going to
get to but what's interesting about this
is that a lot of people are deficient in
vitamin K2 because they don't eat
certain foods that are high in K2
however you may have eaten these foods
which do have some vitamin K2 butter
cheese primarily from grass-fed animals
salami there's a small amount in pork
chops and there's also some in fermented
vegetables as and draw sourkraut now
what's really ironic is that here we
have this vitamin that has the potential
to keep Our arteries completely clean of
calcium yet it's in the fatty foods
which we've been told to stay away from
so it's really ironic that we're told
not to consume the very food that has
the antidote to a really big problem
that people have also as a side note
vitamin K2 is a fat soluble vitamin if
you don't have a gallbladder if you have
a bad liver you might not have the bile
to help you absorb vitamin K2 now I
mentioned another way to get vitamin K2
from K1 but only if you have the
microbes that are needed to make that
conversion there's a microb called B
subtilus this is the main microb that
helps you convert K1 to K2 unfortunately
this microbe is very easily destroyed
when you consume broad spectrum
antibiotics only like 30% of the
population have this microbe in their
gut and so if you don't have the microb
and you're not eating the foods with
vitamin K2 you're more at risk for
developing this calcification in your
soft tissues but you need to know there
are certain things that really destroy
the guts ability to make vitamin K2
that's antibiotics steroids as in
prazone ppis or ant acids consuming GMO
Foods because the glyphosate acts as an
antibiotic alcohol junk food eating a
lot of sugar blood thinners liver
disease and o being on a lowfat diet as
I said before vitamin K2 is in fatty
foods now one of the toxic effects of
way way too much vitamin D is too much
calcium in the arteries the toxicity
effect from vitamin D causing too much
calcium in the blood is so rare you
would have to take hundreds of thousands
of vitamin D3 for months for that to
occur but guess what vitamin K2 can come
to the rescue and help keep that calcium
on the low side vitamin K2 is dependent
on another nutrient and this nutrient is
magnesium so if you don't have enough
magnesium vitamin K2 won't work so think
about this if you have kidney stones or
arthritis or you have calcium in your
arteries and you're even taking vitamin
K2 but it's not working it could be
you're just low in magnesium and a lot
of people are low in magnesium and it's
very difficult to test for it because
most of the Magnesium is inside the cell
not inside your blood only 1% is in your
blood so unless you do a biopsy or some
sophisticated test you're not going to
be able to determine your true levels so
when we're talking about calcium being
in the wrong place whether it's in the
soft tissue or wherever magnesium and
vitamin K2 together are a great combo
solution to solve those problems if
you're taking vitamin K2 you have to
realize there's two different kinds
there's the form that's called the
MK4 okay and then you also have mk7 it's
natural veras the MK4 is made
synthetically I usually recommend using
the mk7 version and I would also
recommend taking 100 micrograms for
every 10,000 iuse of vitamin D3 that
would be the ratio so if you're doing
20,000 IUS of vitamin D3 you would take
200 micrograms of vitamin K2 the mk7
form so I really wanted to put this
vitamin K2 on your radar in your
awareness so you can make sure that you
consume the foods high and vitamin K2
and because vitamin K2 is usually
associated with vitamin D if you haven't
seen this video you should check it out
I put it up right here
