hey guys welcome back I have another
special guest today we have a pretty
top-notch cardiologist dr. Brent share
so welcome thanks for being on thank you
Eric it's a pleasure to be here so
you're you're actually practicing San
Diego I used to live in San Diego I used
to practice there for about three years
I was right next to this stadium there
the I guess the stadium and your your
your body where the Jets fly ball right
right so we may hear some today you know
I have a couple different offices ones
in the Kearny Mesa area I do a lot of
online health consulting now which from
my home which is my home where I am now
which does sometimes get in the way of
the Miramar Jets it seems like but you
know that's the price of freedom the
sound of freedom as they say that's
right
yeah well I'm really glad that I had a
chance to chat with you simply because I
mean you're you're like a
board-certified cardiologist and there's
been uh some concerns about cholesterol
we're going to talk about that today and
you're also going to be speaking at our
summit which I'm excited about as well
yeah so it's it's rare to find a
cardiologist that is that keto friendly
low carb tell me when you first got out
of practice
did you like 20 years ago I think right
yeah I've been practicing as a
cardiologist now for 15 years and of
course it was about 14 years before that
of college and med school residency and
fellowship all that fun stuff t to
become a cardiologist so it's been a
while now yeah that's a lot of work so
coming out did you have did you have the
mindset of just low carb well you've
just pretty much conventional you know
we're going to just do things according
to the American Heart Association
absolutely American Heart Association
knows all that's that's how I came out
and actually my fellowship was actually
in a preventive cardiology fellowship it
was a combined general and preventive
fellowship and we were in Ornish style
program I mean we're a very low-fat
high-carb kind of program and you know
the things that we were teaching people
for exercise and stress management
and community involvement those are
crucial and I'm so thankful for the
lessons I learned there but lessons I
learned from nutrition maybe not so much
and you know in retrospect it's it
should have been a red flag seeing how
many people are struggling to maintain
that type of eating and how many people
were having cravings and we're just
longing for the days where they could
cheat do something different and you
know it just it wasn't a very
sustainable method for the majority of
people now what happens is some people
will thrive and some people will do
great and when you're going from a
standard American diet to that type of
diet of course there's going to be a
subset that feel fantastic and most
people are gonna have some improvements
but the question then becomes what's
gonna happen for the next ten years
what's gonna happen for the next 20
years because I've been let's be honest
I don't care what you do for the next
couple weeks the next couple months I
care what's gonna happen for the rest of
your life and that's that was the impact
that I saw I wasn't having you know the
impact on people that they can make some
immediate changes but they were coming
right back having quote failed lifestyle
intervention and that's a term I've
grown to hate because it it implies that
we've tried everything that we've tried
every possible lifestyle we tried the
only possible lifestyle and they failed
that lifestyle and and that's when I
started to have this little bit of
awakening to say you know what maybe
we're not doing the right thing maybe
our message is wrong and it's not
actually millions of people as false
maybe it's actually our fault and that's
how hard a weakening to have you know as
I'm sure you can imagine to say
everything I've been taught everything
I've been practicing is actually wrong
that's kind of a tough thing to come to
grips with that's the big pill to
swallow yeah absolutely
so you so you eventually use you just
stumbled on low-carb and tell me a
little bit about like you yeah I did
just stumble on it so it was sort of
this major transformation time in my
life you know the other thing I realized
was I didn't spend 14 years learning to
become a cardiologist so I could you
know plug your information into some
calculator and have it spit out whether
to give you a medication like that
that's not the impact I wanted to have
on
and I was seeing that I wasn't affecting
people as I had hoped when I came out of
my fellowship and I was bright-eyed and
bushy-tailed and thought I was gonna
save the world of heart disease you know
the reality was far from that so I
actually that's when I started boundless
health and that's when I started up a
health coaching program with a friend of
mine and we were working out of the
basement of this gym and he's an amazing
trainer and health coach and on some of
our you know more challenging clients
he'd say hey you should try a ketogenic
diet on this guy and I looked at him I
said I'm a cardiologist I don't want to
kill the guy I want to I want to help
the guy like what are you crazy and he
looked right back I mean he says so have
you looked into it you know the data
behind it and I had to be honest with
him I said actually no I haven't
specifically looked into it and that
started this journey I started to read
one thing and another thing and another
thing and then my eyes got a little
bigger and a little bigger and the world
opened up and all of a sudden I realized
wow there there really is this whole
other world out there that has been just
demonized by the medical community and
not talked about by the medical
community and for no good reason and
then once I learned about it and then
one started started implementing it with
a client's along with the health coach
Dustin I mean then all of a sudden it
was there's no turning back I mean once
you see the way you can impact people
and see improvements in their blood work
see improvement in their body
composition and how they feel and then
how their training and exercising and
just being able to really transform
their lives with a tool that's never
been taught before really I used to read
never you know in mainstream practice so
yeah that was a major awakening for me I
mean you're right at the cusp of where
most the damage occurs in the artery in
the coronary artery we hate high insulin
so right so here you are you're you you
do surgery still or yeah so I do the
angiograms where we put the catheters in
the arteries feed them up through the
heart inject the dye so we can see the
arteries and see where they're blocked
then if a stent is needed I'll call one
of my colleagues and to come put the
stent in but you know the way I look at
it every time I'm in the cath lab every
time I put on the lead and put on the
sterile gear and end up in the
it's because we failed somewhere really
I mean that's what it comes down to
because all of this I guess not all of
this but 85 to 90 percent of what I see
is preventable so by the time I see
people in the cath lab you know I needed
to see them 10 or 15 years earlier and
that's why you know I'm I still have my
traditional cardiology medical practice
but where I really get the most joy and
the most satisfaction to see people as
an online health coach right I sort of
say take off my doctor hat now I put on
my health coaching hat let's talk about
your lifestyle let's talk about your
stress management let's talk about your
nutrition let's spend an hour and a half
talking about this rather than your
20-minute office visit you know going
over your prescriptions let's see how
this fits into your whole health and
lifestyle and your whole life really I
mean and that's what everybody should be
getting but our medical system is not
geared up to provide that you must be
honest it's now like when you're like
right now you have a chance when you're
duping someone or or evaluating someone
do you have a chance to get with them to
consult them on the diet or are they
open to it or yeah that's a great
question I mean I can't I can't stop
talking about it so the biggest
questions is are they going to be open
to it and and part of it is the
situation right when you're look if
someone comes in with a heart attack and
someone ends up with a stent and they're
gonna have five new medications and
their life has just been turned upside
down
on the one hand that's a great time to
talk about it because they've got the
sort of scare factor on the other hand
it's a terrible time to talk about it
because so many things are transitioning
and you know may not be the right time
for the jump in do it so it's really
part of it is sort of reading the person
to see when is the right time to discuss
this but at some point they're gonna
hear it from me tonight and I can only
hope that they're gonna internalize it
and I guess the flip side of that too is
saying like finding the right approach
for each person cuz there's not one diet
there's not one exercise program there's
not one way to manage your stress right
there there are multitude out there and
some are going to work better than
others for each individual but the key
is to make them all an option what
really bothers me is that we say there's
one diet for people there's one exercise
program for people and that's sort of
what contemporary medicine says and I
think that's so just limiting and so
short-sighted and foolish of us and and
that's really why cardiovascular disease
continues to be the number one cause of
death and has continued to be that way
for decades it's not like this is a
brand new thing it's been that way for
decades and we haven't had the impact
that we really need to have to prevent
cardiovascular disease and to help
people live longer happier better lives
totally what would you've had probably
people do Kido talk about what happens
if their their cholesterol starts going
higher they might be concerned oh my
gosh is this the right thing I'm eating
all this fat let's talk about that yeah
yeah that's a great point so the first
thing the first caveat is to say when
you look at the literature and you look
at the studies that have been done and
in my clinical practice the majority of
people who go on Kido Kido do not get in
a markedly elevated LDL so that's the
first thing because because all you have
to here is a couple case examples see a
couple cases on the Internet to think oh
my god everybody who goes keto is gonna
have an LDL particle number of 3,000 no
it doesn't work that way and all you
have to do is look at the majority of
the studies have been done that show
either no change in April lipoprotein B
or a small change in LDL C but the
majority don't see this dramatic rise so
basically just because people are gonna
listen and go what does that mean a pony
brains talking about these little boats
that are carrying the cholesterol
through the body they're transport units
and they're dumping off different cargo
at different places and there are the
EPO is that because a little kind of
like the the driver of that it's the
tells it what to do instructs it it's
like the cheek you know the ship so
you've got your LDL lipoprotein and
that's your carrier molecule that has
the LDL cholesterol inside on the
surface of that lipoprotein is called an
April lipoprotein B and that's sort of
by definition every LDL boat every LDL
lipoprotein has one of those people B's
so people tend to use an interchange
the LDL particle number or Abel B you
can sort of use interchangeably to talk
about the number of these boats floating
around and then the LDL cholesterol is
the amount of cholesterol inside all of
those boats okay and traditionally we
use LDL cholesterol as the
end-all-be-all measure but really it is
a far inferior measure to able B or o
the lipoprotein particle number so the
words get big it gets a little confusing
but the number of particles are more
important than the amount total amount
of cholesterol okay so and for the most
part most people don't get a dramatic
rise so that's the first understanding
with a low-carb akido diet now those
that do the question becomes what does
it mean and that is a very muddy waters
indeed because there's this teaching
from that have been passed down for
decades that any elevated LDL is
dangerous regardless of the circumstance
but the problem is any of those studies
that have been done to date not a single
one is focused on people who are
following a low carb lifestyle who are
burning fat for fuel and who are
improving all these other markers of
insulin resistance and diabetes and
inflammation and metabolic health and
all those improving while you're using
fat for fuel none of those people have
been included in any of those studies
okay and oh by the way those studies
show a Moose's you know sort of a
weakest Association it's definitely an
association but is not that everybody
with a high LDL is automatically getting
a heart attack right there
they're people live to point out how
many paradoxes there are there are tons
of paradoxes tons of examples of
populations with high LDL s and yet
thrive and do well so there are plenty
of reasons to say there are subsets of
people who do just fine with elevated
LDL so could the low-carb enthusiast the
keto diet follower could that person be
one of them we don't have the evidence
to say that for sure but gosh their
shares a lot of reason to say it might
be the case so it's a
really confusing situation because most
people are going to go to their doctor
and if they have a high LDL either
outcomes of statin prescription or the
doctor says you're killing yourself with
this diet you have to stop ignoring the
fact that they feel better than they've
lost the weight they have more energy
and they've reversed their metabolic
disease and all that right you're with
one markers off so you're killing
yourself so instead you really have to
take a step back and see things from a
much broader perspective and say okay
why are you doing this what improvements
are you seeing when is the what
negatives I guess you could you could
say or have you seen which is using just
the LDL and then what does that mean for
your overall picture and that's when you
have to dig deeper whether it's calcium
scores whether it's carotid intima-media
thickness testing whether it's looking
at the size and density of the LDL and
the LDL pattern and your inflammatory
markers if there's god there has to be a
deeper evaluation I think personally
than just the reflex you have to get off
your diet or you have to take a statin
because this is a very special subset
population and and again that's why I
really enjoy working with people as a
health coach online because you can take
the time to go through all this right
you can yeah I'm just gonna say that I
want to chime in because I think it's
not a simple answer it's there's some
muddiness that you have to understand
some basic physiology to really get the
truth on it because you can't even take
one little indicator LDL and you have to
look at other things as well and if
you're dying you're stay on the far side
than the size of the particle so that's
that's so true and and I know there's
people watching right now and I'm just
going to tell people I'm gonna put a
link down below to your website so I'm
sure there's gonna be a lot of people
that want to consult with you so they
can get more information with the link
down below because they're gonna
probably want to you know pick your
brain so I'm dirty so I want to just
shift gears to calcium in the Artemis
coronary artery calcium there's a test
let's tell us a little bit about what
that is and how that would compare to
maybe other indicators for risk for
heart disease yeah it's a great question
so coronary artery calcium score is a
very simple
CT scan a cat scan takes about 10
seconds no contrast no ID a low
radiation dose generally people say it's
about the same as a mammogram you know
very low radiation dose in terms of CT
scans because there are plenty of other
higher radiation doses a relatively low
radiation dose and it can tell you if
you have calcium in the walls of your
artery so it does not tell you if you
have plaque or build up in the middle of
your arteries if you look at my hand
here if the middle is where the blood is
flowing and the fingers the outside of
the fingers here is the wall of the
artery that's where the calcium can get
deposited and what it tells you though
is that there has been vascular injury
there's been some type of a scalar
injury and a body's response to it which
is laid down the calcium you can get a
score from zero up to you know thousands
I've seen but they generally break it
down as zeros obviously great it means
you've had none of that vascular injury
in the calcium deposition zero to 100 as
being sort of a mild 100 to 400 is being
moderate are greater than 400 be severe
those are very loose definitions and age
plays a big role in that because there's
obviously there's also an age percentile
score that you get because the score of
20 and a 40 year old is very different
than the score of 20 in a 75 year old
because it means completely different
about the the speed and the likelihood
that you can develop injury okay so what
studies have shown is that the higher
the degree of calcium the higher the
risk of having a cardiovascular event
and it tends to track them better than
LDL cholesterol as a solitary marker it
tends to charge better for a one time
test than the carotid intima-media
thickness test is it it's a very good
test to get it's so good in fact that
the latest cholesterol guidelines by the
ACC and the ETA finally recognized it as
a test that should be done in the
majority of intermediate risk patients
to help better identify whether they are
a candidate for a drug is basically how
the guidelines think about it I would
think about a little bit differently but
it's the first time they've come out and
said look with the calcium score of zero
you're probably not going to benefit
drug so statin prescription would not be
in to get in that case which is for you
know an aaj ACC type of guideline that
cardiology Association guidelines to say
that is is revolutionary really so that
shows how powerful this test can be but
it's so huge yeah I I recommend it to
patients is because I said it's a it's a
quick test it's not expensive and it can
give you a lot of data because if your
score is like over a thousand you better
change it's time to change your diet
right because it's time to change
something it's probably time to change a
lot of things right one of the hard
things is though there's no time stamp
on it
right so you can have somebody who's
been leading a standard American diet
insulin resistant for 20 years and then
they decide to go low-carb and improve
their lifestyle and start exercising and
six months later they get a high calcium
score there's no time stamp on that
calcium score it doesn't tell you when
it came up so it could have been that it
had been you know a lot of people would
say oh it's because you're low carb now
if you have this I calcium but actually
it was probably that 20 years of
standard American living that caused it
so that's why some people recommend if
you're going to go low-carb before going
to drastically change your lifestyle get
a calcium score so you timestamp it you
have a time zero and no moving forward
you can retest it again in three or five
years or something like that to see if
there's a change because otherwise
there's no time stamp yeah so basically
you can't really evaluate something
unless you have two numbers you have to
go is it getting better or is it getting
worse so that'll tell you trends you
know um great point do you happen to
like like your cardiologist friends and
things your associate associate doctors
that you you know work with or do they
are they open to it is it because it
changing what's happening in that area
yeah I wish I could say it was changing
and they're open to it the vast majority
are not no question about it because you
know we've been taught that is bad
we've been taught ldlc is everything and
when you've been taught something for 10
15 20 30 40 years and you've told
thousands of patients that it is hard to
have that rehearsal so a lot of people
are not open to it and you know in
fairness some people would say look when
you show me
when you show me people living this way
for 20 years are doing great not having
heart attacks
okay I'll jump on board at that point
but you know that data is hard to come
by and the data we have to this point
when you actually analyze the quality of
the data for low fat diets when you
analyze the quality of data for
cardiovascular outcomes it's really poor
but if it's all you have and you want to
be you know and you want to practice
according to the data then that's all
you have but I think it's so much more
important to say what is the quality and
does it actually backup the
recommendations and that's where these
recommendations are to really break down
Wow interesting as far as like
arrhythmia it's atrial fib things like
that do you work with those clients as
well absolutely all the time do you ever
have you ever done any type of your own
research in doing more electrolytes more
minerals for these since the minerals
are associated with the pacemaker and
the nerve conduction of the vagus nerve
all that's a touch on that a little bit
yeah so so one thing I see very
frequently is just palpitations or the
general sensation of palpitations people
getting PVCs premature ventricular
contractions come in from the bottom
part of the heart or PA sees premature
atrial contractions coming from the top
part of the heart and those can be
brought on by caffeine and alcohol and
stress and like asleep and other
stimulants but they can also be brought
on by some electrode abnormalities and
frequently we are not good at testing
for electrolyte abnormalities because we
can just the potassium and magnesium in
your and the calcium in your blood but
we can't test it the cells as well so
that's where you could have a deficiency
and it couldn't it may not show up and
the way our food is you know farmed we
our vegetables get to us and our soil
it's we just all are probably walking
around a little bit magnesium deficient
so that's one of the first steps I
always have is a magnesium replacement
whether it's a pill or whether it's an
Epsom salt bath or some way to get more
magnesium into your system and a lot of
people find benefit with that phrase
palpitations other arrhythmias like a
fib
atrial fibrillation or SVT super
ventricular tachycardias those a little
more serious because those aren't just a
nuisance of a feeling but those actually
have other health concerns and
repercussions down the road so even more
so I will reply make sure their
electrolytes are replenished for those
situations and also interestingly how
lifestyle plays into this I mean the
risk factors for afib or being
overweight having high blood pressure
not exercising and having a high sugar
high carb diet can play into all that
and so that's why when people ask me
does a low carb diet treat atrial
fibrillation well I I can't say that it
specifically treats the the electricity
imbalance I guess for the electricity
short-circuit but what it does do is it
treats every single one of the risk
factors for an e-fit and therefore it
can certainly make it less likely to
happen I mean I may need to think about
it magnesium where do you get magnesium
well leafy greens and I mean it's part
of a you need some you need some
vegetables and people don't consume a
lot of those but on top of that you have
insulin resistance which which just for
the Faculty of insulin resistance the
majority population you're not going to
be able to absorb the amount of
magnesium or potassium you once did so I
think just my own viewpoint this is my
guess I think it's partly not consuming
the right foods but partly the insulin
resistance even if you do consume and
it's not going in like it should so you
have to do more next up yeah interesting
point
yeah what about dumb he have you ever
run into a situation where you assess
someone with angina and their arteries
are clear sure yeah yeah so there's this
condition called syndrome X or micro
vascular disease it's got a number of
different names where sometimes then the
main arteries look clear but the very
distal arteries that you can't see very
well could have a plaque buildup or even
the arteries could be spasming and that
those can both cause angina
so you know the treatment cardiologists
tend to lose interest then because the
treatment is no longer stents is no
longer these cool procedures we have to
open up arteries but treatment then is
focusing on lifestyle maybe some
medications
maybe stress management maybe
electrolyte replacement you know it's
now it's getting a little more detailed
in actually more challenging than just
going in and putting it in the stent so
so there's a lot more involved from that
standpoint but it's something that
happens quite frequently yeah Wow and
then from your experience your you have
a chance to you know try different diets
and you're obviously right now you're
you just basically stumbled or research
and found low-carb is really effective
for your clients what from a
cardiovascular standpoint are you just
finding like they're responding way
better than the other diets I mean I
just want to kind of just get you
touched on it but I just wanted to know
what type of effects are you finding
when you're coaching these people that
had I'm sure that you probably do most
people you're coaching if cardiovascular
issues I'm guessing and then you coach
them you change their diet and then you
see changes yeah so there's actually a
mix of people I'm coaching a number are
prevention they say I just don't want to
develop cardiovascular disease or I have
but I have high blood pressure or high
cholesterol or something and I don't
want to develop the cardiovascular
disease or I just want to be healthier
so I have that's upset and then I
definitely have the subset of people
with cardiovascular disease already and
you know it's interesting and this is
one of the challenges when you say how
are they improving how how is our
cardiovascular disease improving well
that's a tough metric and that's
something really hard to measure because
you're not going to do angiograms on
these people on a regular basis because
it's got risks invasive you could do CT
scans but if you're not gonna really see
progression of plaque to a substantial
amount even these studies in the past
that say you know vegan diets have shown
your regression effect it's an
inconsequential change and in the plaque
volume that really by today's standards
would not be something of real interest
so it's gotta be hard to show regression
and that's where I like this test the
carotid into
Media things see int it's a specialized
ultrasound of your carotid artery that
measures the thickness of the wall
essentially of that artery it's been
knocked down a little bit as a test
because when you compare it head-to-head
with a calcium score the calcium score
has much better predictive value but
where I think the CI MT has its value is
following it over time whatever your
initial value is okay you don't have to
react too strongly at that value but
what happens over the next six months to
two years
is it thickening or is it actually
thinning and regressing and you can see
these dynamic changes much more clearly
so that's one marker you can use and I
have seen some impressive results in a
number of patients when they go Lokar
I've not seen severe progression in
almost anybody most people probably stay
the same but then you look at all the
other risk factors in the market what's
their blood pressure what's their waist
circumference what's their metabolic
health from an insulin and glucose
standpoint whether they're inflammatory
markers doing in granted these do not
guarantee that their cardiovascular
disease and their vessels are improving
but these are the best markers and
predictors we have to say what kind of
impact are you having on your overall
health and as I'm sure you know is a low
carb diet the majority of those improve
oh yeah absolutely
you know Dave Feldman right of course
he's great so Dave Dave talks about he's
like a human guinea pig and he he went
off the keto plan okay for six weeks I
think it was and he showed before and
after his art is I think I guess his
arteries and his the coronary another
core the carotid thickened did you ever
hear that story yes see IMT went up
significantly when he went on his sort
of hook high carb standard American
style diet not scary it was scary to see
yeah no quick I mean like this is what
happens right someone does keto and run
around Thanksgiving they go off keto
until New Year's right so they're just
going to go off a bit and
you don't realize what's happening
you're just clogging your arteries or
these thickening your arteries and
obstructing blood flow to your brain
right right so important to
differentiate that does not mean a
plaque right clogged in the artery but
that is an early sign of vascular
disease vascular damage and the natural
progression is down the road to develop
another especially since you're setting
yourself up for inflammation internally
in that from an information you have all
this healing this patching effect of all
the other things that can then create
the the plaque right right exactly and
that's you know and that's why the
people who I work with I I counsel them
saying look we don't have 20-year data
to say this diet is going to reverse
your arterial disease but what we have
for all these tests that we can measure
to show that they are improving or if
someone comes to me with an LDL of 250
and says my doctor says this is killing
me and I say look there is another
perspective here the other perspective
is we measure all these other tests and
follow them to see if we have any sign
of progression or worsening of vascular
disease if we do okay then we better
react to that pretty seriously if we
don't then we continue to have this
conversation of well what kind of
evidence we have that this is helping
what kind of evidence we have that is
hurting because it's the overall health
and life of people that were concerned
about not a specific number exactly well
I'm really excited to have you come out
and share some more in-depth information
at our summit last last year we had a
500 we're gonna have a thousand people
Wow
you're gonna be actually shocked just to
the quality of these people's like it's
so there's such an incredible group of
wonderful people that are actually the
watching right now and so we're gonna
make it mandatory that everyone watching
has to come out well I can meet you in
person and have a great time but I think
what you bring to the table is like you
have experience you're in the trenches
you basically you're dealing with the
number one thing that's you know people
die up so I think it's going to be very
valuable so how do you share your data
so I appreciate
you know you spending time in your busy
schedule now just just it did this
interview but it will definitely do some
more as well great I appreciate the
opportunity I really look forward to
that conference later this year thank
you
if you wouldn't mind to give me a thumbs
up and like this video I'd really
appreciate it
