hi guys in this video we're going to
answer the question does a ketogenic
diet cause a fatty liver right now you
probably already know being an alcoholic
will cause a fatty liver consuming a lot
of refined carbs and sugar will cause a
fatty liver but did you know that going
on a ketogenic diet can also cause a fatty liver
let's talk about that we're
going to use guid physiology on page
927 this is what it says effect of
insulin lack that means low insulin or
la
as
it insulin la causes that means
dissolving of the fat stores in adipose
tissue it causes a great increase in the
amount of stor triglycerides in the
liver leading to a very fatty liver wow
that's interesting i thought the
ketogenic diet was healthy right i never
in any of my videos recommend a straight
ketogenic diet i always recommended
adding a bunch of vegetables to the
ketogenic diet because let's take a look
at what the ketogenic diet is low carbs
below 20 carbs 20 to 50 carbs i mean you
can pretty much it doesn't really
specifically tell you what carbs you can
consume i mean a piece of bread could be
20 grams of carbs or an apple or berries
so it does about the vegetable
content want to do is you want to beef
up your vegetables you want to do at
least seven cups of vegetables 7 to 10
cups not just from your potassium and
your nutrients but to keep that liver
fled out so we're not going to calculate
vegetables into this calculation of 20
to 50 gr so it's unlimited vegetables
and don't add the vegetables into your
calculations all right thanks for
watching hi guys he listen i created
below symptom to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
send
report
