would you be willing to consume two of
these each day to help repair your
thyroid and I'm talking about Brazil
nuts for a very specific reason most
hypo low thyroid condition problems is
Hashimoto this is an autoimmune problem
it's not usually related to lacking
iodine but Hashimoto is the most common
type of autoimmune disease of all the
autoimmune diseases 14 million people a
year get it just in the us alone and
when you have Hashimoto you're more at
risk of developing other types of
autoimmune diseases as well Hashimoto's
thyroiditis which is inflammation of the
thyroid doesn't always cause
hypothyroidism but usually it does and
so what's fascinating about these Brazil
nuts is their selenium content and what
selenium can do for hashimotos I mean
it's mind-blowing first of all selenium
is a trace mineral needed in very tiny
amounts
selenium is involved in over 25
different genes involving antioxidants
giving anti-inflammatory effects
selenium also is in shellfish and
seafood and organ Meats but it's the
highest in Brazil nuts and so if you had
two of these nuts you would get close to
like 200 micrograms of selenium every
single day in 17 randomized control
trials it has been shown that selenium
reduces the antib bodies that are
attacking your thyroid and selenium can
slow down that attack even the way they
diagnose thyroid conditions like
hypothyroidism they look at the hormone
that's released from the pituitary that
goes down to the thyroid it's called the
thyroid stimulating hormone and when
that hormone goes up that means it's not
connecting with the thyroid and chances
are you have a
hypothyroid condition well it just so
happens that selenium also helps that
condition too with an Hashimoto
situation you have a a lot of hydrogen
peroxide being generated so by taking
selenium you can help neutralize the
effect of hydrogen peroxide and even too
much hydrogen peroxide itself can
trigger an autoimmune disease selenium
also controls the te- helper cells that
orchestrate the entire immune response
and it also feeds the tea regg cells
preventing autoimmune diseases
and because our brain and our immune
system and our reproductive system are
so heavily dependent on selenium there's
probably not a lot left for the thyroid
to have enough to function correctly and
so the person starts developing this
Hashimoto and they start getting tired
cold they gain weight hair loss the hair
becomes brittle so here's what I would
recommend start consuming two Brazil
nuts per day I mean you could take a
little bit more maybe up to four but I
wouldn't take more than that because you
could have problems with the deficiency
of selenium and also a problem if you
have too much selenium too so you just
need the right amount in addition to
Brazil nuts I would also recommend
either getting enough sun or taking high
doses of vitamin D3 why because vitamin
D3 also helps to regulate an overactive
immune system now since I mentioned a
little bit about vitamin D I think
there's some more to know about vitamin
D in relationship to autoimmune diseases
so for that information I put it up
right here check it out
