so we're back again to show you an
update on the hydroponic growing in my
basement come on in looks let's take a
look so as you can see they have done
some growing check this out
last time it was way down here now it's
all up here and probably about three
weeks I would say so again to recap
hydroponic is growing things in a
soilless medium so we grow in these
rocks right here and all we do is we
take this tub of water with one cup of
minerals that's all diluted by a 55
gallon bucket of water and it cycles
through this thing every so often and it
combines with this light to make
vitamins so when you have minerals
convert it into the plant that you you
could you hit the photosynthesis light
it converts into vitamin so so the
question is this why can't we just drink
this take all these vitamins and call it
a day why do we have to spend all this
time growing these during plants so we
have to eat these well this is because
our bodies do not absorb rocks directly
they need to be we need a vo between the
rock and our intestinal tract and this
is the via we need a plant to convert
these rocks these rocks here break them
down into small particles I can absorb
in our body so that's why we need it 99%
of all vitamins sold are synthetic which
is not the same thing coming from plant
and most people don't know it and also
there are a lot of people are taking
vitamins that are basically are made of
rocks like calcium carbonate for example
I wouldn't recommend consuming that
because you're eating rocks what we want
to do is consume plant-based minerals
and vitamins because that's the way that
we absorb them in our bodies okay so the
unique thing about these plants is that
certain plants absorb nutrients
differently for example tomato plant
makes about a thousand milligrams of
vitamin A per cup and we have the
lettuce leaf right here or right here
makes about 2,000 mil
internet units of vitamin A perk up but
the kale this kale here and if you can
see this came out right here I'm growing
is very amazing because it makes thirty
five thousand international units of
vitamin A per cup so ten times the
nutrition so it's fascinating that seeds
absorb different nutrients differently
so that's why you want to consume
certain vegetables versus other
vegetables you don't want to just
consume iceberg lettuce for example the
cruciferous family of vegetables contain
another unique thing called
phytonutrients those are plant-based
compounds that have additional unique
benefits the drug companies even isolate
certain compounds in the cruciferous and
other plants to make certain things that
shrink tumors that are triggered by
viruses decreased blood pressure repair
DNA and many many other things so
phytonutrients have the capacity of
dismantling pesticides insecticides
herbicides fungicides and their liver
through their enzyme so they're very
fascinating now the FDA states that we
can't make any health plans at this time
because we're not enough evidence so
that was my disclaimer I'm not telling
you that you can consume kale get rid of
your cancer but there's a lot of
research going on right now that on
those topics okay so what I want to do
right now is show you a new shake that
I've developed using mango which has
amazing health properties which is in an
offset to kale kale strawberry blueberry
and an oat extract without all the
carbohydrate so let's go upstairs and
make that right now I'll show you how it
how it works so we're back up here and
let me just show you this new channel
recipe to recipe that I have you're
going to take organic camp
Organic mango okay which is very high in
certain nutrients a lot of nutrients
that help the support of healthy
prostate and also helps that there's
certain shows that it helps to reduce
facial hair in female cells if a lot of
good stuff and blueberries are very high
on and phytonutrients from many
different levels because the pigment is
soup Dartmouth has certain things that
help the eye and the heart okay then we
have strawberries very high in vitamin C
and very high in iodine so we're going
to mix all this together we're gonna add
this thing called neutral neutral is an
oat extract which they found that when
you concentrate something called beta
glucan and that would be the part of the
oat that helps lower cholesterol you can
create a real great change in balancing
cholesterol levels so that nutria ms
oats that they take out the starch they
take up the fiber and they concentrate
this beta glucan we're going to put a
teaspoon and that shake simply because
it's going to be very good on the liver
and just put some of that in here and
it's low glycemic okay you're gonna put
the Kalin
right here stuff it in there pretty good
stem everything okay we're gonna put the
mango and strawberry and blueberries
okay well that's a bad expression icing
on the cake so I will put a natural
icing on the cake so we're going to mix
the water in there okay and then we are
going to blend it okay
okay so I had it blend it for about
three minutes if you don't blend it
enough gonna be it all chunky let's see
this thing tastes like that is really
really good and for those of you that
want it more convenient I actually
finally have my organic kale shake and
this is a premium that means it's a
hundred percent organic when things are
said that organic that means they're 80
percent organic you have to say a 100
percent organic at all this organic so
this is where again a mango organic
blueberry organic strawberry and kale
all mixed with no extra anything and has
written a new trim which is the day that
glue can concentrate but it's good for
convenience gonna bring it to work what
you do is you take this out and make
sure you put a half of a scooper not the
whole thing in a glass of water and
drink that up it tastes great it's very
natural I have people that are no longer
having any crazy so definitely if you
want to check this out if you want to
get one go to my website dr. Byrd calm
I'm gonna thank you for watching and we
will see you next week
