today we're going to talk about 21 signs
that your body is low in nutrients you
know certain people give me the comment
you don't need to take extra nutrition
because you can get all of your
nutrition from your diet I will
guarantee those people have never looked
at the amount of nutrition coming into
the body let alone ever tested for
vitamin nutrient deficiencies because if
they did they would find out the
majority of the population is extremely
low in things like vitamin D magnesium
zinc B1 potassium and the list goes on
and on over 50% of the population
consumes Ultra processed foods which
have Zero nutrition we mainly eat for
pleasure and taste and not for health a
good portion of the food in the grocery
store is grown hydroponically in water
with about 15 Minerals Well we need 160
different minerals all right let's dive
into the video starting with number one
tingling in your toes biggest indication
for tingling in the toes is a B1
deficiency when you think about vitamin
B1 think about everything related to the
nerves okay and the very end of the
longest nerve in the body is going to be
affected first and that happens to be in
your toes and then on the bottom of the
foot eventually or gradually you're
going to notice more of a burning pain
and that pain can start getting very
very intense the term for this is called
peripheral neuropathy you see this a lot
in diabetics because the number one
reason why someone is deficient in B1 is
they're consuming too much sugar or
carbs and and for some reason it's worse
at night than during the day it could be
because you're lying down and there's
less circulation going on what foods
have the most B1 Believe It or Not pork
but you can also get your B1 from liver
and also all Meats have B1 eggs had B1
sunflower seeds had B1 but if you have
this symptom I would recommend a very
special type of B1 that is in a fat
cable form and it's called
benine that specifically will penetrate
the fat layer or the myin into the
tissues to help heal it all right number
two is cracks in the corner of your
mouth I used to have this this is a
vitamin B2 deficiency you can get B2
from eating liver red meat or eggs all
right number three thinning of the hair
this is usually a biotin deficiency
biotin is another B vitamin it's B7
without B7 you can't make keratin the
Protein that's involved in making hair
so it's going to be thinner it's going
to be brittle it's going to break you're
going to have split ends biotin is not
just for the hair it's for the nails
it's for your skin as well you can get
biotin from eggs nuts seeds organ meats
and even Dairy number four premature
graying of your hair like right here or
right here you can see that premature
graying at an earlier age suspect a
deficiency of another B vitamin B9 which
is folate it really helps you repair DNA
this is why it helps prevent cancer but
there's another specific thing that
folate does and that is supporting
melanin melanin is the thing that gives
you your pigment your color of your hair
and your skin and so folate can help
support that and the best way to get
folate is from leafy greens all right
that's premature graying what about
mouth ulcers this is a B12 deficiency
B12 helps protect mucous membranes and
if there's no protection you start
getting breakdown in that lining in the
inside layer of your mouth and then you
get these little ulcers but B12 does a
lot it also supports our red blood cells
to prevent anemia B12 is also involved
in supporting the nervous system very
very important if you're division in B12
you're going to have a lot of nerve
damage can even become to the point
where it's permanent so we want to make
sure we have enough B12 best source of
B12 red meat liver clams all right
number six deep pelvic bone pain and
when I talk about deep bone pain I'm
talking about that extends also in your
lower back your hips and even the thighs
this is a classic vitamin D deficiency
without vitamin D your bones cannot
mineralize you can't pull in calcium you
can't make the bone strong 80% of the
population has a vitamin D deficiency
it's the most important vitamin because
it's involved in so many different genes
like 2500 different genes when you take
vitamin D as a maintenance dose I highly
recommend you take no less than 10,000
IUS every single day unless you're
getting Sun that is definitely not a
toxic amount but because there's so many
different factors that block vitamin D
and we have so much resistance to it we
need a good amount of vitamin D3 and and
for a healthy person that's 10,000 I use
but you probably need even more than
that okay next one is heavy menstrual
bleeding this is
usually high levels of
estrogen but it can also be a deficiency
in vitamin K1 because vitamin K1 is all
about stopping the bleeding making sure
you have enough vitamin K can help you
but typically vitamin K1 comes from dark
leafy green vegetables you can also get
vitamin K1 from consuming liver all
right number eight is heavy menstrual
cramping this is a magnesium deficiency
but what's really causing the cramping
is the uncontrolled calcium situation so
magnesium is a remedy you need it to
help you relax help you sleep it's good
for blood pressure so many things and
magnesium would be in anything green all
the dark leafy green vegetables also
it's in pumpkin seeds sesame seeds all
right number nine fibroids this too can
be a situation where you have two much
estrogen fibroid is a benign tumor that
is growing from the uterus vitamin D can
keep it in check but the problem is we
need a lot more vitamin D than you think
especially to shrink one of these things
so you're going to need about 20,000 to
30,000 international units every single
day to be able to shrink these so that's
what I would recommend with a good
amount of magnesium together with some
zinc and vitamin K2 those are co-actors
also make sure you're not consuming any
dairy because Dairy can flare those up
because Dairy is a growth hormone and so
as insulin so if you're doing a lot of
carbs that also can make those grow take
your vitamin D and watch what happens
all right number 10 is Twitch underneath
the eye it's called tetany this is one
of the first symptoms of a magnesium
deficiency and I would take no less than
400 milligrams every single day it does
take a while to correct it but leafy
greens pumpkin seeds like I already
mentioned will eventually correct it
okay number 11 heart pounding so you
hear this pounding like your pulse in
your ear Boom Boom Boom Boom this is a
classic pottassium deficiency I one time
had this and I didn't know what it was
but it happened right after I consumed a
massive amount of sugar and
carbohydrates in one sitting because
what happens when you consume refined
carbs of sugar it actually pulls
potassium out of certain places and
locks it up into the sugar creating a
potassium deficiency what you need is
you need potassium 4700 mg you can try
to do it with salads but you would have
to have at least minimally 10 cups of
salad very rarely does anyone do that so
what you have to do is you have to have
a variety of foods and maybe sometimes
an electrolyte powder to get what you
need potassium is really good for blood
pressure as well as the sensation of
pounding in your ear all right this one
over here chronic cough is a Calcium
deficiency I typically do not recommend
taking calcium as a supplement unless
you have a symptom like this but I think
the best source of calcium is from food
like Dairy but some people can't do
dairy so then I would recommend a
supplement not too much because our body
doesn't get rid of calcium too easily so
calcium lactate would be a good source
for those people that need it but if you
can do dairy like Greek yogurt or even
kefir would be really good all right the
craving for ice is an iron deficiency
and sometimes people even crave dirt or
chalk you might see this and someone
who's pregnant they need iron the best
source of iron is not from Plants it's
from red meat or liver but iron helps
you carry oxygen in the blood our bodies
do not have a way to get rid of excess
iron so don't load up on iron take it if
you need it all right next one low
libido this is a deficiency of zinc all
those hormones need zinc and also zinc
is involved in keeping your thymus gland
this the master immune gland which is an
top of the heart to keep it from
atrophying shellfish especially oysters
and red meat are a good source of zinc
all right next one is hearing loss this
is a B12 deficiency B12 is important in
supporting the nerves especially the
auditory nerve so once B12 is deficient
that nerve can suffer and you can start
having this gradual problem with high
pitches and low pitch vibration if you
know of someone that's getting older get
them some good B12 and red meat are good
source of zinc all right next one is
fiber cystic breast this is excess
estrogen because you don't have enough
iodine so really it's an iodine
deficiency what that means is they need
some celp or some seaweed or maybe
shellfish all right next one is dry
flaky skin usually around the nose
through here but also in the eyebrows
right through in here That's a classic
omega3 fatty acid deficiency I mean
average person consumes like eight
gallons of seed oils a year that's crazy
that's going to create a lot of flaky
skin and a lot of other issues what that
means is they need some cod liver oil or
fish oil that's high quality all right
next one is muscle weakness this is a
classic vitamin E deficiency if you look
at the top or the peak of any large
mountain that a lot of people climb
you're going to see empty bottles of
vitamin E because vitamin E helps get
oxygen and higher altitudes vitamin E
also prevents atrophy of the muscle the
type of vitamin E I would recommend is
called tokat trinal next one is f liver
you can develop a fatty liver from
eating a lot of carbs junk food alcohol
but also if you're choline deficient
where do you get choline you can get it
from either the liver or even a better
Source would be from egg yolks all right
next one is cold Source this is a lysine
deficiency but really it's a virus but
lysine will put this virus back in
remission you can get lysine from
parmesan cheese turkey chicken and fish
lysine is also good for the immune
system and it's also good to build up
collagen and then we get to the last one
here called high lipids to help regulate
these high lipids you want a good amount
of nasin which is vitamin B3 sometimes
people don't realize that cholesterol
can come from sugar and refined carbs so
just by changing your diet you can
improve those profiles now at this point
I think the most important thing for you
to do is to know what food or foods to
eat or meals that are nutrient-dense to
prevent all this right here and for that
information you should check out this
video right here
