so I have a very important video today
talking about autoimmune diseases and
the most important vitamin deficiency
related to this condition and answer a
lot of important questions that people
have first of all how do we know if
we're getting enough vitamin D and how
are we going to deal with the toxicity
factor with vitamin D and so I have some
really good solutions to all of the
questions and the problems that come up
with uh dealing with vitamin D in
relationship to autoimmune diseases now
if you're not already familiar with the
coimbra protocol okay that was developed
by a doctor in Brazil you need to put
this on your radar because a lot of
people are getting amazing results by
using his high vitamin D protocol
however there's something very very
important that I'm going to simplify for
you in relationship to this problem this
is why he checks a hormone called the
parathyroid hormone the parathyroid
gland produces the parathyroid hormone
which has everything to do with
regulating your calcium if there's low
calcium in the body parathyroid gland is
going to rob calcium from your bone and
put it into the blood now what does
vitamin D have to do with it well
vitamin D helps the absorption of
calcium by a factor of 20x okay so it
helps you absorb a lot of calcium in
your bloodstream but you have something
called vitamin D resistance
that means that you can be taking
vitamin D but it's not going into the
body so we really have to step away from
just this calcium regulation because it
controls a lot of different factors as
far as this parathyroid hormone okay
what it actually does it tells us if
vitamin D is working biologically in
your cells you can have normal amounts
of vitamin D in your blood yet be very
deficient in vitamin D and the
parathyroid hormone will tell you if
that's happening if you're not getting
sufficient amounts of vitamin D you're
going to have problems with calcium
absorption and the pariy gland is going
to have to overcompensate to overcome
this vitamin D resistance and so we look
at your vitamin D levels we look at the
parathyroid hormone okay we want to look
at the relationship between both of them
because normally if you have high
vitamin D you should have low
parathyroid hormone or if you have low
vitamin D in your blood you should have
high parathyroid hormone it's important
to know that the parathyroid hormone
also helps in the conversion of the
inactive vitamin D to the active vitamin
D as it relates to your kidneys and the
liver you're going to have vitamin D
resistance and one way to pick this up
is by testing the par par thyroid
hormone and really understanding what a
high level means and what a low level
means you're getting sufficient amount
of vitamin D because you check the blood
but your parathyroid hormone is high
suspect you have vitamin D resistance
okay now how are we going to fix that
well you're going to have to take more
vitamin D and this coimbra protocol has
everything to do with adjusting your
vitamin D increasing it to the point
where your parathyroid hormone starts to
come down to like a low Normal area and
that means that you're getting the
biological effect of vitamin D but the
big question is what is up with this
vitamin D resistance how do we develop
it and what is it typically it has to do
with the vitamin D receptor but it can
also be in the lack of conversion from
the inactive to the active vitamin D
because there's some genetic issue which
by the way is very very common the term
for this genetic problem is called
polymorphism I've tested 25 people in
relation ship to vitamin D and every
single one of them had at least one
problem with a genetic issue with
vitamin D and of course on top of
everything else you also have a lot of
other barriers of getting vitamin D
right people don't go on the sun uh the
darker your skin uh the less vitamin D
you're going to absorb from the Sun uh
the older you are the less you're going
to absorb the more stress that you have
the more vitamin D you're going to need
and also the things that go along with
it like the absorption of calcium this
is why one of the side effects is
osteoporosis and then of course you have
where you live let's say you live in the
North right where you don't get as much
sun I mean just think about the fact
that the closer you are to the
Equator the less autoimmune diseases you
have the more pollution you have in the
environment in the sky the less vitamin
D you're going to have then we get into
this interesting topic of pathogens all
will have strategic effects of
downgrading your vitamin D receptor and
your immune system doesn't get the
Vitamin D it needs to defend against
these pathogens they're very very sneaky
then you get another pathogen which is
the pathogen that comes from a tick bite
do you realize that that microorganism
will downgrade your vitamin D receptor
by 60x all these people with Lyme
disease they are so deficient in vitamin
D then you get cancer cells especially
of the colon and of your bone they also
downgrade The receptors for vitamin D so
they can survive there's also something
else I want to share with you it's a
toxin from bacteria and you see this in
like systemic infections you'll see it
when someone
detoxifies then you also have like other
heavy metals that can also downgrade and
make the vitamin D receptor less
receptive now I hope this is as
interesting to you as it is to me
because I think it's actually quite
fascinating to understand the mechanism
to understand there's such a thing as
Vitamin D resistance and the way that
we're going to overcome it is by taking
more vitamin D and the way we'll really
know that it's working is to look at
this parathyroid hormone but let's say
we want to protect ourselves against
this calcium in the blood that's too
high well there are several ways you can
do it okay you can do with magnesium you
can do it with zinc which are co-actors
but the biggest protector of this excess
calcium in the blood is vitamin
K2 this is why I never recommend taking
vitamin D without K2 now usually you
would need about 100
micrograms of K2 for every
10,000 iuse of vitamin D and they were
taking vitamin
K2 in super high amounts seeing amazing
results to overcome
osteoporosis so instead of taking
micrograms they weren't taking like 45
micrograms of vitamin K2 they were
taking 45 milligrams of vitamin K2 which
is a lot more I'm just putting this on
your radar because let's say for example
you have calcium in your arteries or you
have a kidney stone or you have
hypercalcemia or you have arthritis
where you have too much calcium in the
joints you might want to beef up your
vitamin K2 to the levels of milligrams
not micrograms and some of the
information I'm talking about is based
on this amazing Kindle book that I just
read twice okay because I couldn't stop
reading it this author has a very
interesting way of writing that makes it
easy to understand which I appreciate
and I highly recommend you also check
out that book I'm going to put a link
down below so thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next
video
