hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about when is the absolute best time to
take your supplements okay well the best
time would be the maximum absorption
time and that would be at your first
meal of the day if you're doing in a
minute fasting okay that could be 12
o'clock 1 o'clock 2 o'clock in my case 3
o'clock so I don't need anything until 3
o'clock and that is when your insulin
sensitive okay so the more you fast the
more you become insulin sensitive and
realize that insulin is the key that
opens the door to allow not just fuel
but amino acids vitamins and especially
minerals and trace minerals yeah insulin
has a lot to do with absorbing nutrients
so when you consume 3 meals a day
the more you spike the insulin the more
that your insulin resistant ok so that
means you're not going to absorb as much
so when you eat a lot of times you you
won't feel satisfied because stuff is
not going into the cell so that first
meal of day is when you should take your
supplements and also consume the highest
nutrient foods because it's all going to
go on like a rocket ship and your cells
are going to be the nuts happy at that
point alright so there's a couple
exceptions when you're consuming certain
nutrients that need to be consumed in an
empty stomach like l-tryptophan for
example there's some other ones also if
you're taking a supplement that you need
to take right before bed to help you
sleep of course obviously you wouldn't
take it when you're eating ok so I hope
that answered this question thanks for
watching hey guys a lot of you already
have my book some of you don't but this
new edition called a new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last Edition
called the 7 principles of fat burning
it has a hundred and fifty six images
378 pages full glossary I talked about
keto in a minute fasting the body types
in detail I have a new stressed chapter
I'm going to show you exactly what to
eat any comprehensive FAQ I put a link
down below check it out
