hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about the myth
regarding weight loss pills now
everywhere you look you could see all
these fat burners these promises these
guarantees they take this pill this
magical pill you're going to lose weight
you know the Garcinia you have the green
tea raspberry ketones coffee bean
extract Y and Dr Oz and then you have
hydroxy kite which is just a bunch of
caffeine fentam which is a drug that
stimulates the adrenal so we have a
combination of things that are supposed
to boost your metabolism decrease hunger
and stimulate the body well here's
what's going to happen um if your diet
sucks these are not going to work you
know maybe you want to enhance your
weight loss well I would recommend doing
it a different way and I would use the
philosophy that I I that really works
with a with even the most stubborn
Metabolism Type cases you have to get
healthy first then lose the weight cuz
the weight Direct trying to stimulate
your metabolism directly you're missing
the health part and let me explain what
I mean with the health like dissect what
is the healthy body does the person have
no Cravings do they have a lot of energy
are they sleeping do they have no
inflammation is their menstrual cycle
really really good do they have no
bloating no congestion no you know
constipation anything like that that is
healthy okay so take your weakest link
whatever that is and I look at I look at
the cognitive function like your stress
tolerance is that a problem well that's
an adrenal issue fatigue that's a
sleeping issue do you have a digestive
issue do you have heartburn gird you
know that's I would focus on that if
that's your issue inflammatory uh type
you know some people have irritable bow
well that could be an issue or
inflammation in the joints fibromyalgia
things like that uh menstrual cycle is
an important one and then the biggest
indicator is do you crave sweets it's
not normal to crave sweets um I'll put a
link down below on how to get rid of all
Cravings very very fast but you should
never try to lose weight on top of
Cravings because you're going up a hill
you're just you're not burning fat and
then you're going to take a pill on top
of it what's going to happen is you're
going to stimulate the body you're going
to eventually burn out the body and it's
not going to work long term so it's very
very you know follows this philosophy or
just take a pill and you're going to be
you're going to lose all this weight
it's not true now if you have if you're
very very young and you have a good
metabolism maybe you might lose a couple
pounds but still um I have no problem
taking this or this or even that or even
some of this but these right here when
you get into caffeinated beverages or
caffeinated pills or you get into fentam
which is a drug I'm very much opposed to
that okay for as far as I'm concerned
these are expensive urine if you want to
take them they're not going to harm you
it might even help you a little bit but
there's so many other things you can do
that are more corrective for your health
all right hope I didn't offend anyone
and I will see you in the next
video
