so I had a question from someone that
wanted to know can I eat fruit once I
lose the weight let's talk about that so
the answer is yeah you can eat it but it
comes with a package so let's talk about
that package fruits have been grown to
be sweeter higher in sugars okay you
ever take a look at an apple now I mean
it's like eating candy it is so filled
with sugar way back long time ago fruit
was not that sweet it was actually sour
a lot of the fruits had no resemblance
of what they look like now so that's one
factor number two fruits are seasonal
but of course you can buy fruits all
year round
so if you're constantly eating a lot of
fruit you're getting a lot of fructose
and the problem is the liver has to do
with that sugar when you have glucose
you have the entire body cells that can
deal with it
but anything with fructose or high in
fructose the liver is forced to
metabolize it and that can lead to all
sorts of issues including insulin
resistance
so unfortunately fruit in general is not
keto friendly however there are fruits
that are lower in sugar okay avocados
that's considered a fruit you may think
it's a vegetable but it's actually a
fruit I don't even think it has any
sugar has carbohydrate but probably not
any sugar lemon limes okay so you can
start eating as many of those as you
want of course you probably not going to
do that because that's not the fruit
that you had in mind
coconut that's considered a fruit very
low in carbs and I'm not talking about
coconut water that's very very high in
carbs it's a refined product and then
you have tomato which actually people
think it's a vegetable but it's actually
a fruit tomato with all the fiber is
pretty safe in general pomegranate seeds
are okay as long as you don't do the
pomegranate juice okay that's a
concentrated carbohydrate star fruit is
lower on the glycemic index and berries
are good okay raspberries are the best
and then you have blackberries
strawberries in blueberries but a small
amount of berries is totally fine and
then people want to know about what
about cherries well cherries are they're
not really really high but they're right
in the middle but they do have a lot of
show
and you have tart cherries which are
better than the real sweet cherries and
what about melons
well cantaloupe is better than
watermelon and if you have small amounts
probably be okay but you can overdo it
very easily but the big question is
let's say you hit your ideal weight goal
or your health goal right and you want
to add some fruit back in there question
is what is your history of abusing sugar
like myself I abuse sugar to the extreme
and so if I actually try to go back to
some carbs I do not do well my system is
very sensitive to carbs and I do very
well on the ketogenic plant so let's say
for example if you have an abuse trigger
and you were not raised on sugar and you
don't have insulin resistance and you
have a fast metabolism and you don't
have a weight problem and you don't have
any health problem you could probably
get away with more fruit and most people
so go ahead and test it for yourself see
how you do so the main thing is you just
want to take a look at all the data make
a judgment call think for yourself as
compared to having some cookbook
approach where you're rigidly following
this exact food and you never deviate
and you're eating it because someone
told you had to do it exactly this way
but you don't really have the full
understanding all right so thanks for
watching I will see you in the next
video so if you want more knowledge on
how to create a healthy body subscribe
now and get daily notifications
