what would happen if you started
consuming omega-3 fish oils for 30 days
that's a topic I want to educate people
on because omega-3 fatty acids are
essential that means that our bodies
can't make them but we need them and 70%
of the entire population is deficient in
omega3 and I'm going to tell you why
they are deficient and I'm also going to
tell you what would happen if you
started putting these Omega-3s back into
the body and you can do through several
ways uh fish oils fish oil is one way I
prefer civa oil because it also has two
additional things like vitamin d and
vitamin A both which are not in fish
oils you don't want to buy a fish oil
based on cost because you're going to
basically get rancid fish oils and
they're going to cause more harm than
good this is because fish oils are
highly susceptible to being oxidized but
of course the best thing to do is to
consume consume actual fatty fish
sardines grass-fed beef organ meats and
even eggs now I will mention about you
know like walnuts flax seed hemp chia
seed might say they have omega-3 but
really they're precursors that turn into
omega-3 fatty acids they have something
called ala and then that can convert
into EPA and DHA EPA primarily helps you
reduce inflammation okay and a lot of
people have inflammation and you can
have inflammation in the joints so it
helps with arthritis you can have
inflammation in the heart so it can help
with your heart and then you have
something called
DHA which is really good for your brain
in fact your brain is made up of 20%
DHA and I'm talking about the gray
matter the cerebral cortex this is why
fish oils are really good for memory
cognitive function attention focus
learning really good for kids yet many
kids don't consume fish or fish oils but
there is a reason why your parents or
your grandmother gave you cod liver oil
because that's more of a well-known
remedy for so many things that a lot of
the Nordic uh countries uh used civer
oil back in the day when they had long
Winters with very low vitamin D because
as we know we don't get a lot of sun
during the winter and a lot of people
become depressed during the winter and
they might have worsening of their
arthritis so ol oil is an excellent
source or just consume more fatty fish
through the winters now another
interesting benefit with cive oil
especially for kids if you can get them
to consume it is asthma and allergies
and it's a combination of just reducing
inflammation in the lungs I mean what's
an allergy it's like you have a lot of
inflammation but also the vitamin D is
one of the most potent
anti-inflammatories and vitamin D is one
of the most important things in asthma
this is why if asthmatic kids get more
sun
uh their asthma goes in remission so
normally people take omega-3 fish oils
for heart problems or brain issues but
they are good for other things too so if
you consume them on a regular basis you
may find one of the following symptoms
disappear dry eyes now you can also help
dry eyes with vitamin A but also with
omega-3 the next one is dermatitis
especially if your skin is scaly and dry
and so when you're deficient in
omega-3 you can develop what's called
age related macular
degeneration affecting your sight I
already mentioned all the arthritis both
rheumatoid and Osteo and arhythmia and
high blood pressure another really
interesting benefit is improving a fatty
liver that's right by taking a certain
fat you can get rid of fat in your liver
another great benefit for omega-3 is
increase calcium absorption now of
course if you take the civer oil you're
going to get more calcium absorption
because of the vitamin D vitamin D helps
you absorb calcium by a factor of 20
times I notice when people are deficient
in calcium they can have leg cramps but
they also have a hard time going to
sleep easily they might be tired but
their head can't relax or go to sleep in
menstrual cramps probably a combination
because of the anti-inflammatory effect
but also the vitamin D okay can help you
absorb calcium and actually reduce
cramping omega-3 fatty acids can also
help you with insomnia and even decrease
the risk of certain types of cancer now
one little problem that people have with
fish oils is the burping but they do
have them in capsules without the actual
oil okay so you can get them in capsules
you won't burp with those uh sometimes
people are allergic to fish oils or fish
or they might be vegan and don't want to
consume the fish well you can get
supplements that come from allergy so
that's another source because the way
fish actually get their omega-3 is
through consuming phal plankin and also
there's a simple simple test that you
can do okay just with one little blood
spot okay just take a little drop of
blood and you put it on this piece of
paper you send it in and they can value
how much omega-3 is in your blood and
give you the ratios of something else
which I want to touch on next like Omega
6 fatty acids and I will put a link down
below of a company that will do your
test and I have no Kickbacks or
affiliations with this company now this
next thing is very very very important
take a look at this graph we're looking
at soy oil okay we're looking at an
Omega 6 fatty acid what what you need to
know is the omega-6 fatty acids compete
for the omega-3 fatty acids and I think
one of the big reasons why people are
deficient in omega-3 is not only because
they don't consume enough omega-3 like
fish oils or Civ oil but because they
consume too much of the competitor the
Omega 6 which are is very very
inflammatory so that would be the soy
oil the corn oil the canola oil the
cotton seed oil the ratio of Omega 6 to
omega-3 fatty acids really should be
like one to one most people are like 30
to1 very heavy on the omega-6 fatty
acids but that test that I mentioned
will pick this up and tell you what your
ratios are one last point about these um
omega-3 oils okay um if you don't have a
gallbladder or you are deficient in bile
and you can't absorb these fats very
easily or maybe you have some type of
inflammatory condition in your gut you
may want to add uh some type of purified
bile salt as a supplement to start not
only getting more absorption of these
omega-3 fatty acids but also getting
absorption of the other fat CLE vitamins
that you need but I think we really got
ourselves in the situation when we
started to feed our animals way more
grains and getting them away from the
grass-fed food because animals that are
fed grains are have sign significantly
reduced omega3 fatty acids than the
grass-fed and because we're on the topic
of nutrition and we're talking about
healthy foods there's a fascinating
study I was involved in some of the beef
that I raised on my farm to a lab and I
want to show you the results check this
video out right here
