I like to create a little video on
Turkey tryptophan and other myths now
tryptophan is an amino acid it's a type
of protein that turns into serotonin and
melatonin those are hormones that help
you sleep they help stress and they calm
you down but it is not true that it's
the TR tryptophan that makes you tired
during Thanksgiving instead it's the
combination of the turkey the protein
and the sugar I don't know if you know
this but when you add protein with
starch like potato breads um and even
grains like breads pasta cereal crackers
and and dessert and all that stuff when
you add these two together it creates an
exaggerated a response by 200% it will
Spike insulin by
200% than if you ate these separately
okay not to mention the excess protein
Factor too will also increase insulin by
200
perc that's what really makes people
tired now if you want some great recipes
for Thanksgiving that don't have this
sugar involved and that's pretty healthy
and then we'll make it so you don't get
tired in the Thanksgiving meal go ahead
and click down below because I created a
link that you can sign up for and
actually get all these recipes so check
it out and definitely have some energy
after the Thanksgiving
meal
