I was working out an hour and a half to
two hours 5 days a week and I was only
gaining weight and not losing weight
watching every bit of food I put in my
mouth and was very
discouraged the weight um just seemed to
keep coming no matter what I did
exercise diet it didn't matter not
losing weight can be a very frustrating
and depressing
experience I thought I was doing the
right things um and just I wasn't seeing
any changes so I felt like I was doing
all this work and wasn't getting any of
the benefits no matter how hard I worked
at it nothing would work you may feel
like you're doing the right things and
really trying hard but the results are
next to nothing I couldn't lose weight
to save my life so I just you know after
trying traditional medicine and and
taking synthetic hormones um I just kept
gaining weight slowly steadily and it
would never go away you may even be
worried as your weight is starting to
make you tired affecting your health and
even overall self-esteem but it was hard
to get the energy to exercise so it's
like a little conundrum what do I do I
know I need to exercise but I don't have
the energy to do it and I want to feel
better and I felt that I couldn't feel
better until I lost a little bit of
weight because I'm way over my normal
and um I was very impressed with Dr Berg
at the seminar
[Music]
if you're having any trouble at all in
reaching your weight loss goals you
definitely need to attend a free seminar
by Dr Eric Berg what you don't know is
working against you and in this lecture
and demonstration you'll learn a great
deal about Health weight loss and the
hormone influences from the things you
eat and do and basically in the presence
of any
insulin you cannot tap into the reserve
accounts you cannot burn fat period it's
not going to
happen you'll learn the triggers of fat
burning and why dieting and exercise
don't work anymore you'll also find out
about the four body types which are
really the four different causes of
weight gain well let's get into the four
body types in your book tell us about
them okay so the first body type is
called the adrenal body type uh another
name for that would be the pendulus
abdomen because the D ation from the
Latin pendant means to hang or sag so
this is the sagging belly and you've
probably seen this is very very common
and eventually these people get little
fat pads on the back of their upper back
or lower neck in some cases but this
body type is um has primarily do with
stress because the adrenal glands right
which are sitting on top of the kidney
buffer all the stress in the body stress
of being physical stress or mental
stress every time that happens it tends
to hit the adrenals and it can we for in
the situation attend the free seminar
and you'll learn about all four body
types and which type should not exercise
to achieve weight loss you may find it
interesting to know that exercise does
not cause weight loss it only triggers
fat burning hormones 24 to 48 hours
after not during exercise and only under
very specific conditions which will be
revealed in the seminar you'll also
learn why your body really CR aves
chocolate starches sweets fatty foods
and salty foods in fact you'll learn the
three biggest factors that will make the
difference between total success or
utter failure and I feel like I've lost
fat in fact I can see that I've lost fat
instead of just losing weight I am
getting rid of some of this pudgy around
the middle section and I feel very good
about it and the fact that my that my
what my wife prer was my Buddha belly
disappeared was enough for suddenly make
me just jump for joy as it was and
nothing else had worked that well or
that fast in my life in about 6 months
time I lost about 35 lb I've actually
lost in just over a month I lost 25
lbs um 3 Ines out of my waist and uh and
that's I'm actually able to maintain it
the diet was phenomenal in that I wasn't
hungry I could really have cared less if
I ate or not uh so it was pretty
spectacular I had never been able to
stick with anything for any amount of
time two weeks seemed like an
eternity however I stuck with it for the
two weeks and I was able to take 10 lbs
off so in five weeks five or six weeks
I've lost about six or seven lbs and
it's been predominantly in this area
that I wanted to lose the weight so it's
amazing to me and I and I'm not craving
things that I used to I used to crave
sugar um very much this is something
that's really working um I feel
passionate about it and I'm going to
keep going and we'll see in a few months
I'll be totally
different in the seminar you'll find out
what chronic pain and sleeping problems
have to do with hormones and body types
and see before and after demonstrations
on chronic pain with several attendees
at the seminar you have to see this to
believe it it definitely was reinforcing
when he took people from the audience uh
who had particular problems and were
seeking help immediately on the spot and
he was able to demonstrate even in a
very simple fashion in a quick fashion
how he could assist during the seminar
he actually says anybody in pain took my
daughter up and actually on the spot
fixed her uh fixed her knee I think some
of the people there thought we were
plants just like uh just like at the
first seminar we thought the lady with
the tennis elbow was a plan as well but
uh I can tell you it actually really
worked and she actually demonstrated it
by running up and down the stairs
outside a few times so bring your
notepads and questions to the seminar
and find out what has been holding up
your weight loss every single minute was
interesting and actually exciting and on
top of that he's humorous and funny so I
really enjoy him um it's I have never
learned so much in a short span time and
when it's over you really don't want it
to be over and me being the kind of um a
skeptical person that I am uh I wanted
to try let him do something with me just
to see how it worked and he he did a um
treatment with me and it was just
amazing I felt like the seminars were
fascinating there was so much
information I felt like I was back in
school and felt like I needed to take
notes because so much of what he spoke
about was extremely relevant and helpful
to my illnesses and and um improving my
health you know any question that pops
to your mind it's not a stupid question
I mean anything that came to our mind
whether it's me or the 30 other people
in the room we asked and he answered and
the way he gave the answers are so
logical like wow it's it's very
mindboggling and when I came to his
seminar he had so many reasons for why
things were wrong you know or what was
happening in the body to cause all these
different
problems and it made sense it was the
first time that anything made sense call
703
354
7336 to register now seating is limited
so call
[Music]
now
