so today we're going to talk about why
b12 is not being absorbed in your body
unless you're a vegan you're getting
enough from the diet okay but the
problem is usually the absorption not
from the diet here are a few symptoms
that a person can experience if their
b12 deficient depression paranoia
delusional dementia memory loss pins and
needles or numbness in your hands and
your feet or any part of the body anemia
swollen tongue red tongue fatigue
weakness and tremors and there's a lot
of other ones as well so b12 is one of
the only B vitamins that could be stored
in the body so it can be stored for
several years so let's talk about the
barrier of absorption b12 is attached to
a mineral okay cobalt in its protein
bound so to break this up you need a
very strong protein enzyme called pepsin
which happens to be triggered by acid in
your stomach in order to activate pepsin
you need pH between one two three that's
extremely acid so if you're taking any
acids for example that could be a
definite reason why you're deficient in
b12 here are some other reasons you
could have a condition called atrophic
gastritis and that's a situation where
the stomach is inflamed and the stomach
lining is breaking down maybe from years
of consuming bad foods or junk foods or
whatever because as soon as you destroy
the lining of the stomach you can't make
this acid anymore
gastric bypass okay that's another way
that it can disrupt the stomach lining
affecting the not just the acid but the
release of enzymes as well celiac okay
now that's a problem in the small
intestine what happens is that b12 is
normally broken down in the stomach and
then absorbed in the small intestine but
if the lining of the small intestine is
damaged whether you have celiac or
Crohn's or IBS that could be the reason
why it's not going in okay and this is
another common reason right here you
just don't have enough stomach acid so
many people have this problem what
the top symptom that the experienced
acid reflux
why because the valve at the top of the
stomach doesn't close unless this pH is
very very acidic okay so there's a
sensor in this valve and then the acid
starts splashing back up and you get
GERD or acid reflux and you think oh wow
I need an anti acid okay
well that just takes the stomach acid
out and the problem gets worse and worse
and worse so it's a real easy solution
what you do is you take this version of
b12 methyl cobalamin okay in thousands
of micrograms so I would suggest maybe
2,000 or maybe 3,000 micrograms of b12
this version right here and you will see
a great improvement in these symptoms
right here and then don't forget to
acidify the stomach with either betaine
how to chloride or apple cider vinegar
or a combination to both and you can get
them in pills as well now there's one
last thing let's say for example you
have these symptoms or some of them and
you take the b12 and you still don't see
change there's one more thing it's
called the intrinsic factor that's made
by your stomach this is a factor that
helps the absorption of b12 okay and if
you have damage in your stomach it's
very very difficult to absorb b12
because you just don't have the
intrinsic factor there is a product that
I know about I don't sell it okay you
can do a search on it
it's called site Pam it has the
intrinsic factor in this product if the
natural product it's from standard
process I used to use it when I was in
practice but if you do a search on
Saipan okay and you start taking this it
also has obtained how to Cora to help
acidify the stomach that can help the
absorption of b12 as well all right guys
thanks for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
