in this video we're going to talk about
the problems on Keo when you're not
consuming enough protein it could be
actually quite dangerous so what you
want to consume is three to six ounces
of protein for each meal okay because if
you're deficient in protein you could
develop a condition called hypo approach
anemia which is basically low protein in
the blood and one of the big symptoms of
this condition is the Dima okay that's
swelling in the lower extremities and
your ankles and feet and in the hands
that is a low protein in the blood low
albumin causing the body to hold fluid
in the interstitial space which is
basically the space around the cells
outside the blood okay so yeah this
edema it could happen in the hands it
can happen also in the SAC around the
stomach and another name for that is
called ascites okay which is the kind of
means a fluid-filled sac loss of muscle
throughout the body okay so you're gonna
see atrophy poor immune system
increasing your susceptibility to
infection so it can come from not
consuming enough protein it can also
come from having a liver dysfunction
okay if you have cirrhosis a fatty liver
hepatitis then you could actually
develop this as well so you need to
liver to make protein to the body if you
have a kidney problem that the kidney is
dysfunctional you can also develop this
as well a lot of times these two
conditions come from diabetes because if
you're a diabetic or you have
pre-diabetes or insulin resistance
you're not going to be able to absorb as
much protein because of the insulin
resistance and insulin is needed for the
absorption of amino acids as well as the
formation of proteins so low stomach
acid could be another cause of why you
have this condition you're just not able
to break down or digest the food that
you're eating and the protein doesn't
get digested and it doesn't get into the
body and one side note is when you have
stress the need for protein does go up
so it doesn't mean you have to have a
tremendous amount of protein you see the
increase a little more protein to handle
the X
demand on your body very important make
sure you're consuming grass-fed meats
make sure you're doing wild caught fish
pasture-raised eggs organic eggs very
important don't do poor quality like
just peanut butter things like that you
actually want high quality complete
proteins alright good so now we have a
video on low protein and I'll put a link
down below if you haven't seen my video
on excessive protein thanks for watching
hey if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
