hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about zinc
deficiency now what is zinc zinc is a
trace mineral it's basically a mineral
that's needed in a lot smaller amounts
but it's necessary because if you're
deficient you're going to have a lot of
different issues number one your sense
of smell will go away your sense of
taste will not be there you won't
actually be as hungry those are some
common symptoms white spots on the nails
you got these little uh spots in the
nail
but but usually what happened is that
you ate a lot of carbohydrate that
depleted the zinc because too much sugar
or carbohydrate will pull zinc out of
your body so if you had a little white
Speck on the middle of your nail and by
the way the nail grows every six months
we know about three months ago you had a
birthday party and you ate the whole
cake right so that's one way of
determining that okay now we have acne
skin issues eczema all these skin issues
dermatitis could be related to zinc but
there's other things that can cause skin
issues too that almost mimic a zinc
deficiency like a vitamin A deficiency
or a vitamin B2 or B6 deficiency so
really you have to look at all of these
things to see what it is but I will say
that if you're low in zinc you can't
absorb or utilize vitamin A so they
always work to together with like
minerals work with vitamins together and
zinc is kind of like a a main uh mineral
that's used in over 300
enzymes so it's in a lot of chemical
body reactions okay so with proteins and
that's brings us to this one down here
with hair alopecia which is like little
spots of hair growth that's gone or
thinning hair that could be a B vitamin
deficiency like biotin but it can also
be a zinc deficiency as well they work
together okay then we have rhinoviruses
well zinc being a trace mineral helps
put uh viruses back in remission now the
thing about virus is you can't kill a
virus because it's not alive it's a
piece of genetic material that's wrapped
in a sack that can activate your own
energy from your cells and create a
Cascade of an immune response so zinc is
one that's specific to actually keep the
rhinovirus in check and actually it can
if you take zinc when you're starting to
get sick it can speed up the time of
overcoming the sickness and actually can
prevent that issue as well but
rhinovirus is like the one that you have
the postnasal drip the sinus congestion
the sore throat the sneezing um so you
need more um zinc all right then we have
lower testosterone both in male and
female if you have low testosterone your
libido will be very low okay that can
come from a zinc deficiency um and then
mouth ulcers again that can come from
other things but that little um sore on
the inside of the mouth which is usually
virus related the viruses like herpes
come outter emission if you're under
stress and because the zinc becomes
deficient so sugar and stress will
deplete the zinc reserves okay because
more
cortisol pumps out and then it needs
zinc to to use the for the immune system
and then basically you deplete your zinc
reserves so it's involved in a lot of
different enzymes um now it's in oysters
that has a lot of zinc um from the sea
of course and then we it's in uh animal
like beef it's in pork it's in red meat
it's also in seelp it's in a lot of
foods but it's really high in these
Foods right here and also zinc actually
helps make the red white blood cell so
the adrenal gland uh controls the white
blood cell it suppresses the immune
system and that's uh and zinc is
involved in that whole process so we
have a relationship between countering
stress having the trace minerals to make
sure that your immune system is strong
okay so here just and lastly I want to
talk about um in other countries like
not in America but third world countries
a lot of children and infants will die
because of a zinc deficiency because
they have diarrhea and so you know zinc
is Unfortunately they don't put it back
in the soils so it could be a factor of
it's either not in your food because
it's not in the soil it could be you're
trying to get your zinc from grains but
not if there's a certain inhibitor for
zinc and other minerals called phytic
acid in Grain so that chemical in the
grain naturally prevents the absorption
of minerals okay and then also your if
your stomach acid is not strong enough
you're not going to pull that acid in to
so if you have heartburn you have gird
indigestion chances are you're zinc
deficient just from that alone okay so
there's a lot of different aspects of
zinc I wanted to cover uh some of them
but there's a lot more but I hope this
helped and I will see you in the next
video
