so we have a very interesting case we
have this young man here you're how old
are you I'm 10 years old 10 and Mom has
been a bit concerned because you went to
um you see this right here this is
doctor's notes from how many weeks just
the two weeks um almost three weeks yeah
three weeks yeah so she's trying to get
him help he has migraine headaches so
you went to how many
doctors at least over five doctors five
doctors and they're doing test test
after test after test and they haven't
come up with anything nothing um what
were you like what would they they were
starting to say was all in his head or
something um yeah they were telling me
that he might need psychiatric help he
might go you know he might need a
counselor that there was nothing really
wrong with him and I mean it was
breaking us down really bad so oh yeah
any he's been out of school for how long
he's been out of school almost 4 weeks
and he hasn't played soccer or any of
his activities and he's a very active
athletic little boy so yeah and so you
had Mr CAT scans and they put him on
medication um yeah they put him on Pepsi
careit um and the last thing they did
was put him on migraines and um we went
to the the gastro GI actually today and
he said that um he was going to give him
two more
medications for his stomach muscles or
his intestine muscles and um pretty much
said that he had to go see a
psychiatrist so he can cope with his
um cope with what was going on with him
and how did you respond to that when he
said
that um I was like I was going to live
with this the rest of my life and I was
so scared yeah and then tell me with the
the headaches you would vomit too yeah
I'll get so sick and then um the doctor
said this would be migraines and he
would um he had to go on a strict die
and this will help you for the rest of
your life but I just knew this was just
wrong wow and then um he would basically
cry at night he would
cry every night and um tell me what he
did wrong and why couldn't he go back
and be a normal little boy
and he just questioned everything and he
just thought he was going to have to
live and I decided to come and see you
so she she uh came to see me probably
eight months ago right yes and then you
had my card or something how did you
remember me um I don't know I just knew
I was going to need it one day and here
we are and yeah and you said we're going
to see Dr bur and what did he say he
said mommy is this another doctor and I
said no he's really going to help you so
uh so we basically found out uh we kind
of checked you and when I told you what
was wrong did it make sense to you yeah
yeah did you feel better like did you
feel like you got the correct diagnosis
yes and you had some pressure in your
head when you came in how do you feel
right now I feel much better and I thank
um Dr B for helping me oh you're welcome
my pleasure so here's what I
found he um has uh I checked his uh his
bile duct which is a little tube between
the liver and the GBL was just congested
it was just congested and even the gastr
doctor was feeling around and they said
what did they say they said it was just
pain and it was there was nothing wrong
with him and that I mean they couldn't
figure anything out and they weren't
going to do a colonoscopy um so they
just said there was nothing really wrong
with him that he just needed to go see a
psychiatrist to cope with his pain yeah
so it's kind of like um an arrogant
Doctor Who can't figure it out and then
he'll give you the wrong diagnosis which
makes the person worse cuz you didn't
feel good after you left it right no I
just had a big headache yeah so um when
you give the person the right diagnosis
they brighten up and he Brit he like
looked like he was a Christmas tree that
L up he looked better and then what we
did is we did some manual therapy on his
intestine open up the doct and that's
draining now and then we're going to
send him home with the exact eating plan
that he promises that he's going to eat
from now on for a while but uh when you
get the problem in medicine is they
don't know the difference they collap
they don't differentiate between symptom
and problem all they do is look at the
symptom and treat it they don't ask why
and if they can't find a test then it's
probably all in your head which is
incorrect so I just want to tell you
it's not in your head that was a f false
diagnosis and we are going to get you
better good thanks
