there are some really important signs or
indications that our body is desperately
demanding trace minerals so let's talk
about trace minerals what is a trace
mineral it's a mineral that is needed in
Trace Amounts or tiny tiny amounts many
times below even one milligram
in the microgram level so an example of
a trace mineral would be like zinc
iodine selenium copper manganese versus
other minerals that are needed in larger
amounts like potassium calcium magnesium
so what is so significant about these
trace minerals why do we need them in
such tiny amounts if at all well trace
minerals are essential to enzymes
enzymes are proteins that basically do
the work of the body you might think of
enzymes just for digestion but enzymes
are involved in all of your biochemistry
in making cells in repairing DNA and
proofreading DNA in making hormones in
converting hormones into the active form
in turning glucose into fat there are
thousands and thousands and thousands of
biochemical Pathways involving these
enzymes and it's an incredibly complex
and one thing we know know for sure
about these enzymes is there's a lot we
don't know but we do know these minerals
including trace minerals and regular
minerals and vitamins are the cofactors
that these enzyme or biochemical
Pathways depend on and without them our
biochemistry does not work so let's just
take for example zinc
zinc is involved with over 300 different
enzymes having functions ranging from
the breakdown of alcohol to the
production of testosterone
to building immune Weaponry to kill off
pathogens also involved in detoxifying
chemicals and even making
neurotransmitters that greatly affect
your mood and there's actually over 2
billion people on this planet that are
deficient in zinc primarily because of
another compound called phytic acid that
is in grains like cyrils and crackers
and Breads and things like that that
basically prevent the absorption of zinc
and other minerals and if someone
doesn't consume
meat red meat or animal products it's
very difficult to get the right form of
Zinc that is bioavailable so zinc is
really high in red meat and organ meats
and definitely shellfish seafood and
then we have iron iron is the number one
deficiency in the entire world more
people have an iron deficiency than any
other deficiency well iron is needed in
over six and a half percent of all
enzymes in every cell in our body iron
is also needed to detoxify hydrogen
peroxide your cells make hydrogen
peroxide to actually kill off pathogens
and so if there's too much of that built
up it can cause damage to our own cells
iron is needed for certain proteins that
carry oxygen through the blood and
without iron you can't carry oxygen
through your blood you become anemic
iron is also needed to make collagen and
a lot of your body is collagen the skin
the nails the hair the joints the
tendons the ligaments and there's even
collagen in your bones and the trace
mineral iron is mainly in like red meat
organ Meats it's also in shellfish but
the iron and spinach is a different type
of iron which is not nearly as
bioavailable as from red meat then we
get this other Trace mineral called
selenium this is a really important one
as well and selenium does a lot it helps
you convert the inactive thyroid hormone
to the active form so the enzyme
involved with that is dependent on
selenium so you might be making enough
thyroid hormone because you have enough
iodine but if you're deficient in
selenium you can't convert from the
inactive to the active form and even the
master antioxidant called glutathione is
dependent on selenium glutathione is
necessary to protect against all the
free radical damage and all the
oxidative things and pollution and
chemicals that in our body glutathione
is there to balance that or curb that or
buffer those effects and then we have
iodine right if a mother is deficient in
iodine when she has a baby that baby
will be deficient and that will severely
affect the brain to the point where they
can even have a lowered intelligence and
a lowered IQ so iodine is really
important not just in helping make
thyroid hormones but brain development
it's also involved in enzymes that help
protect you against excess amounts of
estrogen and if you deficient iodine you
can end up with fibrocystic breast with
cyst on the ovaries and so you get
iodine from shellfish
seaweed like sea kelp
and egg yolks now a big problem with the
trace minerals is that they're not
available in the soils nowadays because
a lot of times when we grow crops
we don't put that iodine back in the
soils we put three minerals in there
like phosphorus nitrogen and potassium
but Farmers don't normally put the trace
minerals back in the soil now the soils
probably do have trace minerals in them
but they're locked up in rocks and
things that are difficult for that plant
to get to you see it's really the
microbial life in the soil that's
responsible for mobilizing these
minerals to make these minerals
available to the plant and so when we
till the land the soil we destroy the
soil with glyphosate and pesticides and
chemicals now we're dependent on adding
fertilizers and other things to keep
that plant growing now if we take a look
at this entire food chain you have this
human body where you have these cells
that are at certain levels of Health
your cells are really a biochemical
photograph
of what's going on in the soil that's
really where your health comes from
because if you don't have the microbes
okay they're destroyed to mobilize the
minerals then the the roots of the
plants can't get nutrients and then the
plant suffers it's not going to be
healthy and the animals that eat the
plant or the grass then become deficient
and of course anytime we eat the plants
and the animals that are missing
nutrients we become deficient and trace
minerals are a really key part of this
whole chain especially not just giving
us the trace mineral but allowing all
this biochemistry to occur that if we
were deficient we wouldn't have enough
enzyme to detoxify hydrogen peroxide we
wouldn't have enough glutathione to
protect us against oxidative stress we
wouldn't have the ability to convert T4
to T3 we wouldn't have the enzymes to
break down alcohol or even make
testosterone so I hope now you're
becoming more aware how vital the trace
minerals are for your health so let me
just briefly talk about what are some
common signs to know your deficient in
trace minerals well zinc you're going to
lose your hair you're going to have
these little white spots on your nails
you're going to have low testosterone
and you may even have diarrhea Now with
an iron deficiency you're going to have
anemic symptoms like you're going to
feel kind of withered tired weak you're
going to be on the cold side you're
going to have the brittle nails and the
hair loss and then we have selenium you
can have infertility with a selenium
deficiency you definitely can have
fatigue but you can also experience hair
loss and then with an iodine deficiency
you might notice swelling in the lower
part of your neck because the thyroid is
enlarging to a certain degree but
typically these trace minerals are not
just involved with making strong nails
or making strong hair they're involved
with all of your biochemistry and many
times you might not have an obvious
symptom right away but it can definitely
contribute to all sorts of chronic
diseases down the road and even putting
you at risk for cancer there's a very
fascinating book and this book which I
had to get it even though it was 250
dollars unfortunately talks about the
link between human and animal health
and mineral balance of the soil
fascinating data on the biochemistry
that happens below the soil above the
soil in grasses and then showing the
link between a deficiency and a trace
mineral and how that ends up in the
grass and how that affects the animal as
far as their health and then how it
affects the human health see way back in
the day people bought food from local
farmers where they can actually have a
lot of transparency with their soils
nowadays we don't know where our food is
grown maybe it's grown on hydroponic
maybe it's grown in some soil that has
to be fed fertilizers because the soil
is so poor we don't know now on top of
that we have most of our children that
are living on Ultra processed food not
processed food but Ultra processed foods
and this is why of course they have to
fortify the food with certain synthetic
vitamins only a few I tell you one thing
when you're replying the food you pull
out more than just a few vitamins I mean
just think about institutional food the
food that they feed children in school
nursing homes assisted living and even
prisons so this food is extremely low in
nutrients in fact in one study I think
they did this in a nursing home over 50
percent of the people eating these Foods
were deficient in zinc over fifty
percent of the men eating this food were
deficient in zinc and almost 50 percent
of the women were deficient in selenium
simply because they're not focusing on
the quality you know you go to the
grocery store and you look at this salad
or they the vegetables or the Tomato it
looks good but it doesn't have a lot of
flavor and the flavor chemicals are in
alignment with how nutrient dense that
food is so I really think we're
literally starving with consuming a lot
of calories because the calories are
empty but we're starving of nutrients
and ice minerals is at the top of the
list I think the most important time to
make sure we have all the nutrients is
if someone is pregnant or an infant but
on the flip side as we get older we also
need those nutrients but unfortunately a
lot of these insisted living homes don't
focus on that as far as trace minerals
go and other nutrients Seafood is at the
top of the list organ meats eggs seaweed
or sea kelp and a high quality sea salt
now since we're talking about Trace
mineral deficiencies if you haven't seen
this real popular video on how to
identify different nutritional
deficiencies I put it up right here
check it out
