hey guys today we're gonna talk about
twitching underneath the left eyelid
okay don't ask me why it's on the left
side normally it could be on the right
side but most the time it's underneath
the left eyelid sometimes it's on the
arm sometimes it's another part of the
body alright so what is this this is
called techne it's an excitable nerve
where the nerve is twitching now if you
do a search on this you'll see a lot of
people are getting rid of this condition
by just taking apple cider vinegar okay
so I want to explain why that works and
why sometimes it will not work okay
the two main causes of tec-9 is low
calcium and alkalis
means your blood is a little too
alkaline normally your blood is alkaline
but it's just a little out of range now
when you have someone that has tetany
twitching it's kind of like a little red
flag or a little clue that there's
something going on on the body that's
not right there's an imbalance of
something I have found that when you
give the person more calcium it doesn't
seem to get rid of this condition okay
so however taking apple cider vinegar
does work very well and I'm going to
just talk about why that is first let's
talk about the potential reasons why you
might have low calcium now it could be
rarely a parathyroid problem in other
words if you have technique and you do
all the things that I'm going to tell
you and it still doesn't go away go to
your doctor get checked and they might
find a parathyroid problem it's rare but
it's a possibility so what can cause low
calcium well taking too much magnesium
okay because calcium and magnesium work
together so if you take too much of one
the other one actually goes down maybe
you're taking epsom salts I don't know
it could be any any number of things or
you're you're too low in vitamin D if
you're low in vitamin D you're not going
to be able to absorb the calcium vitamin
D helps improve the absorption of
calcium by 20 times in the small
intestine okay then we have low dietary
calcium let's say for example you don't
do dairy well you can also get your
calcium from leafy greens let's say
you're doing no greens and no dairy that
could be one of the reasons why you're
low in calcium there's other reasons but
those are the most common
okay now what about this thing alkalosis
normally the pH of the blood is within a
very narrow range between seven point
three five and seven point four five
seven being neutral okay and when you go
up in numbers above neutral okay greater
than seven you're getting more alkaline
anything below seven you're going more
acid
so with alkalosis it's above seven point
four five what happens if your pH is
above that you start getting espousals
cramps technique and there's a whole
series of other issues that could happen
and the other point I want to bring up
is that calcium is mobilized in the body
it's absorbed in the body with an acid
pH in the stomach so if you don't have
enough acid in your stomach okay that
could be one cause of alkalosis and that
could be one reason why you're not
absorbing the calcium okay that's
actually a very common reason so let's
see the low stomach acid how do you know
if you have low stomach acid well you
get indigestion you get bloating you get
acid reflux you get GERD those are all
symptoms of actually low stomach acid
and one of the things that can lead to
is alkalosis and eventually techne and
what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to
give you an understanding of what's
behind certain things so you don't just
automatically take her outside of
vinegar get rid of the tetiny and not
really understand what's really going on
okay vomiting laxatives can cause this
as well low potassium can also cause
alkalosis okay how do you become low in
potassium it could be you're not
consuming enough vegetables it could be
your carbohydrates are too high you're
eating too much sugar okay that's a
common thing and then we also have high
cortisol which could also cause
alkalosis how do you get too much
cortisol by stress okay in which case
you need to get more sleep
you need go for long walks you need to
remove the stress in your life as much
as possible so what you want to do
if you get a symptom like this is you
want to kind of run through all the
possibilities and see what's really
behind it is it that you it's wintertime
and you just need vitamin D that can
solve it just like that
is it more your stomach acid is it
stress do you need to start eating more
vegetables are you taking a laxative
maybe you should fix the reason why you
have constipation or let's say you're
bulimic and you're vomiting okay so now
you understand like why you have this
condition so anyway I wanted to just
create this video to show you what's
behind this very common symptom so you
can actually find out the root of it and
fix it thanks for watching so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
