hey guys Dr Burg here in this video
we're going to talk about Chili Peppers
amazing amount of vitamin C um which
also increases iron absorption so that's
really cool uh it has a lot of B
vitamins especially vitamin B6 which is
good for carpal tunnel syndrome it's
gled for fluid retention it's kind of a
co-actor for a lot of metabolic
processes uh in detoxification building
up tissues digestion things like that
it's loaded with potassium which is
interesting magnesium which are two
minerals that calm the nervous system
down um and also increase more blood
supply to the tissues as well it's like
a vasodilator uh supports insulin so
here's another food that actually can
help you if you are have blood sugar
issues or you're insulin resistant okay
um there's even studies that shows in
animals it can even uh uh decrease the
um rate of getting diabetes so that's
pretty cool but it also has this
chemical called caps
which a lot of people use as a topical
cream for pain inflammation for
arthritic joints or they take it orally
as well in a capsule but it's good for
ulcers arthritis itching and anything to
do with uh inflammation or pain so you
might want to try it all right thanks
for
watching
