so recently someone brought up a
question they wanted to get the benefit
of all these phytonutrients but they
don't like to consume cruciferous
vegetables so I wanted to do a quick
video just to explain that because you
don't have to consume cruciferous
vegetables now the benefit of
cruciferous is the amount of
phytonutrients but those photo nutrients
are in all vegetables and fruits and
berries so I'm going to talk about plant
pigments in general the the things that
give different plants their color so you
have all these different vegetables that
are yellow red orange green purple and
the plants purpose of these pigments is
to protect them against viruses bacteria
microorganisms as well as UV radiation
all these plants are involved in
photosynthesis so you have the sunlight
that combines with the plant to create
all these different chemical reactions
and of course you're doing with
radiation so part of the function of
these pigments is to protect the plant
against the harmful part of that
radiation but the cool thing is you can
get protection against the UV radiation
from the Sun as well if you consume some
of these vegetables so let's talk about
a few of them okay so yellow squash for
example so I went to the farmers market
this weekend and I bought some squash
and we sauteed it with some butter sea
salt
it was delicious but these yellow
pigments have the ability to stimulate T
cells and B cells within the immune
system and decrease the risk of certain
types of cancer so I'm not going to get
into the chemical names of these
phytonutrients the carotenoids like
lutein things like that all you need to
know is that the different colors have
different chemical phytonutrients that
give different effects
so like the red pigment and tomatoes for
example can decrease risk of certain
types of cancer to the lung heart and
prostate then you have the orange
pigment which is like the pre vitamin A
which can then turn into the active form
of vitamin A retinol but in like egg
yolks for example you have the active
form which happens to be orange and
yellow then we have the green pigment
which is in all the leafy greens the
wheatgrass which has an ability to
repair two
in a and decrease the risk of certain
types of cancer then we have the purple
pigment which is an eggplant cabbage
it's antibacterial antiviral have the
ability to detoxify the liver and will
decrease your risk for cancer
so the basic purpose of these colorful
pigments are to help the plant survive
but when we consume them we can also
survive better thanks for watching we
have purple pigments which would be an
eggplant it would be in which has
properties of anti cabbage cabbage okay
so now I got to wait till I stop the
hiccups
[Music]
