hey guys today we're going to talk about
the dangers of crossing your legs too
much okay so if we look from the back
here's your pelvis right here and then
you have this little middle connection
bone called the sacrum and you have the
lumbar vertebra there's a there's two
muscles that connect from the top rib
the 12th rib to the top of the skull to
ilium which is your hip bone right here
and it's called the quadratus lumborum
you have two of them quad meaning four
sides okay so the function of this
muscle is to raise the hip on one side
if you're crossing your legs only on one
side over a period of time it's going to
shorten this muscle and then it's going
to pull your vertebra a little bit out
of alignment and you're going to pinch
the nerve on this side and you're gonna
have a low back pain and you're gonna
have a heck of a time trying to figure
out what it is I'm gonna show you what
to do to figure out if this is your low
back problem number one and number two
how to corrected okay let's go to the
next section so as you can see if you're
sitting like this your leg is bent out
your femur is rotated out it's going to
cause the pelvis to be dropped on that
side so it's very very important if
you're gonna cross your leg which is not
a problem but you're gonna have to
alternate okay it's not just one side
and in fact if you're sitting right now
go ahead and try this go ahead and cross
your leg of one side and then cross your
leg on the other side and see which one
is tighter okay it might be a good idea
to stretch the one that's tight okay
now you might sit like this same deal
it's gonna it's gonna affect the pelvis
so again you want to alternate go back
and forth as you're sitting all right so
here's a better picture of what I'm
talking about it's the back part of the
to ilium right here and this is your hip
bones the sacrum lumbar vertebra last
rib so the quadratus lumborum comes from
this right here all the way over here
and it connects to these little things
right here so if you're crossing your
leg on one side it's gonna bring it down
this way it's gonna pinch these nerves
right
so now let's show you how to test for it
and how to correct it so what you're
going to do is you're going to basically
take a book and you're going to drop
down keep your knee locked you're gonna
drop down one foot as far down as you
can so your pelvis is drop down on the
right side okay so you come up and you
just come down right here and you're
going to feel the lower back is there
pain is there any tension there okay now
we're going to compare that with the
other side right here okay so we take
the other leg and drop it down keeping
your knees locked just bring your pelvis
down okay now you're comparing this side
with the other side which side hurts
which side is tighter let's pretend that
the right side is painful or tight when
I drop down now let's go into the
correction what you're going to do is
you're going to do the opposite side
okay you're going to take the other side
the good side and you're going to bring
it down and up as high as you can and
down you're going to do that ten times
okay so in other words the stretch is on
the opposite side the good side not on
the bad side you're not going to think
about it do you want to put yourself in
pain no you stretch the other side what
happens that will balance it out after
you do that ten times then reassess and
do the bad side and you're gonna find
that pain is gone okay that's how you
correct an imbalance with the quadratus
lumborum you're actually strengthening
the quadratus lumborum that muscle back
there it wouldn't even hurt to be able
to do this on a regular basis and do
both sides once your pain is gone and
strengthen that muscle my cousin's gonna
help your back especially if you do a
lot of sitting all right guys go ahead
and try this and put your comments down
below
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
