so I want to talk about why so many
children have low vitamin D levels well
the first reason is the invention of our
friendly computers right there inside
they don't go outside when I was a kid
probably when you were a kid you were
outside constantly so there's no Sun
you're not gonna get vitamin D okay
number two low fat foods generally
speaking the high fat diet has not gone
mainstream yet so people are still
feeding their kids more low fat foods
which basically have two point five
times less vitamin D than higher fat
foods number three grain fed meats
farm-raised fish actually have lower
amounts of vitamin D and before low
magnesium in their diet where do you get
magnesium from leafy greens vegetables
kids are not consuming enough vegetable
they're not getting magnesium they're
gonna be deficient you need magnesium to
absorb vitamin D all right number five
sugar especially fructose degrades
vitamin D number six asthma and
allergies when you have these conditions
you're gonna have lower amounts of
vitamin D and by taking vitamin D you
can actually improve these conditions
fYI and number seven a fatty liver so
the less capacity of liver function the
less amount of vitamin D you're going to
be able to process store and make enough
bile to actually extract vitamin D from
the food that you eat and you're
definitely gonna have a fatty liver if
you are overweight and you can see in
the last two decades the trend is kids
are getting fatter and fatter and fatter
and with that comes insulin resistance
if you have instant resistance you will
not be able to absorb vitamin D as well
so that's another big reason why kids
have a deficiency of vitamin D if you
have children I would highly recommend
that you start giving them some vitamin
D you can even get it in a liquid form
put some drops into their water and they
don't even know they're getting it
alright thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
