so you're not losing weight fast enough
I have a very important tip okay there's
a big barrier behind the scene okay and
that is basically the time you had this
condition whether it's weight or
stubborn metabolism or insulin
resistance behind the weight or a slow
thyroid behind the weight maybe many
many times you've died it kind of
destroy the metabolism then here you are
later in life wanting to lose weight
well the longer you had the problem the
longer it's going to take okay
the estimation of effort many times is
way more than you think simply because
you're dealing with a very big problem
internally in your body so let's just
take for example a fatty liver okay you
can't see it from the outside it's been
brewing in the oven for many many years
you can see it in your gut if you have a
gut you have a fatty liver but you can't
really see it unless you do an
ultrasound so it could be sitting there
for many many years and not even having
any symptoms other than a gut okay to
fix the weight gain in the gut you have
to fix the liver first it could take a
long time let's just say you had an
adrenal a problem adrenal fatigue okay
here's a book frank knitter
okay I want to read something on page
101 says the adrenal gland has an
enormous functional reserve indeed
adrenal deficiencies do not become
clinically manifest they don't show up
on a blood test until 9/10 of the
adrenal has been rendered unresponsive
it takes 90% of the adrenal gland
destruction before it even shows up on a
test okay so a lot of times these things
take a long long time before we even
know that they're a problem even when
you have insulin resistance for example
for it to turn the diabetes that could
take you know 10 15 years
Alzheimer's starts 30 years before it's
diagnosed ok cancer the same thing so
when we're dealing with a weight problem
okay we're dealing with something inside
the body that is not working it's
usually
insulin resistance okay and that's been
brewing for many many years and you just
have to give it some time and even
change your goal so you're not setting
yourself up for an unrealistic
expectation the estimation of effort
usually it's going to be more than you
think
now how much weight
is normal for a very healthy person two
pounds per week is normal okay now if
you had this idea that you should be
losing five pounds a week well your
that's incorrect because it's never
gonna happen what's normal is two pounds
but that's for a healthy person so if
you're not healthy yet it could be a lot
less now if link we divide this by seven
days of the week and you weigh yourself
each day you're really looking at losing
0.28 pounds per day that's just a tiny
bit more than 1/4 of a pound so if your
scale is in whole numbers you're not
gonna see weight loss in a given day and
you're thinking oh my gosh it's not
working the scales not budging well just
don't use a scale right now
okay maybe weigh yourself every week and
it let's say you lose a pound well it's
that's not bad
okay so my whole point of this video is
just to get you to realize that you're
up against the duration of how long the
promis'd been there and it's going to
take some time to reverse that so just
be patient
that's why we call you a patient thanks
for watching so I want to know about
what you think about this video so
please comment below and tell me what
you think
