I wanted to do a video on glutathione uh
specifically because I had a glutathione
deficiency and I'm going to share with
you a little bit about what I found on
my body because of course if you have
the deficiency you want to really
understand it and do a deep dive on this
topic glutathion is the major uh
antioxidant in all of the cells it helps
you detoxify heavy metals it helps with
the free radical damage it helps with
all the extra oxidation that occurs
especially if you're exposed to a lot of
pollution and chemicals and mold and
things like that so I want to share with
you how to have enough glutathione
without having to take the supplement
the one thing you need to know is that
your body actually makes glutathione the
only time I would take a supplement
related to this is if you had Tylenol
poisoning and that depletes your
glutathione and really puts your liver
at risk for damage you'd want to take a
supplement called NAC which is a
precursor to build up your glutathione
but they would normally give you that in
an emergency room setting let's take a
look at some symptoms from a glutathione
deficiency when someone's deficient in
glutathione they're going to have a
problem sleeping they're going to have a
problem with fatigue they're going to
have a problem with brain fog they're
going to have a problem with their mood
maybe depression anxiety now let's jump
over to the causes of a glutathione
deficiency alcohol being on a very very
low calorie diet
overtraining and in my case that was my
number one cause because I pretty much
eat really healthy but I I do exercise
and sometimes too much and if you are a
vegan the need for glutathione is going
to go higher primarily because it's very
difficult to get certain proteins if
you're a vegan even if you're not a
vegan if you're on low amounts of
protein that could be the reason why
your glutathione is low so glutathione
is made out of three amino acids one of
them is glycine now with the other amino
acids there's this whole chemical
reaction that occurs and
the only reason I want to bring up a
little piece of this puzzle is because
between 40 and 50% of the population uh
they have a problem with this mutation
of a certain Gene called
MTHFR a gene that makes it difficult to
deal with synthetic versions of B12 and
get the um the natural version which is
methyl camine number two folic acid if
you're consuming a supplement or a lot
of supplements with a lot of folic acid
you'd want to um not take those anymore
and get a methyl folate B9 apparently
for my genetics I have a hard time
absorbing choline so I have to eat more
foods high in choline which is uh liver
and egg yolk you can also get choline
from certain cruciferous vegetables as
well but the only reason I'm bringing up
is that it's not a simple topic there
are
complexities and I'm going to give you
the general gist of what you should do
and if you still have problems you might
need to go deeper into this uh and get
your genetics tested what's important to
know is that if you have some of the the
signs that you're deficient in
glutathion the next points I'm going to
talk about are what you should be
focusing on number one getting enough
glycine how can you get glycine don't
avoid organ Meats don't avoid the skin
on the chicken if you're consuming that
or even the skin on fish um one really
good way to get enough glycine is to
take an entire chicken the whole thing
put it in a crock pot boil it down with
the bones the skin everything and
consume that chicken soup glycine is
also high in Jell-O and I'm not talking
about the Jello-O that you'd normally
get I would get nox blocks and you can
make your own gelatin or you can do bone
broth that has a good amount of gelatin
and there's a lot of interesting
information about glycine also helping
people sleep because it increases
glutathione and it helps you detoxify
and it helps uh establish this
antioxidant number two making sure you
have the methyl version of the B
vitamins B12 and full eight now I'm not
telling you to take those vitamins but
what I am saying is that uh you probably
want to avoid the synthetic versions if
you're taking supplements already
because that can interfere with your
ability to use those two vitamins if you
have that genetic issue I mentioned but
typically where do you get B12 well
animal um meat you're G to get it from
that easily if you're vegan you're going
to have a problem with B12 but what
about
folate folate is in organ Meats but
you're not going to find a lot of folate
necessarily in just regular muscle meat
so if you're carnivore you might want to
do organ Meats right like liver beef
liver and things like that you can also
get it from dark leafy green vegetables
okay and I'm talking about folate or
methyl folate vitamin C is also a
precursor for glutathione so that could
come from raw sauerkraut leafy greens
things like that number four having
enough sleep if you're not sleeping that
could be the reason why you're not
getting enough glutathion it puts a huge
stress on the body going to bed earlier
trying to sleep in longer having certain
sleep aids is going to be very very
important next one do not ere exercise
like I did okay I was exercising every
single day like high intensity if you're
doing this high-intensity type workout
like running up mountains like I was do
that twice a week okay and then the
other days long walks walking can help
increase glutathion marathons or
sustained running over long periods of
time long duration is really bad for
glutathione you can really deplete your
levels I already mentioned stress being
a factor with depleting your glutathione
so adaptogens are good or you can do a
lot of things to help reduce stress um
you can go for walks do things that uh
help you reduce stress like listen to
music getting to Art do Hobbies like I'm
into woodworking all that is great for
stress and also physical work is awesome
for stress because it takes your mind
off um what you're worried about number
seven I already mentioned this but I'll
mention again sufficient protein this
also includes uh not having enough
calories so some people I know are doing
too much fasting that you have to be
kind of healthy to fast in a way and I'm
talking about if you run down and your
body is depleted and you push yourself
and do fasting um when you don't feel
good that's what I'm talking about if
you do fasting and you feel good then
that means it's working right your body
can handle it but if you try to force
yourself to do a prolong fast and you
feel like crap you're not ready for that
you probably need to back off and work
up to that now I already mentioned this
too carbohydrates okay if you're
carbohydrates are extremely low like
zero and your body is also weakened and
you have some of these other issues
you may want to uh increase the amount
of carbohydrates to about 50 gram so
maybe berries would help you but that
could be the reason because that little
bit of carb can actually help raise the
insulin which can potentially help you
absorb more amino acids sulfur-based
vegetables like cruciferous can help you
also increase glutathion and seafood to
help get the trace minerals the zinc the
um selenium that are all needed as a
precursor for glut glut so now that you
know about
glutathion I want you to understand
about another extremely important
antioxidant melatonin and I'm talking
about subcellular melatonin and for that
information check out this video right
here
