so in this video we're going to talk
about your memory in the hippocampus
okay what is the hippocampus hippocampus
is a structure in the brain there's
actually two hippocampus is there
structure in the middle part of the
brain and they come from the Greek word
which means seahorse because they look
like seahorses okay they have a role in
memory short-term long-term memory and
spatial memory which is navigation so
let's say for example you're gonna find
out where you parked your car like if
you have a hard time finding that or
locating yourself in time in space so
let's say you're someone gives you
directions and you just cannot find your
way through town that's why I have a GPS
right but the point is that this right
here is controlled by the hippocampus if
you lose the function of the hippocampus
you develop Alzheimer's so they don't
know exactly what the type of campus
does but they do know it has a role in
memory and retrieving data okay so
that's all I know
dementia so you get dementia a loss of
memory and realize that Alzheimer's
starts really early in life like in your
30s you start having memory loss and it
gets worse and worse and worse and worse
I believe it starts in the womb because
when your mother is carrying you and
she's eating junk food or a lot of carbs
and then you get put on formula and not
breastfed I think that can set you up
for Alzheimer's that's just my theory
because of what I'm going to tell you
right now the way that you destroy the
hippocampus is you load it up with too
much insulin and of course you know
sugar in the diet so too much insulin or
too much sugar will cause the shrinkage
of your hippocampus so it's really
important in them if you're pregnant or
you're gonna have kids to make sure that
we keep the carbs to a normal level not
go overboard you want to specially do
quality carbs and then the formula is
just filled with sugar so you want to do
breastfeeding and if you can't you need
to make your own formula to make sure
it's really high quality and I'm gonna
put a link down below if you are in that
situation so I really believe it starts
very very
life and that can set you up for a
weakness so you want the bad news or the
good news first let me give you the bad
news I already told you high insulin
causes an atrophy of your hippocampus
okay that's one piece of bad news but
the other piece is high cortisol will
shrink your hippocampus so it's a
combination of stress and sugar okay and
refined carbs that's what does it
that's what affects the memory now let's
shift to the good news all right here's
the good news the hippocampus is one of
the only areas in the brain that can
experience neurogenesis in other words
it can it can actually grow back you can
actually make new nerve cells in your
hippocampus that's exciting
so regardless of where what happened to
you as a kid you can still improve
things greatly and one of the ways that
the body does it is through something
called BDNF that's called brain derived
neurotrophic factor which basically is a
brain chemical that helps the
communication between the brain cells
the synapses okay and the way that you
trigger this is there's actually five
ways fasting is the most important and
most powerful method of regrowing your
brain okay especially the hippocampus
you can actually stimulate stem cells
which is basically undifferentiated kind
of like cells without a purpose that can
turn into new brain tissue and as we age
it goes down but if you do prolong
fasting so fasting a little bit longer
every so often you can greatly improve
your brain apparently when you don't eat
your body helps the brain get smarter to
find food that's it's a survival
mechanism so it's not good to eat so
frequently and then some people want to
know like how do I know if I have high
insulin very simple look down right now
if you see that you have a belly you
have high insulin if you do click the
link down below you'll see a link that
says healthy keto in a minute fasting
start watching those videos and learning
about how to do it and you can actually
flatten the stomach through gate
lowering
normalising insulin through food all
right so now we have number two aerobic
exercise can actually help you expand
and increase the size of your
hippocampus that's cool
this is walking I've been telling you
this for a long time going these long
walks several times a week very very
important because you get all this
oxygen with low cortisol low stress
very cool number three vitamin b1
thiamine if you're deficient in b12 set
you up for Alzheimer's because it
creates damage within the mitochondria
which is the energy factory within the
brain so that's what sets the whole
thing off
so b1 apparently protects the cells and
other factors in the brain against the
side effects and damage so b1 is very
very important in preventing dementia if
you look up something called beriberi
you'll see one of the side effects of b1
is memory loss this is why so how do you
become b1 deficient by consuming too
many refined carbohydrates and sugars
you need to start taking b1 I like
nutritional yeast because that is a
natural source you can do synthetic but
also do nutritional use the same time
because you don't want to do synthetic
for a long period of time
I do recommend synthetic for short-term
periods whether you're doing a detox or
some type of program but make sure you
have the other complex with it so you
don't create an imbalance and before
avoid stress okay that's lowering
cortisol user said than done but you got
to work on that alright number five
lower the carbs run your body on ketones
that is an alternative fuel you and your
body doesn't have enough carbs it's
forced to burn your own fat the by
project that is ketones so that's the
fuel source ketones are much less
stressful to the brain your brain cells
love ketones the hippocampus loves
ketones there's a lot of research being
done now by giving also
patience ketones and they seem to do
much much better so because it provides
less stress on the brain all right guys
this is what you do go ahead and do it
thanks for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
