hi guys in this video I want to talk
about the best remedy to recharge your
cellular energy okay now I don't know if
you know this but your cells are like
many batteries and a battery has a
positive and a negative and that allows
for the electrons to travel from one
pole to the other generating an
electrical current in your cells you
have the exact same thing you have but
you have two minerals held apart in
different
concentrations allow the the current to
flow you have little pumps on the cell
wall that are called sodium potassium
pumps okay and you have this exchange of
minerals uh back and forth and that's
what generates the electrical current of
the cells that let things move
neurologically muscles and just
generating energy in general so really
what generates your energy is the
concentration certain concentrations of
minerals inside the cell and outside the
cell now most of the minerals inside the
cell would be potassium you have like 10
times more than 10 times the mineral
concentration of potassium inside the
cell than outside the cell outside the
cell you have a lot more concentrated
sodium than inside the cell so we have
this difference right so when you get a
blood test and you're checking the blood
you're not checking inside the cell
you're checking outside the cell so
you're always going to you're not going
to get a true picture of what's going on
with this potassium that's a special
test that you have to look inside the
cell so if you're trying to check these
minerals with a blood test it won't show
up okay that's what I'm going to say now
normally we need uh about a little more
than four times the
potassium than the sodium inside your
body the ratios from the diet and that's
in nature if you look at the foods that
give you that uh that would be
vegetables so the first thing you need
to do to increase energy is to increase
vegetables okay that would be like a lot
like you would need about at least seven
cups to 10 cups of vegetable every
single day to give you the right ratios
of sodium potassium now in in our
society in America most people cons are
really heavy on the sodium that in fact
they have between
3,000 to 4,000 milligrams of sodium and
only 1,000 migrs of potassium it's the
exact flip-flop because they don't have
enough vegetables but they eat junk food
and also sugar and high fructose corn
syrup deplete potassium so you can see
they have this ratio and that's why
they're tired all the time they're
dragging because they haven't generated
the the right concentration of minerals
inside and outside the cell to allow the
the gradient to happen or the the power
to be generated so your power in your
strength and your muscle and your nerve
and just your energy has to do with the
concentration of these little minerals
okay um because of this problem what I
did is to solve it to enhance the diet I
created a product it's it's called
electrolyte powder okay this stuff is is
very unique in that it has what's
missing in a lot of electrolyte pow
powders first of all it has 1,000 Mig of
potassium you can't find electrolyte
powder with 1,000 milligram at the very
most it's like 99 milligram not a
thousand and here's another trick that
happens in supplements if you see that
something has like even 100 milligrams
of potassium citrate well when the
citrate splits off that's 70% of that
100 milligrams so you're only getting 30
Mig of potassium when you get when
you're basically taking 100 milligrams
of potassium citrate because this
citrate splits off over here and the
potassium is over here so to get a th000
milligrams of pottassium per serving
size I had to put 3,000 milligrams of
pottassium citrate in one serving size
does that make sense so now it makes up
for the difference with citrate so the
benefit of that is that you're getting a
lot of potassium you're getting a small
small amount of sodium you're getting
magnesium you're getting chlorides
you're getting a little bit of calcium
you're getting all the electrolytes in
this powder so in the right ratio so
when you consume this you mix it with
water you drink it down what you're
going to feel is you're going to start
feeling more energy right off the bat
and that's the feedback that I'm getting
I take it every day great for a workout
uh and also just as in general to get
your electrolytes the other thing I want
to mention is that I did not want to put
maltodextrin in my product like a lot of
the other ones so there's no sugar
there's no
maltodextrin uh there's
basically a little pinch of stevia which
you're not going to taste in the
aftertaste with natural flavoring with
raspberry lemon and it tastes really
really good and it all dissolves you
drink it down some people do One A Day
some people do two or even three per day
so uh definitely check it out if you
want to generate more energy and put
your comments
below uh how about um I'm not sure here
just press it okay that's sound of
crappy press to subscri why can't I say
subscribe
subscribe press hey thanks for so much
press the Subscribe button now I forgot
what to say press the Subscribe button
and I will keep you updated on the
future events
