hey guys we're back part three if you
haven't watched part one part two watch
it now so you have the foundation now we
talked about magnesium we talked about
calcium now we're going to talk about
how to get rid of the excess calcium
outside the cell there is 10,000 times
more concentrated calcium outside the
cell than inside the cell in
relationship to this mineral calcium
we've never really had a problem with
too much magnesium but we definitely
have a big problem with too much calcium
and I don't even recommend taking a
calcium supplement unless you're taking
it in a complex with other things
because if you're taking calcium
carbonate that's like that's like
basically rocks and that can aggravate
this condition but what I want to talk
about now is what to do to give this
calcium out there's several things you
have to look at okay it could be you
just need some vitamin d3 now if it's
the summer and you're getting sun well
you probably don't need any vitamin D
but if it's winter chances are you might
need some vitamin D to help this and
this is why a lot of times in winter
people start getting bone pain and our
kind of inflammation not just from the
deficiency of vitamin d3 itself but from
the accumulation of calcium okay makes
things stiff and rigid this is why I
causes blood pressure issues as well and
muscle spasm and trigger points okay
you might just need more magnesium in
the diet because you're not consuming
enough leafy greens at the heart of
chlorophyll which is the green of the
blood of the planet you have magnesium
okay a lot of people don't consume
enough greens alright number three
omega-3 fatty acids fish oils salmon oil
is the best cod liver oil is great
there's a couple different types of
omega-3 you have DHA and EPA it's the
EPA that will help lower the excess
calcium
okay so omega-3 fatty acids alright
then we get vitamin k2 vitamin k2 is
different than k1 it's a fat soluble
vitamin that helps transport calcium out
from the wrong places and into the
correct places
you may be deficient in vitamin k2 and
guess where you get vitamin k2 and fatty
foods if you're in a low-fat diet well
guess what you might be deficient in k2
but if you're on a keto plan a healthy
keto plan
chances are you have enough k2 because
it's a higher fat diet but it's low carb
okay number five too much glucose if
you're pre-diabetic or you're diabetic
or you consume too many carbs because
you're in a high carbohydrate diet or
you have insulin resistance which you
have high insulin this scenario right
here will definitely keep the calcium
locked up inside this cell this is
probably one of the more common reasons
why people get high blood pressure and
they have calcium problems and they have
inflammation interesting so going on a
low carb diet low glucose you're fixing
insulin resistance guess what you're
gonna get rid of inflammation why
because you're gonna balance out this
right here and lastly something called
EMF electromagnetic fields okay now the
channel the door which opens outside the
cell for calcium to leave is called a
voltage-gated calcium channel so there's
electrical things going on and EMF
interferes with this channel to the
point where the calcium won't leave the
calcium will get stuck inside the cell
so how do you get EMF this right here
use the speaker on your cell phone don't
hold an extra head okay I see people
doing it all the time the Bluetooth is
going to be a transmitter that's gonna
make it even worse because you don't
want these signals to go close to your
brain because the neurons inside your
brain can start to malfunction simply
because they fill up with calcium and
that can create all sorts of problems
with degeneration in the in the nerve
cells and set you up for cancer and
tumors and inflammation alright guys
there you have it and thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
