all right guys this is the week that I
answer your questions I had a this is a
quick video someone want to know how do
you make keto friendly eggnog okay so
it's really simple Karen does this every
single year very simply two cups heavy
cream make sure it's grass-fed one cup
coconut milk four large eggs make sure
it's pasture raised not pasteurized
unless you're concerned about having
some type of salmon illa which is so
rare it's usually not going to happen if
you have a higher quality egg uh you can
consume raw eggs three tablespoons of
Xylitol I like xylol some people are
concerned with the glycemic index it's
not high but it is a little bit if
you're concerned about that add
something like swerve or rol or even
maybe 10 drops of stevia you can
experiment all right 1 teaspoon vanilla
2 teaspoons cinnamon 1 teaspoon of all
spice okay blend it up and you have some
seriously delicious eggnog and yes I
know you're probably saying well where's
the alcohol right well this is keto
friendly eggnog all right enjoy we'll
see you
later hey if you're liking this content
Please Subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
