hi guys I know the question about will
ketosis harm and the kid needs okay when
I hear that it's almost like I want to
just withhold the laughter because take
a look at something if you have high
insulin high blood sugar you're a
diabetic or pre-diabetic there are four
areas of your body that get destroyed
number one that kidneys okay so high
insulin and high sugar target the
kidneys as an area of destruction okay
it'll destroy the brain the nerves the
arteries and the retina and your eye so
what does the ketosis diet do it lowers
insulin it lowers blood sugars so
anything that lowers insulin or blood
sugars is going to help the kidney and
the type of ketogenic diet that I
recommend which is a healthy version is
consuming all lots of greens which will
give you the potassium which protects
the kidney now if the kidney is in a
stage 4 or whatever like an end stage
renal failure it lost a control and your
potassium can go high in which case you
don't want to add any potassium okay but
we're not talking about that situation
that is a rare situation we're talking
about all the conditions that occur
before that okay and you need potassium
to actually help the kidneys you need
vegetables to do that so the hallmark of
the ketogenic diet is a low carb diet
low carbs reduce insulin reduce blood
sugars the ketogenic diet is not a high
protein diet ok the Atkins is but the
ketogenic diet is a moderate protein
diet it will not harm your kidneys okay
and then if we add in a minute fasting
on top of that that's putting the icing
on the cake well maybe I shouldn't talk
about icing on cake right now
but that will help the kidneys even more
so the combination is very powerful to
heal your kidneys not damage them thanks
for watching
hey before you go definitely sign up for
my free keto course I put a link down
below it's on messenger in Facebook but
it will give you all the basics it's
very quick it's like three or four
videos and it's free check it out
