okay so you're not losing weight on keto
all right there's a reason for that
there's many reasons the biggest reason
is this you're not using in a minute
fasting effectively let me explain
healthy keto is low carb large amounts
of vegetables we're not going to count
those in the carb equation higher fat
moderate protein to get in to ketosis
where your body is making ketones you
have to lower the car you can be in
ketosis from the dietary fat and not
your own fat so we have dietary fat and
then we have your fat that's being
burned as your reserve fat your
potential energy we're going to call it
so it takes a while for you to burn up
the dietary fat to turn in the ketones
especially if your metabolism is slow so
if you're consuming three meals a day
doing keto and your metabolism is not
really really fast we're not giving our
bodies enough time to use all this
energy from the dietary fat what you
want to do is this you want to go three
meals down the two meals down the one
meal a day okay
now the way that you transition from
three to two to one is by your own
hunger if you're not hungry
you don't eat so you let your body
adjust to the point where you can go
longer longer longer to the point where
you're eventually at one meal a day
especially if you're forty 56 years old
this is where you want to go if your
metabolism is slow some people need to
do a longer fast but the big point is
when you're fasting you're not starving
you're running on your stored fuel this
is the goal and once you adapt and your
hunger is down and you're not craving
anymore you maybe want to reduce the
amount of fat and that will also force
your body to start using your fat
reserves so even know Quito is not
necessarily about counting calories so
you can easily overdo it by doing three
meals a day so weight loss is not just
about being in ketosis and testing your
urine and saying oh I'm in Quito
is because the ketosis could be coming
from this right here the dietary fat and
not your own fat reserve that's why
you're not losing weight so if you're
new to this I put a link down below of a
really simple mini course you can take
an intermittent fasting that will teach
you exactly how to do this thanks for
watching
hey guys I'm not sure if you have my app
yet dr. Berg app it's totally free you
should download it okay this is what it
looks like you click it it gives you all
sorts of great resources I have all my
YouTube videos on this app okay and it's
regularly uploading the most recent ones
all the YouTube videos are also
converted to audio versions okay so you
can use it when you're walking
exercising driving your car I have a
mini course on there I'll be putting
additional courses I have a lot of
recipes on there and this is new and
also PDF resources so there's various
downloads PDFs that you can get as well
and if you wouldn't mind after you
download it check it out
give me your unbiased review and tell me
how you like it I want to know
