hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about refeeding dangers after prolonged
fasting okay so let's say you do a fast
for 48 72 hours a week or longer and
then you have your first meal if you're
deficient going into this fast and you
pig out and you have this huge meal you
could risk the danger to your heart and
to your overall electrolytes and you can
actually faint you can pass out you can
have even more serious side effects
because what happens is that you've got
your insulin levels so low by doing
fasting that you're going to eat and
you're going to spike your insulin it's
going to go way out okay
you're going to get this huge shift in
electrolytes which are electrically
charged minerals like potassium
magnesium phosphates things like that
you're gonna have this huge shift inside
the cell because insulin acts acts as a
key to allow these minerals to go inside
the cell the problem is you're going to
create a severe deficiency of these
minerals in the blood in the plasma okay
so you're gonna get all sorts
hyponatremia that's low potassium in the
blood because all these minerals have
shifted inside the cell
thus the intracellular shift so in the
body you have this balance of minerals
in the blood and inside the cell so we
get a lot more minerals that go inside
the cell and a lot less minerals that go
inside the blood and then we get all
these problems in the body so what you
should do as your first meal is eat
something very small like maybe a half
of avocado maybe a little bit of broth
with soup with sea salt maybe a little
bit of egg and then wait a little bit
and then have a little salad wait a
little bit have a little bit more so you
gradually put the food in your body that
way you decrease the risk of any
problems to the heart you know or any
other parts of your body it's also
important to build up to these prolonged
fasting periods so with a lot of
nutrients in the body and and also let
your body tell you when to do a
prolonged fast so let's say you're gonna
go for a period of time and you're like
just really
you're weak okay end off you know just
eat a meal don't keep going because you
have to build up to a prolonged fast and
you don't want to just jump in and risk
any type of problem so anyway I just
wanted to create this video in this very
important point
and so when you refeed go real slow
thanks for watching
hey guys I want to introduce you to my
new doctor Berg app it's right here
it's I'm really excited about it you
need to download it it's free has a lot
of great data has all my videos it's
updated on a regular basis I also have
the audio version of the videos audio
episodes I also have a mini course that
you can take I also have a button for
new content so you can really know of
all the recent content that I'm
downloading and I also have something
called PDF resources which gives you
additional cool little one-page PDF
documents on all sorts of health things
so download it check it out and tell me
what you think about it and don't forget
to give me a review it's dr. Berg app
