so I had this question presented on my
live show and I wanted to just clarify a
couple things because I think there's a
lot of confusion between fasting and
ketosis
okay so let's first talk about fasting
when you're fasting you're not eating
anything okay you're drinking water and
you're fasting if you consume
supplements that are not like bone broth
or branch amino acids like protein type
stuff or carbs especially like any type
of shakes and things like that then
you're you're fasting okay so if you're
just taking some vitamins and minerals
that's not going to necessarily break
your fast it may not be a true fast okay
a true fast is just water I'm pointing
this out because I don't want people to
do fasting without sea salt in certain
nutrients electrolytes and B vitamins
because I've had people like faint and
have side effects and issues so I want
to make sure they have enough nutrients
especially if they're new to it but the
point is that anything that you eat is
going to break fasting except drinking
water and most supplements okay so does
that make sense so is eating some celery
gonna break fasting yes chocolate gonna
break fasting yes chewing gum gonna
break fasting yes so now let's switch
over here to I think what people really
want to know which is not necessarily is
it gonna break my fasting is it gonna
break my ketosis okay and by the way
when you're doing fasting you are
definitely in some hardcore ketosis but
people want to know what foods
specifically or what drink will stop my
ketosis so let's just cover this right
here what you need to know is that
there's something in your small
intestine but every time you eat
anything you are going to have a spike
in insulin the more carbohydrate it is
the more it's going to spike insulin the
more fat pure fat it is the less it's
going to trigger insulin okay but it
might trigger it a little bit so what's
gonna bump you out of ketosis pretty
much any meal is gonna bump you out of
ketosis but there's a huge difference
between consuming a refined carbohydrate
and sugar and starch meal
and a low carbohydrate meal okay if you
consume a large carbohydrate meal or
even like fruit for example like an
apple that has 19 grams of sugar that
has the potential to increase insulin
and knock you out of ketosis for a
pretty long period of time like 48 -
potentially 72 hours okay so if you're
eating like bread pasta cereal crackers
candy even a lot of fruit that can knock
you out of ketosis for two or even three
days or longer okay if you're doing a
vegetable with steak or some fat that is
also going to lower your ketosis why
because you just ate but it's not going
to be for very long so that's what I
wanted to communicate now let's say for
example you consume MCT oil which is a
medium chain triglyceride which actually
enhances ketosis this will not block the
ketosis however and this is the
confusion people have when you consume
pure fat or MCT oil your ketosis might
stay the same or go up but your fat
burning' this is another category over
here fat burning might go down why
because your body is gonna be turning
the dietary fat into ketones so your
body's gonna be running off the dietary
calories of fat and not your own fat so
you're not going to see much weight loss
okay if you're consuming these two
because your body's gonna use this for
fuel and not your own body fat does that
make sense
I hope so now if you take supplements
it's not going to affect ketosis very
much if you're consuming coffee it's not
going to throw you out of ketosis very
much I did a survey on this and I found
on most people it does not throw them
out of ketosis on some people it might
lower it a little bit temporarily so
it's it's it's a minor minor minor minor
thing water is not going to affect
ketosis sugar water will but I wanted
just to kind of differentiate these few
things and just realize that if your
goal is to lose weight and burn fat then
you want to make sure that you're not
adding a lot of extra fat to the diet
you're not eating very frequently
because every time you eat that will
stop your ketosis and you definitely
want to avoid the refined carbohydrates
or the cheat days that we call them and
you want to do fasting as much as
possible but it true fast is just with
water but I'm gonna recommend if you do
the supplements as well alright I hope
that helped if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
