today we're going to discuss the seven
foods you should be eating after you
reach the age of 50 and of course I'm
almost there I'm 49 being very sarcastic
I'm 59 and I eat a lot of these Foods
I'm going to share with you but I really
want to talk about why you should be
eating these Foods first obviously you
want to eat foods that will help to
extend longevity right so we should
probably use a longevity expert we're
going to talk about Dr David Sinclair
he's one of the leading experts on
longevity he actually studies these
genes called cerin cerin basically are
longevity genes one of the things that
will increase cerin is called n NAD is
inside your mitochondria converting food
to energy then pushing it down the
assembly line till eventually it helps
recharge a certain battery as we age our
NAD goes down at midlife they're down
like 50% a lot of the anti-aging experts
out there are educating people about
boosting this NAD there's a lot of
supplements out there that help boost
the NAD people are getting injections I
think even David Sinclair came up with
his own supplement there's a whole bunch
of drama on that which I'm not going to
get into but all of those compounds have
this basic derivative of where they come
from and that is plain old simple nin
which is B3 then the question is why not
just take more nin niin is so
inexpensive that's not the whole picture
but it's one piece of the puzzle there
are other reasons and I'm going to get
to those but I first want to show you a
very interesting book now what does this
book have to do with nasin well let me
explain in the late 1800s in early 1900s
there is a disease that was rampant
called pgra for many years they thought
it was an infection but to make a long
story short it wasn't an infection it
was a man-made thing they isolated it
comes from consuming a diet of just corn
so apparently in corn niin B3 is locked
up and so when you just Mash this corn
up and live on a diet of corn which a
lot of people did you end up with pgra
but wait a second I thought corn has
been around for a long time like the
aects consume corn products and they to
our knowledge didn't get pgra and that
is because they Ed a special technique
of adding lime which is kind of a
calcium carbonate and they would soak
their corn overnight and this alkalized
water allowed the nasin to be freed up
but of course in the late 1800s and the
early 1900s they omitted that little
step of adding line I want to show you
another book it's called n the real
story fascinating book by an author
named Dr Abram Hofer he was also a
biochemist I want to read you the first
line out of the first chapter many
people have no idea how many illnesses
are caused by two little niin in
particularly no one realizes how many
diseases can be cured with mega doses of
nasin now Dr Hofer was one of the
doctors who started the orthomolecular
Medicine Group where they use high doses
of nutrients to create therapeutic
dosage to correct all sorts of body
problems but in this book they talk
about how nasin is the building block
the precursor for the NAD which is
everything to do with allowing the modal
condrea to work now that we have the
basics down now we need to talk about
why does NAD decrease as we age I don't
want to go into a lot of details on that
but I will just tell you one of the
molecules is called c38 if you want to
look it up so as we get older the c38
increases and then our our NAD goes down
so today we're going to talk about all
the foods that can increase the NAD so
let's start with number one what will be
the first one well let's first talk
about the food that has the most niin
okay that would be very important as
well right what food has the most niin
if you look it up on chat GPT it will
give you the incorrect answer in fact I
had an argument with cha Chi going back
and forth because the first food that it
gave me that has the most nin was
chicken and I'm like that's not true the
right answer would be beef liver okay
but number two is the food that they are
telling you to avoid which is really
wild and that would be
grassfed red meat it's loaded not just
with nin B3 but so many other of the B
vitamins and so so many other nutrients
that can help you live a long healthy
life chicken is not at the top of the
list okay chicken is very high in
omega-6 fatty acids it's inflammatory
it's lower on the list but it does have
some niin but organ Meats red meat okay
if you've been watching my channel you
know I recommend red meat for a lot of
people a lot of conditions I consume it
as the the main protein in my diet for
many reasons and now you know one is
just niin getting enough nin now some
people are not going to eat organ meats
or red meat well then have nutritional
yeast okay all right number three foods
that have probiotics or microbes and
that would be sauerkraut and the reason
sauerkraut is at the top of the list and
I'm talking about raw sauerkraut
sauerkraut has a good amount of niin and
if you can get the sauerkraut that is
the from the purple cabbage you'll get
even something better and of course
certain types of yogurt you really want
to make sure you get a quality yogurt or
better yet just make your own number
four parsley I personally don't like
parsley so I might have it as a spice
but also celery and even chamomile tea
and also as a side note and and this is
not part of the list sulfurane in
cruciferous vegetables especially
broccoli sprouts and radish Sprouts so
if you could put some of that on your
salad or even consume any of the
cruciferous vegetables you are going to
get a good amount of sulfurane to
increase your NAD and of course
cruciferous also do a lot of other
things too they can help you Det toxify
chemicals and they do multiple
additional things as well okay next
compound and then we'll talk about the
foods is
anthocyanins those would be in anything
kind of blue and purple okay like
blueberries like blackberries and purple
cabbage which I mentioned is part of the
sauerkraut and of course you also have
the grape as well but they're a bit
sweet the Blackberry and the blueberry
are a little bit better and the purple
cabbage is also awesome all right next
one in the list is curcumin from
turmeric okay and I think one of the
best ways to consume that is through
curries okay curries unfortunately a lot
of the curries add so much sugar so if
you made a curry with certain types of
grass-fed lamb for example that would be
awesome or even grass-fed beef you would
get exactly what you need all right
number six we need to boost coratin okay
and the food that has the most coratin
is onions I live on onions I consume
onions on a daily basis with my eggs
with my red meat and so you're going to
get a lot of corsin when you have onions
all right and number seven omega-3 fatty
acids EPA and DHA and this food would be
wild caught salmon but it's other things
too you can do any of the fatty fishes
you can also do what I like to do at
least once a week or even twice a week
is consume cod liver in a can wild CAU
Cod Liver I love it but I'll just have
the Cod Liver itself but also there's so
many other benefits with omega-3 fatty
acids you're going to help reduce
inflammation and also the cod liver oil
has not just this omega-3 fatty acid but
it also has vitamin A and vitamin D so
thanks for watching and I will see you
in the next video
