all right so I'm going to answer another
question can keto actually raise your
cortisol levels let's talk about that
but first I have to talk about an
existing situation so you understand
what's happening most people when
they're not in keto have a condition
called insulin
resistance and what's happening is the
body is creating insulin resistance as a
way to compensate for the excess carb or
sugar in the diet it's protecting itself
against the excess the problem now is
the pancreas still needs to be sending
insulin into the
cells but because you have resistance it
has to then pump out more insulin and
this right here is rarely tested when
you go to the doctors they they measure
the um blood glucose levels but they
don't measure the fasting insulin levels
okay in the blood so what's happening is
like this is compensating so now we you
go on keto and you eat less sugar what's
going to happen is you're going to take
a layer of this problem away but it's
not instantly going to cure insulin
resistance that's going to take some
time so you're still going to have
insulin resistance which means you're
still going to have a bit of higher
insulin until you fully
adjust what that means is that if you
have higher insulin it's going to push
your blood suggars on the lower side so
cortisol has many functions one is the
protection against hypoglycemia or low
blood sugar in fact another name for
cortisol is
glucocorticoid okay gluco meaning sugar
and and so what cortisol does is it
stimulates something called gluco
glucose Neo new genesis the creation of
so cortisol actually
makes sugar in the liver to help raise
this a bit but realize that it can make
it from protein and fat
so that's what it's doing now it's a bad
thing no it's not it's just a part of
the normal process of cortisol this is
going to actually get better and better
and better if you stay on keto because
your sugars will come down because this
is going to heal why because you no
longer have the need to resist that
receptor because there's not significant
amounts of carbs and there's really no
sugar in the system to do that so this
is going to heal you're going to get
better this is going to come down to the
point where it's eventually normal and
then this does doesn't have to
overcompensate so it's not a stressful
thing for the adrenals it's just
something that's necessary to go through
to eventually get you to a place where
this then does doesn't have to do that
job all right so you don't have to be
concerned about your adrenals you want
to do healthy keto you want to do
intermitted fasting and realize it just
this is just a normal process that
happens hey if you're liking this
content Please Subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
