so today we're gonna talk about the
dangers of not absorbing fat so many
people are concerned with the dangers of
fat let's talk about the dangers of not
absorbing fat and this is a very common
situation
do we need fat is it essential well it
is because there's such a thing as
essential fatty acids okay
there's also essential amino acids but
there's no such thing as an essential
carbohydrate so let's say for example
you're not absorbing fat what's going to
happen well first of all you're going to
be deficient in something called
essential fatty acids there's two main
ones DHA and EPA these are omega-3 fatty
acids there's also a ala but that's kind
of a precursor that turns into the
active form of omega-3 fatty acids
omega-3 fatty acids are very very
important in preventing heart disease
inflammation you need it for your your
eyes your brain your nervous system many
many different functions so you'll be
deficient in essential fatty acids you
may also be deficient in vitamin E which
is essential for protecting the lining
of the vascular system it's essential
for oxygen in the muscles this is why if
you're deficient in vitamin E you're
gonna feel very weak in your muscles
also skin pituitary function hormone
function vitamin D oh my gosh that's
calcium metabolism immune system if
you're deficient in vitamin D you're
gonna you're gonna be sad you're gonna
you might be depressed you might have a
low back pain and a lot of other issues
low vitamin A so you're driving at night
you can't see in the dark that well you
have sinus issues sleep apnea poor
immune system vitamin k1 you're not
clotting you're getting bruising things
like that vitamin k2 calcium buildup in
the kidney and the arteries in the
joints as arthritis and you're gonna
have problems using cholesterol which is
needed and all of your cell membranes
it's needed to make certain hormones
like all the sex hormones cortisol which
is the stress hormones you need
cholesterol for the brain
for the nervous system unique
cholesterol to make bile okay that helps
you break down fats so some of the
symptoms that you may experience if
you're now dropping fat would be fatty
pale stool your stool actually floats
doesn't sink foul-smelling stool
protruded abdomen you're getting a lot
of bloating a lot of gas weak muscles
scoliosis could be another symptom your
vision is very poor ataxia which is
coordination problems gait problems when
you're walking you feel clumsy you keep
bumping into things damage to the retina
of the eye and you have vision problems
all right so what are some of the causes
of not absorbing fat well anything
that's gonna damage the lining of the
gut
Crohn's irritable bowel syndrome celiac
which is a from gluten cystic fibrosis
which is a genetic condition of the lung
where you're producing a lot of mucus
and you have a hard time breathing liver
damage and I'm talking about a fatty
liver cirrhosis of the liver
inflammation of the liver so the more
fat you have on the liver the less
you're going to produce bile the less
you're going to absorb fatty acids so if
you have a fatty liver the absorption of
these key things are going to be
diminished and of course if you have
your gallbladder removed
you're not going to store the amount of
bile that you had you'll still get some
drainage but you won't have the full
capacity of the bile salts so I would
recommend to take purified bile salts
and by the way taking purified bile
salts is just one thing you should do if
you have a problem absorbing fat the
other things that you should do would be
taking maybe something like a good
probiotic because 90% of the bile is
recycled in the gut so that's important
as well and you may need to take some of
these nutrients in higher amounts so we
can bypass the damage in the colon which
is a barrier in the absorption all right
problem with the pancreas let's say
you're not able to produce the enzymes
necessary like the lipase is and things
that are necessary to break down and
absorb these fats or let's you have
diabetes well if you have a problem with
diabetes
chances are you're also going to a
problem with the enzymes that are
produced by the pancreas because the
pancreas does two things it makes
enzymes to digest certain things and it
also makes endocrine hormones insulin
glucagon to help regulate blood triggers
all right then we actually gets a
stomach acid so if you don't have enough
stomach acid you may have a hard time
releasing the bile from the gallbladder
because they both work together and
lastly if you had gastric bypass for
weight loss that can actually diminish
your ability to absorb fats all right so
now that you're aware of some of the
consequences and dangers of not
absorbing fat the next thing is to
basically find out which one of these is
the cause okay I have a lot of videos on
these as an individual topic and I'm
going to put some links down below so
you can get more more information on
that alright guys thanks for watching
hey before you go would you mind putting
a comment down below to tell me what you
think about this video
