hi guys in this video I want to share
with you three the most common mistakes
people make with intermittent fasting
number one it works so well people
change it you know you have people that
wow it's working I'm losing weight I can
pretty much eat what I want so then they
they go off the program they justify it
they have a blind spot now they have it
all explained and next thing you know
they're 10 lbs overweight and they're
like what happened you never want to
change something that is working uh you
want to go back to the original formula
and keep it consistent don't change
anything that's working only change if
it's not working okay so that's number
one number two they're not people don't
use hunger as an indication of Keto
adaptation So Hunger is one of the best
indicators if you're fully adapted if
you can't go from one meal to the next
without now some Hunger is totally fine
I'm talking about severe hunger with
blood sugar problems dizziness
lightheadedness
uh grouchy irritable brain fog craving
for sweets if you have those symptoms
you need to back off maybe add another
meal add more fat uh bone broth that
would be good for the electrolytes add
some electrolytes into the mix to try to
speed up the healing of the insulin
dysfunction but hunger is one of the
best indications if you could go from
one meal to the next and you can fast
and you feel good and you have energy
you might have a little hunger but you
don't have the other issues then it's
working so that means just ride the wave
and keep going okay third neglecting
vegetables a lot of people that do this
they they'll do more fat and protein but
they'll neglect the salads the quantity
of salad that you need especially if
you're doing two meals a day so you're
going to have to do two big Sal salads
or a bunch of vegetables why because uh
first of all it's going to clean out all
the waste that's going through your
liver because you're going to be in some
major fat burning you want to keep the
waste going through the liver and also
the fat being cleaned up you want the
vitamins and minerals from the
vegetables um or else you're going to
actually start building up uh unwanted
acids maybe even uric acid crystals and
other things so keep the vegetables very
high but these are the top mistakes just
don't make them learn from other
people's mistakes and put your comments
below hey I just wanted to take a moment
to thank you for your amazing amazing
successes that you guys are writing
about and I would love to have a
complete success story from you with a
before picture and an after picture as
well if you have that and I put a link
down below so you can fill it out if you
don't have a weight loss before and
after just put an image of yourself and
your success I would love to read it and
I would love to share it with others
because it does give them hope that they
could be helped too thank you so much
