hey guys today we're gonna talk about
low cholesterol and vitamin D
deficiencies the connection between the
two I recently had someone ask a
question about vitamin D deficiencies in
upon questioning her I found that she
was also I statin so I wanted to create
a whole video on it because I think it's
important to know about this in order to
make vitamin D you need cholesterol
cholesterol is essential for the
production of vitamin D so even when you
get Sun for example we're gonna hit your
skin there's a chemical combination that
occurs with Sun skin cholesterol and
then the conversion to the liver and
kidney to make vitamin D and by the way
vitamin D one of the functions of
vitamin D is to increase the absorption
of calcium by 20 times in the small
intestine vitamin D also is
anti-inflammatory it's anti thrombotic
which means it reduces clots in the body
it also helps in vascular protection it
helps your heart it increases HDL it's
anti-cancer now here's the problem when
people are taking statins guess what
they're blocking all the cholesterol in
the body and they're also lowering the
vitamin D and there's an interesting
connection between the main symptom of
statins which is aching muscles and the
main symptom of vitamin D deficiency
which is aching muscles so it's exactly
the same thing so when a person takes
statins they're gonna block their
vitamin D because they're not gonna have
enough cholesterol and that's what
happened with this lady
I think her statins were interviewing
with the cholesterol and then the
vitamin D and that's why she had
actually had she had really sore muscles
all the time and she didn't know why so
she was thinking I was gonna take
vitamin D yes you can do that but you
really want to take a look at the source
material that's actually making vitamin
D another interesting thing is that
cholesterol is needed as the raw
material to make bile and bile is the
detergent that helps you break down fats
and extracts things from the dietary fat
so bile is created from
cholesterol so again if you don't have
enough cholesterol you can't make enough
bile and if you don't have enough file
in the gall bladder
you're not gonna absorb the vitamin D
and you're also not going to be able to
break down the cholesterol that comes
from the diet in the future so you
actually need bile to break down
cholesterol but you also need
cholesterol to make bile so there's a
huge connection back and forth people
that are bile deficient end up getting
kidney stones and those are cholesterol
stones so cholesterol stones are created
from a lack of bile so again you need to
have enough cholesterol to make file but
in this video I just wanted to emphasize
the importance of enough having enough
cholesterol in the body for your vitamin
D levels as well as your bile production
alright thanks for watching if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
