had another question someone wanted to
know are my golf stones coming from high
cholesterol okay because they have both
well it is true that golf stones are
made from cholesterol but it's also true
that you must at the same time be bile
deficient
you must have a bile salt deficiency
because in order to form a gallstone you
have to have this super saturation of
cholesterol and bile helps keep the
cholesterol broken up into small
particles
so without bile it can form into a stone
so now the question is what causes a
decrease in bile that's going to answer
how to get rid of your stones or
actually prevent you're getting a stone
in the first place so these are the
causes of low quantities of bile in your
body now the liver makes bile salts and
that bile salt then drain through a tube
and get stored into the gall bladder
okay so the gall bladder is gonna hold
the bile and concentrate the bile and
it's going to contract when you eat okay
so it's gonna come out and help you
break down fats and extract that Seibel
vitamins and other fats that you need
into smaller particles and then the
pancreas is going to send an enzyme
lipase to take it to the next level and
break it down to the point where it can
be absorbed into the small intestine
number one high estrogen can deplete
your bile Reserve and that explains why
some women that are on birth control
have a higher risk of getting a stone or
if they're pregnant they're at risk of
getting a stone also too much dairy can
give you too much estrogen and give you
a stone high cortisol this mainly is
going to be coming from medication as in
prednisone or cortisone type medication
which some people are on because they
have pain or inflammation and then also
they get a stone
high insulin so pre diabetics or
diabetics are at risk of getting gall
stones now you know why because high
carbohydrate diets deplete your bile
okay if you have a liver damage a fatty
liver which a lot of people have
cirrhosis inflammation like hepatitis or
a goal
water damage or no gallbladder because
you if you don't have a gallbladder now
you can't concentrate the bile so it
drains down but it's not concentrated
low folic acid or folate low magnesium
and acids and low fat diets now it is
true when you do keto and you're doing
all this fat you might not have the bile
to digest it so it creates a strain on
the system however what triggers the
release of bile is saturated fats so
people that are in a low-fat diet tend
to not use as much bile there's less
being produced so there's more
cholesterol usually coming from all the
carbohydrates or the sugar but without
the bile it can't be broken down so
higher fat diets help decrease the risk
of golf stones I put a very interesting
link down below in the description check
it out because it talks about two things
one is taking but purify bile salts and
being a higher fat diet can actually
decrease your risk for gallstones and
that is the reason why alright thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
