someone wanted to know about crusty eyes
okay we're gonna talk about that what's
behind that there's some medical terms
for crusty eyes sleep dust ice and eye
gunk sleeps and I neuters or I buggers
so the cause of this condition is a low
vitamin A situation by the man a
deficiency when you're low in vitamin A
your eyes do dry out but you at the same
time get a thickened mucus around the
eyes you can create itchiness so the
fact that when you're sleeping all night
long you're not blinking now I want to
differentiate that from the feeling like
you have sand in your eye but you don't
have sand or any crust that would be a
vitamin b2 deficiency or a low blood
sugar situation i po glycemia word is
vitamin a come from vitamin a is a fat
Seibel vitamin it comes from animal
products mostly for talking about
retinol which is the active form of
vitamin A the pre vitamin a beta
carotene and carotenoids which have the
ability to turn into retinol those are
from plants but the conversion is very
very low but I do suggest consuming both
animal and plant versions of vitamin A
egg yolks have vitamin A beef liver cod
liver oil it's loaded with vitamin A and
also vitamin D I highly recommend this
right here now what will create a
vitamin A deficiency would be having low
iron that could do it or let's say you
don't have the enzymes from the pancreas
to digest fats
it's called lipase because the pancreas
maybe is burnt out from consuming too
many refined foods or consuming too many
sugars or processed foods things like
that gall bladder if there's a gall
bladder problem if you don't have a gall
bladder if there's a liver problem
you're not going to be able to absorb
the full amount of vitamin A so you can
have a deficiency just from that I've
done a lot of it is in the gall bladder
I'll put a link down below for more
information
alcohol will affect the liver and
decrease the ability of jord varo may
also if you have any type of IBS or
irritable bowel syndrome or inflammation
or : or damage in the colon let's say
for example you had gastric bypass where
they removed part of the colon or
bypassed it or damaged in the digestive
system from antibiotics that can limit
your absorption of vitamin A so these
are all potential reasons that you could
be vitamin A deficient
despite consuming vitamin A in your diet
or it could be that you're just not
consuming vitamin A maybe you're vegan
and you don't consume any animal
products so you're just relying on the
pre vitamin A compounds and that could
create a deficiency right there so if
you have this condition you would want
to number one make sure you get it from
foods this is a good source and then you
want to isolate the factors that could
be preventing the absorption could be
any one of these alright thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
