hey guys so recently I had a question
about licorice root what is it what it's
good for
okay well first of all I want to talk
about the adrenal glands you have two
adrenal glands you have an outside and
an inside okay and they sit on top of
the kidney deep into your abdomen now
the outside is all glandular tissue and
it produces three hormones the inside is
all neurological tissue which is
interesting
so that produces things like adrenaline
noradrenaline dopamine neurotransmitters
which are hormone like one of the
hormones that's produced by the cortex
which is the outside which by the way
the derivations of cortex comes from the
word bark because it's like the bark
around a tree will stimulate a hormone
called mineralocorticoids okay that
hormone helps balance like sodium and
potassium all right so it actually will
increase this hormone and it will help
inhibit high levels of cortisol and
really what it's doing it's helping
balance cortisol because if someone's in
a stress State they're gonna have high
cortisol they're gonna develop a
condition called cortisol resistance and
that comes from the receptor for
cortisol being resistant and so now the
body can't kind of connect so then the
Drina glands make more and more and more
so licorice root can actually help
inhibit high levels of cortisol so in a
stress state you have a situation when
you your cortisol starts going higher
and higher and higher the problem is
that your body protects itself against
too much cortisol by downgrading the
receptor and resisting it to the point
where you get something called cortisol
resistance which then fails to create
the feedback loop back to the adrenal we
have a situation we don't have a turn
off or an off switch so in this
situation we have higher and higher
amounts of cortisol if you have cortisol
resistance just like insulin resistance
so licorice root can help balance this
and actually lower it also because
cortisol acts as an anti-inflammatory if
you have course on resistance you're
going to get inflammation the opposite
effect because it's not connecting into
the cells
so the crush root is really good for
inflammation because it actually
helps balance that situation if you have
too much licorice extract you can
develop a excess amount of this hormone
and you start losing potassium and
retaining sodium but again I mean that's
only a situation when you're consuming
way too much so licorice root is really
good for ulcers it's like an anti ulcer
type remedy which is a real chronic
condition either the stomach or the
small intestine where there's like an
open wound where it's actually bleeding
so chlorophyll is good for ulcers but
licorice root is also good as well it's
good for gastritis how do you know if
you have gastritis well if you take
apple cider vinegar and your stomach
starts hurting and you don't have an
ulcer maybe you just have an
inflammatory state of your stomach try
some licorice root licorice root is also
good for viral hepatitis especially the
type that's autoimmune so it's really
good for the inflammation of the liver
okay like I said it's anti-inflammatory
it's good for coughing chronic coughing
and it's also an adaptogen so it helps
stress why because it helps balance out
this cortisol and it helps make cortisol
more effective alright thanks for
watching hey before you go I'm gonna
create some new videos on food
evaluation okay so if you'd like to
participate I can't promise that you'll
be the person I'll choose so here's what
you're gonna do you're gonna take a
picture of what you're eating a close-up
okay one day how frequent you're eating
like as an intermittent fasting is it
one meal two meals and anything else
that you're drinking or supplements and
go ahead and add your height weight in
age and any major body problems that
you're having and what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna analyze that to see what
you're doing correct and what you need
to improve alright so go ahead and click
the link down below upload your
information and again I can't promise
that I'm gonna pick you but I'm gonna
pick several people and I'll do the
evaluations and I'll post these as
YouTube videos all right talk to you
later
