I have some pretty shocking wild
information to share with you about
waist circumference the size of your
waist can actually predict serious
diseases even more than your actual
weight well for women it's 35 in for men
it's 40 Ines if we just talk about
longevity for example every additional
inch increases the risk of premature
death and we're talking about visceral
fat that's the fat around the organs
that is a very different fat Than The
Superficial fat that you have just
underneath your skin the visceral fat
that you have actually gives off these
little messages that increase
inflammation which then can lead to all
sorts of issues relating to insulin
resistance which is kind of like the
thing that comes right before diabetes
which is that visceral fat but it's very
hard to detect unless you do some type
of test like a CAT scan or some other
test viseral fat can double or triple
your risk for getting heart disease it
can increase the risk of cancer
especially for breast and colon cancer
then you have metabolic syndrome which
is kind of a combination of several
things but out of all of those the most
significant increased risk is for high
blood pressure now if we look at the
difference between visceral fat and
subcutaneous fat they're very different
visceral fat is hormonal fat it's caused
by cortisol or insulin and when we're
talking about increasing insulin we're
mainly talking about carbohydrates and
we're also talking about frequency of
eating like all the snacks that people
eat between the meals and not to mention
the sugary drinks and the beer Etc now
another thing that's interesting about
visceral fat is that after menopause a
female's body that once had like an
hourglass shape now starts transforming
into a completely different shape which
they will literally lose their waist and
this has to do with the shifting of the
hormones we have decrease estrogen
progesterone and testost Stone and an
increase in cortisol that hormone has a
potential to eat up your muscle proteins
in the glutamic Maximus which is your
butt muscle so you lose your butt and
the leg muscles especially the thigh
muscles and the problem with cortisol
which is a stress hormone at the same
time it's affecting uh bone it's
actually can cause bone loss and like I
said muscle loss but it's also
increasing your risk of getting heart
disease and there's another test that
some people talk about called body mass
index the purpose of that test really
had nothing to do with health because it
doesn't really tell the difference
between if someone has like more muscle
or fat but better than that and better
than your weight is the waist
circumference but I do also want to
mention there's another type of belly
fat that is not
necessarily visceral fat sometimes when
the liver gets really really sick and
develops Scar Tissue it's called
therosis you start leaking fluid into a
sack in your abdominal area and so now
it looks like visceral fat but it's
literally a sack filled with fluid now I
think the next most important thing to
know is how to get rid of this visceral
fat and if you haven't seen this video
right here you should watch it right now
