hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I'm
going to share with you how you can eat
bacon and lose your fat and I'm not
kidding I'm actually totally serious so
just hear me out okay I have this
reference book it's called guidance
physiology I want to share something
with you but before I do I want to ask
you a quick question do you know the
hormone that acts as the primary switch
that determines whether your body burns
fat or sugar fuel do you know hormone
that is let me share with you it's on
page 930
okay says the role of insulin in
switching between carbohydrate and lipid
metabolism that means the role of
insulin in switching between sugar and
fat all right when the glucose
concentration is low when there's no
sugar in the body insulin secretion is
suppressed and fat is utilized almost
exclusively for energy
okay so basically insulin is the main
hormone that controls whether you are
going to burn fat exclusively or you're
just going to burn sugar okay so let me
show you something okay so you probably
already know that eating sugar triggers
insulin right and that's part of the
glycemic index which basically is an
index of all the foods and how fast they
turn into sugar and raise your blood
sugar right so that's kind of a known
thing and you probably know that sugar
is bad so you avoid it and some of you
are losing weight but some of you aren't
because the glycemic control over
insulin is only 50% of what raises
insulin there are other reasons why
insulin could be high and there's even a
scale called the insulin index that I
want to talk about so this is going to
shock you if we take a look at the
insulin index there are foods that do
not trigger the glycemic index but do
increase insulin the ones low on the
list are the fats the butter the coconut
oil the bacon bacon is only
9% that is why bacon is actually good to
lose weight because it doesn't affect
insulin as we go up the list the foods
that affect it more and more egg yolks
is low because it's mostly fat but egg
whites are
55% amazing it's a concentrated protein
look at whey protein is 71 perc what
does that mean it means that the more
lean you go with your proteins the more
low fat the more it stimulates insulin
this is exactly what people have been
focusing on to lose weight but it's
having a rebound effect it's much better
if you have whole fat products like
don't buy lean meat buy the fat of your
Meats okay the bacon and it's totally
okay okay so that's one thing I want to
talk about now there's other things too
all right so we know certain proteins
stimulate insulin to a certain degree
some more than others we know fat does
not stimulate insulin especially if it's
pure fat and bacon would be more fat
than protein but there's something else
gut hormones what does that mean gut
hormones it means every time you eat
anything you're going to get some spike
in insulin okay now what does that have
to do with anything it means this if
you're having breakfast lunch and dinner
and you're eating snacks in between even
if they're healthy you are creating an
insulin response now remember we're
trying to take insulin and bring it way
way way way down right so the best thing
to do and this is why intermittent
fasting is very very very good to lower
insulin not necessarily to lower your
calories to create starvation but to
lower the frequency of meals that you
consume it's just as important of what
you eat so the frequency so let's say in
the morning you have breakfast and
you're you're basically you want to go
from breakfast to lunch without any
snacks we want to go from lunch to
dinner without any snacks we don't want
to eat anything after dinner that would
be a very important thing to improve
insulin in general okay now if in the
morning you're not hungry don't eat so
you want to basically go as long as you
can and then eat when you're hungry
because that way we keep insulin down
again these are very powerful tips to be
able to get into fat burning most people
graze so much and they're thinking more
meals it's going to stimulate metabolism
it really doesn't you're going to keep a
constant stimulation of insulin and
eventually you're going to get a
condition called insulin resistance
where your body Now does not do good
with insulin and even when you don't eat
the insulin is higher the way that you
would know you have insulin in
resistance is if you can't go between
one me and another without getting
seriously hungry because an insulin
resistance if you take a look at this
here's insulin resistance and this is a
normal cell in insulin
resistance you only have a little bit of
fuel that goes into the cell because it
it's resisting insulin and glucose in a
normal cell you have glucose that goes
in there pretty nicely so basically this
cells and insulin resistance are kind of
starving of nutrition that's why when
you eat um you might eat your food but
you're still not satisfied you need a
little something sweet or some quick
energy because the cells are starving of
nutrition so that means your insulin has
to go higher and higher to actually work
better so that's the condition where you
have symptoms of hypoglycemia and
hyperglycemia you can have like high
sugar and low sugar symptoms at the same
time so you crave sweets uh you get
tired after a meal you're not satisfied
you can't go for very long without
getting hungry so that's just all it's a
good indicator to see if you have
insulin resistance or not if you have
belly fat you have insulin resistance
okay if you have belly fat you have a
fatty liver most most of the time and a
fatty liver can then create insulin
resistance because a lot of that problem
occurs in the liver so the point is to
get out of the situation we want to a
avoid what cause the problem which is a
high sustained level of insulin over a
long period of time so we want to be
careful not to stimulate this insulin
too much so what does fat have to do
with this what does bacon have to do do
with this bacon allows you to number one
go longer without eating to satisfy you
it also does not trigger insulin so it's
the perfect food or any fats for that
matter to get you to go from one meal to
the next comfortably so you're not
dropping your blood sugars okay so it's
just more satisfying now some people get
up in the morning they're not hungry
until lunch well then just eat one meal
at lunch and then they'll have one
dinner and that's fine so two meals are
totally fine you can do that okay this
is just one technique that can help fix
this and help you lose weight but you're
going to need to add adjust your fats
because if you can't go from breakfast
to lunch without being ravishly
extremely hungry then that means you
have to add a little bit more fat to
your breakfast same thing with uh dinner
if you're if you're extremely hungry at
dinner you have to add a little bit more
fat at that lunch okay if you're
extremely hungry at night add a little
more fat and you can keep adjusting it
until you're satisfied that's how you
can have more fat especially bacon now
if you're concerned about having high
cholesterol by eating bacon here's the
truth all of the the parts of the the
systems in the body work on a feedback
mechanism which means that if you eat
more of one thing your body will reduce
this thing over here and I'm talking
about the liver the liver makes 2,000
milligrams of cholesterol every single
day okay that's like a dozen eggs so if
you eat more cholesterol your body will
just adjust from the feedback loops and
actually make less it's real simple
where cholesterol comes into play It's
the carbohydrate that you're eating that
converts insulin convert con s sugar
into bad cholesterol and triglycerides
it's not the fat that you're eating that
does that that's been thoroughly proven
I'll put some links below okay and you
can study that but I'm not going to get
into that in this this section but
here's the other thing that will trigger
insulin cortisol what is cortisol
cortisol is that stress hormone now in
some of the other uh videos I've done
I've talked about the relationship
between cortisol and belly fat but the
relationship is this cortisol releases
glucose in sugar it turns your protein
into sugar okay even when you don't eat
sugar so if there's a stress state or
you're going through
menopause or even you're a diabetic your
the cortisol is going to go up it's
going to release more sugar and then
that sugar is going to stimulate insulin
so really the insulin is doing the
damage but the cortisol is helping it do
the damage okay and so what we want to
do is lower stress one of the biggest
things that I talk about is to improve
and fix your sleep I have separate
videos on that you can watch but sleep
is very very beneficial and you can also
do more exercise exercise will improve
insulin it lowers insulin as well
because it's going to get rid of the
excess sugar that's stuck there okay so
cortisol is something to look at these
other intermittent fasting uh don't
snack anymore that's going to help add a
little bit of fat between meals now I'll
um I pretty much have about five things
of bacon every morning and my
cholesterol is really good and that just
satisfies me if you're a smaller person
have less but I'm just telling you if
you have a high quality bacon there's
nothing wrong with that at all okay and
then be careful of your proteins
especially whey proteins okay I hope you
learn something I will see you in the
next
video
