today we're going to talk about four
really really powerful important things
to help you lower your risk for cancer
but I think the most important thing is
to understand what cancer is and how it
became cancer in the first place cancer
originates from normal cells so in other
words they not just something like a
virus that just comes from something
external it comes from within in other
words there's something that happens in
your environment that creates
destruction of a part of your cell
called the mitochondria and because the
mitochondria has one really important
function of producing energy for your
body when that cell no longer gets the
energy it has a backup program so cancer
really is an adaptation to um a
different energy source because the
mitochondria is no longer providing
energy and all this information I'm
going to share with you right now comes
from a fascinating paper and I'm going
to put that information below in the
description
so normally the cell uses this type of
metabolism to get its energy when it
converts over into a cancer it uses this
type of energy right here it's not
important to know the tacal names all
you need to know is that Cancer's
metabolism is a different type of
metabolism and I will mention one thing
which is the warberg effect which allows
cancer to get its fuel from a different
thing the actual source of mitochondria
in ourselves really originated from a
bacteria in other words um the
mitochondria has all the properties of
some bacteria that long ago came into
our cells and somehow there was an
agreement that it would work together
and it would provide a certain function
in the cell which is producing energy
and many other things and the cell would
provide a home to the mitochondria and
apparently one of the ancient programs
in the mitochondria was this type of um
energy uh system when there seems to be
a lot of stress or damage within this
system it converts over to that system
and we call that cancer but the
mitochondria is not just about producing
energy it also helps you balance and
metabolize iron and calcium and make
hormones and make
neurotransmitters and make melatonin
which is all about
sleep there's a lot of cross talk
between the mitochondria and the
Circadian CL
in your body that run the different
Cycles including the sleep cycles uh and
gut microbes and immune cells so your
mitochondria does a lot the mitochondria
is really the pivot point between health
and disease and when the mitochondria
becomes damaged and that cell turns into
a cancer cell some interesting things
occur first of all that cancer cell
becomes Immortal so it loses uh any type
of U program to die the cancer cell also
produces inflammation and it seems to
grow and spread into areas of
inflammation including old injuries the
other unique thing about when this
normal cell turns into a cancer cell is
it now has a certain Advantage where it
can resist death okay because normally
our cells when they become damaged uh
they go through this thing called
apoptosis where they commit suicide and
they take themselves out but not cancer
cells they resist this apoptosis they
resist also the growth of uh tumor
suppressor cells so in our bodies we
have the ability to suppress tumors
apparently cancer resists that so that's
kind of a survival mechanism it also
counters the immune attack on itself so
I wanted to give you a little background
because in order to reduce your risk of
getting cancer it's really about
reducing your risk of developing damage
to the mitochondria okay and then what
can you do to restore the mitoch condra
that should be the focus cancer is just
the name of something but to really
understand what's happening can give you
um an understanding of how to undo this
because reducing the risk means we need
to figure out how to reverse this
process right here all right so one big
risk factor for cancer is excess food
and excess glucose so by eating a lot of
food and very often and sugary food that
puts you at a major risk for getting
cancer and so the opposite of that is
fasting so fasting is one of the most
powerful things that you can do uh to
prevent cancer and I'm talking about
intermittent fasting as well as periodic
prolong fasting okay so you fast for you
know a few days or longer now before I
explain that I'm just going to talk
about number two being sedentary now you
wouldn't think being sedentary is a
cause of damage to the mitochondria
but because of all the stress and things
that actually uh we're exposed to being
seditary apparently is a cause and so
therefore
exercise is number two most potent thing
you can do to help avoid cancer now both
fasting and exercise do similar things
they both induce something called the
anti- warberg effect so they directly
counter the shift okay and they help you
bring yourself back over here there's
some really interesting data talking
about how both of these things right
here can remodel part of your
mitochondria and when I talk about
remodel I'm talking about repairing it
and I'm talking about something called
the and I'm going to give you a big word
now electron chain transport this is
like a really important part of this
machine whereby we're extracting these
electrons from food and then forming ATP
most of the energy currency of the body
the ATP is made by this electron
transport chain and guess what fasting
and exercise helps to remodel this part
of this machine also both fasting and
exercise triggers autophagy autophagy is
a condition that helps recycle old
damaged proteins as well as damaged
mitochondria and so we want some
mitophagy going on to do that as well
fasting and exercise also increase
insulin sensitivity which can also
decrease the risk and there's something
even cooler apparently fasting has this
very special
property to help the cancer cells lose
their advantages it caused the cancer
cell to no longer resist death so
fasting makes the cancer cell vulnerable
to being destroyed and it strengthens
our normal cells and even if someone
Does chemotherapy it makes the normal
cells stronger to resist the chemicals
which is very very cool so these two
things are extremely important let's
talk about number three circadian
misalignment what is that it means that
there's something going wrong with your
circadian waves which mainly we're going
to focus on sleep so a good night rest
both in number of hours and quality is
going to be very very essential to
reducing your risk of cancer but why
because there's a huge crossover link
between the Circadian waves and the
mitochondria and also between sleep and
the lowering of cortisol and your immune
system realize too when you increase
cortisol you actually shut down the
immune system also melatonin the main
sleep hormone uses this system to work
okay it doesn't use this system this is
why people with chronic disease
including cancer usually always have
problems with their circadian clocks and
their sleep cycles and then number four
this is interesting loneliness social
isolation not only will double the risk
of diabetes but it also increases the
risk of cancer socializing with others
with groups with individuals is just
essential is good healthy food and water
and exercise now there are a lot more
items to unload from this article that I
want to give you go to my website I'll
put a link down below of all 15 ways to
lower your cancer risk so go ahead and
click the link down below and I will see
you on the other side now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other
side
