so I had a question from someone that
wanted to know why do I have twitchy now
that I started Kido so what is twitching
or techne it's these little nerve
impulses that can happen anywhere in the
body random and they're kind of like a
pulsating little contraction it could
happen here it could happen on your arm
it can happen on your leg but basically
it's either a lack of certain
electrolytes or it's a pH problem now
when the pH becomes too far one
direction and with this situation we're
talking about too alkaline calcium can
start building up on the nerve and
affect the impulses and that's why I
adding up cider vinegar or kombucha tea
which are acidifier will usually help
this condition however when you start
doing keto ketones are acidic so the
chances are it's not the pH it's the
problem it's the electrolytes because
there's one key group of nutrients that
you definitely need more of when you do
keto and that is electrolytes so if you
have low magnesium or a low calcium
which by the way could be because you
have low potassium those loss of
electrolytes are the most likely cause
of tetany so if you're doing keto and
you're not doing electrolytes or you're
not doing enough vegetables that
normally have the minerals in them
that's why you have the twitching so in
summary beef up your vegetables no pun
intended or take some electrolytes and
that should handle it thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
