let's talk about why some diabetics get
gangrene okay and others don't first of
all what is gangrene it really has
nothing to do with the color green but
when you get gangrene the tissue usually
in the feet or the toes start first and
then sometimes in the hand start turning
black yellow red and even kind of a
shade of green
now the actual word gangrene comes from
the Latin word which means putrefaction
dead or dying tissue and the reason why
the tissue is dying is simply because
you're exposing the tissue with way too
much sugar okay so if your blood sugar
is too high that sugar goes to the
vascular system and the tiny little
blood vessels especially starting in the
toes and sometimes in the hands because
you start off from the heart with larger
blood vessels and then it gets down to
the bottom of the feet to the tiny
capillaries then it comes back through
the venous system but when you expose
glucose to your vascular system you get
all sorts of destruction you get massive
oxidation creates free radicals
hemorrhaging so you're getting bleeding
getting clotting the the vascular system
is becoming thicker and stiffer and
you're getting a healing response
inflammatory response and all of this is
going to stop the blood flow to the
tissues and to the nerves now the lining
on the inside of the vascular system is
called the endothelial layer and this
layer does not require insulin to
transport glucose into those cells which
means that if you have insulin
resistance you won't have any resistance
there if there's too much glucose it's
going to drive it right into the tissues
and that's really what's creating the
damage if you look at insulin resistance
as a protective mechanism to block
insulin and glucose from going in the
tissues because it's toxic large amounts
and there's certain tissues that don't
require insulin and those usually get
hammered okay the brain cells for
example don't require insulin you have
the brain blood barrier which does but
not the actual brain cells the red blood
cells don't require insulin
this is why when you get a test with
called a1c they're measuring the amount
of exposure of that sugar to the red
blood cell to determine if you're a
diabetic or not so the more sugar in the
blood the more vascular problems you're
gonna have and that's gonna stop the
nutrition to the tissues and the oxygen
to the tissues
and it's gonna start dying and that's
what's called gangrene so you have a
combination of dead tissue ulcers and
severe nerve damage a lot of times
there's pain involved until the nerve is
dead and then you have no pain it's
completely numb now what could be done
for this condition well the most
important thing is to avoid this in the
first place by not consuming so much
sugar okay doing Kido and I have so you
never end up in the situation but if you
already have this situation there might
be a couple things that you can do
depending on how severe it is let's say
you don't want to get surgery and remove
your toes okay and maybe you have
certain tissues that are not so bad
maybe you have an ulcer or some
infection well guess what the FDA did
approve in 2004 maggot therapy and I'm
not I'm not being sarcastic they
actually put maggots in the ulcer to
clean up the dead tissue certain types
of maggots eat the dead tissue and they
don't eat the healthy tissue so they
clear out the infection interesting in
fact they're finding that it's even more
effective than certain surgeries because
it disinfects the area and it stimulates
healing and within one or two days it
could be totally cleaned out so these
maggots actually release enzymes and
they also release like a broad-spectrum
antibiotic to kill HUF the infection is
quite interesting but of course you
would want to make sure that you change
your diet so you don't keep exposing
these tissues to glucose you don't want
to just rely on medication to control
your blood sugars medication basically
takes the excess blood sugar and in it
has to put it somewhere it doesn't
evaporate it lowers it but it puts it
somewhere in the in the tissues but we
want to actually eliminate the sugar
from the
the other thing that I would recommend
especially if you're getting let's say
you're getting nerve damage but maybe
it's not gangrene yet is to start taking
benfotiamine but in folk too mean is a B
vitamin that is made into a fat soluble
version so it penetrates the myelin
sheath it goes right into the nerves and
actually can help to protect against the
high sugar and the complications and
it's great for peripheral neuropathy
it's called benfotiamine
get some take like four tablets a day
spread out and you'll see some really
wonderful changes with that anyway I
wanted to create this video to explain
why diabetics get gangrene and what's
involved thanks for watching if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
