so in this video we want to talk about
what you can do at the first sign of a
cold let's say you're starting to get
sick is there anything that you can do
to prevent it or reduce the time it
takes to overcome whether it's a viral
infection or a bacterial infection there
are several things that you can do to
hopefully minimize the infection and
speed things up and maybe even prevent
it okay zinc is really really important
okay zinc and vitamin C but I'm gonna
recommend don't take vitamin C as a
supplement you could take a food base
vitamin C what's better is to take
actual lemons not even lemon juice
because lemon juice is pasteurized
vitamin C is sensitive to oxygen in heat
so we want the actual lemon
so maybe consume like two lemons and
that will give you a good amount of
vitamin C to help you so we have zinc
vitamin C these two are very very
important apple cider vinegar why
because when you acidify the body
without cider vinegar you speed up these
things called phagocytes phagocytes help
clean up bacteria in the body so in
other words acidifying the body can
potentially speed up the white blood
cell action the immune system alright
garlic the most powerful thing for
viruses that I know and also its
antibacterial antifungal so start
consuming garlic maybe in a soup chop it
up consume it but the key is making sure
you do this right when you get the first
symptom and then we have in a minute
fasting this is probably the most
important right here so if you start to
get sick in a minute fasting is what you
need to do why because the body can go
into repair mode the body starts to
increase its resistance to stress and
all sorts of interesting things happen
at the cellular level to help your
immune system so in a minute fasting is
very very important so at the first sign
of a cold you don't want to start eating
or a so-called nourishing your body you
want to stop eating this will help you
greatly
and number five this is actually very
very important there's usually a stress
event connected do whatever you can to
reduce the stress it's going to help you
and of course no sugar or alcohol or
milk products because that can also feed
the bacteria and also keep that
infection there a lot longer but there's
one less point I want to talk about
that's very very important if you're
being exposed to a virus or a bacteria
okay usually some people will get the
infection some people won't why is that
that has to do with your own internal
resistance or your susceptibility to
that virus or bacteria your immune
system is strong if you're in good shape
if you have this health reserve and
you're not rundown chances are you're
probably not going to get it so if you
feel rundown and you feel like you could
be susceptible to getting something and
let's say you're you're gonna go on a
plane somewhere and everyone's gonna be
coughing and sneezing maybe you want to
actually take zinc on lemon and even
some upside of vinegar and garlicky
before you get on that plane
and then of course you know doing a
minute fast due to this is all gonna
help you build up your resistance and
then I forgot about one last thing
asleep if you have enough sleep that can
actually help you increase the
resistance against an infection versus
being tired that's very very important
all right guys there you have it these
are all the elements involved in to
helping you prevent a full-blown cold or
infection
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
