the problems that people have if they
ever been injected by a steroid or
prednisone would be more adrenal
problems that's why when you get too
many injections your your face actually
becomes round and you start getting more
belly fat I this his patient she was a
swimsuit model had one injection of a
prednisone shot and her heel spur and
four years later just huge in fact one
of the things that caused my health
problem when I was 28 is that I had
steyr steroid shots for poison ivy five
years in a row and I noticed that that
was when my health started going down so
they have problems with pain they have
problems with fluid and water why
because the adrenals control the salts
of the body the electrolytes so when you
run out of the salt
you're gonna tend to crave salty foods
so that would be chips cheesy things
just plain salt in general they like the
nuts they're like that crunchy if you
they take their socks off at night
they'd see that little ring around the
ankle that's pitting edema that's
adrenal if you take a test on them their
fluids they're completely dehydrated yet
they have fluid retention to the exact
same thing so they have this water
that's going outside the cell and
they're waterlogged in the ankles you
should not be able to press on your
ankle and leave a dent so that's not
normal so they have fluid issues and
what do people tell you to do drink more
water right the problem is they just
they're waterlogged the more they drink
the more dehydrated they become because
water doesn't hydrate you it's a
combination of water plus electrolytes
plus good adrenals all three of those
together so just drink when you're
thirsty you can overdo it so they also
crave chocolate how many of you like
chocolate okay chocolate makes you feel
better doesn't it increases a hormone
what's the hormone that it increases
serotonin serotonin is the hormone that
makes you feel better
serotonin gets stimulated by chocolate
seventy five percent of the serotonin is
made
by the adrenal glands interesting so the
adrenals will take the muscle from your
thighs strip it down and turn it into
fat around your vital organs so this
person's belly is coming from muscle
tissue primarily in the front part of
the legs and the gluttonous Maximus what
muscle is that your butt muscle so it
starts to go from here to here and this
person there mine has this idea I'm
gonna do some sit-ups how many sit-ups
it's gonna take to flatten that belly a
long time it won't work because it's not
coming from a lack of abdominal muscles
it's coming from a hormone called
cortisol cortisol is a very deadly
hormone it's very destructive on your
tissues it's an aging hormone it makes
you old quick and it makes you large in
the belly so this person usually is uh
up at night because they can't sleep so
they usually watch the infomercials and
they get that bun machine that
six-minute AB machine they start doing
sit-ups and it just never works so it
really comes from the inside out I'm
gonna just see if I can show you another
image here okay
salt in chocolate these are two adrenal
craving things
so I point it at it oh well it worked
before I just don't know what to point
it to okay how about that okay all right
adrenal adrenal body types are stuck in
anxiety nervousness they get high blood
pressure
why because everything is going too fast
their adrenals are jacked up and
everything's kind of going high and they
don't have that push down that calming
ability to sleep and they their ability
to burn when you have high cortisol
levels which is a stress hormone the fat
burning hormones are blocked
they're nullified so you could do a lot
of good a lot of workouts good eating
but if the chorus all is too high the
weights not going to come off so what
happens if people don't see results they
tend to give up and then they think that
they have low willpower when in fact
they're just it's coming from a hormone
that's blocking their progress so it's
very difficult to have motivation if
you're not seeing results so the key is
finding out what the problem really is
with cortisol it'll just it'll create
all sorts of problems with blood
pressure heart rate and a good
indication of how healthy the adrenals
are or how fast your heart weight can
come down within one minute after doing
a like a short burst of exercise the
current research on heart rate is very
interesting with the risk for heart
attacks the pulse rate should come down
greater than 12 or more so you want a
fast downward motion after one minute if
it's only like six or eight then you're
at risk for a heart problem so you
wouldn't want to do high-intensity
workouts so we're gonna get more into
exercise but the pulse rate the body
won't let the pulse rate come down as
fast if there's an adrenal issue
one of the principles I want to talk
about while we're on the topic is that
you've been taught that you need to lose
weight right to get healthy because if
you ask people's goal they want to I
says why do you want to lose weight they
say I want to be healthier when in fact
you have to get healthy before you lose
weight I had a patient who is she came
in she weighed 325 pounds she did my
program and the first month she lost
zero pounds but her energy was better
her cravings were better the second less
she lost 21 pounds the third month she
lost 63 pounds so what we found is
people tend to lose weight as they get
healthier as compared to what most
people are focused on the weight trying
to get healthy it's very--it's backwards
if you don't understand that principle
you're very susceptible to the next
unhealthy diet that comes along that
could actually not improve your health
I'm not going to mention on health
