hey guys I'm back someone had a question
why do certain diseases go into
remission during pregnancy it's very
interesting there's this switch like
mechanism that turns off during
pregnancy and certain conditions
actually go away temporarily and math's
rheumatoid arthritis Hashimoto's
thyroiditis that's a hypo thyroid
condition and something called uveitis
which is an autoimmune condition that
affects certain parts of the eye and
other parts of the body now what's in
common with all of these conditions
they're all autoimmune diseases now what
is an autoimmune disease
it's a condition where your own body is
attacking itself it makes antibodies
that go against itself okay it creates
an inflammatory condition and it's the
inflammation that creates a lot of the
symptoms in these conditions now they
did isolate an enzyme that's inhibited
when a woman is pregnant
it's called pyruvate kinase this enzyme
has a lot to do with communication
channels in the body and by the way
calcium is used in the cellular
communication so it's involved in
calcium signaling and the increase in
cytokines which is involved in an
inflammatory process so when you
decrease this enzyme you basically
decrease inflammation
now 1938 there was a dr. hench who was
in Mayo Clinic he's a Rheumatologist and
he observed that these symptoms
disappeared during pregnancy and came
right back when the baby was delivered
which led to the discovery of compound E
which we now called cortisol now what's
the relationship or the link between
cortisol and these autoimmune conditions
well cortisol treatment or prednisone is
used to decrease inflammation in
autoimmune conditions so cortisol is the
anti-inflammatory the problem is when
you give it to someone it has some real
serious side effects it might work
temporarily but it creates a lot of
problems long-term and another
interesting thing about this is that
cortisol is made by your adrenals and
the adrenals are a stress gland and
there seems to be always a stress event
that occurs right before a person
develops these conditions now if you
have these conditions I would recommend
two things number one do everything you
can to
improve your adrenal glands okay to
improve your natural ability to make
cortisol okay that's number one and
number two I would do in a minute
fasting why because fasting is the most
powerful thing to decrease inflammation
and just by decreasing inflammation you
can greatly decrease the symptoms of
these conditions okay if you're new to
my channel I've put some links down
below exactly what to do alright talk to
later so if you've personally benefited
from the information that I put on my
videos I would love to actually see your
success story - I put a link down below
so you can upload your before and after
pictures with your story
