let's talk about black currant seed oil
and some of the benefits and actually
what it can do it's true that it has a
good amount of vitamins vitamin C
especially b1 b5 b6 iron manganese
vitamin E and many other nutrients it's
very beneficial for your skin improving
the quality of your skin your hair
especially the roots of your hair it's
good for liver detox without making you
feel sick because of the phytonutrients
which we're going to get into in a
second and it's also a good
anti-inflammatory even now the main
essential fatty acid is omega-6 which
normally creates more inflammation this
omega-6 is anti-inflammatory which is
gamma linolenic acid which is unique in
black currant seed oil it's also in
primrose oil and a few other things but
it's not an every everything out there
so it's a unique fatty acid which is
really good in inflammatory skin
problems eczema brain physiology blood
sugars and overall just nice quality
hair now there's a very powerful final
nutrient or antioxidant called
anthocyanins
okay now anthocyanins are the pigments
in different vegetables and even fruits
in this case it's the black pigment
sometimes it's purple sometimes it's
blue and these antioxidants are
scavengers for free radicals which means
that they consume them and they mop them
up like a like a mop and they clean them
up to the body so they're very
protective they also kill microbes but
what I want to mention is that a lot of
people have the confusion with
antioxidants they look at anti oxygen
meaning that oxygen is really bad for
you okay but in the body oxygen has a
couple purposes we need oxygen as a way
to combust fuel in the mitochondria so
we need it to survive but one of the
byproducts of that would be something
called Ross which is reactive oxygen
species which is a byproduct of oxygen
and it can potentially create some
damage in your body however it also has
another purpose of signaling certain
cells so it has a beneficial purpose and
other purposes of killing certain
microbes and it can damage the tissue if
you have too much of it same thing with
this other compound which is also a
byproduct of oxygen super oxide or even
hydrogen peroxide you've heard of that
before
these things are used in the body for
multiple purposes and one is it's used
by the white blood cells to kill
microbes so one of the big benefits of
antioxidants are to help not necessarily
stop oxygen but help regulate it and
help to clean up some of the free
radical damage that is created from some
of the byproducts of oxygen it's also
used by the plants to kill microbes so
oxygen is not bad in every situation in
fact if you take a look at any the
disease processes you're gonna see
hypoxia a lack of oxygen and so when
people get hyperbaric oxygen therapy or
even oxygen therapy they feel better
because it reoxygenate s-- the body and
the tissues and helps heal the area even
in cancer for example you have these
cells that can now run without oxygen in
fact most of the pathogens the
unfriendly microbes in your body are
anaerobic that means they live without
oxygen and most of the friendly bacteria
that we have are mainly aerobic which
means that they need oxygen to live so
I'm gonna create a separate video just
an oxygen it's a very interesting topic
so when something is an anti oxidant
just realize it's helping to regulate
oxygen it's not against oxygen all right
I don't know how I got sidetracked on
the topic but black currant seed oil has
some benefits and now you know why
thanks for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
