so I'm going to give you my opinion on
something called the alkaline diet
there's just a lot of confusion on pH so
I'm just going to give you my viewpoint
on it every different part of your body
has a different pH okay
the blood is operates between seven
point three five and seven point four
five this is a very narrow band of pH
and anything above 7 is alkaline
anything below seven is acid so the
blood is just slightly alkaline okay but
the large colon is acidic the urine is
acidic the stomach is a cynic so when
you're supposed to avoid foods that are
acidic and consume only foods that are
alkaline assuming that you're a more
healthy in an alkaline state for what
about the large colon in the stomach
should we make that out then too and of
course disease and cancer is more acid
so all we have to do is alkyl as you to
get you healthy so here's the most
important thing you need to know the pH
factor in food is not what makes that
food healthy it's not the pH it's the
nutrients in that boot you have carbs
proteins and fat right proteins are
amino acids fat is made up of fatty
acids should you avoid that as well
because those are assets your DNA your
blueprints inside your cells are nucleic
acids if we actually make the entire
body alkaline nothing would work because
one of the big functions of having
different parts of your body tissues or
fluids at different PHS is that it
allows things to flow it allows things
to be transported in different
directions especially inside the cell
outside the cell from the stomach
through the small intestine through the
large bowel the different ph's
allow things to happen from a chemical
standpoint
so by alkalizing the entire body and try
to make everything alkaline you'll
destroy the stomach acids and there goes
the digestion or you might destroy the
pH and the colon well this opens you up
for getting infection in having microbes
survive
because one of the functions of lactic
acid for example is to keep the
pathogens at bay one of the purposes of
stomach acid is to kill the microbes
coming in the body so if these microbes
invade the body then you're more
susceptible to getting infection same
thing with urine you need an acid urine
to kill off microbes in the urine and
realize there's just as many symptoms
and diseases that occur in an alkaline
state as there do an acid state let me
just look up the definition of alkalosis
you have respiratory alkalosis and
metabolic acidosis here are some
symptoms hypokalemia that's low
potassium in the blood
confusion tremor twitching numbness just
to name a few
[Music]
all right problem solved okay where was
I
you're gonna have problems if the body
is too acid just as much as you're gonna
have a problem with the body being too
alkaline okay and the food that you eat
really does not determine your ph as
much as you think you just need to focus
on eating healthy and the body will
bring it into the exact ph it needs to
be in and just by not understanding the
different pages of body you might think
that I just need to drink alkaline water
to get my body healthy and then throw
off certain ph's that should be acid but
now our alkaline so anyway that's my
opinion on the alkaline diet and I'm
sticking to it so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
