hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the side effects of taking
purified bile salts okay now purified
bile salts give people a lot of benefits
especially if they don't have a
gallbladder especially if they have a
problem digesting fats or absorbing fat
Seibel vitamins or have constipation and
a lot of people benefit from this but
there are certain circumstances where
you either don't want to take this or it
could be a problem let's talk about that
number one let's say your stomach is too
alkaline okay you don't have enough
stomach acids and by the way in order
for the bile to be released the stomach
acids have to be between one and three
very very acidic so if you have weak
stomach acids that could be the very
cause of why you're not releasing bile
in the first place so if you take
purified bile salts which are alkaline
in nature you're going to neutralize
that last bit of acid you have and it
could a groove ate the digestion and
from the stomach level and just make you
feel more bloated or nauseous so in
which case what you really need to do to
solve this is take an acidifier
something like betaine how to chloride
or outside the vinegar tablets and that
would acidify the stomach and then make
this work a lot better so it's not that
you don't need purified bile salts it
just means that the stomach needs more
acid first okay number two if you have a
hyper thyroid condition okay like Graves
for example you don't want to take bile
salts because bile salts increase the
conversion of t4 to t3 so they speed up
the thyroid so bile salts are really
good to take if someone's a hypothyroid
but not a hyper because you end up with
a hyper hyper okay number three diarrhea
if you have a chronic diarrhea and you
take bile salts that can worsen things
why because purified bile salts in
lubricate the colon and they loosen the
bile so purify ball salts are good for
people with constipation but not
diarrhea okay number four bile acid or
bile salt malabsorption syndrome now
normally in the small intestine you're
supposed to recycle ninety percent of
all your bile salts okay
now if there's damage to the small
intestine and you can't recycle that all
that bile is going to go through the
small intestine and hit the large
intestine and that's when you're going
to have the number one symptom of this
which is diarrhea okay so in which case
you wouldn't want to take more you would
want to fix the small intestine this
could also occur if you had a gastric
bypass where they're taking out part of
the colon as well and lastly if you ever
take purify bile salts and you get
diarrhea there's a really quick remedy
to stop it and that's actually called
calcium carbonate now I normally never
recommend calcium carbonate but in this
situation I would but just make sure you
get that kind that does not have the
magnesium because magnesium can also act
as a laxative just get pure calcium
carbonate it'll stop the diarrhea pretty
fast alright thanks for watching
so if you're enjoying these videos click
share and spread the word
