hi it's me again and we have a great
little story here um can you you're 20
years old right yes and tell us a little
bit about
um um when did you start gaining weight
um I think I started gaining weight back
in elementary school and ever since
elementary school I've been gaining
weight wow and then tell me what it was
like growing up uh were people looking
at you different treating you different
what was happening um I had I think I
had a little bit harder time um finding
true friends um and keeping those
friendships because people were looking
at me differently and I had to search
for my friends because I wasn't that
perfect girl that fit into the I guess
you would call the popular group mhm and
then what happened as you got older um
to the way is it just started to go
higher or stabilized or what happened um
it kept going up until about my
sophomore year of high school and then I
kind of took control of it and made it
stabilized out cuz I knew I didn't need
to can't any more weight exactly and
then you um you did you were active
right you did swimming dancing I've swam
for as long as I can remember when I was
little I would play sports I played
basketball and softball and then I've
danced since I was 3 years old so it
wasn't like I wasn't doing things wow
and then um you basically um how did you
find out about uh me did you um I think
you saw ad in the paper or something
like yeah I was riding the metro to work
one morning I'm up here for the summer
doing internships and um I was right I
was riding the metro and looking through
the ads in the newspaper and saw your ad
and went online and watch some of your
videos excellent and then also um were
you trying to lose weight this whole
time I mean tell tell me like um history
of like what what have you been doing
trying to lose weight before you came
here well I talked to my doctor my my
regular doctor at home and she was like
well we just need to cut out you know
less carbs and less calories and you
need to watch that kind of stuff and
then I would tried like the whole just
eating everything low fat and cutting
mostly just fat and I continued to try
the low calorie more exercise diet and
it wasn't working wasn't working and
then um you were you were exercising
pretty good I mean you're like you're
not a couch potato no I was exercising
at least three times a week in the gym
and then also walking on campus at
school I would walk to all my classes so
it wasn't like even on days I didn't go
to the gym I was still being really
active and was there any loss are just
like just stuck there's nothing going on
I would lose a little bit but then I
would give back into the Cravings cuz
the Cravings were too hard to overcome
and then I would gain the weight back
mhm and did you have also a sleeping
your sleeping issue at all Yes um I
would sleep and I try to get some
regular sleep actually probably more
than most college students do get um but
even if i' slept say I slept in one
Saturday morning and got over 9 hours of
sleep I was still exhausted when I got
up in the morning so we started working
on her and I'll tell you in a second
what we worked on her but just tell us
kind of what your how your sleep is now
after some of the work we're doing on
you um my sleep is amazing um when I had
bad sleep I would get up in the morning
and I couldn't even make it through my
morning routine without having to lay
back down again and now I can get up and
go the whole day without ever having to
take a nap and I used have to take naps
every single afternoon wow how was that
affecting your energy um it's so much
better and I can get so much more done
and I feel so much more prod Ed every
day so are you exercising now um a
little bit but not as much um I'm I'm
doing just a little the bare minimum so
you're cutting down your exercise and uh
have you lost any weight yet yes I've
lost 4 lounds in one week so that's
incredible that is incredible so you're
working out less losing weight getting
sleep so this is a point that I want to
mention with sleep sleep is probably uh
a very key omitted piece of the puzzle
if you can't sleep you're not going to
lose weight all the fat burning occurs
um when you're sleeping and if you're
too exhausted you're not going to be
able to tap into fat anyway so she's
getting more recharging what we're doing
on her is we're getting rid of old
stress remember the first time we worked
on you yes tell tell me how you felt
after the first treatment um the first
time after we had the treatment I felt
completely relieved I felt like I had 50
loads taken off my shoulders um and
everyone I saw that day said Ellen you
look so much more relaxed
I can't I remember you walking out going
just like oh I just feel so relaxed your
eyes yeah uh went in the bathroom just
just do just look in the mirror to see
it before and after because it looks
like we just extracted a lot of stress
so um we took a little image of all of
our old stress coins it's old
infections uh sinus and ear infections
and swimmer ear and and tontis and she
had a hernia and she had all these
stress points in the body we did a type
of ACU pressure to extract that and and
it's kind of like I guess the best
analogy would be um she had too many
applications open on her desktop on her
computer so we closing these things and
the body can finally settle down and get
into sleep because she can't sleep she's
being chased by a tiger so um this is
exciting so um um do you feel a little
more hopeful that you're going to be
able to hit your target I for the first
time ever really feel like this is
something that that I can really stick
with and that I can actually get to my
target finally so that's great and do
you crave anything right now no not at
all that's amazing cuz you craved before
uh Major League craved before um every
once in a while I'll see a piece of
bread and I'll want it but other than
that I can normally obstain and I'm good
to go that's great well done thank you
you're
welcome
