so recently I talked to a lady who was
56 years old postmenopausal and she
weighed 170 pounds her goal was 138 and
she told me she tried Kido but it didn't
work here's the big question
what makes key to work okay well what
makes key to work is the reduction of
insulin insulin is the hormone that
controls whether you burn fat or whether
you store fat if insulin is low you will
lose weight if insulin is high you will
gain weight now how do you lower insulin
she said decrease car okay that was
correct you lower your carbs but she
didn't realize that you also had to
decrease the frequency of eating she
didn't realize that every time you eat
regardless of what you eat you trigger
insulin so this then explains why in a
minute fasting is a must if you do keto
they must be done together because if
you're lowering your carbs and you're
eating frequent meals you are still
going to increase insulin to a certain
degree and that could be the reason why
you're not seeing success other
interesting point I want to bring up is
this eating makes you hungry in about
one to two hours so here you are your
blood sugars are let's say 80 they're
normal and you eat a meal okay insulin
is triggered insulin brings the blood
sugars down you end up with lower blood
sugar and you're hungry by the way when
you elevate insulin you're hungry
insulin causes you to be hungry so this
is what I explained to her you go to bed
at night you sleep for seven hours eight
hours you're actually fasting you're not
eating right your body is hopefully
tapping in the fat then you wake up and
you need a breakfast and then you eat
lunch and this is what she said right
around 3:30 she is ready for a snack she
cannot not eat something at 3:30 and she
would normally have fruit sometimes nuts
cheese and that would get her to dinner
okay and of course she needed a snack at
night and you can see that she's never
gonna lose weight with that many
frequent meals so this is what I told
her this problem could be solved so
simply just by following this rule right
here
do not eat unless you are hungry she
said she's not even hungry in the
morning but she still eats that is a big
mistake the other mistake she's making
is she's allowing fruit in the diet her
carbs are just a little too high so you
must keep the carbs low because if you
increase your carbs and try in a minute
fasting you're it's not you're not going
to see results because your insulin is
just too high and it's going to be very
difficult to go from one meal to the
next now this lady has some pretty
serious insulin resistance and if you're
not sure what that is I put a link down
below but it's a situation where the
cells are blocking insulin so we have
high levels of insulin which make the
cells just really really hungry and they
can't pull the nutrients in so another
thing that I told her was that she
should probably for breakfast instead of
doing the breakfast he should just have
her coffee with MCT oil the MCT oil will
very easily allow her to go to lunch so
now she's had two meals lunch and dinner
if she keeps her carbs low and she adds
more fat to the meal she's not going to
need this neck it's the combination of
the frequent meal and the calm that's a
little too high that was throwing her
off
so in summary always do intermittent
fasting with keto but just make sure
when you're doing keto it's actually a
really low carb and if you're not hungry
and don't eat and one last thing a lot
of times when people are hungry they
might have a stomach hunger but mentally
they're fine
now for that I would recommend not to
eat because that could be just a
temporary spike in a certain hormone
that will come up and down and your body
might be adjusting to burning more fat
so when we talk about hung
and when your body really needs food
that would be more involved when you're
you're feeling irritable or you're
mentally sluggish okay but if you're
immensely good but you still have a
little hunger pains ride the wave go as
long as you can
thanks for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
