okay so add another question is it okay
for a teen to do fasting
okay let's cover this and sometimes you
hear some negative things about it like
oh my gosh no you don't want to you
don't want to deprive teenagers of
carbohydrates because you know this
reason or that reason that is totally
not true like you really want to keep
your teens consuming a lot of
carbohydrates so we can keep excessive
amounts of insulin up there's so much
harm that happens when you raise your
insulin way above normal it's very
unhealthy so anytime someone says
something negative or as a naysayer ask
them about the dangers of insulin why
aren't they focusing on that so this is
what I would recommend to start out with
any teen you know you start off with
just skipping the breakfast usually when
you ask a teen are you hungry when you
wake up for breakfast a lot of times
they'll say no well then don't eat go as
long as you can work up to it gradually
to the point where you just skip the
whole breakfast and then you have other
people say well now our breakfast is the
most important meal of the day and you
have to eat it and I'm like who ever
told you that well okay guilty
I've actually was in my first book but I
found that that was not a good idea so
you do want to skip the breakfast this
is not the most important meal of the
day
so if you had your team consume food at
12:00 and then at 6:00 that would give
them an 18 hour fasting period that
would be huge that would give them so
many benefits cognitive function
elevation of mood if they have anxiety
or depression it'll bring them right up
they'll lose weight their acne will go
away I wish I would have known about
this when I was a teenager I had really
bad acne I didn't know what to do I just
thought that I just need to scrub the
skin harder with soap that advice didn't
work but you want to make sure you do it
healthily you don't want to just do
fasting you want to do healthy keto with
fasting you don't want to just eat junk
food you want to do lots of greens to
provide the nutrients huge salads
realize that you're not starving your
team you would have to really have them
do it a longer period of time and not
give them any nutrients so that's not
happening then the next question is will
it stunt their growth well I have a
question out of anything that you could
possibly do what is the Act
or thing that you can do that will
increase the most growth hormone
yes it's fasting so fasting will spike
growth hormone more than any other
activity including exercise you can
stimulate growth hormone by 1300 percent
in women and up to 2,000 percent in men
I mean growth hormone actually helps you
grow as a team it's good for weight loss
as well so you want to provide the
nutrients from the healthy Kido so they
have everything they need and we're not
reducing the calories okay so you want
to make sure that your teen has all
enough healthy foods
we're not depriving them of calories and
we're just depriving them of the
frequency of eating that's all we're
doing we're just having them eat less
frequent The Hunger goes away the
cravings go away they feel better
they're sharper mentally in school if
you load them with the carbs they're
going to be tired through the day
they're going to want to take naps
they're going to be kind of doping off
and falling asleep in school like a lot
of kids do
okay so electrolytes are important B
vitamins are important
sea salt these are the three things are
a must for any team in fact anyone
that's doing fasting so there you have
it there's the summary and even if your
child's not trying to lose weight I
think it's a really good idea to do this
for other benefits mainly for brain
function and for health reasons thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
