so I want to talk about the three main
causes of twitching or tetany where you
have this little it could be in the arm
where it's like twitching or on your
face it starts twitching and you're
wondering what the heck is that
well there's three main causes one is
alkalosis okay this is a condition where
your body is too alkaline and I'm
talking about the blood that's very very
difficult to test the pH of your blood
because as soon as you pull it out it
oxidizes and it changes the pH so it's
very very difficult so I put a video
down below of all the symptoms and
alkalosis so you can kind of see if
maybe you have that condition okay now
there's several causes to alkalosis one
is decrease potassium okay in the diet
number two is not enough hydrochloric
acid in your stomach so if you don't
have this certifiers you tend to go more
on the alkaline side and that would be
having your pH go a little higher than
it should also cortisol which is
triggered by stress that can also
alkalize the body being on a diuretic
you can lose potassium and you have
alkalosis as well
now when the pH in your blood is a
little too alkaline what happens since
about 40% of your calcium is transported
through a protein called albumin the
calcium binds very very tightly to that
protein and it becomes unavailable to
you so we usually have low calcium okay
and calcium is one of the electrolytes
so if you don't have calcium you're
going to have a problem with
transmission of nerve and muscle
impulses and you're going to get this
phenomenon of twitching okay so the
connection between alkalosis and
twitching is really the calcium okay now
what it makes more sense to take more
calcium now because calcium especially
in the form of calcium carbonate like
limestone is very alkalizing so that
would make it worse because you're
already alkaline what you have to do is
drop the pH and we will talk about that
in the next slide also if you're on any
acids
okay that's going to alkalize the body
and that could be
causing the alkalosis as well directly
all right next thing is hypocalcemia
that's low calcium in the blood we
talked about that right here but there's
an actual entire condition hypocalcemia
that could be coming from low
parathyroid hormone or low vitamin D
which is probably the more common cause
some of the symptoms of hypocalcemia are
tingling in the tips of the fingers okay
around the mouth it can be another place
as well on your toes and bottom of the
feet arrhythmias of the heart
palpitations psychosis depression
anxiety low blood pressure and the last
one is hypomagnesemia okay this is low
magnesium in the blood that's gonna
create tremors spasms fatigue
arrhythmias pappa tations very similar
to this right because this is low
calcium this is low magnesium this is
low potassium this could be created from
taking anti acids or let's say for
example you had insulin resistance which
most people do like a pre-diabetic state
because you need the insulin
transporters to transport magnesium
antibiotics diuretics low vitamin D
fluoride actually will lower your
magnesium okay let's go right to the
action steps here we go number one
acidify apple cider vinegar start
consuming that one the two tablespoons
in a glass of water
with the straw a few times a day you can
take betaine hydrochloride if your
hydrochloric acid is as low and you take
it right before you eat it'll help your
digestion you can also get these in pill
form okay so we want to acidify that's
going to allow the calcium to unbind
from the protein and the calcium will
start to help in the normal contraction
or relaxation process number two add
magnesium and potassium just so happens
both of those minerals are in these
things
called vegetables okay all right number
three add some vitamin D that will
increase the calcium if you're low lower
stress of course get a water filter you
know instead of drinking tap water so
you can pull out the fluorine and also
get a shower filter so you can filter
out the fluorides as well
all right guys there you have it go
ahead and get started so if you want to
get notified with all my content click
the notification bell next to subscribed
