today I'm going to share with you how
these are related and the two most
powerful things that you can eat to
prevent a lot of problems with both the
liver and the inside of your arteries
now take a look at this we have some
type of stressor whether it's smoking
alcohol drugs toxins viruses bacteria
junk food sugar seed oils refine
carbohydrates these are all triggers
these are stressors that can affect the
liver or the blood vessels whether
you're inhaling uh some smoke or a toxin
it goes right into into the blood supply
now if you ingest something it gets
absorbed into the gut it goes into the
bloodstream and the first thing that's
hit is the liver so the liver gets
exposed to a lot of the the junk that's
in the blood and one of the things the
liver is supposed to do is clean out the
toxicity that's in the blood it has
various enzymes to turn these poisons
into harmless particles and so both of
these tissues are working together very
very hard to keep you healthy however
since you live on planet Earth you're
exposed to a lot of bad foods toxicity
okay this is how it works you first have
one of these triggers right here and
that's cold oxidation or oxidative
stress not enough antioxidants you get
this damage situation this rusting out
okay and so we start out with the
stressor and then the body is going to
try to heal itself and it uses the
immune system to do that so the way that
the body heals itself is through the
immune system by triggering inflammation
and then you have scar tissue that is a
scab okay if this goes on too long it
develops into an advanced fibrosis
called curosis the same thing happens in
the artery we have inflammation and then
fibrosis which is scar tissue if it
continues more you get more plaing and
it can actually go deep into the artery
and create more inflammation as a
NeverEnding cycle but you have to
realize that cholesterol is not just
there to plug up an artery okay that
cholesterol most of it is made by your
liver because we need cholesterol to
build all the membranes of the cells and
hormones as well testosterone
progesterone estrogen and even a hormone
called cortisol which is a stress
hormone but it also makes cell membranes
this is a cell membrane the inside of a
cell looks like this 25% of the cell
membranes you have cholesterol and we
need the cholesterol to allow this
membrane to really work which line the
nervous system your brain and
cholesterol is not just floating through
there it's transported with a certain
shuttle it's a protein but if we just
step back and look at this whole process
what's really happening is our immune
cells are trying to heal or create a
scar or a Band-Aid and in the arteries
the problem is when the bandaid is too
big it creates a blockage and then you
get a heart attack or you might get
something broken off that goes into a
stroke and also you get damage within
the organ itself so you get damage in
the blood vessel so now we don't get the
right it's called nitric oxide to allow
it to Bas or dilate or relax so now we
just get constriction that's called high
blood pressure we get abnormal lipids so
that's the cholesterol thing and then we
get a high risk of cardiovascular
disease with the liver we get a
diminished ability to get rid of poisons
so now we can't detoxify the liver can't
make antioxidants to protect against
this anymore one of the ways that the
body gets rid of excess cholesterol is
through the bile ducts so if you're not
able to make enough bile then the
cholesterol kind of backs up through the
blood also you get a lack of digestion
you might get Gulf stones and then we
get to another common problem which is
insulin resistance okay insulin
resistance starts in your liver and
insulin resistance comes before
pre-diabetes and then you get diabetes
so the problem with insulin resistance
is now you can't really regulate blood
sugars that well anymore and also the
lining of that artery also has insulin
resistance as well and then something
else happens your liver starts to make
sugar itself so it's really a situation
where your blood sugars are high because
the liver is creating that situation not
good so I just wanted to give you the
foundation of these two problems right
here now let's get into what garlic and
onion can do for both of these well the
two foods that can counter that and
prevent that whole process are these two
right here that can help decrease
oxidative stress through dealing with
free radical damage and so by consuming
these antioxidants from these two Foods
you're basically borrowing electrons
from something else to help get rid of
these free radicals that's the oxidation
inflammation fibrosis
calcification now these two foods are
very high in Sulfur now what's so
significant about sulfur well sulfur is
involved in this amazing Phase 1 Phase 2
detoxification enzyme system each enzyme
has the capacity to break down and
eliminate safely chemicals that's quite
magical so whether you're being exposed
to nicotine caffeine a drug this system
allows you to deal with all this
exposure whether it's coming in from
your you know your lungs or coming in
through the digestion it's going to end
up in the liver and then you need this
system to deal with it the problem is if
you have a bad liver and it's damaged
then this doesn't work but these two
foods can give you these enzymes to
allow this detoxification to happen also
sulfur is needed to get rid of
inflammation in fact if you look at a
lot of the other remedies that you can
buy at the store for inflammation they
usually have sulfur in there I wonder
why also garlic and onion are natural
antimicrobial so if you were to get sick
for example with a virus or a bacterial
infe infection you'd want to take garlic
and onion because it's going to help you
it's like they're both natural
antibiotics but without the side effects
they don't harm the good bacteria they
only harm the pathogens there are
actually different defense mechanisms
and medicines to heal the plant and
protect the plant and we can piggyback
off that by consuming the actual plant
itself now also if you consume both of
these you're going to find another
benefit of blood thinning I'm not
talking about making your blood
abnormally thin where you're going to
have excess bleeding but if you do
happen to have this problem where you're
clotting more than usual which is not a
good thing it can bring you back to that
normal but it's a mild version of that
without the side effects so that's
really cool also the ability for both of
these foods to to help you make insulin
more sensitive is also another benefit
since so many people have insulin
resistance so even know when you cook an
onion and it becomes sweet
and there's carbohydrates you do not
have to worry about that onion messing
with your blood sugars or creating any
type of Diabetes it's not going to do
that because it's actually low on the
glycemic index and also it has so many
different things that can protect
against this insulin problem and the
diabetes issue so by getting rid of the
oxidated damage and the inflammation you
can then decrease the fibrosis that's
going on you're also going to get a nice
balance of all your lipids you're going
to optimize your lipids garlic has the
ability to help your liver make more
bile for excess cholesterol coming
through there and also to prevent sludge
in this area that sometimes can back up
and cause pain in your right shoulder
through here an onion has the ability to
increase something called nitric oxide
and decrease your blood pressure so this
is what both of these foods will do for
the liver and the artery now let's give
you some ideas on how you can include
this in your diet what I want to give
you right now is just a creative list of
all the different ways that you can
consume garlic and onion you can
actually mix it with a stir fry okay
with vegetables and some meat whether
it's chicken or beef you can put it in
hummus okay hummus normally comes with
garlic but just add some onion in there
also anytime you make soup add the
garlic and onion to the soup now one
point about garlic and onion you're
going to have the most potent effect if
it's fresh crushing the garlic or
chopping the onions I like to always
cook my omelets my egg omelet with
onions and then I sprinkle garlic on top
now another idea I use with making
omelets is I'll put olives on the
omelets I'll put fermented garlic cloves
and I will slice up in sauté onions I'm
probably making you hungry right now I
also like to put garlic and onion on my
mashed cauliflower with a little sea
salt and pepper it's awesome you can
also Infuse garlic and onion in your
dressings with the olive oil if you're
making beef stew oh always put plenty of
garlic and onions in that anytime I eat
fry a steak I will also sauté garlic and
onion and put that on there garlic and
onion with steak will act as a natural
antibacterial you can also use rosemary
oregano all of those will help when I
make salsa or guacamole I always put
onion and garlic in there and of course
if you haven't seen my pizza recipe you
could put plenty of onions and garlic on
that because you're using the
cauliflower crust it's totally amazing
and since we're on the topic of pizza if
you haven't seen this recipe and how I
make this pizza you should check it out
I put it up right here
