hey guys I wanted to create this quick
video on this one really important point
the dangerous cholesterol that is in
your arteries that is plaquing the
arteries is not coming from the dietary
fat that you're consuming okay let me
explain there's a term I want to define
here de novo lipid Genesis this means
the creation of new lipids so your body
is making new lipids from carbohydrates
so if you ask 10 people in the street
what causes high cholesterol none of
them are gonna mention carbohydrates
they're gonna tell you it's dietary fat
okay like things like eggs and meats
what they don't know
it's the carbohydrates sugars breads
pasta things like that that is creating
a tremendous amount of fat and
cholesterol in your arteries and not the
healthy type the stuff that's sticky the
stuff that plaques the stuff that makes
your arteries hardened and it starts
increasing blood pressure and the reason
for that is that the carbohydrate
storage is very limited we only have a
certain amount of storage for a glycogen
okay and then after that everything is
dumped and converted into the storage
system either fat or into the arteries
into the liver around the organs as
visceral fat now when you increase the
fat and the diet okay you at the same
time you keep your carbs low you're
going to keep in some low and it will
not be the type of cholesterol that is
dangerous it's not going to be the type
that creates
inflammatory conditions that then will
cause the plaquing to develop so a
higher fat diet is totally fine as long
as you're keeping your carbohydrates
well and many of the studies that they
do to prove that a high-fat diet causes
heart problems and diabetes etc they're
using a high fat and a high carb diet so
you just really have to understand that
one point but the biggest point I want
you to understand in this video is that
carbohydrates refined carbohydrates and
sugar actually create the dangerous type
of cholesterol that is in most people's
body
all right thanks for
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
