hi guys in this video I want to show you
a a really cool trick okay to get rid of
shoulder pain now in the other videos
that I did um usually the right shoulder
pain is the gallbladder and all you have
to do is massage the gallbladder and Bam
that thing goes right away and it could
be going up into the head too but this
technique is another thing that I do um
and I'll tell you how it works in a
little bit but I'm just going to show
you how to do it let's say he hurts in
this shoulder or this shoulder and he
can't raise the arm up right it's stuck
or restricted or it's weak or it's in
pain okay what you do is you work on the
opposite
calf okay I'll explain why it works but
just trust me on this so let's say he
hurts on the right shoulder or can't
move the arm up I'll take his calf and
then towards the bottom part okay close
to the Achilles tendon right down not
quite down all the way down in his by
his heel but right down I'd say like
right at this level right here right
around here and I'm going to press
there'll be a knot and you'll work this
out massage this and it's going to hurt
like hell all right so you go light and
uh so as we're working this for about 10
seconds okay and then you have them
raise the arm up okay and he'll raise it
up higher and you keep working on it you
can put it down and the pain will go
away now he doesn't have pain so we
can't do it before and after but it's
the opposite calf okay now now if he
hurts on this side you work on again the
opposite calf and we just massage that
you can actually rub down it doesn't
matter just rub the knots out and you
can work the whole calf and you can even
have lay face down and work on the
opposite calf but it'll knock out
shoulder pain okay so now let me show
you why that works so here's why it
works so if you were to walk how many of
you walk like this and like this you
don't walk like that do you no you don't
you walk like this okay you alternate
right so now look it you have this hand
the opposite hand following that foot
and this shoulder is following that foot
okay and then you're following this way
it's kind of everything is opposite it's
called contralateral so the electrical
circuits on this side of your body are
hooked up to the opposite side lower so
you have an activation on off on off on
off in other words the there's neurology
nerves that are connected to that ankle
foot and calf and this shoulder and arm
so you can work on this side to fix this
side okay go ahead and try it yourself
don't believe me just try it and see if
it works put your comments below press
the Subscribe
button forgot the last part and I'm
going to see you next time am I G to I
will press it and uh yeah you'll get
future uh updates that's right updates I
knew there was a word press the
Subscribe button and I will keep you
updated on the future events
