hey so today we're going to talk about
intermittent fasting and diabetes is it
safe is it dangerous should you do it
well if you actually pull up on Google
data on this you're going to see that
certain articles and videos will say
it's not good to do this there's other
diets that are better because they're
trying to avoid something called
hypoglycemia this really dangerous side
effect but let's just take a look at the
whole picture okay first of all what is
diabetes
it's hyperglycemia it's high sugar okay
hypoglycemia is low blood sugar the
purpose of the medication that a
diabetic takes is to lower blood sugars
and as one complication of this
sometimes the medication can drive the
blood sugars to low and you end up with
hypoglycemia and so they give you these
little sugar pill especially if you're a
type 1 diabetic now when you do
intermittent fasting you basically
decrease the need for insulin okay you
decrease the need for medication for
diabetics now if you actually continue
to take the same medication okay and do
in a minute fasting at the same time you
are going to have problems because it's
going to drive your blood Sugar's too
low but the goal I would think which
makes total logical sense is to be able
to decrease the need for medication
right without make sense decrease the
need for metformin for insulin and other
diabetic medications that would be a
good thing because even insulin has side
effects when you take too much insulin
and by the way the insulin that a
diabetic is taking is not the same as
your body is supposed to produce it's a
genetically modified version of your own
insulin and that's a whole other topic
but the point is that there are side
effects from taking too much insulin
okay even if it's regulating your blood
sugars I mean look it up yourself I'll
put a link down below so you you can see
this but when a diabetic type one for
example
consumes a large carbohydrate meal
they're gonna need more insulin to deal
with that excessive car
right but they don't consume as many
carbs they're gonna need less insulin
when you do in a minute fasting the
Nitra insulin goes down now the question
is it dangerous
well it's only dangerous if number one
you don't do it gradually and you don't
adjust your medication you don't get
help from your doctor to make those
adjustments with the quantity of
medication so when you're doing in a
minute fasting and you're eating less
carbs the need for this medication goes
down make the adjustments you'll have
you won't get hypoglycemia now your
blood Sugar's will come down but you're
not going to feel bad because you're
gonna actually your body's gonna be
running on ketones and fat fuel and less
blood sugars so even if your blood
sugars are let's say for example 70 or
even 60 and you're feeling fine
so you really have to look at the whole
picture and understand what's happening
and not just kind of think with high
blood sugar and low blood sugar so in
reality intermittent fasting is not only
an essential part of healing the
pancreas but giving you the potential to
come off your medications of course with
the help of your doctor all right I'll
see in the next video
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
