so today we're going to talk about the
difference between red cabbage and green
cabbage as far as which one is healthier
so in red cabbage we have ten times more
vitamin A than in green cabbage but of
course that vitamin A is a pre vitamin A
it's beta-carotene it's not retinol so
it has to be converted into the active
form but still there's many benefits of
beta carotene also red cabbage has more
vitamin C and just FYI an adult male
needs 90 milligrams of vitamin C as
there are das and a female needs 75
milligrams per day of vitamin C and the
reason I'm bringing this up is because
sauerkraut which is fermented cabbage
can provide if you get it from a good
source like the farmers market 750
milligrams like 10 times the amount of
vitamin C that's just from cabbage so
when you ferment it you really enhance
the amount of vitamin C alright red
cabbage has twice as much iron and it
also has this vital nutrient pigment
called anthocyanins which have certain
properties like anti-cancer
anti-inflammatory decreasing free
radical damage it's a really powerful
antioxidant and also the green cabbage
has a lot of phytonutrients as well both
of them have a compound called Cinna
green which is a software-based vital
nutrient which is anti-cancer and
there's also polyphenols and flavonoids
and both types of cabbage then they both
have dim which is a concentrated
compound in a lot of cruciferous
vegetables which is really good to help
balance estrogen dominance but I would
say one of the biggest benefits of
cabbage if you look at various
conditions it would be for ulcers and
gastritis and you can do the juice of a
cabbage which really works well or
sauerkraut if it doesn't irritate the
ulcer or coleslaw that will give the
person a tremendous amount of benefit
because there are certain compounds that
actually help soothe and heal the gut
also cabbage is good for blood Sugar's
and like I just said it's good to
balance estrogen so in summary both of
these are pretty close this one just has
a little bit more nutrients but I would
recommend consuming both because this
one has a little more money than k2 and
before you go definitely click on the
video I have in this page on cruciferous
vegetables I think you'll like it
