hey guys in this video I want to talk
about the actual real cause of high
triglycerides okay now first of all
triglycerides are the main thing that
make up your fat cells okay blood fats
are called
triglyceride so it's not the fat that
you're eating that is the main problem
with Hydro triglycerides it's the
carbohydrates carbohydrates convert to
triglycerides through the help of
insulin okay that's why insulin
resistance which basically this
dysfunctional insulin keeps your sugar
high thereby converting to
triglycerides if you take any person
with hyd triglycerides you cut out the
carbs it goes right down unless they
might have a genetic problem but that's
rare okay so insulin resistance is a
situation where insulin is dysfunctional
and it's not working thereby causing no
regulation of sugar so starts going high
you you get more conversion to
triglycerides so insulin resistance
being a pre-diabetes will also you'll
have high
triglycerides but mainly it's the carbs
it's not the dietary fat that is not the
problem um I put a link down below to
give you more information but normal
triglycerides in American units are 150
slight risk 150 to 199 some risk 200 to
$4.99 and high risk is 500 or more but
if you cut the desserts out in the carbs
it will come right down go ahead and try
it as an experiment and put your
comments below thanks for watching hey
guys I have a quick survey question what
is your biggest Health Challenge right
now something that is just bugging you
or stopping you from achieving your goal
just click the link below let me know
because I want to create a video on that
topic
