so today we're going to talk about
troubleshooting because at some point
you're gonna run into a plateau you're
gonna run into a situation and you need
to know how to fix it and so we're gonna
talk about like what to do the principle
that I want to talk about is it's and
this is something I kind of just
stumbled on and I had a lightbulb go off
it's not lose weight and get healthy
it's get healthy to lose weight that
might sound like a real simple little
principle but it's very very vital
because if you try to lose weight to get
healthy you may not end up being healthy
people try to lose weight unhealthy you
lose muscle mass and you feel like crap
so if you're trying to lose weight and
you you feel like crap you're not doing
it healthy so what does this mean
getting healthy well you're going from
an unhealthy state to a healthy state so
you're actually repairing certain things
you're in a repair mode when your body
repairs it fixes structural part of the
cell the cell membrane and what does it
use it uses protein to repair if you
have a if you're a hoarder and you have
this house filled with stuff and the
walls are caving down the smartest thing
to do would be to make sure your
structure is stabilized first before you
move everything out and sometimes with
the body
it doesn't just mobilize fat as a first
priority it tends to go into healing a
repair mode and it fixes the structure
of the body but when that happens
protein comes in which is heavier than
fat per volume I know one time I did a
video and I said well one pound of fat
one pound of fat is lighter than one
kind of mile so I'm like now one pound
is equal to one so we're talking about
per volume that's a whole different
thing so when I get this thing we're
like oh I'm not losing weight well your
body's probably in repair mode so we
want to look at other factors like your
energy your strength your fight
tality is your cravings go away are you
less hungry those are the things that
you want to focus on more than the
weight the weight is this one indicator
the way there's a side effect of getting
healthy so it's a real simple principle
but a lot of people don't really know
about that and then when you're trying
to solve a problem you have to evaluate
you have to need more data because if
you just said oh I can't lose weight
what do I do I mean like I don't know I
have to find out from you a lot of data
it's just to sort this out one of the
most important questions that you can
ask that I wish was asked more is
perfect on cue I just wanted that
leading the best question is okay when
did you start gaining weight what
happened just before that I'm talking
about a stubborn metabolism like let me
just ask you how many of you started
gaining weight after a pregnancy that
you had boom right there right how many
of you gained weight maybe as a child
you were just always overweight well
we're not really necessarily born that
way there's something that happens maybe
when you're five you had a surgery or
something or asthma and then you took
steroids boom that that gives us great
data or let's say you had a stress event
I'm sure that's not any of you but if
you had a severe loss of a loved one all
these things are behind and you have to
pull and find out what happened just
before that problem started it's a
simple question no one asks it and you
need to to get well so the first barrier
is to make sure that you're doing it
healthily and the last thing I want to
do is give up when it actually is
working so all people that are like
there yeah it's not working but it
really was and they give up and I'm like
boy you just you should have just gave
it given more time the next point I want
to bring up is you also have to look at
the duration of how long you have this
problem insulin resistance doesn't
happen overnight it takes years to
develop into diabetes by the time it
shows up it's already been brewing in
the oven ami was talking about
Alzheimer's it takes
how many years like 30 years before it
even shows up yeah years I mean it
starts here and then it develops and all
of a sudden you end you don't just end
up overnight so these things take years
to develop so it's brewing in the oven
cancer takes a long time by Roy problems
take a long time dream will gland
problems there's one piece of data that
I talk about it's like night almost 95%
of the adrenal gland has to be
unresponsive before even shows up
clinically in some cases so you're
dealing with problems that develop over
a long period of time a fatty liver
takes a long time before it even shows
up on enzyme tests you're you in your
mind you're going hey my friend lost 20
pounds I'm not losing 20 pounds and all
of a sudden it doesn't work and you get
frustrated so the duration of time you
have the problem you need to actually
increase your estimation of how long
it's going to take and that could be off
by a big factor so some people to really
get over the insulin resistance could
take a year or two years so just don't
give up have patience that's why we call
you a patient and that's why you sit in
a waiting room the other thing I want to
differentiate is the difference between
fat and atrophy how many of you have are
going through or been through this thing
called menopause okay so you may find
that things start shifting it's like
wait a second what is going off my body
I've had people come in and there's like
their whole body just falls apart right
after menopause so with the adrenal
glands there they kind of act as a back
up to the ovaries so they produce the
same hormones so if the adrenal glands
are going into menopause fatigue then
everything is exaggerated and then you
end up with all sorts of problems
especially atrophy which is a loss of a
muscle you lose your muscle and so it
looks like fat but it's just a loss of
muscle it's flabby its loss of collagen
and then you do the keto in a minute
fasting and it doesn't get you don't
lose the weight right away it's like
what's going on so you may have to build
up those muscles and that takes a good
amount of time it could take months even
a couple years FYI and you do have to
add extra
sighs to that you have to work those and
give it a long time just realize if it
is atrophy it's going to take some time
but you can undo that also you have to
work on the adrenal glands I will touch
on that a little bit but I have a lot of
videos on adrenal gland but atrophy is a
real key thing okay we have this thing
called stress one thing you need to know
is that a lot of stress accumulates
pretty much all stress accumulates in
your body you're one big bucket of
stress and so it builds up and then it
it wears down the ability of your
adrenals to handle and tolerate stress
how do you know if you have an adrenal
problem well one way is how is your
tolerance to stress
can you handle babysitting a lot of
small children and a day care center
over 8 hours without wigging it out if
you can't handle that we know you have a
problem with your drain holes it's
basically the adrenal strength well is a
good indicator of like how much stress
you have in your body
now there's a couple things that you may
not associate with why you're not losing
weight one is old injuries the
accumulation of old injuries and I have
videos on this but it's something a lot
of people don't talk about I talked to
some people I talked to you last night
and there was a couple of the people one
lady had a whiplash where is she ok
great I'm sorry to hear that can you
come up here can you come up here and
can someone bring that chair up here I
want to do a little demonstration of
what we can do for an old injury one of
the things that I did my clinic is I did
a lot of manual work on people and want
to give you some pointers on what to do
so you had an injury a car accident
right and it was a whiplash right and so
what happened someone hit you from
behind and so the first thing that
happens when you get hit from behind is
a your neck goes back and that tears the
ligaments in the front part ok so if I'm
doing acupressure or any type of
manipulation I don't want to be doing
this motion to put her into the injury I
want to go the opposite way so and then
you have some sleeping problems right so
if you can't sleep then you're not going
to lose weight because it's gonna
increase stress so there's a couple
little things that you can do and you
can actually I show this in the webinar
it's on webinar and stress but I'm just
going to give you some tips ok so if if
someone has a whiplash from behind you
can basically do a stretch and reverse
it by pressing up this way and I'm just
going to just stretch underneath here a
little bit forward I'm just reversing
the whiplash and again I just wanted to
show you a couple little things because
last night when I was talking to people
there are so many people that how cold
injury is especially to the head and
there's some cool things that you can do
so I'm just pulling up it's called the
occiput and I would normally do this you
know a couple minutes but what happens
it actually gives the person a sense of
relief I don't know what do you feel
like right now feel a little better
so that's something there's a little
tool that I have that you can do this on
yourself you could have someone do this
but you'll find that just a little bit
of work like that will actually just
relax the body because when you go to
sleep at night there's certain parts of
your body that won't turn off like
either your Nexis stiff your head's
stiff or energetic or your your head is
your chest is like energetic or your
legs are restless and you're trying to
go to sleep and you're trying it's not
working
like Saturday no Friday night I'm trying
to sleep I wake up at 2 o'clock in the
morning going through and my mind is
like going through what I'm going to
talk about right from 2:00 to 6:00 but
that's different this but old injuries
can actually keep your body in a state
of tension and stress and heaviness and
it can prevent you from going to sleep
so I have people write out all your old
injuries and then we kind of do some
work on them so that would be one thing
have you ever had any head injuries yeah
now okay so here's the principle of what
to do with old injuries it's really cool
like let's say she one of the gals I
won't bring her out but she got hit with
a baseball right here well guess what I
found over the years that can really
keep people from relaxing and sleeping
old head injuries to the skull injuries
so like hit by a baseball that's
traumatic so what you do is there's a
principle you work on the opposite some
of you already know this because you saw
my videos but you work on the opposite
you can actually release it I'm not
gonna get into why it works you just
need to try it so if she got hit right
here with a baseball I will press on the
mirror image side right here and I'm
gonna massage it what's interesting
about this is when you press on this
it'll hurt twice as much so go light and
like what is this side here this is the
good side but you would massage it and
maybe a couple minutes each day and
you're gonna find that it releases the
tension in the head just have to try it
it does work so I just want to show you
that little thing thank you for coming
up okay and then another thing and I
won't spend too much time but I want to
I want to see who is it does anyone have
any pain okay you a pain where where
what what's that
okay come up here alright so I just want
to show you a really cool very cool
technique on pain and you can do this to
yourself if you like to put yourself in
to more pain
I have a lot of videos I probably have a
video in every part of the body and how
to do this you can just search it but I
just want to show you a really cool
thing that is not taught in school but
it works and yeah take your boots off
make yourself comfortable so what kind
of injury did you have how ok so does
that kind of affect your ability to walk
yeah so that will stop exercise so this
is a really easy one because what we're
gonna do is we're gonna press on the
opposite side ok so if I grab her foot
here and I press right here now I'm
gonna press really light because this is
gonna be very tender the more damages on
this side the more tender is gonna work
on that side tell me when I find you
find it good morning I'm barely touching
I try to get a job as an interrogator
but I press too hard so I became a
health care practitioner now one of the
things that you would do is I would just
work on this to her tolerance I'm
watching the eyeballs make sure it
doesn't pop out and just work this out
we're just like this is just something
you can do to start stripping down like
old injuries and kind of clearing those
out now the other thing is you want to
do is I know that she's been limping
probably on the opposite side so she has
a lot of tension in the calf on this
side here so you'd also relax you want
to really work on the calf and this is
going to be like like that so I'm just
going to very gently just kind of work
through that for about an hour just tell
me
that's why I'm standing over here since
you can't kick me on that's it
so you'd work on the calf so anytime you
have like a foot problem you work on
that the calf on the opposite side it's
a great little trick but it works like
magic if you have a knee problem you
work on the opposite muscle on the up
cycle that's limping so any problem here
you can work on this these are all the
videos but it's a great technique to
quickly give the person relief so I just
did a tiny little bit I don't know if
it'll feel better but we'll we'll see
good thank you
you are healed so you got you a pain you
have old injuries and a lot of people
had old injuries I've had old injuries
and that's why I developed a technique
what about what about people can people
stress you out occasionally people
stressed out especially the one that's
called the like the passive aggressive
they call them under miners they're the
person that gave you a compliment but
they followed up with a sharp critical
comment how many of you know anyone like
that these guys everyone knows these
guys really jack up your adrenals okay
they really get you they'll say hey you
got a haircut that's really nice did you
get to that cheap cuts
they bring you up and they bring you
down oh that's a nice sweater it wasn't
on sale my ID this guy who said oh you
graduated congratulations why didn't you
want to become a real doctor I was like
ooh so what these peoples they try to
make nothing of you they try to make you
feel like you're a criminal so that's
just realized is the two types people
bring you up and the other people bring
you down those guys you seem to avoid
them but there is a technique that I
used to get even get revenge you guys
want to know it okay it's a great just
makes me feel better so if they start
going in onto that because they're
usually kind of critical and then they
think oh now I'm your best friend right
so that that whole thing so I will
quickly want to get them out of my space
so what you do is you just don't respond
don't answer them just look closely on
their face and go
is that been growing is that how long
how long have you had that that little
blemish there yeah you should get that
checked out to be the liver so they'll
be in the bathroom for hours looking at
this and you get them out of your space
it works like a charm
I've done it many times
[Applause]
when people have losses for example they
actually can gain weight ooh it's called
sad fat and in Germany they call it
grief fat I don't know the word for it
but grief fat I don't if you've heard of
that but you have losses right and loss
of loved one don't you start gaining on
this way because the spike in cortisol
so if someone is stuck in a a loss or
they're basically stuck on a problem a
chronic problem it's worried about it oh
my gosh that's gonna raise cortisol so
the best thing to do is go for long
walks like I'm talking an hour and a
half because walking is increases oxygen
with low stress and you get space don't
like have your friend here that's the
Underminer with you walking was there
you're being constantly being chopped
down chopped liver so be by yourself
just walk and just get space it's good
that's the best thing because when
you're stuck in that trauma it's like
it's just kind of like your space kind
of goes in so that's really important
the other thing is um there's a couple
places in your body where you tend to
hold stress and I need to find someone
who just can't sleep okay let's bring
you up don't worry I'm going to show you
this and you can do it in the person
next to you when we're done
this is a technique that looks really
simple but it's really effective for
sleep Wow can we have an easier case now
let me just take these so I can see what
I'm going to do to you
now what happens there's two parts of
the nervous system it's called the
autonomic nervous system you have the
sympathetic and the parasympathetic the
flight-or-fight or the rest rest and
digest okay so the parasympathetic
nervous system is controls rest and the
sleep centers are located in the
brainstem so there's some cool little
pressure points that you can work on to
just kind of relax those points okay and
so what you do is you take your hand I
like to take the thumb and my middle
finger I'm not flipping you off right
here and there's a tool that I have that
is I built that looks like my hand it's
a little tripod a lot of you have it and
you can use that to lay back on a tall
back chair I wish I would have brought
one and that's just that's why I use
that every night don't I care yeah I
pretty much use that thing and I go to
sleep like within like 30 seconds I'm
out you know so what you do is you got
the back of the skull you take your two
fingers and take these two fingers and
just drop them below the skull you can
do this as someone or you can use that
device and then you apply pressure
symmetrically right underneath the skull
without messing up their hair and then
what you do is you just yeah you just
hold this these points for like a minute
and the person will feel really relaxed
the only time you wouldn't want to do
this is if they have a like a whiplash
injury from behind like you you want to
go the other way so if you had a
rear-end collision this is the one that
you probably don't want to do have you
ever had a rear-end collision
okay so I'm just holding this
and I used to do this all the time in my
clinic and people just like literally
start snoring and I'm just relaxing the
muscles underneath the top of the the
top of the neck underneath the skull and
I'm about kind of needs someone that is
kind of bold so I can show you back here
yeah I just want to show people the
location of this because they need to
see this now is this feeling any any
different yeah you're gonna feel like a
wave through the whole body this is what
this is great right before you go to
sleep okay thank you thank you so much
so you didn't need them we can kill two
birds one stone handled okay this one
right here look at my thumb and my
fingers coming right underneath here and
I'm pressing this way I'm just holding
the forehead and pressing in this way
this is all on video guys so you can
it's called a stress webinar but you
press this and you hold that so let me
just have you sit right here and I just
kind of come in here and I just hold
this for two minutes but it kind of
takes the tension I mean a lot of people
have stress in their upper part of their
neck but this is great for sleep it's a
great sleep technique
also the breathing centers are there too
does it feel any different
good okay I just want to do a little bit
cuz of time but thank you for coming up
you're welcome
so there's a there's that technique
there's you would also you can work on
the abdomen through these points there's
some techniques there there's about
seven different things you can do I do
them every night before I go to bed
Karen might be watching TV I'm already
out I'm just and she does massage my
shoulders and by the time I start I'm
like oh so stress is a really key point
to overcome so you want to do various
things you want to do handle any cause
for the stress if it's a that
personality for people some problem you
have to improve that somehow also
physical old injuries pain inflammation
one of the best remedies for
inflammation is intermittent fasting but
as a coping mechanism stinging nettle
root is one of the best herbs for
inflammation fYI I've given you guys a
chart on some good remedies and a
checklist as well you can look at that
later
now also people that had like severe
losses and things you have a 21 times
increase of getting a risk of getting a
heart attack so it really affects the
body it increases the risk of getting an
infection and the gain weight and then
develop insulin resistance virus has
come out of remission when you go
through stresses I interviewed a lot of
people that autoimmune diseases and I
said what happened just before it nearly
most of the time it's either some stress
loss divorce or some traumatic thing so
there's that huge connection that no
one's really addressing so here you are
trying to fix it nutritionally when it's
really a stress trigger you got to work
on the Drina 'ls so I'm trying to expand
your viewpoint there's other other
things
to look at what happens when you're
stressed what do people eat when they're
under stress this stuff right well so
they eat sugar right because stress
sugar makes you feel better
sugar actually increases beta endorphins
beta endorphins are 30 times stronger
than morphine for pain relief and they
reduce stress sugar also increases
dopamine maybe for just a minute but it
makes you feel better so the combination
of eating sugar for a beta endorphin and
bilk mean will increase make you feel
confident decrease pain stress socially
connected you're going to feel hopeful
and you can have a pleasure sensation
and feel a little motivated this is why
people are eating sugar they're trying
to solve a problem with a certain
sensation but it's kind of crazy because
you're out you're gonna add sugar for a
solution like it's like I'm gonna put
gasoline on a fire
to get rid of the fire because the
problem is the rebound effect you feel
temporarily better and then you feel a
lot worse and the longer you do it the
more that these effects go away so it's
a bit of a trap so again we want to use
the tools keto and then fasting to
overcome these problems vitamin b1 will
really help especially if you're kind of
in that trap because you're depleting b1
as you're eating the sugar and you put
that in there it gives you some nice
relief pretty quick there's a really
great book Kindle it's very expensive
it's like $79 Kindle book but it's worth
it dr. Derek long snail MD Derek long
snail and this whole book is on thymine
unbelievable book fascinating if you're
into by me which I'm into so I knew you
can ask the name just go under Amazon
and type his name and you'll find it
it's under thymine time
deficiencies that's b1 Derek long still
Derek yeah now a higher fat diet will
also help with stress reduction it's
gonna feed the hormones it'll help give
you DHA omega-3 fatty acids so this is
why keto is great this there's some
other techniques with acupressure that
you can just watch us online but if you
actually go through this you are going
to sleep really good there's something
else that I also have done that I've
never talked about until now because I
didn't want to create a video and just
tell everyone all the secrets but let's
see who there was a diabetic there was a
type one there was where was she okay
let's come up here I wanted to show you
this technique if you take someone that
has like a known blood sugar problem I'm
going to show you what I've done with
great success but I'm gonna have you
experiment yourself and I'm just gonna
have you sit right here don't try this
at home
no so if you think about it and I'm
going to show you something about
visceral massage you know you work on
your muscles but really rarely anyone
works on the organs right yeah you don't
massage your pancreas every day do you
so I had a just a crazy idea I said what
would happen let's just check your blood
sugar so the scale comes in this is many
years ago and I said let's check your
blood Sugar's is well over 200 I said
I'm just gonna massage your pancreas
which is under the left ribcage
I just later down I just started
massaging it for like two minutes i
rechecked the blood sugars it came down
to 120 and I'm like what I try their gun
now there's not any Studies on this that
I know of but it's just something if
you're a diabetic or a blood sugar
problems experiment yourself with your
keto mojo testing strips and you just go
on there and see if it doesn't help you
it kind of activates that plan you can
do the same thing with
- but you would basically take your hand
and just kind of press through here and
I've noticed that the person has this
great sense of like their doing and also
they just so get this Wow I just feel
really relaxing so I'm like why not the
pancreas is like working like crazy
because it has 150 pounds of sugar per
year to deal with you just work on that
and it actually gives the body a sense
of relief it's just something I would
recommend to try out an experiment and
to see if it helps you but you're just
increasing the communication into that
organ that's what massages this you're
getting the getting more circulation
into the area it's real simple it might
sound weird but it works so try it the
other thing you can do for pain a lot of
people have pain that's referred from
something else I found the top thing is
the gallbladder I'm not talking about a
stone in the ball but are just a
irritated gallbladder that's congested
where is the pain gonna go on the right
side right through here and the back of
the scapula how many of you have tension
right here yeah look at that let's use
the gallbladder when you do health
Aikido and intimate fasting that should
go away but you'd want a massage on the
right side underneath the right ribcage
I have a ton of videos on this if you
hold pressure cuz I had a gallbladder
for 12 years I didn't know I called
about a problem I didn't know what it
was so I would get this thing hammered
and because there was a chiropractor I
would have that thing adjusted probably
over adjusted everything everyone and
just would keep coming back because the
pain was referred so once I of course
then I years later I changed the diet
and then it totally solved but you could
massage the gallbladder points and give
a lot of relief up through here so very
important point for pain especially
people that say I have fibromyalgia but
you ask them is it on the right side
only they go yeah how did you know
because you don't have fibromyalgia it's
the gallbladder so the problem is people
eat six times a day and they're they're
not giving in the gallbladder a chance
to reset
so I just wanted to show you that just
to kind of give you a little tip thank
you very much also thank you
[Applause]
especially headaches on the right side
too that's all gallbladder even stuff
that shoots down here I actually invited
like six people from my city to do a
video and I'm gonna I'm gonna do a video
in pain I think it was like five out of
six it came from the gallbladder cuz I
was working on the pain it didn't work
and I work on the gallbladder and bam
completely went away so very common all
right so sleep how many of you have a
sleep problem Wow sleeping is a barrier
to a lot of problems especially recovery
and healing
what causes sleep problems well it could
be your bladder and that's insulin
resistance because diabetics usually
have problems with fluids at night and
they pee a lot more frequent so that's
another issue that's going to be solved
when you do healthy keto and in fasting
stress all the techniques that I said
from stress aerobic exercise walking b1
the manual type work massage all are
great for sleeping because they get rid
of that issue and also the acupressure
point in the back of the neck you should
sleep like a baby when you do that
of course babies are crying all night
but now as far as sleep goes I found
that you may want to try sleeping on
your right side that seems to work
better for a lot of people why because
the liver is on the right side and if
you have a fatty liver it may just be
heavier than it should be so if you're
sleeping on the left side with a fatty
liver that's compressing the heart
you might feel uncomfortable so try to
sleep on the right side so the heart can
sit on the liver and it seems people
seem to do better on the right side when
they're sleeping
not everyone avoiding excess protein
how many find that when you eat a
texas-style steak before you go to bed
that may interfere with your sleep yeah
too much protein can act as a stimulant
and you might just want to adjust that
as well because you know sometimes if
you that's why I'd like to consume the
vegetables first then the protein
because if you have the chicken wings
first like my son will just eat like a
whole egg like a ton of them and then
there's no room roof room left for the
salad so you want the salad and then the
chicken wings but the too much protein
will act as a stimulant I also found
that there's a technique that you can do
breathing when you're when you're
sleeping so let's say you're laying
there and you're not able to sleep and
you're just thinking about stuff focus
on your breathing and I'm going to show
you how to do that you can actively
affect the autonomic nervous system by
breathing consciously was five seconds
slowly in and five select seconds slowly
out people that have stress they tend to
breathe like this the exhalation is a
lot shorter than inhalation so if you
slow that down just by focusing on the
breathing slowly in through the nose and
then slowly out and keep those even I
find that works for sleeping you'll next
thing you know you'll be waking up in
the morning it's just another little
thing that you can do
Oh also avoid watching the news before
you go to bed or in general actually
don't even watch the news I like to dim
the lights before I go to bed so I don't
have all those lights around the best
light actually is candlelight I mean
this that the yellow and orange that's
really good for the receptors and also
the melatonin stimulation which it
actually stimulates sleep so darkness
stimulates that so if you're in a bright
light and then you try to go to bed like
you didn't give you a chance your
melatonin to kick in there also
EMF like keeping this when you're
sleeping right here is bad so all these
electrical devices get them out of the
area of your body when you're trying to
sleep because they can affect you how
many of you do a lot of computer work
yeah so do I so if you're sitting for
them computer and then you try to go to
bed it's like it doesn't work so you
need to break it up and go outside and
go just get some space sometimes I have
a really good sleep aid that a lot of
you are on that works good that works on
the adrenal but sometimes you need a
little extra calcium so if you're a head
doesn't always turn off you might want
to add a little calcium I like calcium
or at 8 that's a really good one I take
it only you know a few times a week if I
need it but it tends to help you go to
sleep I don't normally recommend calcium
supplements but for that one
occasionally I do also caffeine if
you're doing too much caffeine or tea
that is going to keep you up at night so
try to cut down if you have sleep and
see if it doesn't help you
I do coffee but just a small one one I
do one because I abused it in college I
used to have Cuban coffee
lots of it this is why I'm doing this
Eman right now because I got I got burnt
out I think most of you probably have
had experienced we you you had a health
problem that actually motivated you do
keto it in a minute fasting right yeah
it's like there's something that
you just didn't you just weren't feeling
great and decided to do it something
like I was very very sick myself if you
were a past athlete how many of her past
athletes athletic okay and then all of a
sudden you you do this intense with
exercise I was a wrestler and then you
don't work out in your 30s 40s and 50s
then you decided to work out when you're
60 right the the mitochondria generate
this huge machine and then you stop
depleting the energy so for you athletes
you need to continue to exercise to get
that energy out you can't just like work
at the computer and try to go to bed you
have to workout to get the energy
extracted from your body
macros hidden carbs yogurt 10 grams of
sugar that's some plain that's too high
alcohol could definitely provide too
much sugar and carb for your your liver
coconut water way too much sugar fruit
I'm sorry and sugar alcohols could
interfere with your ability to really
get in ketosis especially maltitol
that's the worst it is a glycemic index
of like 55 that's just underneath sugar
you want to play with your vegetables
sometimes if you have too much
vegetables you don't have enough
microbes that's gonna create fluid
retention and bloating and that's gonna
figure with your sleep and also you're
gonna feel like you're just bloated all
the time so adjust them lower or higher
depending on your ability to digest them
but I do consume I find the days that I
consume enough vegetables I sleep better
it's I think it's the potassium and
magnesium so potassium is a
physiological tranquilizer it relaxes
you
so does magnate magnesium as far as your
protein you have to try experiment if
you do too much you can affect your
sleep if you do too little you can might
feel weak and tired so personally I'm
180 pounds I need about 8 ounces per day
and that's my optimum number you got to
play around that until experiment could
be a little less a little bit more but
everyone's a little different fat macros
when you would get into keto and you're
adapting to fat burning for a period of
time and you're not losing weight if you
plateau it's probably because you're
doing too much dietary fat and your body
doesn't have to burn its own fat because
you're turning the ketones from the
dietary fat so you may want to just cut
down the fat so we can force your body
to burn its own fat and that includes
the the exogenous ketones because that's
gonna kind of replace what your body
should be burning if you're trying to
lose weight and so I found a good number
to go below as 75 gram
maybe 60 to 75 grams if you cut it down
right around there you're gonna find
your weight loss will kick in there the
transit time for your digestion the time
that the food goes all the way through
your system is between 36 and 40 hours
so by the time your stomach takes 4 to 5
hours to get the food through so no one
will very few the average person does
not they don't give their stomach a
chance to let the food go through so
you're crammed and food down there down
the pipe when the food doesn't even get
through the stomach right so we never
get a system the system to reboot that's
why in a minute fasting is so helpful
for the digestive system so there's a
thing called prolonged fasting and then
I'll I know I'm going a little bit too
long but this is important prolonged
fasting is a really important tool to
jumpstart not just weight loss but
health problems I'm talking about going
48 hours 72 hours or 21 hours right or
21 days so what's that 23 days yeah so
you can create some really cool effects
on your body with stem cell with healing
with weight loss with metabolism with
growth hormone but here's the thing I
would recommend letting your body tell
you when you're ready for that just kind
of go as long as you can and just don't
going there thinking I'm gonna go 21
days when you're dying at the day -
because you have to work up to it
so you gradually work this out maybe
once a month or once every other month
you do a prolonged fast and you keep
working in that because you want to
build up your your nutrient reserve
because you're drawing from your
nutrient reserve and I do recommend not
just doing water I do recommend
supplements electrolytes when you're
doing fasting because I've had a couple
people just pass out and hit their head
on something because they didn't have
enough electrolytes so we want the
potassium we want the sea salt I would
recommend that when you're doing
prolonged fasting and when you come off
prolonged fasting you want to do
refeeding slowly so you want it you
don't want to just eat a big huge meal
after 21 days have a little bit of
food wait a little bit a little bit of
food wait a little bit and then
gradually introduced the food or you'll
feel that you'll be sick because your
system is not ready for that if you have
a fatty liver that can prevent your
ability to get rid of insulin resistance
so choline is a really good supplement
to handle fatty liver I mean you can
actually pull the fat off within a
couple months with choline some other
things that are good for insulin
resistance apple cider vinegar is really
good cinnamon
vitamin D all this is in your notes by
the way I've given you guys a checklist
to follow so you don't even need to
write it down a couple last things and
then I'll be quiet
I've had people add a probiotic and also
they started losing weight because they
need to they that was people that are
actually overweight and thin they have
different microbial balances they have
different types of microbes in their gut
but adding a good-enough microbe and I
like the one that I like is it's called
effective microbes I'm gonna be doing a
video on it so I can give you more data
but the effective microbes is kind of a
unique non-dairy type of flora that
really fortifies the intestines and I've
had many people lose weight just by
adding a probiotic some people you have
to add a prebiotic like the sauerkraut
fermented that gives you the probiotic
and the prebiotic at the same exact time
last thing and then I'm done
hidden antibiotics they find that when
you when you're at an antibiotic that
kills out the bacteria you gain weight
that's why it farmers give antibiotics
to help fatten up the chickens and the
cattle things like that so you want to
consume organic foods or animals that
have not been given antibiotics but one
of the biggest hidden antibiotics is
glyphosate which is the Roundup Ready
from GMO it's patented as an antibiotic
so we've all been exposed to that so
again organic food because the GMO stuff
is like you just taking antibiotics and
that could be the reason why a lot of
people are getting fat
and then one last thing because I must
forgot dr. Berg app I just released it
you can download it it's if you haven't
downloaded and then one no thank you so
much you know and we'll be doing a Q&A
after the next two speakers thank you
[Applause]
