I like simple inexpensive solutions that
produce huge health benefits I'm going
to go through seven things apple cider
vinegar can do for you just try it one
night and watch what happens benefit
number one has to do with your blood
sugar the main ingredient in apple cider
vinegar is not a probiotic it's not
vitamins it's not minerals it's acetic
acid this is a very special acid that
can greatly help stabilize your blood
sugar when you go to bed all night long
your blood sugar is level your liver
won't have to make excess glucose you
see a lot of this when someone's a
diabetic they'll wake up in the morning
their blood sugar is really high despite
not eating any sugar because the liver
is making all this sugar because of this
insulin resistance issue apple cider
vinegar can greatly help this insulin
resistance and as you drink the appid of
vinegar you're going to find that it
will also inhibit the breakdown of these
starches or sugars slower so you get
less of a spike of blood sugar this
leads us to the second benefit of apple
cider vinegar sleep one to 2 tablespoons
of apple cider vinegar in a glass of
water in the evening before bed it's
going to help you sleep better it can
actually help your neurotransmitters
which will help you get into a much
deeper sleep because it's not just about
sleep it's about the quality of sleep
it's about the depth of sleep it's kind
of like when people drink alcohol uh
they sleep but they wake up feeling like
they have a hangover because they really
didn't get the quality of sleep third
benefit is the digestive benefit if if
you consume a meal at night maybe you
feel bloating appside of vinegar can
help reduce the bloating so it helps
digestion which is automatically going
to take a huge stress off your sleep in
addition to some people having heartburn
at night guess what alider vinegar can
fix that versus what most people do is
take an ant acid or a PPI or whatever oh
my gosh they're going to go from bad to
worse the next thing this apple cider
vinegar can do is have better absorption
with minerals calcium magnesium iron
zinc potassium all the minerals will go
in deeper with this acidic stomach if
your stomach is too alkaline you're not
going to absorb the minerals this is one
problem with people that don't have
enough acid if you've ever had like
these little Twitches or it's called
tetany on your skin by taking the upset
of vinegar you can help mobilize these
minerals you can get better absorption
of magnesium which can also indirectly
get rid of the calcium that's creating a
contraction or a tetany type twitching
and not only that we're also going to
improve cramps try to sleep if you get a
charlie horse or where you're bending
your toe and the and the foot goes into
a spasm because you get these cramps
that can be a severe thing that can wake
you up so whether you have a charlie
horse cramps in your legs or your feet
or any muscle spasm apple cider vinegar
can help it how by increasing the
absorption of of minerals and another
benefit on top of that is since you have
better blood sugar the need for snacking
is not going to be there because you're
not going to have a low blood sugar
situation so you're going to feel more
satisfied so less urge to snack at night
is a really good thing so many people
cannot not have a snack and the reason
for that is they're they might be hungry
or their blood sugars might be low Aleta
vinegar will greatly reduce the need for
a snacking the next benefit it's going
to indirectly help you lose weight why
because if insulin is more sensitive
then you're not going to be pumping out
all this excess insulin to make up for
this resistance and anytime there's less
insulin there's going to be less fat
even when they used to do insulin shock
therapy way back in the day I think this
was in the 20s or 30s they would
literally induce a coma by injecting
someone with a lot of insulin 2 weeks
later they wake up overweight because of
the excess insulin so this is how apple
cider vinegar can help help you also
lose weight because most of the fat is
burned at night not during the day what
increases the ability to burn fat at
night is growth hormone and there's one
hormone that blocks it insulin as well
as cortisol another benefit is just the
ability for your liver to detoxify
better you're also going to get a
release of bile more bile release that's
going to help you digesting fats and
helping the liver work and helping the
digestive juices work through that area
there's nothing worse than having a
backed up Gall BL ladder um because
you're not producing enough bile when
you're trying to sleep and it's
referring to your right side side here
so Alid of vinegar can help that as well
in fact your bile can't be released
unless the stomach is nice and acid this
is why when people take an acids they
end up having more gallbladder problems
that's one of the side effects of these
ant acids is more gall stones and lastly
and this is a really interesting one
acetic acid the main acid in alide of
vinegar can be used as f fuel to run
your body on that's right atic acid can
feed the energy Factory of the cell and
it can be used as just an alternative
fuel you make energy from it now you
might think that's going to keep you up
at night but no it's not it's going to
allow you to sleep more soundly and less
Restless you'll have less restless leg
syndrome you'll feel more relaxed you
get more minerals and what you have to
realize is it takes a good amount of
energy to be able to sleep sometimes
people are too tired to sleep they can't
get into a deep sleep think about what
sleep is it's not a passive thing it's
something active there's certain things
that are working to help induce certain
hormones the autonomic nervous system
work to help calm you down and acetic
acid gives you the energy to help you
sleep and wake up feeling refreshed so
you can have energy during the day and
you can have a restful sleep at night
please try this just one night and then
comment down below how well it worked
for you it's so inexpensive it's so easy
to do you take two tablespoons or even
one to start out in a glass of water
maybe put some lemon in if you want or a
couple drops of stevia if you don't like
the acidity take a straw drink it down
so it's not on your teeth and do that
right after dinner and watch what
happens you're going to feel a
significant difference thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
video
