so the question is should a woman who is
pregnant or breastfeeding do in a minute
fasting okay and the answer is no
because if there is preexisting
subclinical nutrient deficiencies then
everything is going to be magnified
because that mother is eating for two
now it is true that when you do in a
minute fasting the nutrient requirements
go down but still you don't want to mess
around because you want to make sure the
mother has everything she needs and a
lot of times a pregnant women will have
cravings those are simply nutritional
deficiencies there's higher incidence of
something called pica which is craving
things like dirt clay chalk paper starch
that is merely a deficiency of either
zinc calcium or iron so I don't
recommend doing in a minute fasting now
do I recommend healthy keto absolutely
for two reasons one is that when you do
have the keto you drop in your carbs a
lot of women who are pregnant the last
trimester develop insulin resistance and
sometimes diabetes now the problem is if
that mother gets diabetes the risks for
the child getting diabetes goes up by
three times so you don't want to pig out
and do ice cream and lots of sugar and
things like that you want to do healthy
keto and what the woman eats during
pregnancy will determine the future
health of that child it's crucial that
that mother consumes really healthy food
for example cod liver oil has the DHA
which is vital for brain growth and
brain structural development if a fetus
is deficient in DHA that the the actual
brain will be smaller okay and there'll
be problems with IQ in cognitive issues
and problems with visual acuity things
like that and of course fish like wild
caught salmon for the DHA as well and
also vitamin A and vitamin d3 cod liver
oil is an excellent source of vitamin d3
and vitamin A very important for a
growing baby seafood for DHA which is a
healthy fat that's the omega-3 fatty
acid and trace minerals you can also get
trace minerals and seek help for the
iodine iodine is so crucial especially
in the first and second trimester if
there's an iodine deficient
see the actual size of that that being
will be smaller the IQ will be less
there'll be a lot of problems with
learning and speech and even hearing
these trace minerals are essential to
prevent structural problems as well like
preventing dental malformations or
preventing scoliosis or flat feet a lot
of skeletal issues and of course you
know about a Mindi tree if that's
deficient you can end up with rickets
starting both legs all sorts of issues
with the with the actual bone eggs will
provide an excellent source of protein
and you can kind of look at eggs as a
multi vitamin mineral product greens
like in salad to provide vitamin C and
also the minerals like potassium and
magnesium these are all really really
important to activate the enzymes that
actually build human tissue meats for
the protein healthy meats of course
grass-fed and nutritional yeast to
provide the natural B vitamins
especially when you're breastfeeding
that will fortify the breast milk to
make it very very rich and healthy so if
you wanted a good example of a very
healthy baby watch this this is this a
trampoline Wow you want to pull my hair
oh there she goes there we go
handstands already
you're just non-stop lots of energy yeah
that's a nothing baby for you let's
workout just definitely work out for me
there's no Springs yeah ah time out time
out
oh you want more okay
