in this video we're going to talk about
breast milk and vitamin D this is a very
important video if you are pregnant or
you are a currently breastfeeding okay
or if you have an infant here's the data
and the most important thing you need to
know breast milk contains very small
amounts of vitamin D 1 cup of breast
milk only will give you one percent of
the RDA provide them in D and vitamin D
is vital for your immune system bone
formation sleep it's anti spasmodic it
prevents spasms and muscle and there's a
thing called subclinical rickets alright
what causes rickets one of the main
causes of rickets is vitamin D
deficiencies you can also have rickets
from low calcium or lower phosphorus but
vitamin D is the most common cause of
rickets and some of the symptoms of
rickets would be your bones become very
soft you get bowed legs okay you get
knock-knees scoliosis is a symptom of
rickets growth all sorts of
dental malformations vitamin D is
essential in preventing autoimmune
conditions preventing respiratory
infections now there's one article which
I'll put a link down below which is
quite interesting
44 randomly selected infants with lower
respiratory infection were evaluated for
subclinical rickets seven of the 44 had
subclinical rickets which i think is
very high percentage and one of the ways
they can diagnose it is through
malformation of the bones in your wrist
because vitamin D is essential in
growing bones and if you're deficient
you're gonna have malformation in the
growth of your balance but all 44
infants with respiratory infections all
had low vitamin D levels and how many
infants get respiratory infections very
common how many infants can't sleep now
as far as anti spasm goes what about
colic okay so an infant that is colicky
basically has a spasm in the smooth
muscle in the digestive system and
there's a huge connection between
vitamin D deficiencies and having that
symptom
this problem is very easily solved by
giving the mother who is breastfeeding
some cod liver oil I would recommend a
high quality virgin cod liver oil and
consume that on a regular basis or get
some Sun and you also have vitamin D
from other sources to fatty fish like
salmon sardines I'll put a link down
below for more information and where you
can get your vitamin D but cod liver oil
is one of the best sources alright guys
I'll talk to you later so vitamin D
deficiencies can create soft bones and
knock needs both legs what got you
freaked me out man
