hey guys today we're going to talk about
the benefits of snake oil yeah you heard
me right snake oil
snake oil has been used traditionally in
China for a very very long time it's
loaded with omega-3 fatty acids omega-3
fatty acids make up like epa and DHA
which are very essential for the brain
for the nervous system for the mood for
the cardiovascular system but snake oil
has 20% more epa than salmon oil ok so
everyone's talking about salmon oil what
about snake oil and this is analyzed in
1989 by the Western Journal of Medicine
ok so it's good for joint pain arthritis
bursitis supports a healthy
cardiovascular system why because it's
loaded with omega-3 fatty acids so I
want to talk about quackery for a second
okay what is quackery pretended medical
healthcare skill so when we have someone
who's pretending to have this certain
skill when they really don't in the
medical profession they're considered a
quack so then now let's just talk about
the website called quack watch I don't
feel about it before but quack watch is
very anti alternative health care they
basically attack anything that's not
medicine okay and it's run by a
psychiatrist which is very ironic
because there's nothing on there about
the quackery of psychiatry which by the
way fits this definition more than any
other profession in psychiatry there's
no talk therapy it's all drug therapy
there's no objective blood test or other
medical test in fact last year there was
twenty billion dollars of mental health
care industry fraud so I just find this
fascinating that a psychiatrist who's
really pushing the danger of alternative
medicine is in a profession that has the
most fraud of any profession so now
let's just take a look at this right
here it's called the Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
this is a psychiatrist Bible okay look
at how many pages that are in this book
so the question is how do they come
with all this data well you're gonna be
shocked to find out they actually vote
on these diseases okay so let's just
take a look at some of the disorders
that they have in here here's one three
or five point nine zero caffeine
disorder okay I think a lot of people
would fit that one I don't know what the
medication is to treat it here's another
one
borderline personality disorder okay
again that probably would fit a lot of
people okay here's another one
personality disorder not otherwise
specified again they're just making up
and they're just like putting every
single possible behavior into this book
alright so here's another one right here
v6 1.8 sibling relationship problem if
you have a problem with your siblings we
have a diagnosis for that I like this
one v 15.8 one non compliance with
treatment disorder reasons for
non-compliance may include discomfort
resulting from treatment expense of
treatment decisions based on religious
or cultural belief Wow
interesting so you'd better comply with
the treatment or we will give you
another diagnosis here's one religious
or spiritual problem that's V 62 point
eight nine Wow okay phase of life
problem that's a v6 two point eight nine
okay so this is a includes a problems
related to entering school starting a
new career all right here's another one
recurrent brief depressive disorder a
depressive episode that does not meet
the two-week duration requirement lasts
at least two days but less than two
weeks episodes must reoccur once a month
for a period of 12 consecutive months
like who makes this stuff up so quack
watch puts a tremendous amount of
attention on alternative care so that
way no one will pay attention to the
real quacks
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
