so in this video we're gonna talk about
the five things not to do when you're
doing in a minute fasting okay well the
first thing is consuming branch amino
acids or collagen when you're in the
fasting state why because this will
knock you out of ketosis because it's
there both of these are proteins also
one side now is these are partial amino
acids it's not a mixture with all the
amino acids the next thing not to do is
that what's called a five and two we're
five days of the week you're doing
whatever you want eating whatever and in
the two days you're doing a low-calorie
diet like 500 calories maybe on a
Saturday or Sunday right and then you go
back to your regular meals five days a
week that's not beneficial because it
never gives your body a chance to adapt
it's not consistent enough to really see
the changes in Plus when you're doing
500 calories those calories are going to
block your fasting so the amount of time
that you're fasting within this is
actually very very small and it's a bit
painful because you never fully a key to
adapt you never really get into it where
it's comfortable you're gonna be hungry
you're gonna have symptoms so I do not
like this at all next one is omitting
salt and electrolytes when you consume
salt in electrolytes there's no calories
there they're just basically minerals
and it's very very important to do this
because a lot of people have a
preexisting subclinical nutritional and
nutrient deficiencies going into this
and so everything's magnified so the
last thing we want is you having you
faint and feeling dizzy and even passing
out okay so your body and your heart
especially needs electrolytes potassium
sodium things like that and salt also
will prevent like weakness fatigue
especially of the muscles okay number
four if you're doing prolonged fasting
let's say 72 hours and you have this
huge meal okay when you're done with it
that can create some problems because
your body it doesn't have the enzymes
built up it's it's not it's been so used
to fasting and then you're gonna shock
this system with all these calories and
all this nutrition not a good idea
so do like a small
I'll make sure it's healthy and then
wait a little bit if you want and then
have the next meal a little bit later
but you don't want to do a humungous
meal now maybe you want to do this if
you're at one meal a day but not when
you're going like 2 or 3 or 4 day type
of fasting ok number 5 omitting keto so
there are people I know that are doing
in a minute fasting but then when they
eat they eat pretty much whatever they
want and it's not really good foods
what's the point of getting these
incredible benefits for minimum fasting
by lowering insulin when you're just
putting in garbage back in the body so
you want to combine healthy ki tell
within a minute fasting you don't want
to keep them separate so that was the
quick video thanks for watching so if
you want to get notified with all my
content click the notification bell next
to subscribed
