so I want to talk about one of the most
important foods that you should be
eating on the ketogenic diet and that
would be shellfish okay why because if
you're gonna do the healthy version of
Aikido you want to make sure that you
consume nutrient-dense foods and out of
all the foods shellfish are at the top
of the list when we deal with nutrients
that are really important and that are
commonly deficient in your diet so
shellfish is loaded with iodine mostly
iodine is stored in the thyroid it's in
other organs too but it's there to help
make thyroid hormones it's really
important in a growing child also if a
woman is pregnant it's vital that they
consume foods with iodine because that
has an influence on their IQ as well as
their growth so it's very very important
number to iron now if you're deficient
iron you can have a lot of problems
anemia growth and development carrying
oxygen through your body but having an
efficiency of iron is equally as bad as
having too much so you don't want too
much you don't want too little you want
just the right amount just so happens
that shellfish has a good amount of the
type of iron that your body needs next
one is zinc zinc important
well it's involved in 2,000 different
enzymes in your body so it's vitally
important for your immune system for
your skin to help you with testosterone
to help prevent viruses and bacteria so
it really helps your immune system it's
just involved in a lot of different
things so shellfish is a little with
zinc selenium okay this is a really
important mineral by the way it's a
trace mineral and it's most concentrated
in the thyroid it acts as a very
powerful antioxidant to protect against
oxidation that we actually make as
hydrogen peroxide especially if we have
a problem with the thyroid let's say for
example you in Hashimoto's for example
or have any autoimmune you're going to
generate more free radicals more
oxidants so you need a very powerful
antioxidant now your body makes
something called glutathione and guess
what you need selenium to make
at antioxidant so selenium is really in
central and keeping things at bay and
neutralizing these free radicals it does
a lot of other things as well
selenium is very plentiful in shellfish
next thing is copper
it's another trace mineral copper is
really good for the adrenals it's also
involved with collagen and ligaments and
tendons so it's a really important trace
mineral and then we have DHA which is
really key for the brain for the eye for
the heart this is an omega-3 fatty acid
it helps in the development of the size
of the brain but it's also important in
a lot of other things too in fact your
brain is structurally made out of this
fat okay shellfish has this fat then b12
if you're deficient in b12 not only
could you experience Annie Mia but you
could experience debilitating
neurological problems that could become
permanent
so b12 is also in shellfish now if
you're on the ketogenic diet definitely
start increasing the amount of shellfish
and your diet talking about crab lobster
shrimp scallops oysters clams and
mussels just make sure you add more
grass-fed butter to it as you dip your
shrimp or Lobster in the butter okay
because we want the benefit of the
healthy fat in there called butyrate
which is really good for our digestive
system now if we were to rate all the
foods based on the density of nutrients
in order of importance I would put this
number one this number two eggs have
just about every nutrient except vitamin
C number three is vegetables and I'm
talking about dark leafy greens and
especially things like asparagus very
very important for your full eight which
stabilizes your DNA it does a lot more
but a lot of people are deficient in
folate and also these foods have a lot
of magnesium and potassium and item and
C and by the way I would say forty to
fifty percent of the population is
deficient in magnesium which is another
really really important mineral that you
need okay then cruciferous vegetables
are also very important
and that will help to give you
additional health benefits that go way
beyond just vitamins and minerals plus
it has tons of potassium magnesium
vitamin C things like that okay then we
have fish okay make sure you get the
wild caught salmon is at the top of the
list you want fatty fish it's loaded
with DHA it has B 12 and add zinc it has
a lot of these minerals right here and
then we get beef liver I personally
don't like liver but I will consume
either pate or something like the
liverwurst that US wellness has because
they they add in their liver and kidney
and heart it's actually very healthy for
you now there's a lot of other foods
grass-fed meats and things like that but
I wanted to give you a list of very
nutrient-dense foods in the order that
I'm just basically arbitrarily making
but in the order which I think has the
most concentrated nutrients alright
thanks for watching if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
