so there's one cell in your body
that takes a beating it does the
majority of detoxification and that cell
is called the hepatocyte and hepatocytes
are liver cells so your liver is the
main detoxification organ of the entire
body
to a lesser degree the kidneys help you
detoxify in small intestine helps you
detoxify the skin can help you detoxify
and even your fat cells can help to some
degree
detoxify but it's that liver that takes
a beating So today we're going to talk
about how to make sure your liver is
doing its job I want to give you some
solutions that are simple easy changes
to protect yourself but you do need to
be aware of the quantity of chemicals
that we are swimming in every day
because they do affect us in a negative
way but it's hard to pinpoint One Thing
versus another because there are so many
chemicals and variables it's very hard
to test for this I mean think about this
we have 27 trillion pounds of chemicals
that are produced or imported from other
places to the U.S every single year
that's 74 billion pounds every single
day which comes out to about 250 pounds
of chemicals per person
so there's a lot of exposure of
chemicals now you might say well I live
a pretty clean life and I don't I'm not
really exposed to chemicals it doesn't
include fuels doesn't include pesticides
it doesn't even include the chemicals in
your food and I'm not even including the
poisons I'm sorry did I say poisons I
meant medications from health care I
mean it's just bizarre to me that if we
think about health care well that's just
another way we're exposed to more
chemicals to suppress symptoms I mean
really what's missing in healthcare is
the health part I mean what is in health
care that's actually creating more
Health these chemicals they build up the
half-life and some of these chemicals
can be from weeks to years to decades
and a half-life the substance is that
you're reducing the potency of something
by 50 over a period of time so it
becomes less activated and a lot of
times they'll measure the half-life of
certain chemicals okay the book on
toxicology you can see there's actually
quite a few toxins in our environment
and a lot of information on it but the
half-life a lot of these chemicals are
measured usually through the blood not
necessarily through your tissues the
cells outside the blood which is a whole
different thing we definitely need to do
three things we need to be aware of the
chemicals we need to reduce the exposure
to the chemicals and we definitely need
to increase the ability to detoxify the
chemicals and the main support needs to
be to the hepatocyte that liver cell and
now a lot of these chemicals in the
environment act like estrogen okay so
they're called estrogen disruptors or
even endocrine disruptors because what
they do to the endocrine systems they
can act and mimic like your hormones and
so they can really throw off the thyroid
the adrenals the pituitary all these
different hormonal Pathways and there's
definitely a direct connection between
what those chemicals do and how they
damage the DNA how they alter the DNA
they can mutate and change the DNA and
they create a lot of diseases a lot of
oxidation and free radical damage and of
course this free radical damage can
create a whole Cascade of problems and
this is why antioxidants help to counter
that our bodies make antioxidants and we
also can get antioxidants from food now
another really interesting thing about
certain chemicals in foods that can help
us detoxify is the fact that we already
have the Machinery the enzymes
within our bodies okay we have certain
enzymes that can turn poisons in Thomas
particles but they can become activated
by certain things in our Foods so
sometimes we have this idea that it's
just the antioxidants that are kind of
countering the oxidation but also
they're activating something that we
already have inside we just need to turn
on those genes to do the job a little
bit better and I just had my DNA tested
and apparently I also have certain
detoxifying genes that are not working
like they should so I have to work
harder at getting them to work so
there's a group of enzymes that are
called the cytochrome p450 enzymes and
there's this whole biochemical pathway
that goes from phase one phase two phase
three that helps to turn these poisons
into things that are harmless so the
majority of that occurs in that
hepatocyte that it does incur in other
places in the body so I'm going to be
going through uh things that we can do
to minimize exposure to the poisons well
you can do to activate them and also the
number one food that will help you
activate these enzymes that you already
have all we have to do is trigger them
we have toxins and pollution from the
air
from the water
from the food from beauty products right
lotions shampoo hair gels conditioners
hair dyes etc etc etc we need to make
sure those are as clean as possible
let's just kind of go down the list and
just talk about it so air pollution I
would highly recommend getting some type
of filter there's one good one called
Merv 8 and that can be very essential if
you live in polluted areas especially if
you live in the city you want that air
filter to minimize the amount of
chemicals and that can make a big
difference in your exposure number two
growing certain plants that can help
soak up chemicals like Benzene and
formaldehyde and many of the other
chemicals in the air so it's not a very
expensive thing to just have more plants
in your house and I'm going to put a
video down below of what plants I would
recommend spending more time in nature
is very very therapeutic from just
breathing in healthy air all right what
about a water filter do you have a
shower filter do you have a water filter
you definitely need to get one the
amount of crap that's in our water I
mean even chlorine yes chlorine will
kill off pathogens but on the flip side
it can increase the risk of cancer so we
have chlorine we have fluoride we have
all these other chemicals in the water
so you need to get a water filter and
they don't have to be expensive I mean a
really simple uh relatively inexpensive
water filter and you get all different
kinds you can get it from the shower or
a pitcher or under the counter or over
the counter just go to zero water I'll
put a link down below I'm not affiliated
with them but they have a good system
they have three ways of getting rid of
chemicals the carbon filter they have
one that binds to heavy metals and they
have another filter that will help
reduce other things like chloride and
fluoride and things like that now
another really important thing is fish
okay always it's well caught farm-raised
fish are loaded with pcbs okay just more
chemicals you want to do wild caught and
you definitely want to consume the fish
that are smaller you don't want to
consume the big fish like avoid
swordfish
shark
tuna these fish accumulate a lot of
mercury because they tend to eat smaller
fish that eat smaller fish so there's a
much higher concentration of mercury
like sometimes up to a thousand times
more and that mercury can accumulate in
your body but with the smallest fish
there's much much less Mercury and the
selenium can bind to the Mercury that's
in there and inactivate it so it's not a
problem now what about organic
vegetables absolutely let's say you just
can't afford organic you can break down
a considerable amount of
organophosphates by using apple cider
vinegar and water you just put a fourth
of a cup of apple cider vinegar and a
gallon of water and wash your vegetables
you can remove a lot of chemicals just
by that simple procedure so organic food
is without pesticides and it is more
nutrient dense now I already mentioned
the chemical free beauty products so
many people are exposing their bodies
deodorants and hand creams and they're
not really reading the lab able these
things accumulate they go into the liver
the next thing I would really avoid is
canned Foods canned foods greatly
increase things called bpas and I'm not
going to get into the technicalities of
them but if you go through this book
right here and look at the section of
bpas you're going to find that they
create a lot of problems with your
endocrine system their endocrine
disruptors and you're going to get a lot
of them if you're consistently eating
canned foods especially those soups so I
would just avoid canned foods or if you
do consume them don't consume them often
all right so let's bring up the number
one food to help
strengthen and trigger the detoxifying
enzymes and the hepatocyte the liver
cell and that is cruciferous vegetables
now there's a lot of other things that
will do it too like garlic for example
onion will do it oregano but the
cruciferous family of vegetables
are potent inducers of cytochrome p450
enzymes and there's a tremendous amount
of research on this it's hardcore data
those Foods consumed on a regular basis
can help too not just pull chemicals out
but they also provide a lot of other
benefits anti-inflammatory anti-cancer
now every time you deal with toxins or
free radicals or antioxidants people
always think about plants right because
we all know that these antioxidants are
not in you know meets well that's not
actually true I recently was involved in
a study sending my beef from my farm
into a study okay it's called beef
nutrient density study I just want to
show you this one graph right here I
don't know if you can see this see this
this green bar right here okay right
there versus the Blue Bar versus the
this other colored bar right here I
think it's pink so right here we have Dr
Berg's beef and then we have other
Farmers on average of the grass-fed beef
and then we have the grain-fed beef now
what this is evaluating
is phytonutrients these are plant-based
chemicals plant-based chemicals in beef
now the healthier the beef the more
you're going to have these plant-based
chemicals that can act as antioxidants
and create a lot of other health
benefits but you can see there are
definitely more if you compare grain fed
to grass-fed definitely more but the
healthier the beef like I do grass-fed
grass finished okay and I really take
care of my cattle so you can see the
amount of phytonutrients this would be a
great substitute for vegetables if you
have gut problems right because there's
definitely a increase in people doing
carnivore because of their gut issues
and people will say well you can't get
all the nutrients from beef or other
types of organ Meats well apparently you
can but I really think it's the quality
well this just proves it it's the
quality of meat you know you're not
going to go down to the local
um Safeway grocery store and get deli
meat and think you're going to be
getting those phytonutrients you know
you're going to have to go to a farmer's
market or you're going to have to get
grass-fed grass finished to really get
the full health benefits of these
products is the animal being fed grains
okay or grass and weeds grown unhealthy
soils so we have the cruciferous
vegetables like the kale the broccoli
the arugula the radish all those are
very very key but you also have all the
herbs too that can greatly help you and
then we have things that contain B
vitamins that can help you detoxify I
did a whole video on that it's actually
a very interesting video which I'll put
a link down below and then we have
minerals that help you detoxify like
selenium like in Brazil nuts very
important to help increase glutathione
which is another enzyme to help break
down poisons and your gut microbiome is
so important in supporting
detoxification
if you don't have the full diversity of
your gut microbes that's going to limit
your ability to get rid of poisons so
start consuming foods with microbes like
sauerkraut kimchi kefir very important
the next thing I want to talk about is
fasting when you fast especially
periodic prolonged fasting you increase
your own body's network of antioxidants
okay you strengthen and turn on the
genes that help you detoxify your liver
starts increasing its capacity to get
rid of poisons you go through what's
called autophagy which is the recycling
of old damaged proteins and getting rid
of pathogens strengthening the systems
that help keep you clean you know I had
this really bizarre thought I would love
to go into a nursing home and just
replace their food just to see what
would happen to the health of these
elderly people I think the need for
medications would go way down and it
would probably just be miraculous but
unfortunately I just found something out
that's pretty depressing that there's
certain regulations about people in
nursing homes and I think even hospitals
that they have to eat every 14 hours and
they have to have these certain
foods which I'm looking at being not
very very healthy so I think it would be
very difficult unfortunately to put them
on some type of intermittent fasting
program which is exactly what they need
and actually have them eat food that
came from the farm that would be just
awesome but if you have the ability to
do intermittent fasting do it it's going
to help you and last point about toxins
is exercise and sweating very important
when you exercise you stimulate genes
that help you detoxify but if you over
train you're going to really shut down
the systems to get rid of toxins because
think about when you exercise you're
generating a lot of free radical damage
and oxidation from just the metabolism
of pushing yourself so that requires a
strong robust antioxidant system there
are certain things like grapefruit okay
and grapefruit juice and St John's Wort
that inhibit that detoxification system
in the pedocyte so this is why if
someone's taking a drug or a medication
and they're taking grapefruit juice at
the same time they're going to retain
these chemicals in their body and I'm
not telling you not to consume them I'm
just telling you that they do tend to
slow down the elimination of poisons
there's a very interesting video on a
vitamin deficiency that can greatly
influence your ability to detoxify and I
put that video up right here check it
out
