hey guys this Dr Burke here and now
we're going to talk about part three of
healthy lifestyle hacks okay this one's
a good one so basically when you
recommend something to someone or if
you're going to implement something you
need to understand the why behind the
what to do it's very important to know
the theory of why something works versus
just blindly following it right so let's
just talk about that for a second so why
would you need vegetables why do you
need so much why do you need 7 to 10
cups of vegetable why well how is you
going to get your potassium and
nutrients your body requires 4700
milligrams of potassium every single day
we you going to get it there's no pill
that you could actually supplement you
need to get it from vegetables in large
quantities plus the vegetable flush out
flushes out the fat it cleans out the
liver as you burn fat very important you
get all the nutrients other nutrients
magnesium you know trace minerals
vitamins from the vegetable okay okay
number two why why shouldn't you snack
because every time you eat anything you
stimulate insulin insulin resistance or
a pre-diabetic situation is too much
insulin so if we cut it down we can
actually improve or correct that thing
the other thing is that if you don't
snack you're going to lose more weight
because um the principle of weight loss
is the absence of carbohydrates that's
the most important thing not the absence
of calories but cutting out the carbs
and the sugars okay and mainly because
that lowers insulin so if we can keep
insulin Low by not snacking because
snacking actually stimulates stimulates
insulin you can start to really see some
serious change that's a very important
thing versus having this idea that you
can have six snacks a day whatever okay
avoid too much water so people are
pushing this water on you every day oh
you got to drink your water drink your
water drink your water why shouldn't you
drink drink water because the peak
coming out of you is not the same as the
water going in the peak coming out of
you has a lot of electrolytes the more
water you drink the more you flush
things out like electrolytes so drinking
pure water is not replacing electrolytes
it's diluting electrolytes that can
weaken the heart and you're going to
feel bloated um and you're you're you're
not going to be hydrated so I know this
might sound strange but too much water
will dehydrate you because hydration is
a combination of electrolytes and fluid
okay so you want to drink when you're
thirsty and not push too much in the
system because you blow the kidney fats
with meals why do you need to have fat
with a meal well because that allows you
not not just to get the fat cyal
vitamins but to allow you to go longer
to be satisfied if you go low fat you're
not going to go long time without eating
you're going to be hungry and you're
going to eat you're going to cheat so
you want to be satisfied so you don't
eat so much and stimulate insulin so our
goal is to reduce insulin so you don't
want to avoid fat so you want to consume
them because that lowers the insulin
okay it's the only food that won't
trigger insulin okay all right I will
see you in part
four
