hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about why ketosis has gotten a bad
rap in certain communities okay now it's
mainly because there's quite a few
studies there's like over 650
publications that show that consuming
high fat diets will cause diabetes
metabolic syndrome high sugar and
insulin resistance okay so of course why
would we want to do a ketogenic diet
well if you read these studies what
you're gonna find they're done on
rodents rats and mice okay
now the question is what is this
standard high fat diet I got it right
here this is this is it right here the
standard high fat diet is not really a
high fat diet it's a high fat and a high
carbohydrate and sugar diet and we know
that if you combine sugar with fat
you're gonna cause diabetes if you're
doing healthy ketosis you're not going
to be doing this you're not going to be
consuming what these mice are consuming
first of all it casein okay that's milk
protein corn starch GMO as well and then
you've malted dextran which you know
about that that's like 10 times worse
than sugar sucrose soybean oil which is
GMO lard and synthetic vitamins we don't
consume this this is not very healthy
this would cause diabetes so we have 650
studies out there that are going out
into the community into media and
they're gonna picking it up and you're
getting rumors oh it's bad it's
dangerous so the next time that happens
pull the string and find out what study
they're quoting and then show them this
okay because if you consume this you
probably would have diabetes okay the
next thing is the traditional ketosis
that were the studies that were done
with kids that then showed side effects
of kidney stones okay well here's the
thing they were doing this for epilepsy
okay and they weren't necessarily
looking at an overall healthy ketogenic
diet within a minute fasting at all what
they reckon
was margarine different types of oil and
something called keto kale which they
still sell right now which is
hydrogenated soy oil which is
genetically modified corn syrup solids
and I'm not kidding maltodextrin and
synthetic vitamins again not a healthy
thing not something that we would
recommend and it's a tremendous amount
of poor quality oil a little bit of poor
quality protein hardly any vegetables
now what's going to happen is you're
going to put the person into some really
serious ketosis and ketones are acidic
and you are going to build up more uric
acid if you're that acidic because you
have no alkaline minerals to counter
that pH problem so you're gonna develop
uric acid stones probably gout okay so
you need the vegetables so again we have
to differentiate healthy ketosis and in
a minute fasting with these over here
they're not the same oh and the next
time the critic says something bad about
the diet always ask them what diet do
you recommend that's healthy and that's
where the conversation stops right there
because they don't have a better diet
than healthy ketosis and in a minute
fasting all right thanks for watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last Edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has a hundred and fifty six
images three hundred seventy eight pages
full glossary I talked about keto in a
minute fasting the body types in detail
I have a new stressed chapter I'm going
to show you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
