hi guys Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about spoon Nails where
you're actually your nail starts bending
backwards okay that is a iron deficiency
and some of the common causes would be
an ulcer some type of male absorption
problem in your intestine uh hemorrhoids
colitis which is inflammation in your
colon because you can't absorb it but
the probably the most common cause is
low hydrochloric acid in your stomach
and because you need a a strong acidic
stomach to absorb these minerals if you
don't have a strong acid stomach you
also get heartburn acid reflux gird at
the same time indigestion so that's why
it's so important to get that stomach
really working good so uh even if you're
a vegetarian um you may get um non- heem
type iron from you know here's some good
sources like yellow beans spirulina
spinach lentils Ginger sesame seeds but
those have to be those are only absorbed
a certain amount um but the actual
active form of iron that goes into the
blood and helps you carry oxygen that
basically comes from um more animal
products or uh seafood or fish uh clams
by the way have the highest amount of
iron then pork liver I know you're going
to probably do that right lamb kidney
oysters octopus muscles red meat so all
the foods that a lot of people don't
consume on a regular basis so it could
be just some basic malabsorption problem
in your intestine that's that's a real
common thing as well IBS which is
irritable bowel syndrome again another
inflammation in your gut or parasites
okay so if you have a problem with spoon
Nails you just want to start consuming
more iron if you want to get it as a
supplement um get the food based ones
probably some liver pills some grass-fed
liver pills that's what I would do so in
summary we want to find out the cause of
why you're not absorbing iron um it's
rarely lacking in the diet it's mainly
one of these right here all right thanks
for watching
hi guys thanks so much for watching
press this little button down here it
says subscribe and I will make sure that
I won't send more than five to 10 videos
a day okay no I'm just kidding it'll be
one or two thanks
