let's talk about the toxic effects of
copper okay it's actually quite common
but people don't realize it I'm gonna
give you the symptoms first depression
anxiety no focus overworked adrenals
which is going to create adrenal fatigue
and then fatigue insomnia of course
which leads to more fatigue low blood
pressure sometimes vomiting and there's
a whole list of additional symptoms
I mean hypothyroidism black tarry stool
I mean the list goes on and on this is
going to be a very summery video I put a
link down below of a great comprehensive
video if you want more information but
it's a very common thing but people
don't realize they might even have this
condition a good blood test slash hair
analysis could pick it up real fast
I realize that copper works with zinc
and you need copper in your body for
many different things but when it
becomes too high it becomes very toxic
now there's several causes of having too
much copper in your body one is you're
using certain cookware that has copper
in it too birth control pills as well as
the IUD that can put copper in your body
and create a huge imbalance certain
supplements copper is one of those trace
minerals that you need in very very
small amounts you don't need large
amounts that is one of the reasons why I
don't put copper in a lot of my products
and if I do it's in very very small
amounts with other minerals especially
zinc because you don't want to just take
copper for a long period of time because
it's going to throw off a lot of other
minerals specifically zinc so the more
copper you have the more zinc
deficiencies that you're going to get
and zinc deficiency is very very common
but it's also very important to know all
the different causes of zinc deficiency
which will lead to excess amounts of
copper now low stomach acids create a
zinc deficiency okay because you need
the acid to help you absorb zinc and if
you're deficient in zinc you're going to
have excess amount of copper
and then straight zinc deficiency which
you can get more data in the link down
below one way to help counter the
toxicity of copper is to actually take
zinc alright there's certain foods that
are very very high in copper that would
be dark chocolate mushrooms definitely
shellfish but shellfish also has zinc so
sometimes that can actually counter it
but if you're trying to get rid of the
toxic effect of copper I probably would
just go low on all of these foods right
here nuts
sesame seeds are very high in copper now
if the gallbladder is either missing or
congested you're not going to be able to
eliminate copper that well and that can
back up and deliver and create all sorts
of damage in the liver and as well as in
the brain there's a genetic condition
called Wilson's disease which is a
toxicity of copper in the liver creating
all sorts of issues I don't want to get
into that at this point but the point is
that if the gallbladder is not allowing
things to flow properly through the bile
ducts into the small intestine you can
get a backup of copper and create some
serious problems with the liver
specifically cirrhosis okay and if
there's damage will deliver itself you
can also have a buildup in copper
phytates which are in whole grains and
beans block zinc which could
automatically give you too much copper
so the bottom line is if you have too
much copper you need to avoid the things
that are giving you too much copper and
you need to take zinc to help the ratios
okay alright thanks for watching so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications
