so there's this hidden source of heart
attacks that rarely does anyone know
about and this is a book by Thomas Levy
MD and so I'll put the link down below
but it was actually quite fascinating
because I have personal experience with
what I'm going to talk about let me
first jump to the Smoking Gun okay I'm
going to tell you what he States in his
book in 78% of 101 patients with
myocardial infarction
that's heart attacks and uded coronary
arteries they found DNA of pathogens
typical for infections in root canal
treated teeth now this is pretty wild
I've talked about this briefly in
another video but the big question is
what are these pathogenic bofilm
microorganisms doing in your heart how
do they get there and what's the
relationship to your teeth now they also
found these microbes also in the clots
in certain stroke victims too just a
quick story I went to the dentist uh a
while ago and um they're just doing a
routine checkup and he had this really
cool so I think it was called a 3D cone
beam Imaging system where they basically
can scan all the roots of the teeth and
look uh deep inside for potential
citations or like infections underneath
the teeth now I was also an X-ray tech
before I was a chiropractor so I was
interested in to see what was going on
and so when I was looking at my teeth I
noticed there was this like huge dark
little circle around one of my tooth
roots of course he looked at it he said
yeah you have a you have an infection
going on in your tooth now I had no
symptoms whatsoever so basically this
infection which is an absis underneath a
tooth was eating away my bone and So
based on this book it's The Chronic
long-term infection that that can become
a problem for people not just for heart
problems but for arthritis and many
other issues apparently it's quite
common if you look up uh the condition's
name it's called chronic apical
periodontitis that many times doesn't
have any symptoms so basically as you're
chewing in things you're pushing this
bacteria deeper into the lymphatic
system in your jaw and uh throughout the
body and Dr Levy uh points out some
really interesting data there's
basically between 15 and 25 million
people a year that get root canals okay
and uh his theory is that the root canal
is where the problem is because when
they do a root canal they go in there
they take out some of the pulp and they
try to sterilize it and then they seal
it the problem is they also at the same
time take out a lot of the tubul you
have like one or two miles of these
small little tubes and so as you scrape
away this you take away the immune
system as well so here we have this
potential for pathogens to create
problems because it's nearly impossible
to get rid of all the pathogens when
they do this procedure and so there's a
high incidence of people with dental
abscesses and chronic inflammation of uh
the root of the tooth or the gums and
people who have heart attacks which is
actually very very interesting and many
times this is missed on routine dental
X-rays one way that some people might
pick it up is through a blood test
looking at the C reactive protein which
is just like a biomarker of inflammation
this infection could be in the tooth it
could be in the gums it could be deeper
into the jaw and it can even be in the
tonsils it's The Chronic exposure to
these pathogens that create the problem
especially if your immune system is not
strong enough to counter it because
these pathogens are creating a lot of
what's called oxidative stress okay now
oxidative stress is basically a
situation where you have a lot of free
radical damage but we don't have enough
antioxidant Reserve to counter that
situation I mean think about how dirty
the mouth is you have over 500 different
strains of bacteria viruses in fungus
growing in your mouth and then you also
have this byproduct of the microb which
is toxins that can then create more
immune reaction more inflammation in
different parts of your body Apparently
one of the ways the body reacts to this
situation is by developing clots and so
over time when this becomes more chronic
a person's going to generally feel
fatigue chronic inflammation jaw
problems and sensitivity of the teeth in
my situation I did notice when he
removed the tooth I immediately noticed
my inflammation in my upper back and
neck just kind of disappeared so that
was fascinating but if I didn't get that
x-ray and see that cavitation I never
would have guessed that would be the
cause but basically we're dealing with a
leaky bacterial overload situation that
kind of causes a compromise to your
immune system but let's just say for
example someone has this infection right
and they feel a little tired but they
don't really know if it's coming from
this area or not you feel like your
immune system is compromised and you are
wondering if you have this oxidative
stress overload situation uh what you
could do is just take uh one or two
grams of liposomal vitamin C it's not
the vitamin C complex to fulfill a
vitamin C deficiency we're primarily
using it as an antioxidant to lower the
oxidative stress and what's unique about
this specific type of vitamin C is that
it's one of the only ones that can go
intracellular I'd recommend taking maybe
500 mg sever several times a day and
this is because vitamin C is water cable
so we just want to keep it flowing
through your body and the last point
about this type of vitamin C is that it
won't create diarrhea when you're taking
large amounts like other types of
ascorbic acid but that would at least
change the ratio of this antioxidant to
oxidative stress level to see if that
might help you and if you does and you
feel a little bit better and you feel
like your symptoms might improve then
you can start to dive deeper into why
you might have this problem is it
related to diet is it related to not
sleeping is it related to OV exercising
is it related to a potential tooth
infection but this is just a short
overview of this topic I would highly
recommend getting this book it's filled
with a lot more data it's actually quite
fascinating so I'll put the link down
below and also if you haven't seen my
other video on
atherosclerosis and this bofilm
mechanism I put that video up right here
check it
out
