So today we're going to talk about how
to get rid of xanthomas what is a
xanthoma a xanthoma is a buildup of
cholesterol and triglycerides on the top
of the skin it's actually these cells
called macrophages which is an immune
cell that eats up things and it's
sucking up too much cholesterol and
triglyceride and it's in your skin and
it shows up as this yellowish white
deposit sometimes on the inside of the
eyelid right through here on both sides
or in the palm of the hand
or your elbows your knees your Achilles
tendon and that's all very interesting
but what is at the bottom of this what
is really causing this and then how do
we get rid of it but first let's talk
about what we know about xanthomas we do
know that many times these xanthomas are
associated okay they don't say caused by
but they're associated with some type of
hereditary lipid disorder okay lipids
are fats so one example would be a
familial hyper cholesterol anemia and
that's a hereditary condition that's
passed on by your genes where you have
high cholesterol which is very resistant
to various types of treatment it's
really a problem where you don't have
enough receptors in your liver for LDL
cholesterol and so your body just can't
get rid of this cholesterol so sometimes
it'll back up in the skin and show up as
these xanthemas but it's also associated
with various other things that I want to
talk about too one being delivery track
obstruction what is that that is a
blockage of your bile ducts because bile
is the primary thing that gets rid of
excess cholesterol you just have excess
cholesterol because the bile can't do
its job then you have another condition
called primary biliary cirrhosis and
this is another condition where we're
getting a blockage of the bile things
are not flowing correctly through the
bile ducts so we're going to have a
problem with getting rid of cholesterol
then we have another condition called
choleostasis now the term stasis means
stagnant it's non-moving okay so the
cholesterol is not moving through the
body there's sludge in the bile ducts
and this is actually I find it's very
common in a lot of people they have this
bile sludge that is not along the flow
of bile and they have all sorts of
issues with right shoulder pain because
of the backup of the system with
inability to digest fats with
um discomfort underneath the right rib
cage with an increased risk of getting
gallstones which is a bile salt
deficiency and choleostasis which is his
bio sludge is really kind of like the
step that occurs before you get a stone
because bile helps thin this sludge and
xanthalmas are also associated with high
A1C and diabetes which means there's too
much glucose in your blood and so when
someone has this xanthoma okay it's a
little red indicator light letting you
know that you have high cholesterol
probably high triglycerides and probably
high LDL caused by the things I just
mentioned a lot of times people have
this idea that if they have high
cholesterol or triglycerides in their
blood that means they're consuming more
cholesterol fat or triglycerides when in
fact this is not always the case carbs
sugar refined carbohydrates convert very
easily to triglycerides and color strong
and so your high LDL cholesterol and
triglycerides could be coming just
because you're consuming too many carbs
not necessarily fat and on the flip side
of that many times people think that the
ketogenic diet is really a high fat diet
when actually the ketogenic diet really
means low carb it doesn't mean
necessarily high fat but of course when
you lower your carbs and you have
moderate protein you end up eating a lot
of fat but to generate ketones you do it
by lowering your carbs all right so what
can someone do about these xanthomas
okay I'm going to give you a list of
things the most important thing is to
take niacin in the amount of niacin I
would recommend would be 500 milligrams
extended release and I would take that
two to three times a day by the way
niacin is one of the most potent ways to
lower cholesterol in the body especially
the buildup of cholesterol in different
parts of the body as well as reducing
the uptake of LDL by the macrophage okay
number two I would recommend choline
okay choline is a supplement choline
helps to prevent a fatty liver choline
helps to reduce cholesterol number three
tadka what is tuck cup it's a very
specialized type of bile salt that helps
cholestasis which is that stagnant
cholesterol in your bile ducts it helps
the flow of cholesterol it helps reduce
cholesterol it helps The receptors in
the liver take on LDL it helps to lower
LDL cholesterol it does a lot but what
we want is a nice flow of cholesterol
out of the liver so you can get rid of
the excess cholesterol so niacin choline
Tucka okay I also recommend consuming
huge salads okay like seven to ten cups
of salad every single day and I would
also put walnuts on the salad because
they're high in the precursor for
omega-3 fatty acids okay which actually
helps lower cholesterol and I would also
put extra virgin olive oil with some
garlic on there and that's going to
assist in getting rid of some of this
cholesterol now the next recommendation
is to exercise every day especially if
you have high triglycerides those extra
triglycerides in your bloodstream can be
burned off with using more energy so we
need to add exercise into this protocol
all right the next recommendation is to
try to get a good portion of your
protein from fish or seafood high in
omega-3 fatty acids that will also help
there's a product that you can get
called red yeast rice extract is like a
natural version of a Statin it is very
powerful in lowering your cholesterol
you may not need it but if you have a
very very stubborn situation where you
can't bring your cholesterol down that
would be something I would investigate
and look at implementing as well number
eight doing the healthy ketogenic diet
with a Twist so you just did a ketogenic
diet without adding
a lot of fat okay consume fat in this
ketogenic plan that normally comes with
the protein just don't add more fat like
don't add more butter or keto desserts
or all these other extra fats and maybe
the fats that you do focus on would be
the avocado oil the olive oil the
omega-3 oils in either cod liver oil or
fish oil or sardines but this way we can
lower the carbs so we don't get this
extra conversion of cholesterol being
created especially if you are a diabetic
or you have a high A1C and the last
thing is doing intermittent fasting that
can greatly assist in regulating your
cholesterol profiles now since I
mentioned niacin as the number one thing
to do if you haven't seen this video on
niacin it'll give you a lot more data
check it out I put it up right here
