hey guys today we're going to talk about
the common threads between the real big
healthcare problems out there
heart disease cancer Alzheimer's
autoimmune diseases I've talked a lot
about diabetes we'll touch on that a
little bit and there's other ones but
these are the main ones so let's first
talk about heart disease what happens in
the blood vessel of someone with heart
disease as they start developing plaque
okay and the plaque is built up with
cholesterol and the person has usually
high LDL and that's called bad
cholesterol supposedly bad cholesterol
but in reality LDL is low-density
lipoprotein okay it has cholesterol in
it but this is a protein okay and
there's this huge focus on cholesterol
but not any problem with protein if we
take a look at a plaque it's composed of
cholesterol calcium and proteins okay
but people don't say to avoid protein
and they don't tell you to avoid calcium
either right even though calcium makes
up this plaque they really target this
thing called cholesterol now the thing
you need to know is before this piece of
plaque develops there's always something
that starts it okay and it's usually
some inflammatory situation going on
there's some type of damage in the wall
of the artery in the heart okay and then
it starts to build up and one of the
best tests to do for the heart is called
a coronary artery calcium test so the
coronary artery calcium test is way more
accurate in detecting heart disease than
LDL or cholesterol or anything because
they're looking at the calcification so
with heart disease we have something
that destroys the wall of the artery
usually it could be any number of things
it could be an infection from a microbe
it could be free iron in the body it
could be some type of oxidant it could
be a lot of sugar which is very very
common like high blood sugar and
anything that oxidate s' this wall of
the artery that starts the process of
inflammation and starts building up this
plaque okay then we get to something
called Alzheimer's in this situation you
have
amyloid plaque II okay Emily plaque II
is a type of protein okay so this is not
coming from consuming too much protein
or anything like that this comes from
first having damage to the brain okay it
could be from an infection it could be
again from some oxidative thing that
damages the brain so it could be from a
chemical it could be from a whole bunch
of things okay then you get the
inflammation then would you have happen
is the replacement of the damaged piece
of the brain for amyloid protein so the
body is trying to heal or protect or
trying to patch something up it's the
same thing with heart disease this
plaque you know is considered something
really evil but it's just trying to help
the body heal this original wound right
here
same thing with Alzheimer's what's
unique about Alzheimer's is that you
have cells that just can't take up
insulin so they're very hypoglycemic and
the the cells need certain glucose or
fuel like ketones so if you actually
start off the the brain cells of their
fuel source they start dying and you
start getting Alzheimer's okay so that's
what's unique that's different with this
thing right here cancer because in
cancer you have first stages damage to
the mitochondria from some free radical
thing or oxidant like could be free iron
it could be radiation it could be a
chemical in the environment of pesticide
there's all these things called
carcinogens right so it creates damage
within the mitochondria then as a way to
salvage the mitochondria which is Energy
Factory the body shifts to a different
type of metabolism okay it's like an
ancient pathway that we don't normally
use but divided and switches to this
thing at this level I don't want to give
you the name of it and explain that
because that opens up a whole dialogue
but just realize that the body's
shifting to a different way that it
metabolizes energy it's going to now run
on pure sugar or glutamine which is a
very specific type of an amino acid okay
these are the two types of fuel now the
thing that's interesting
with cancer is it spreads and follows
areas of inflammation so it actually
gravitates to areas of old injury as
well or areas where you had trauma which
is another interesting thing so cancer
basically lives on sugar and it can also
live on this protein but in Alzheimer's
there's just no sugar to live on anymore
the body can't receive it so we have
like a severe state of insulin
resistance they don't really know
exactly what happens but my guess is
that the blood-brain barrier is so
insulin resistant the fuel can't get
into the brain of course another mode of
fuel would be ketones but they don't
really tell you about that because then
you can actually the cells can take up
ketones and they don't really need the
glucose then we have something called
autoimmune okay where the body is
developing antibodies which are against
itself so you have a situation where our
own immune system is attacking our own
organs or glands now that's weird isn't
it and it's an inflammation as a result
from this immune war that creates the
collateral damage like in rheumatoid
arthritis for example or MS you have
your own body is destroying everything
in its path way now there's many
different theories as to the cause of
this but it makes sense that the body is
trying to kill something off that it
doesn't need like some microbe or
something that shouldn't be there and
there's this misdirection and the body
ends up attacking itself now another
interesting point about autoimmune is
there's usually always in a stress event
that occurs right before a person
develops these antibodies which is
interesting the loss of a loved one they
have this trauma and then they get this
autoimmune disease okay it's just an
interesting point so I think what's
happening it's an overwhelming stress to
this entire system usually probably the
adrenal glands and then there's some
loss of control there and the body tags
the wrong thing that's what I think
that's happening I don't know it's it's
just my guess at that but an autoimmune
you also
have amyloid plaque II know there's a
condition called amyloidosis in which
this plaquing okay goes into different
organs like the kidney the liver the
heart the pancreas cell okay and that's
what actually can even cause diabetes as
well so again a common thing is this
protein proteins involved in autoimmune
there's protein involved in heart
disease there's protein clacking
involving Alzheimer's so it's it's
another common thread and you have of
course inflammation inflammation is like
the the common theme between all of
these conditions alright so I'm gonna
give you some key things six things that
you can do based on this data to kind of
prevent these issues number one you want
to eat foods that give protective
factors okay
there are certain foods like cruciferous
for example that can actually protect
the mitochondria
there's foods high in vitamin b1 that
protect the mitochondria especially from
diabetes and blood sugar issues there
are foods like vitamin C there are
antioxidants that protect the heart
vitamin E to protect this right here
there are foods that protect the brain
there are foods that protect the immune
system okay so you want to start eating
foods cruciferous grass-fed foods with
healthy fats those are very very
important avocados cod liver oil for
example it's really good number two you
want to keep your stress as low as
possible so if you're in a situation
where it's just overwhelming do
something quick to minimize that don't
be in a situation where the stress goes
on and on for months and months and
years and years I see that all the time
because that could potentially set you
up for this right here number three keep
your Sugar's low why because the high
levels of sugar is what starts this
whole thing right here and also cancer
lives on sugar too much sugar can
actually increase my packing all right
so we want to keep the sugar very low do
low carb that's called healthy keto and
the four keep your vitamins
so you want to eat foods that are very
vitamin rich nutrient rich mineral-rich
increase the quality of those nutrients
very important in protecting the tissues
number five in termina fasting
why because intimate fasting is the best
tool to get rid of inflammation okay so
you can at least take that piece of the
puzzle out of the picture if you do if'
very therapeutic the body goes into an
interesting shift in that it starts to
heal and repair when you do in a minute
fasting it's fascinating you would think
that if you stop eating so frequently
you would go the reverse but it doesn't
number six gut health and this is the
last thing I'm going to talk about
because you have way more microbes in
and around your body then you have your
actual cells and it's the balance of
these microbes that can either really
help you or hurt you depending on what
kind of balance that you have and
especially when you're doing with the
immune system you want to make sure your
gut health you have enough probiotics
you have enough fiber from the
vegetables to feed the microbes to
actually support a healthy immune system
all right well thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
