so today we're gonna talk about these
seven reasons for bloating especially
when you're on a ketogenic plan okay now
the first point I'm going to bring up is
this hormone called insulin and of
course when you're starting keto usually
you're gonna have high insulin and it's
gonna go low but I just wanted to
include this because as you do keto
insulin should go down if you do it
correctly and healthily and you're gonna
have less of a bloated stomach but when
insulin spikes you start developing a
visceral fat and the first thing that
happens is your liver starts getting
fatty and it spills over into spaces
around the organs and even in other
organs okay and mainly it's gonna go
right in the midsection right here so if
your belly is distended
chances are you have high insulin okay
also you have the top role so you see
people with this fat roll right at the
top
okay that's a fatty liver but it's
coming from insulin then you have people
that have a distended stomach just just
coming out like this they could have a
sagging belly that's insulin because
there's so much visceral fat deep
underneath the layers that is just
sticking the stomach out your stomach is
a really good indicator to know what's
happening with insulin if the stomach is
flat you have low insulin if it's
distended you have higher levels of
insulin and by the way they rarely ever
check insulin they check blood glucose
levels a good test if you wanted to test
your insulin is called Homa - i are you
can get that test down and find out if
your insulin is high
it measures insulin resistance okay if
you have love handles okay so if you
have fat on the outside or back fat
that's coming from insulin also realize
if you're consuming a lot of fruit that
can raise your insulin the fiber and the
fruit buffers it a little bit but still
even for myself when I was consuming
apples I my insulin level is pretty high
and apples like like
22 grams of sugar even for a medium
Apple alright number two cortisol
cortisol is a stress hormone and it's
made by the adrenal glands and what
happens is that cortisol raises insulin
and then causes the visceral fat
cortisol turns protein into glucose
but cortisol will raise insulin that is
why one of the side effects of cortisol
is diabetes okay because it raises the
blood sugar it keeps raising insulin you
developments and resistance and then you
become a diabetic because you can't
control your blood Sugar's because no
longer is the insulin suppressing the
blood sugar so it's weakened and then
the blood sugars go up despite your body
producing a lot more insulin number
three the liver if the liver is really
damaged you can develop a condition
called ascites and what that is is a
situation where you have fluid that's
leaking from your liver into a sac
around your midsection so you usually
see this on men that are very thin but
they had this potbelly it's like a
basketball in their stomach that's a
really bad liver and by the way as I go
through these I'm gonna list down
specific videos for each one if you want
to get more information about it okay
and before fiber now when you're in keto
there's a lot of different fibers in
keto of snacks and keto foods gar gum
corn fiber chicory root inulin there's a
whole these different fibers and a lot
of people get bloating from those fibers
also if you're consuming certain types
of vegetables that you're not used to
that can also blow you out in which case
you need to switch up your vegetables to
some vegetables that you can digest then
we have SIBO small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth this is a situation where the
bacteria that should be in the large
intestine is in the small intestine so
if you're getting fermentation in the
wrong place and so you're gonna get a
lot of gas
you're gonna go up you're going to get a
lot of bloating so what you don't want
to do is consume a probiotic why because
you have too much bacteria in that area
and or a prebiotic which is fiber I have
an entire video on this specifically but
this condition will probably blow you
the most especially like after eating
all right number six sugar alcohols okay
you go on a keto plan you want to still
consume sweet things and there's all
these sugar alcohols like a wreath wrote
all salat all some people are really
sensitive to them some people don't
realize when we recommend these sugar
alcohols we always recommend a small
amount not a lot and so you consume a
lot of it and you start getting bloating
because your digestive system handle
these differently and it can really
create gas diarrhea constipation so just
realize that your bloating may be coming
from these right here that's why I
always recommend read the ingredients
and really in the beginning when you're
doing a keto plan track what you're
eating so you can go back and find out
what caused the bloating and lastly
frequent eating will cause bloating now
normally the food that goes through your
stomach takes between four to five hours
to get through okay that's a long time
how often do people normally eat every
three hours this is what we recommend
when you dookied oh you also do
intermittent fasting with it because of
this right here it takes a long time for
your your food to actually go through
the system if you're constantly cramming
food when there's incomplete digestion
happening
you're gonna bloat and that's basically
just overwhelming your digestive system
and then in the small intestine it could
take between five and six hours to get
through the large intestine could take
between 10 and 40 hours depending on
what you just ate so if you're eating
every three hours you're gonna get
bloated and this is why we recommend
going to the two meals a day for most
people and then some people one meal a
day and that's gonna really help your
bloating because you will no longer be
overwhelming your digestive tract with
food you allow it to go through you'll
get more digestion you'll take a huge
stress off the digestive organs alright
guys there you have it
there's seven reasons for bloating
especially on a keto plan hey before you
go would you mind putting a comment down
below to tell me what you think about
this video
