so recently I did a video on the
relationship between if consuming fat
will slow your metabolism now I want to
answer another question which I pretty
much answer in a lot of my live events
but I don't think I've done a video just
on this one topic
well skipping a meal slow your
metabolism so let's just talk about that
we have to differentiate skipping a meal
which is infrequent meals or
intermittent fasting from just being in
a low calorie diet these are two
different things
now when you decrease the frequency of
meals you probably are going to reduce
the calories automatically when you
reduce your calories and you reduce your
frequency of meals you are going to not
feel too good I'll give you an example
I've done several cleanses in the past a
long time ago one was the I think was
the lemon water cayenne pepper and maple
syrup cleanse you probably have done
that for seven days I think I did it for
10 days it almost killed me
that maple syrup that it was consuming
that was just enough glucose to keep me
out of ketosis to keep my blood Sugar's
up and down while I was basically
starving to death I was so hungry
it was very torturous other cleanses
I've done which involved colon cleansing
and maybe just doing fruit a little bit
of fruit each day I felt terrible okay
so if someone brought up the concept of
fasting I would instantly reject it
because it was very painful and very
stressful
what I didn't know which I know now
which if you do keto low-carb and
infrequent meals and you do it gradually
your hunger goes away you actually adapt
to burning your own fat as compared to
keeping your frequency of meals higher
but keeping a low amount of calories
it's gonna be very difficult to switch
over to get your body to burn fat as its
primary fuel source because you keep
dumping in either glucose or just the
fact that you're eating frequently
raises insulin a little bit to actually
prevent this process from happening so
you have a lot of
blood sugar symptoms over here and we
don't have a lot of blood sugar issues
right here and when you actually
decrease the meals you're decreasing
insulin you're automatically increasing
your metabolic rate and you're feeling
really good because your brain loves
ketones so if you do a search on how to
increase your metabolism you'll find all
sorts of things like and drink more
water eat more protein eat spicy foods
because the thermogenic effect or green
tea these are trivial very trivial the
things that affect metabolism age okay
as you get older your metabolism will
slow down so you really can't do much
about this one right dieting you can do
something with that you can change your
diet you can decrease the frequency of
meals so this one you can definitely do
something about also the diet that you
were on as an infant the foods that your
mother ate when she was pregnant with
you if they were very high carb and your
mother developed insulin resistance the
likelihood of you becoming a
pre-diabetic goes way up and also your
metabolism later in her life is going to
be slow based on what your mother ate
and what you ate is an infant
unfortunately the baby formulas are all
filled with glucose and very very poor
quality ingredients so this is a factor
you can't go back in time to fix that
but what you can do is definitely share
this information with anyone that you
know is pregnant so it's very very vital
to put attention on getting that diet
corrected when someone is pregnant which
could make or break the future health of
that child insulin I know I'm beating a
dead horse I've talked about this a
million times you can do something about
this okay you can keep this lowered
decrease frequent meals get on keto also
you can lower your stress that can also
help and you should do an experiment you
should actually instead of cutting your
calories just decrease the frequency of
your meals and you will see that you
will lose way more weight than if you
just cut your calories down and spread
those calories out
throughout the day go ahead and try it
and see for yourself
