so I recently did a video on fasting and
I think I created more confusion than
understandings about fasting so I wanted
to clarify this one a very specific
point and this relates to people that
are nervous about attempting to do
fasting or in a minute fasting because
they had this idea I'm gonna lose my
energy
it's like starving I'm gonna have low
blood sugars I'm gonna crave everything
I'm gonna be tired I'm gonna be
irritable but let me just explain
something skipping breakfast only works
if you're on keto and that is the key
thing that I failed to mention in that
video because it's the carbohydrates
that prevent fat burning so if you're
doing intermittent fasting or fasting
and you're doing carbohydrates what's
gonna happen you're not gonna be able to
tap in the fat so you're gonna wake up
in the morning guess what you're gonna
be hungry and if you try not to eat
you're gonna be more hungry why because
you're running off your blood Sugar's
and you don't have a lot of storage and
so you're gonna tap it out then you're
gonna start feeling symptoms so you're
gonna be ravenously hungry maybe late
morning and you're gonna eat something
right of course if this is not Kido if
it involves carbohydrates like some of
these little protein snack bars with
hidden sugars and then what's gonna
happen you're gonna feel better but then
an hour later you're gonna be hungry
again so you'll have lunch and if you're
having carbs there and then maybe have a
little snack here maybe fruit and then
dinner maybe some carbs here you're
gonna want a snack here you're gonna
wake up wanting carbs okay so the secret
is combining in a minute fasting with
keto low-carb your breakfast is the most
unimportant meal of the day
if you're doing keto because what's
gonna happen you wake up you're running
on your fat because you went little carb
so yes you are not eating but you are
eating your own fat so that will allow
you to go past the time you'd normally
eat and keep
going because you've actually all night
long you're burning fat and now you wake
up and you want to ride the wave as long
as you can okay you're not hungry keep
going keep going keep going and then you
have your lunch
Kia's do not have the carb okay you can
do vegetable carbohydrates but don't to
the carb because that way you'll stay in
fat-burning go a little longer
guess what you're not going to be hungry
for the snack like you were before so
you can go longer have your dinner no
carbs guess what you're not going to be
as hungry for that snack now you go to
bed come all the way here and now you're
burning fat and everything is going to
work because you're doing keto and one
last point if you're not doing heat oh
you're gonna really desire a breakfast
if you are gonna do a breakfast make
sure that it's a protein breakfast I
originally started telling people that
your breakfast was the most important
thing why because I had severe blood
sugar problems all of these symptoms I
didn't know it at the time and of course
I was doing carbs okay and definitely
fruit and all sorts of so-called healthy
things but they were eaten as snacks
okay I would wake up extremely hungry
and of course I didn't just do protein I
did some protein with some carbs maybe
some cereal like a muffin something like
that that has extra sugar in it and then
that just set the whole thing up for
craving late at night but when I
actually finally got rid of the sugar in
the carbs and added a protein breakfast
I felt really really good because I was
stabilizing my blood Sugar's the problem
is I was also doing these snacks which
is a big mistake so when I cut out the
snacks I was really able to go longer
without this breakfast and that allowed
me to do fasting and start getting into
fat-burning to the point where I only do
two meals a day so it's not scary you
just have to do it with keto and that is
the secret all right so if you want more
information there's a link down below of
the specifics on what to eat thanks for
watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
