today I want to talk about certain
indicators or signs that you need to
change the ketogenic diet so let's go
through these if you're feeling more
tired or weaker when you start the
ketogenic plan
something's not right and we are going
to discuss what to do if that happens
but fatigue and weakness are one of the
indicators number two if you happen to
notice that you're looking older like
let's say your hair is drying out or
your skin looks more wrinkled there's a
problem something needs to change if you
start feeling heart palpitations right
that's not good obviously whatever
you're doing needs to be looked at if
you are still hungry then there's a
problem and especially if you're not
seeing results with your weight chances
are you probably need to change
something too and lastly if you start
developing kidney stones or even maybe
more inflammation then you're not on the
right program so what is the ketogenic
plan the ketogenic diet is merely the
reduction of carbohydrates the reduction
of carbohydrates by itself
is not necessarily something that
increases or creates Health that would
be like saying
the reduction of poison will make you
healthier well no it prevents disease
but it doesn't necessarily build or
create health
so the lowering of carbs will prevent a
lot of problems like diabetes a fatty
liver being overweight etc etc but the
question is if you're lowering carbs
what are you replacing it with and what
are those calories doing to your health
so the ketogenic diet is about replacing
your fuel from glucose to
fat and ketones but generally speaking
the ketogenic diet doesn't talk about
the quality of your carbs proteins and
fats and this is why I recommend the
healthy ketogenic diet so this goes
beyond just lowering your carbs to five
percent and keeping your proteins at 20
percent and having your fats at 75
percent so let's just start with what
happens when you start running your body
on ketones you actually generate more
energy ATP ATP is like the storage
currency of energy in your body and
there's definitely a difference if you
run your body on glucose uh you generate
like about 8.7 kilograms of ATP and then
in ketones you generate 10.5 kilograms
of ATP so we got 8.7 to 10.5 so ketones
give you more energy and that energy is
more efficient there's less waste but
here's the thing when you go on the
ketogenic plan
the demand for certain nutrients goes up
that's very important to know because if
you don't eat more of certain things or
take certain nutrients you could end up
with some side effects whether that's
keto fatigue keto rash keto flu whatever
so the two general categories of
nutrition that you need to increase more
of B vitamins okay and electrolytes
couple points on B vitamins I would
really try to make sure that you do the
Natural Bees and you can get that from
nutritional yeast unfortified you can
get pretty much all the electrolytes if
you have enough salad in your diet 7 to
10 cups or if you do electrolyte powder
make sure it doesn't have hidden sugars
and make sure it has
good amount of potassium and other
electrolytes as well and let's not
forget
sodium chloride are two additional
electrolytes like salt
so if you're not consuming enough salt
on the ketogenic diet you're going to
feel weak so we want to make sure we add
more sea salt when you're on the
ketogenic plan very important in fact
you need more sea salt on the ketogenic
plan than you do on a high carb diet on
the high carb diet you tend to retain
sodium chloride but on keto you tend to
kind of get rid of it so if you don't
have enough of it you're going to
generally feel weak your muscles are
going to be weak especially when you
exercise the next point about this topic
is making sure that you eat foods that
are more nutrient dense okay because a
good portion of the population is
deficient especially in zinc vitamin D
iron iodine and even vitamin A here are
some foods generally speaking that you
should be eating more of
Pastor raised eggs eating eggs from
chickens that roam around on the grass
that will give you a lot of nutrients
especially the vitamin A it gives you
the trace minerals that you need like
zinc copper iodine manganese very
important grass-fed grass-finished beef
these animal Meats give you the
bioavailable nutrients that you need
like the best source of iron the best
source of zinc the active form of
vitamin A versus trying to get those
nutrients from plants like for example
Walnut has the precursor to the omega-3
DHA but very little bit of it gets
converted kale has a lot of pre-vitamin
a as beta-carotene but very little gets
converted to retinol the active form if
you were to do occasional organ Meats
like liver that would be really good not
only do you need these animal products
like Meat and Fish seafood but you also
need to make sure that they're organic
organic food in itself does have more
nutrition for sure
but it's also the avoidance of
pesticides insecticides herbicides
fungicides while caught versus farm
raised is very important and then
grass-fed versus grain fed is very
important but as a side note vitamin D
is really hard to get from your food so
either get it from the Sun or take it as
a supplement if you do that as a
maintenance dosage I would recommend
roughly about 10 000 IUS
it might sound like a lot but it's not
if you're a little fearful of taking
that much you should watch the video
Down Below on that later but vitamin D
is not really a vitamin it's like a
hormone it goes right into the the
nucleus of the cell and it
connects with certain genes like over 3
000 different genes so it's involved in
so many different body problems and the
next point is making sure that your
omega-3 to omega-6 ratio is correct this
is going to avoid a lot of problems with
inflammation and brain health and all
the conditions that come with
inflammation autoimmune problems
arthritis Etc because omega-3 and
omega-6 are fats okay and the ketogenic
diet tends to be higher in fat some
people don't differentiate the type of
fat that you need to avoid and the type
of fat that you need to eat more because
if you're going a low carb diet and you
just start increasing more soy oil or
corn oil or Canola or cottonseed boy are
you going to have problems but the
typical ratio of Omega-3 to omega-6
on average is like 1 to 16 to sometimes
one to forty really heavy on the omega-6
especially in children
this is setting them up for a lot of
issues with the liver and even insulin
resistance which creates a whole host of
other issues you see both of these two
different types of fats use the same
enzymes to convert them from the
inactive to the active and so that means
that they both compete with each other
so if you start consuming more cod liver
oil or fish oils right but at the same
time you're doing the regular salad
dressing and some of the other foods
with high omega-6 fats then those
omega-3 won't go in because they're
competitive The receptors are competing
because they use the same enzymes you're
going to have to avoid the omega-6 and
take more of the three and the best
source of Omega-3 hands down is fatty
fish like salmon wild caught salmon you
can do sardines you can do halibut
there's other types of fish as well and
even grass-fed beef as a good source
versus the grain fed chicken which is
the worst Source because you're going to
get a lot of omega-6 and not enough
omega-3 but the same thing with beef
like grain fed beef where that grain is
used to fatten the cattle to
make the meat more marbleized with fat
not good that's not a healthy source of
protein all right the next point I want
to bring up are all these
keto approved products that you see
online at the grocery store you're
seeing more and more of this it's kind
of like the healthy version of junk food
I mean it's definitely better than junk
food but probably not by much now some
of them are good but you have to read
the ingredients and make sure that those
ingredients don't include gluten
maltodextrin
dextrin
corn
fiber also the tapioca fiber these are
all ingredients that are unnatural and
we don't want these in our bodies and
the other thing too is there's a lot of
like sweets and cookies and things that
are made with sugar alcohols and I just
want to warn you when you start to get
into that you're going to find that you
might have a lot of bloating and gas and
diarrhea from that so I'm just letting
you know up front so those should be
consumed smaller amounts and if you do
have these sugar alcohols definitely
avoid the one called maltitol because
multitol is in a lot of the sugar-free
candies for diabetics boy that has the
on the glycemic index it's pretty darn
high it's the highest of all of them
it's very very sweet it tastes just like
sugar and from my viewpoint it's pretty
close to Sugar it's best if you avoid
these snacks that people are promoting
these keto approved snacks and maybe you
can make your own so you can control
what you put in them
and maybe they're okay to take initially
as your transition but ideally you
should just eat real food and not have
to rely on those I highly recommend you
include intermittent fasting
with this healthy version of the
ketogenic diet because
um if you start having these snacks
between the meals or you're eating
frequent meals
you're not going to see the results
especially with weight loss because
every time you eat you spike insulin a
lot of people have told me oh I've tried
the ketogenic diet but they have not
added in the intermittent fasting with
it which is so important because what
we're trying to do
with the ketogenic diet is correct
insulin resistance and you can't correct
it if you're eating all these snacks and
you're eating three meals a day
so you want to go to two meals a day and
maybe even for some of you just one meal
a day initially I did not understand the
magnitude or the importance of doing
intermittent fasting I thought it was a
trivial thing but when I started looking
into it and I did it myself oh my
goodness does it produce some serious
benefits to your body
our bodies were not designed to eat so
frequently and when you start
restricting food all sorts of things
start getting better especially if
you're trying to lose weight the next
one is doing the dirty version of Keto
okay some people do this and they say oh
it's it really works yeah it would work
if you're just changing your fuel but if
you're going to a fast food
restaurant and you just order the burger
without the bun
um you know I can see that uh helping
you in in a pinch definitely do that but
don't do that on a regular basis because
the quality of those foods and what's in
those Foods is not that great and so
these conventional Foods despite being
low carb have a lot of things in them
that you probably shouldn't be eating
like pesticides insecticides herbicides
fungicides preservatives GMO type foods
traces of a herbicide called glyphosate
which can act as an antibiotic in our
guts I mean even like the traditional
artificial sweeteners are keto friendly
it's low carb but there's a lot of other
issues with them so if you're going to
do dirty keto just don't make a habit of
it and by the way dirty keto is
basically
um going low carb but not focusing on
the quality of the ingredients and one
more point that I failed to mention when
I talked about the
omega-3 to omega-6 ratios I didn't tell
you what those should be well that
should be a one to one ratio so the next
point is when you buy vegetables from
the grocery store okay
mainly you're going to get vegetables
that are either grown hydroponically
or aeroponically which basically means
you're growing
um these greens in water with some
minerals like 15 minerals or they're
spraying water on the roots okay or you
might find vegetables that are grown in
California
um that are grown on soil but the
minerals that they add back into the
soil are usually like three potassium
phosphorus and nitrogen so I just want
to let you know there's a huge
difference between just using you know
three to Fifteen minerals whether in
water and in soil and growing food or
vegetables or any type of salad on real
healthy fertile soil there is a big
difference of course when you look this
up it'll say oh yeah they're the same
really so in other words what you're
telling me is that you can grow
vegetables in water with 15 minerals and
have the same nutrition really so I did
this in my basement and I had these
beautiful tomato plants
the tomatoes were completely tasteless
yes they might have certain vitamins and
minerals but they definitely don't have
the quantity of
phytonutrients the chemicals the flavor
chemicals and other protective
phytonutrients that are really important
not to mention the soil based vegetables
have microbes that are growing in to the
plant itself did you realize that one
cup of vegetables contains over a
hundred million
microbes if it's grown on soil so that's
like a probiotic and so this is a very
under uh researched area but you know
consuming vegetables from your garden or
vegetables from the farmer's market wow
this is probably why kids don't like
vegetables they're they're getting the
hydroponic vegetables they're just kind
of tasteless I've grown them in my
greenhouse and the texture doesn't come
out right The Taste doesn't come out
right so right now I'm trying to sell
those aeroponic units if you know anyone
that wants to buy them I'm getting rid
of them I'm convinced that the soil
based vegetables are the best for you
and this is something you can actually
create Health with because you're all
these microbes greatly enhance the
immune system of that plant the nutrient
absorption of that plant and I'm not
just talking about vitamins and minerals
I'm talking about all the other
phytonutrients that are in those plants
like even carotenoids for example
carotenoids that's a type of
phytonutrient and there's 600 different
types of carotenoids and one leafy green
vegetable I mean that's just one but
you're talking about thousands of others
so you can't create those different
beneficial chemicals
from water in 15 minerals like they use
in hydroponic the other point I want to
bring up is that if you consume
vegetables like I recommend seven to ten
cups of salad
or lesser amounts of regular vegetables
and you get bloating because you have
inflammation in your gut you might do
better on a carnivore type ketogenic
diet but again there's a right way to do
it as well you have to find out how to
do that healthily not just have you know
a chicken breast all day long but do
like from nose to tail right you're
doing bone marrow you're doing organ
Meats things like that Seafood eggs
things like that just realize generally
speaking the worse off your digestive
system is the more you need to do maybe
cooked vegetables or fermented
vegetables like sauerkraut kimchi things
like that pickles versus just Raw
it takes a bit of a healthy digestive
system to digest the raw vegetables
but the raw vegetables give you actually
more nutrition for sure and as a side
note to that if you have a tendency to
get kidney stones do you want to avoid
spinach you want to avoid almonds and
almond butter you want to avoid kiwis
strawberries
chocolate even if it's keto friendly and
you want to drink a sufficient amount of
water to keep the
urine from Super concentrating into the
stone so at least two and a half liters
of fluid per day if you follow the
information in this video it'll keep you
out of trouble you'll get the benefit of
the ketogenic diet but of course it's
doing the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet now you need the details
of how to do it and for that you should
check this video out right here
