why would anyone ever want to use a
laxative on their hair or their skin
well you're about to find out because
castor oil has stood the test of time
the Egyptians used it the Greeks used it
the Romans used it the Chinese used it
so if it didn't work it wouldn't be
around this long so there's a very
special compound in Castor oil and the
combination of different properties that
this compound has is the perfect
combination remedy for a lot of issues
with your skin your hair especially as
it relates to the common problems that
people have like dry skin brittle hair
dry hair hair loss and so this compound
has an anti-inflammatory effect
antimicrobial effect it's a powerful
antioxidant it's an excellent
moisturizer so anything dry or
dehydrated it will revive and not just
on your face on different parts of the
body like your heels if you have cracked
heels
on your scalp especially if you have
dandruff or anywhere on your body it can
also be used on stretch marks or any
scars in that case you would want to rub
it into the area it has a good amount of
vitamin E which is also good to break
down scar tissue and so you can kind of
look at Castor oils a natural
conditioner for your skin and hair it
penetrates those tissues and it helps to
increase circulation especially if
you're using it on your hair it goes
into the follicles where the roots are
and so it can help balance this offset
of pathogens versus your friendly
bacteria it won't affect the friendly
bacteria on your skin but only the
unfriendly bacteria which is uh quite
fascinating and it also has some
additional omega-3 fatty acids which is
good for inflammation so when you think
of castor oil think of like uh anything
with like itis dermatitis especially or
you can even use it for joint pain as
well now some people also use it uh for
acne because it's an antibacterial it
can kind of go into the pores and help
uh balance that out other people might
use it for sty in the eye which could be
an infection and it seems to balance out
inflammation as well as the um creating
this antibacterial effect it also has an
anti-fungal effect so you could use it
on toenail fungus or yeast infection
some people even use it for dry eyes I'm
not going to necessarily recommend that
you start putting it in your eyeballs
but topically I think it works great so
also if you have these little dark spots
uh from the Sun for example this is a
great remedy to help get rid of those so
when you put it on your skin or your
hair you're going to notice it's going
to shine it's going to get rid of that
dullness and if you have damage from the
Sun for example this is great to
rejuvenate or rehydrate your skin and as
you can see there's many different
applications of this um there's also
recipes to add aloe vera to it as well
to put on the face so you can get really
creative but casor oil by itself is a
no-brainer It's relatively inexpensive I
would make sure that you get uh coal
pressed get the one without the hexane
solvent because if there's any traces of
hexane it can dry out your skin I mean
hexane is what they use as a solvent to
process and make seed oils right and so
people are consuming unknowingly a
tremendous amount of hidden seed oils
when they don't realize that hexane is
probably one of the residue chemicals in
seed oils the Jamaican black castor oil
Works a little better if you have
anything related to a hair problem like
for example you want to help with the
stimulation of hair growth use the
Jamaican black C oil Works a little bit
better castor oil can help an overactive
immune system especially as it relates
to alopecia so I just wanted to create
this short video to talk about the wide
spectrum benefits of casor oil and I
mean it really has uh virtually no
downsides since we're in the topic of
skin if you have not seen this video on
how to keep your skin
youthful you might want to check it out
I put it up right here
