so I wanted to answer the question how
much Sun do we actually need to get our
vitamin D our daily dosage it really
depends on how much of your body is
exposed to the Sun and where you live
okay so let's just take San Diego for
example and also your age if you're
younger you absorb a lot more vitamin D
if you're older you're a factor of three
times more so you need three times as
much Sun so if you're in San Diego and
you're young and you're just your hands
and your face are exposed to the Sun you
have to spend 22 minutes in the Sun to
get the vitamin D that you need per day
they already ace and that's just the
bare bones right we're not talking about
the stuff to maintain or even try to
reverse some type of illness we're
talking just to prevent rickets for
example all right so next one you have
the short sleeves and then on your face
and your hands 26% of your body
19 minutes okay so 19 minutes shorts and
t-shirt 46 percent of your body exposed
11 minutes not bad right no shirt in
just shorts 72 percent of your body is
exposed to the Sun 7 minutes boom you
got your dose right but if you're in
Seattle okay in the north and you're
young you need a hundred and sixty eight
minutes if just your face and your hands
are exposed if you're older than Seattle
five hundred and four minutes to get
your daily dosage of vitamin D that's a
lot of time out in the Sun okay if
you're in Seattle and you're younger
short-sleeves in your face and your
hands seventy six minutes okay a little
more than an hour and if you're older
228 minutes it's a long time now you're
in shorts and a t-shirt 44 minutes okay
versus 132 minutes no shirt shorts 28
minutes and then 84 minutes the reason
why I'm showing you this chart is to get
you to think with these variables it's
not just about the Sun it's about where
you're living versus in the world
certain latitudes your age the you know
if your skin is
lighter or darker you're gonna need more
Sun if you're of a darker skin the
health of your liver for example is
important so there's a lot of variables
to this vitamin D and vitamin D is so
important especially as you get older
especially if you're really young
especially if you're sick for viruses
for the flu to prevent autoimmune
problems so you may want to consider
taking vitamin D especially nowadays
since people are just inside so so much
they just don't get enough Sun alright
thanks for watching so if you're
enjoying this content go ahead and share
it with someone that could really
benefit from it
