so if you're going to use valerian root
i would recommend using it for anxiety
but not insomnia i'm going to tell you
why of course let me give you the
disclaimer check with your doctor before
taking this advice okay don't come off
your medications because of me so this
is just meant for education and for you
to do your own research but valerian
root okay and valium
have been shown to have really no
significant difference in effectiveness
so in other words they both work the
same for anxiety
yet valerian root has virtually no side
effects and valium has major side
effects especially trying to come off
that drug now they both work to increase
gaba and the way they do it is they
block gaba receptors slightly
differently but the same effect so if
you block the gaba receptor you have
less recycling and
gaba just stays around a lot longer
giving you more gaba and gabo is a
neurotransmitter that helps make you
calm it helps reduce stress it's an
inhibitory neurotransmitter and when
someone's deficient in gaba they might
have more anxiety they might have more
insomnia yet when someone's deficient in
serotonin okay
yet this has never been proven there's
just theories the person is more likely
to get insomnia and depression
so with serotonin deficiencies we have
depression with gaba deficiencies we
have anxiety now of course i like to
always focus on natural remedies but
realize that as you're coping with this
problem with a natural remedy that has
lesser side effects you always want to
be finding the deeper cause you want to
be getting to the root now there's many
ways to increase gaba in your body
kimchi is one way because
your microbes your friendly bacteria
make neurotransmitters
and by consuming either
kimchi or sauerkraut it has both the
microbes as a probiotic and the
prebiotics so it has probiotics and
prebiotics the fiber which the microbes
eat but valerian root is more like a
sedative
if you have anxiety or you have panic
attacks um it can calm you down now the
problem with taking valerian root when
you're sleeping is that it can make you
feel groggy when you wake up you can
feel very drowsy the next day you can
have daytime sleepiness the next day so
you're not necessarily going to wake up
feeling refreshed why because valerian
root is a sedative in fact some people
get the side effect of having insomnia
so they're taking it for insomnia but
they end up staying up all night also
valerian root can slow your pulse rate
down so i don't like valerian root as a
sleep remedy but here's the big question
that i want to talk about why do you
have sleeping problems why are you
anxious
why are you depressed in the first place
typically there are two hormones that
are involved
one is high levels of cortisol that's
like the number one thing behind
sleeping problems as well as the number
one hormone behind feeling anxious
because cortisol is a stress hormone so
it kind of keeps you in this stress mode
and in the flip side your sleep is
controlled by melatonin
and melatonin is on the pathway to
serotonin and so there's a relationship
between having more melatonin and more
serotonin and if you don't have enough
melatonin you're not going to sleep and
you'll probably be depressed and because
you're not sleeping you'll have anxiety
so fixing this melatonin thing is very
very important in helping not just
insomnia but
depression and anxiety now i definitely
do not recommend taking melatonin i'm
going to tell you why because anytime
you're taking a hormone
you tend to
cause the gland that is producing this
hormone to go to sleep it doesn't need
to produce anymore so people that
actually start taking melatonin cause
the pineal gland to kind of go into
dormant mode and
this forces the body to be more
dependent on melatonin and this goes for
all hormones whether the person's taking
testosterone or
estrogen
or even thyroid hormones when you take
these communications that the body is
producing
the gland that produces them just
doesn't have to produce anymore so you
have to kind of be cautious anytime
you're taking any hormone whether it's
growth hormone or a sex hormone or even
melatonin a much much better way to get
melatonin
is through increasing
the exposure to
infrared light which comes from the sun
it comes from the sun rising the sun's
setting it comes from the sun in general
and of course i'm not telling you to
stay out the sun all day but enough
sunlight exposure will give you the
infrared spectrum which is different
than the uv light but guess what it's
also been shown to increase
gaba and also if you have more melatonin
you'll have more serotonin and the sun
gives you vitamin d so if you're
depressed anxious or have sleeping
problems the sun is a powerful powerful
remedy if you get it in moderation but
unfortunately people don't even go
outside to get it at all and if it's a
winter time you can also get it from
sitting in front of your
fireplace
or even having incandescent lights or
even having candles around so infrared
is a very interesting topic and it's
extremely powerful and helping your
cells make melatonin so melatonin is not
just the darkness hormone that's created
when the lights are out but it's also
the hormone that's created through light
and this might be new information for
you but there is a video that i'd like
to share with you on this topic and i
want to add one more thing
infrared light also helps lower
cortisol
so this is why being outside being
exposed to the sun can help reduce
cortisol real quick story you may have
heard this before i had a patient who
had this
protruded belly i mean just it was huge
and every time he went on a vacation
down the florida he didn't change his
diet
in fact he probably drank more alcohol
but he was out in the sun okay
by the beach
and he would come home and his stomach
was literally
flat okay
so that was probably a combination of
lowering cortisol increasing melatonin
and probably even sleeping better so let
me just kind of give you a list of
things that i would recommend to help
you sleep and also reduce anxiety at the
same time number one
of course exercise that's a given long
walks are great but regular high
intensity interval training is really
good too
physical work around the house is
probably even better for stress and
sleep i've mentioned that before number
two getting exposed to infrared light
and yes you can also get infrared
therapy like whether it's a sauna or
just a light therapy or even some
infrared
pad that you can put on a joint that you
have inflammation on it's a great
therapy and even just being out in the
sun very good therapy all right number
three vitamin b1 i would recommend
getting it from nutritional yeast
or
sunflower seeds okay sunflower seeds at
the end of your meal just grab a nice
big handful of sunflower seeds make sure
there's sea salt not just sodium
chloride and you'll get a good amount of
b1 all right number four
your microbiome makes
neurotransmitters okay so the more you
build up your microbes in your gut
you're going to make more gaba and
you're going to make more serotonin and
you're going to help your stress levels
and you're going to sleep better so a
good probiotic or sauerkraut or kimchi
is essential if you have anxiety
depression or insomnia and of course if
you're going to take a probiotic i would
always take it right before bed it seems
to work good that way and last but not
least and this might shock some of you
and i'm being very sarcastic but get on
the healthy version of keto and do
intermittent fasting that's just a
basic
um building block so everything else can
work now that video i talked about with
melatonin i put it right here you
definitely need to check that one out
