you know there's a lot of benefits in
keeping your mouth shut
and I'm specifically talking about nose
breathing okay when you are sleeping and
exercising which I think you're going to
find quite interesting now typically
when you think about nose breathing
um you're probably going to think wow
I'm restricting my airflow so I'm not
going to be able to breathe as much
which is true you're actually
restricting your airflow about 50
percent when you breathe through your
nose versus the mouth
but there's some very interesting things
that occur when you practice nose
breathing you would think you would not
get enough air but actually you do get
more oxygen delivered to your tissues
than if you were to breathe through your
mouth why is that
well there's several things number one
when you breathe through your nose your
nose the sinuses act as a humidifier so
they definitely um help you to moisten
the air as it goes into your lungs also
that can actually protect the lungs
because if you're breathing cold dry air
that can really irritate the lungs and
actually increase the risk of
inflammation in your lungs secondly your
nose acts as a filter to filter out
particles that can end up in your lung
as well and it also can act as an immune
barrier to protect the lungs against
pathogens because the pathogens can
actually be effectively dealt with in
the sinuses and not end up in the lungs
has to do with What's called the bore
effect
Bohr effect and what this is all about
is that it takes CO2 to be able to take
that oxygen that is in your blood and
push it into
your cells now CO2 is not just a waste
product it's a very important gas to get
oxygen deep into the cells so even if
your blood is saturated with oxygen it
doesn't mean that that oxygen is going
to passively get into your cells it has
to be released with the help of CO2 and
this is why someone in a panic attack
that's getting too much CO2 because
they're breathing they're
hyperventilating they're going to get an
altered ratio of too much oxygen and not
enough CO2 and so they're going to go
into a panic attack because they're
literally starving from oxygen then when
they balance out their CO2 and oxygen
they can actually finally breathe better
because they're finally getting oxygen
deep into the cells now this also
parallels when people get oxygen therapy
they can actually become toxic with
oxygen because they're literally
starving their cells of oxygen when they
get oxygen therapy because they have
lesser amounts of CO2 to deliver it into
the tissues despite having this
hemoglobin the protein your blood being
saturated with oxygen it's just it's not
going anywhere that and so one of the
side effects from oxygen therapy is
dyspnea what is that difficulty
breathing they might get chest pain
coughing pulmonary edema that's swelling
in your lungs twitching in the hands
which I'm going to explain in a little
bit and also tinnitus ringing in the ear
and sometimes when people get sinus
surgery
they develop a very serious terrible
side effect which is called empty nose
syndrome which their sinuses get all dry
and crusting and they have a very
difficult time breathing they're
constantly feeling out of breath 77 of
people with that symptom
hyperventilate it's just a terrible
condition now why did I talk about that
because I wanted to talk about the
importance of sinus breathing and having
all the structures intact because you
need these turbinates in your sinuses
you need the mucous membranes to be able
to balance out oxygen with CO2 and like
I think I mentioned before when you nose
breathe you increase the amount of
oxygen that is in your cells by about 20
percent now there's another really
interesting component part of this I
want to talk about there's a condition
of low CO2 it's called hypocapnia which
you basically don't have enough carbon
dioxide and that is relevant because
we're talking about the importance of
CO2 but there's all these different
triggers or causes to having this
condition of a lowered amount of CO2
asthma COPD chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease panic attacks
anxiety lung infections of course anemia
because you have this problem with
oxygen because of iron but also
something called glycated
hemoglobin now what what is that well if
you ever had a diabetic test called an
A1C they're basically measuring the
destruction of the hemoglobin from sugar
because when you combine that protein
with sugar it becomes glycated it's no
longer really usable and so people that
have a higher level of A1C because they
have more glycation and that protein
have higher levels of CO2 this is why
diabetics apparently have a hard time
getting oxygen and breathing and healing
like people that don't have that
disorder and don't forget mouth
breathers because apparently they can't
keep their mouth shut also have higher
amounts of CO2 and so when you have a
condition where you have lower amounts
of CO2
that then causes your body to be more
alkaline not acid alkaline and that's
called respiratory alkalosis you get
cramping abdominal pain because your
muscles can't deliver oxygen because the
person is too alkaline another symptom
would be laryngeal spasm you're going to
be having irritation in the in the
throat they'll probably have a chronic
cough
bronchospasm like spasm in their lungs
tingling in the lips in the extremities
like your hands and your feet and tetany
that little twitching that you get on
your tissue that's a lot of Colossus now
anytime you get alkalosis that can lead
to a lowered amount of calcium in the
blood that's called
hypocalcemia okay hypo calcimia let's
take a look at those symptoms which is
interesting when you don't have enough
calcium in the blood you really irritate
the nerves and the muscles they become
over excited and so you have a lot of
neurological things which is kind of
similar to like peripheral neuropathy
from a diabetic but this is coming from
a low-level calcium in your blood also
you may experience cramps okay just
because you don't have enough calcium in
there tetany that twitching as well as
abdominal pain and difficulty breathing
okay so breathing problems can also
occur with that so they kind of cross
over to that alkaline problem as well
but there's one more symptom that's very
interesting as well and that has to do
with what calcium does to the clotting
factors apparently calcium is involved
in
clotting and so when you don't have
enough calcium you can get bruising in
these little purple dots or specks on
your lower legs that can occur that can
be hypocalcemia and on the flip side if
you have way too much calcium okay that
can lead to excessive amounts of
clotting and so there's even studies
like postmenopausal women who take a lot
of calcium
developing strokes and even heart
attacks because of the clotting effect
so it's not just vitamin K1 that's
involved with clotting calcium is also
involved and without calcium you can't
clot it all and you'll get a little
bleeding going on and that can show up
as black and blue marks in certain
places in your body now when you have
hypocalcemia not enough calcium in the
blood yes that can come from low levels
of CO2 but it can also come from other
things as well when your parathyroid
gland is not working when you have a
hypo erathyroid gland you can have
problems with low calcium in the blood
liver problems it could also come
because you're not consuming enough
vitamin D it could come because you're
not consuming calcium in the diet you
have no Dairy it could also come from
high iron it can also be created from
not having enough magnesium because
magnesium is also needed to help you
absorb calcium out of all the glands in
your body the parathyroid is the one
that controls calcium and when people
have surgery for example to the thyroid
gland they remove thyroid gland a lot of
times they damage the parathyroid and
then they start having problems with
that so what does all this had to do
with nose breathing nose breathing helps
to increase the right amount of CO2
into your body to help then
really release that oxygen deep into
your cells which is going to help
oxygenate your brain and your muscles
especially when you exercise so when you
sleep when you really need oxygen in
fact those people who snore typically
snore because they're a mouth breather I
mean try this experiment right now close
your mouth breathe your nose and try to
mimic snoring with your sinuses now you
could probably do that if you have a
stuffy nose but if you don't have a
stuffy nose it's almost impossible to
snore with your mouth closed and because
you're breathing through your nose it's
not just about oxygen in your blood it's
actually about oxygen that actually
takes that one step further deep into
the cells and if you have more oxygen in
the cells you're going to be less
stressed now since we're on the topic of
oxygen and CO2 if you haven't seen this
video
check it out
