hey guys I want to give you a tip on
urinary tract infections UTI okay that
is an infection in the upper part of
your urinary system you have two kidneys
you got little ERS a bladder and urethra
so there's an infection somewhere there
and it can create pain uh the urge to
urinate yet the the bladder is empty uh
a lot of problems U and the remedy is
called D Manos okay what is that that is
a type of sugar that doesn't affect your
blood sugars it doesn't get stor as
glycogen so what happens is you take it
and it it's like velcro it attaches to
the microb eoli which in
90% of uh people with UTI it's eoli
microb so it goes in there like velcro
attaches to it and takes it out of the
system so it's a great way to eliminate
that microbe okay now if it doesn't work
because 10% of the time uh you have
other types of microbes or fungus or
other bacterias um you can use oregano
oil oregano oil is one of the best
antiviral antibacterial antifungal anti-
yeast so you start taking this and that
will definitely work if this doesn't
work all right try it out and put your
comments
below hey if you haven't already
subscribed press this little button down
below okay thanks
