today we're going to talk about the Dark
Side of ashwag gandha first let's talk
about the light side of ashwag gandha
it's a powerful herb I take it
periodically which I'm going to talk
about I don't take it all the time but
ashwa Ganda has been around for a very
long time and it has everything to do
with stress it helps to reduce stress it
helps to reduce anxiety especially if
you have nervousness it can actually
lower cortisol it can increase V2 Max
this is why a lot of athletes take it it
can increase testosterone and because it
lowers cortisol it can help you sleep
especially if you're getting up right
around 2:00 or 2:30 in the middle of the
night and it's good for Recovery it's
good to help lower your blood sugar and
help with insulin resistance so it's
going to help you lose weight you don't
want to take ashanda if you have a hyper
thyroid condition like Graves disease
for example why because ashwag gandha
speeds up the thyroid and so if you
already have a
hyperfast thyroid we don't want to speed
it up more also because it lowers blood
pressure if you have low blood pressure
you probably don't want to take it
because it's going to push your blood
pressure lower and also if you have low
cortisol you probably don't want to push
cortisol even lower than it is right now
and of course if you're pregnant or
breastfeeding I wouldn't recommend
taking it if you're sensitive to the
night shades I wouldn't recommend taking
it if you have a genetic problem where
you have too much iron then I probably
wouldn't take it too let's kind of roll
into kind of the big thing that people
are talking about online when you take
too much of it for too long you can end
up in a situation with the feeling that
your motions are flat okay you just kind
of feel kind of a little bit numb might
say it's too much serotonin but we don't
really know but I have a theory on it
the
phytochemicals in
ashwagandha are basically defense
molecules and so the plant has generated
and created those molecules to help
defend against other insects things like
that so it's really a pesticide so
you're probably wondering like then why
are we consuming it because a small dose
of this molecule apparently creates some
really positive effects on our body like
exercises of stress why would you want
to damage or create microinflammation in
your muscles right when you exercise
well because the body then adapts and
becomes stronger probably the same
thing's happening with Asanda it creates
a little bit of stress it causes our
body to adapt and become stronger thus
the term adaptogen most of the people
that you hear this from are people who
have taken it for a bit too long and
higher doses when you start getting into
doses like 1,000 milligrams a day 2,000
3500 milligrams a day that's when you
might start having some issues and this
is why I recommend keeping it at around
600 milligrams per day and breaking it
up into 300 milligram uh doses take that
for a bit and then now let's talk about
the duration I wouldn't recommend taking
it for more than two months at a time
and then start back up so that way the
body doesn't get used to it and you
don't create this chronic stimulation of
certain receptors that could be a
problem and then you can back off of it
for a while and then cycle back on it
but the overall benefits from mhag
gandha are so huge I don't want to throw
the baby out with the bath water now
since we're talking about stress if you
have not seen this video on the acur
pressure points that I teach people to
release stress accumulated stress you
should check it out I put that video up
right here
