hey guys Dr Burg here in this video I'm
going to share with you how much protein
we really need okay so if you look this
up you know they will say that you need
8 grams of protein times your body
weight per day okay honestly I think
that's way way too much now even say if
you're an athlete uh you would need one
or one and a half times your body weight
in the amount of protein that can go up
to like 300 gram of protein per day so
here's the problem that I'm seeing in a
clinical practice every day for the last
26 years okay people are doing way too
much protein they don't need as much as
they think so I think you would need
half of the requirements okay so I weigh
about 193 so I should have
about4 times my body weight so I need
about 78 grams of protein per day now
what does that mean 78 gram it's about
26 gam per meal all right and I think
the average person needs between like 25
and 35 grams of protein because anything
more than that tends to turn into sugar
now that's a generality but it's it
tends to be true so when it turns into
sugar it spikes insulin okay so so 26
grams per meal which be about like 5
ounces so if I was having a piece of
like a burger patty it'd be like a deck
of a c cards okay or like could be four
eggs and that's what I have for
breakfast or not quite a full chicken
breast but maybe 34 of a chicken breast
um so it's not that much protein when I
consume too much protein I find my
sleeping isn't quite right protein has a
lot of phosphorus phosphorus is a
stimulant so if you're doing all this
protein protein snacks all day you're
not going to sleep that well you need
some a lot more vegetables to wind you
down with all the the minerals that calm
your body so phosphorus is like an
accelerator uh other minerals like
calcium magnesium from the vegetables
tend to calm you down so I like a good
amount of this and just a little bit of
protein seems to work really good but
you don't need as much protein as you
think there are variables though there's
exceptions to the rule so here's the
variables number one if you're younger
you can tolerate more protein if you're
older you can't the liver actually is
the organ that helps break down protein
so if you have a bad liver a fatty liver
because you have a gut you're not going
to digest a lot of protein so just a
little bit also the strength of your
digestive acids most people have low
acids in their stomach and then they
have heartburn so if they were to have
alider vinegar they could start to
increase the acid and digest more
protein people that get gas especially
when they eat protein what that means is
they don't have enough stomach acids so
the lower the acid the less you can
digest protein okay uh exercise now if
you're exercising and you're breaking
down proteins muscle you're going to
need a little more protein right that's
just the fact so if you're sedentary
you're not going to need as much protein
it's very very simple um the more
stressed you are the more protein you
will need but typically the average
person even if they work out they don't
need a lot of protein so but this is
something that is kind of something you
have to test out with your body and play
around with the numbers to get your
exact amount so you might want to start
with4 uh grams times your body weight
and then play around and see how you
feel okay see if you recover see if you
feel good see if you sleep see if you're
not bloated after you eat and then maybe
you increase it you know because some
people need a little bit more some
people need a little less okay now the
other thing is that too much protein
raises a hormone called insulin and that
keeps you fat so you can actually get
fat by too much protein especially if
it's lean protein they found that whey
protein because it's really lean lowfat
or other types of lean protein Spike
insulin more than fatty protein like
things like even bacon sausage things
like that so fat has a neutral effect on
insulin so when you consume protein
don't try to go for the lean get the
full fat in there as well so I when I
eat chicken I have the skin on it when I
have beef I have all the fat I don't get
lean I just don't because it's it's
going to spike insulin a little bit more
than you would think okay then also if
you add sugar to the protein like I was
this week and I was in Allentown
Pennsylvania at this Market I was just
observing people eat massive amounts of
protein with massive amounts of sugar
and they have the sugar and the cake and
the sweet and this and that what they're
doing is they're spiking insulin when
you add sugar to protein you greatly
aggravate and exaggerate the insulin
Spike so that's like a deadly
combination you don't want to add the
bun to the meat or the ketchup or the
sugar to meat especially like the even
the barbecued ribs there there's ways
you can make it without sugar but those
are just some interesting points about
protein and how that will mess up your
your weight as well okay so I hope that
helped and go ahead and write your
comments below I will see you in the
next video
