this video is in response to a question
relating to the difference between
synthetic and natural b12 the synthetic
version of b12 is called cyano Kabul
Amin and the natural version is methyl
cobalamin now the main reason why people
get this version is it's incredibly
cheap and on the label sometimes it'll
say I don't know five thousand percent
of normal and people think more is
better well the reason why it's five
thousand percent is that it takes so
much of it to be absorbed it takes four
steps for it to convert into this
version to then be absorbed so number
one it's not absorbed easily but number
two this splits off into cyanide and you
heard me correctly I said cyanide now I
don't know about you maybe it's just me
but I don't want cyanide in my body and
of course they'll say it's non-toxic in
small amounts unless you're a smoker
okay because there's cyanide in certain
brands of cigarettes or your profession
is involved in mining where there could
potentially be more cyanide or pest
control but for the normal person that's
healthy
they say that cyanide is not toxic in
small dosages I don't know I'm just
gonna avoid it my body because I don't
want poison in my body
they said that trans fats weren't bad
and then they found that it was bad they
said that Follette amide wasn't bad and
then they found it was bad they even
said that smoking wasn't bad until they
found it causes cancer the last thing
I'm gonna do is have them find out that
oh we just found out cyanide is
poisonous and small dosages I don't want
that to happen if you're gonna take b12
methyl cobalamin is the version that I
would recommend it's bound to a protein
so it takes acid in your stomach to
break it down if you don't have enough
stomach acid it's going to be difficult
to absorb this or extract it from the
food that you're eating most animal
products like Meads and even liver are
filled with b12 but if you're a vegan it
might be difficult getting b12 so you
need number one stomach acid number
there's something called the intrinsic
factor that's in your stomach it's a
little thing that helps transport b12
into the small intestine where it's
absorbed but if you have a condition
called atrophic gastritis it's an
autoimmune disease of a certain cell
that makes hydrochloric acid then you're
gonna have a problem with this and
you're gonna also have a problem
absorbing b12 there's a really good
product though that I would recommend if
you have this condition and standard
process makes it it's called the eye pan
okay I'm gonna write this down in case
you ever need it
zai pan you can buy it online just do a
search for it but that has the intrinsic
factor in there and that can help people
absorb b12 also if you had stomach
surgery maybe involving your gastric
bypass or something that could be a
problem with this right here also if
you're taking metformin that can create
a b12 deficiency and then if you're a
vegan you're gonna have to get b12 from
other sources you can get b12 from wheat
grass juice powder because the microbes
in there can make b12 but if you're an
efficient in b12 here's some side
effects
number one diarrhea number two your
nauseating you might have an upset
stomach it she rash headaches dizzy
joint pain like really severe pain if
you're deficient in b12 or even fatigue
b12 involved with the production of red
blood cells it's also involved in brain
function and nerve function and even the
creation of DNA all right there you have
it thanks for watching hey if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
