today we're going to give you 12 fat
burning tips that are incredibly easy
anyone can do these and the goal is to
leverage your actions to create the
biggest effect with losing weight let's
begin with number one you want to use
animal proteins okay and you want to do
a moderate amount so I would say the
amount of protein of the size of the
palm of your hand if you're a female and
then times two if you're male now as far
as the carbs we got to keep that low
because if your carbs are too high
then the body is going to be running on
carbs it's not going to run on your fat
the metabolic switch that allows you to
tap into your own fat is regulated by
how many carbs you consume we must keep
the carbs below 50 grams now as far as
fat goes I would just not worry about
fat consume the fat that normally comes
with the Protein that's going to set up
a foundation to be able to get rid of
the hunger and the craving and get you
into fat burning tip number two you
shouldn't necessarily focus on weight
loss itself you should focus on what's
really behind the problem which is this
term called insulin resistance now
there's basically four things that cause
insulin resistance too many carbs eating
too frequently stress
inflammation when they're constantly
consuming something that irritates the
gut a person can develop insulin
resistance from that so how would you
know if you had that and it could be a
lot of different types of symptoms from
bloating burping belching indigestion
heartburn Etc so for number two what you
want to do is make your carbohydrates
leafy greens okay like salads that's the
type of carbohydrate you should consume
because yes there's carbohydrates in
there but it's also loaded with a lot of
fiber and it's not going to be an issue
worrying about counting carbs all right
number three don't eat unless you are
hungry don't get into this pth pattern
of just eating by the clock or because
everyone else is eating really check in
on yourself and say am I really hungry
right now do I need to eat or maybe
should I just go longer without eating
because what's going to happen as we
lower the carbs your body's going to tap
into more fat so now you're eating in
between meals you're eating your own fat
even though you're not eating your
calories it's kind of strange but you're
you're not going to be hungry you're not
going to Crave so why would you want to
eat if your body is being fed ride the
wave go longer until the point where
you're actually hungry all right number
four exercise snacks now what does that
mean doesn't mean snacking it means
taking advantage of various things
through the day to get more exercise for
example if you do a lot of computer work
like I do take breaks on the hour go for
a walk for five minutes come back take
every advantage to get more physical
activity I mean that's what I do I live
on a farm I am walking everywhere up the
hill down the hill the exercise and and
the walking is going to be very
important to help reduce stress and help
you sleep at night it flushes out the
cortisol and the adrenaline all right
number five avoiding grains not just
glutenfree but all grains because even
though there's no gluten in some grains
or even though they took the gluten out
of it those refined carbohydrates as in
the form of the starches and the
synthetic sugars that comes from the
grain are going to create a tremendous
amount of inflammation in your gut
causing leaky gut and it could even
cause an autoimmune disease so what they
do with grains is they turn it into
sugars synthetic sugars starches like
modified food starch modified corn
starch and Seed oils and also if you
have got inflammation that fiber in the
grains is going to irritate your colon
and create more inflammation because
there's usually always an imbalance with
the microbiome in your gut when you have
inflammation in fact that's probably the
thing that started this imbalance in the
first place if you start adding more
fiber to a hot inflamed gut you're going
to start feeding the pathogens you're
going to create more of an imbalance
it's going to get worse what heals the
gut is something called glutamine and
glutamine is in meat you can also get
glutamine in cabbage and this is why
cabbage and meat tends to go well
together all right number six do not let
yourself keep any junk food in the house
this is a policy that I created for
myself and I do not let any junk food in
the house because I may cave and if it's
there I might eat it if I'm bored it's
very important not to be tempted or to
even have this junk food available um
talk to your your your family to try to
get them to agree with it as well
because if it's there chances are you'll
probably eat it number seven avoid
locations that you will be tempted
whether it's a restaurant a social event
I would just avoid those areas because
with those areas comes other people that
tend to push junk food on you it happens
all the time all right number eight
avoid dead food I'm talking about food
that has been Ultra processed or
packaged in a way that it no longer has
a shelf life okay it'll last forever
it's either canned cooked boxed highly
refined number nine it's cold therapy
what do I mean cold therapy well you can
do cold showers you can do cold
immersions or you could just during the
winter be outside a lot more and get
cold let me tell you what happens when
your body gets cold your body has this
one really important fixed temperature
98.6 when you go in a cold environment
okay your body has to fight that hard it
has to increase the temperature as a
survival mechanism so it's going to
start burning a tremendous amount of
calories from something called Brown fat
and the brown fat is going to be
activated by the cold and burn some of
the other white fat and it's going to
start to waste a lot of calories for one
purpose and one purpose only to increase
heat so here you are you're in a cold
environment you're not even doing
anything you don't even have to exercise
you're just cold and guess what it's
going to increase your burning calories
depending on how much you're exposed to
it all right number 10 adaptogens are
really good too one would be ashwag
gandha B1 is awesome to reduce stress
Vitamin D will help reduce stress so all
three of those are very very important
number 11 11 avoid glyphosate this is
the chemical Roundup Ready in the GMO
Foods okay let me tell you why you need
to avoid this and I'm going to tell you
the foods that are high in glyphosate
glyphosate acts as an antibiotic and
it's going to mess with your own
microbes in your gut and that can very
easily affect
inflammation uh weight gain and a lot of
other problems so it's very high in all
cereals it's high in corn soy canola as
in all those seed oils any Wheat
products are going to have glyphosate
and also non-organic food so when you
buy commercial like chicken beef things
like that guess what they're fed with
grains Okay number 12 and this is apple
cida vinegar because appleid of vinegar
indirectly helps you lose weight um
without really doing anything but just
drinking it it helps your blood sugars
it helps that insulin resistance now to
get more details on exactly what to eat
okay right you should watch this video
right
here
