I'm gonna talk about the biggest thing
that is missing when you're trying to
recover from an addiction now if you're
recovering from alcohol for example you
have to realize that in your body
alcohol acts as a carbohydrate even
though it's alcohol itself is not a
carbohydrate now they put carbohydrates
in it like beer wine and things like
that mixed drinks but pure alcohol
ethanol is not a carbohydrate which
means you'll have the fluctuations of
blood sugar issues okay because your
body is constantly trying to get rid of
it it considers it a toxin so it's
pulling it out as a priority and there's
a lot of liver issues and things like
that so the symptoms from that alone
from the blood sugar highs and lows are
gonna be anxiety fatigue moodiness
definitely craving dizzy and confusion
so if you're at a program like alcohol
Anonymous for example you're gonna
replace the alcohol for carbohydrates
okay because donuts sugar in the coffee
cookies candy load you up with
carbohydrates so you never really get
rid of this blood sugar problem realize
what we're dealing with is a major
chemical imbalance whether it's drugs or
alcohol
those things are pulling nutrients out
of your tissues and what I mean by
chemical imbalance is a nutrient
imbalance nutrient deficiencies big-time
and there's a condition behind this
blood sugar fluctuation called insulin
resistance and when you have insulin
resistance you have difficulty absorbing
nutrients in the first place so not only
is the alcohol creating a deficiency but
the insulin resistance is also on top of
that blocking your ability to absorb
nutrients so it keeps things completely
out of balance I would run your body on
ketones
okay ketones are an alternative-fuel
ketones are a byproduct of burning your
own fat your body loves ketones and
prefers ketones but way over glucose
when you were in ketosis which means
you're running your body in ketones
these symptoms completely go away you
just feel much better
now how do you do it you have to lower
your carbs but you want to be on a
healthy keto eating plan so you want to
lower your carbs and then you want to do
fasting in a minute fasting what's
interesting about fasting is that it
will also put your body into a healing
mode so you start repairing the insulin
resistance so now you start absorbing
nutrients but you do have to realize
that this process even though you're
gonna feel better right away takes quite
a bit of time to correct especially if
you've been abusing drugs or alcohol for
a long period of time so you may need to
do this for some months if not years to
really see the full benefits but you'll
be feeling good so you want to want to
continue it the other thing that I think
is very very important in the meantime
while you you're doing this is to
actually take key challenge them self
okay you can get them in a supplement or
through something called NCT oil that
will turn into ketones so these are
called exogenous ketones or ketone salts
you take them your brain starts feeling
a lot better it makes it easier to be
successful long-term especially because
there are a lot of symptoms that are
associated with withdrawals and
physiological cravings for certain
things so you want to satisfy the body
with the right fuel that's number one
number two you want to give it certain
nutrients the best source of the
b-complex is nutritional yeast what you
want to do is you want to be consuming
this all day long it's going to help you
have large amounts of it you'll just
feel better from it next thing is trace
minerals trace minerals are also very
important in many different things but
you become deficient in trace minerals
when you consume alcohol or take drugs
as well but it C is also important but
don't just get the regular vitamin C
that you would get at the you know
drugstore that's synthetic you want to
get a food base a natural vitamin C
complex you want to keep taking these
for a period of months and months until
your body comes to a balance date I
think the implementation of these basic
things is this basic diet is
not emphasized enough in these rehab
programs so I highly recommend you try
it so you can actually see for yourself
and then you'll really know so I put me
how to basic video on this page check it
out
