today I'm going to talk about
intermittent fasting patterns or
protocols for different body situations
alright let's start at the top growth
hormone growth hormone is the anti-aging
hormone it helps burn fat it helps
preserve muscle and when you're doing
fasting it starts to increase at 12
hours now if you continue to do fasting
it's going to keep going up and plateau
right around 24 hours but fasting can
really spike growth hormone in a big way
exercise will also increase growth
hormone and sleeping will increase
growth hormone so when you talk about
growth hormone
most people think anti-aging so fasting
has a great influence to increase growth
hormone but it starts at 12 hours and if
you continue too fast it'll increase
from there number two at otha G etapa G
is a condition where your body is
recycling damaged proteins and it's
clearing out microbes pathogens so look
at it like a garbage disposer body is
getting rid of non-functional proteins
that it doesn't need and it's becoming
very efficient and optimizing things and
turning all the damaged protein into new
amino acids and the spike with the top
of G starts around 18 hours of fasting
so that still gives you like a six hour
eating window which is pretty easy to do
for most people so it's going to recycle
damaged protein okay it's gonna kill
microbes so it's going to make you look
younger it's going to help break down
something called amyloid plaque which is
in the brain it's another tissue
patients who have Alzheimer's usually
have amyloid plaque inking
also in the liver it can help break down
unwanted protein as in cirrhosis or
fibrosis so it's gonna help break that
down to some degree and also etapa G
will help get rid of AG ease advanced
glycation end-products this is a result
of combining protein with sugar the
proteins become sticky they're no longer
functional and there's no benefit to
them they create all sorts of health
problems and the other cool thing about
etapa G is it will kill and clean up
pathogens
it's and even viruses so people that
have chronic fatigue syndrome a lot of
times have a hidden chronic infection in
the background so when they get in there
tapa G and you clean up the microbes all
of a sudden their energy starts going
higher and higher and they're not sure
why but it's dealing with this hidden
infection and of course if you do this
longer you'll have more etapa G all
right number three inflammation you can
really see a drop in inflammation when
you do ohm at one meal a day
so you're fasting for 23 hours you're
eating for one hour per day so when
you're doing Oh mad you're really
knocking down that oxidative stress
which is corroding and corrupting all
the tissues also you're improving
inflammation arthritis the inflammation
in autoimmune conditions and gut
inflammation and this also applies if
you get sick with some lung issue or the
flu if you do oh man you can really
speed up the recovery process before
cancer now with cancer I would recommend
doing ohm at one meal a day that's 23
hours of fasting with periodic prolonged
fasting now why because cancer lives on
two things
glucose okay but if you're on a
ketogenic diet and you fast you're gonna
starve off cancer that way but also
cancer lives on glutamine which is an
amino acid so the more that you fast the
more you can reduce glutamine the
problem with glutamine is it's in pretty
much all the foods that you eat so it's
very difficult to avoid it and a lot of
times people are caught between a rock
and a hard place because they want to
avoid that amino acid but they also want
to avoid the breakdown of muscle protein
so one strategy that some people do is
they take certain combinations of all
the essential amino acids as a
supplement why they're fasting to get
all the amino acids except glutamine so
the combination of routine Oh mad one
meal a day with maybe weekly prolonged
fast for 48 maybe even 72 hours
and on top of that consuming a good
amount of cruciferous vegetables when
you're eating is going to be very very
smart to start building up your immune
system and decreasing something called
angiogenesis so tumors for example need
a blood flow when you consume
cruciferous it can help to limit the
amount of blood supply to tumors alright
number five stem cell what's a stem cell
a stem cell is an undifferentiated cell
so it hasn't turned into anything yet so
when you fast for 72 hours and of course
you're gonna do this periodically you're
gonna majorly stimulate stem cells which
can really build new tissue so wherever
your body needs to grow new tissue
whether it's in the colon and the immune
system in the brain you can actually
increase the stem cells by fasting a bit
longer than you would normally fast
there's a certain protein in the body
called PKA and when you fast you
decrease this protein and that will
activate the stem cells next thing is
stubborn weight so most people fast to
lose weight or religious reasons and
some people do it for health reasons but
if you have a stubborn weight situation
like really stubborn I would recommend
doing ohm at one meal a day every other
day so you're eating every 48 hours make
sure you're getting your nutrients but
this is necessary for some people to
really tap into the fat especially if
they had a history of diabetes but the
key is making sure you have the right
nutrients because you're fasting for a
good period of time so definitely
enhance your diet with nutrients and
make sure that when you eat it's really
nutrient dense foods okay last thing
diabetes with diabetes you can really
help the blood sugar situation with
fasting because diabetes is a problem
with excess sugar and so if we avoid
carbohydrates we're going to bring it
down now the problem with doing it as a
diabetic is that you must check your
blood Sugar's routinely
and get with your doctor to adjust the
medications because if you lower the
blood sugar and you take the same amount
of medication you're gonna end up with a
severe low blood sugar because you're
taking medication
when you really don't need it so when
the blood sugars start going on the low
side you shouldn't be taking insulin or
even other diabetes medication because
all its gonna do is it's gonna drive it
down even lower
you can even end up with some pretty
serious problems so check with your
doctor do it gradually and really focus
on these blood sugars because it's going
to come down pretty significantly and
you want to make some adjustments
alright guys last thing I'm gonna
mention is that there's not a lot of
data
um not a lot of studies yet this is
still a work in progress what I'm
talking about is just my opinion based
on working with people so because
there's so many variables you're gonna
have to test the waters and try
different things and see what works for
you and lastly click the button on this
video to watch this very interesting
video on a toff adji I think you'll
really enjoy it
