you know I get this question very often
what type of diet should someone with a
genetic cholesterol problem have and I'm
talking about familial
hypercholesterolemia now you would
logically think that if someone has a
problem with cholesterol okay and with
this condition you have like 50 percent
of the LDL receptors than a normal
person so that means you're going to
have a buildup of LDL so logically it
makes sense to just start reducing your
cholesterol and your saturated fats
especially right makes total sense and
this is something that has been
recommended for probably I don't know 80
years it's your standard recommendations
from most medical professionals but
there's a fascinating
research paper that I want to summarize
right here that actually blew my mind
and I'm going to kind of give you the
simple version and then you can click
down below and read it for yourself of
course check with your doctor and don't
come off any medications because of me
there is extremely poor evidence
of recommending lowering your
cholesterol and your saturated fats
for the better outcomes if you have this
genetic cholesterol problem despite
these recommendations lowering saturated
fats and cholesterol to people with
genetic cholesterol problems they still
have a significant increased risk of
dying from a heart attack and the name
of this research paper is called dietary
recommendations for familial
hypercholesterolemia and when they
mention evidence-free Zone they're
talking about a severe lack of evidence
85 percent of the population who has
genetic problems with their cholesterol
don't even know the habit and I'm
definitely not telling you that having
high LDL or high cholesterol is not
going to affect your heart in a negative
way I'm just sharing a new Viewpoint
that you really seriously need to look
at if you have high cholesterol and I
really just want you to start
questioning if lowering your cholesterol
and the saturated fat in your diet is
the best strategy you should be focusing
on they also quoted a additional study
that compared one group consuming low
fat okay the other group consuming low
carb and both groups had this genetic
cholesterol problem and the group that
lowered their carbohydrate had a
significantly lowered risk of dying from
a heart attack and this is despite okay
despite consuming three times the amount
of saturated fat so in other words the
low carb group consumed three times more
fat than the dietary low fat Group which
is just fascinating but if someone's
going to start lowering their dietary
fat okay and their cholesterol usually
they're going to replace it with more
carbs so let me just summarize a couple
things about the study the current
dietary guidelines for management of
coronary disease in familial
hypercholesterol anemia is based on
outdated and unsupported information
number two there's no evidence to
support the recommendations which are
given to these individuals with this
cholesterol genetic problem of consuming
a low saturated fat diet or a low
cholesterol diet number three a low
carbohydrate diet was found to
significantly improve cardiovascular
disease biomarkers and we're talking
about these indicators like obesity high
blood pressure
coronary artery calcification test which
is a really good indicator to tell
what's going on inside also High insulin
or insulin resistance inflammation or
inflammatory biomarkers and then we have
high triglycerides and high glucose as
in diabetes you see those factors are so
much more important than just trying to
lower your cholesterol another factor
that you should really look at through
an advanced lipid profile test to look
at your your LDL okay to see what type
of particle size that you have there's
two different types of LDL one type is
the small dense particle size and the
other is the large buoyant particle size
and you want the large buoyant particle
size because the small dense particles
can Lodge into the inside of the artery
and create a problem and it just so
happens that a high carbohydrate diet is
associated with these small dents ldls
those are the pathogenic ones that you
have to be aware of the other thing to
focus more on would be the clotting
factors to see if you clot more so
unfortunately that's kind of downplayed
sometimes when it actually is a way more
significant risk factor than just having
high LDL and another point they
mentioned in the summary section of this
study is that there is sufficient
rationale for conducting clinical trials
to assess the effects of a low carb diet
unfamilial hypercholesterolemia
individuals with insulin resistance okay
which I think is a really really
important point if you have a genetic
problem with cholesterol and you manage
the risk factors obesity insulin
resistance the high blood pressure and
all these other things by being on a low
carb diet
year outcomes are going to be so much
better but to get the entire medical
profession on board we need these
clinical trials so and this is just my
opinion
instead of focusing on lowering the
saturated fat okay lowering your
cholesterol you should be focusing on
lowering your carbohydrates now this
flies right into the face of the medical
profession this is definitely not the
consensus
it's definitely an alternative View and
all I'm asking you to do is to take a
look at it look at the research for
yourself and then test things out go on
a ketogenic diet and then go get your
your values tested and then go on the
other diet that everyone's recommending
and then you compare the results to see
what's best for you but the point is
that we assume that this research is
already done and it's this science is
settled but it's it's not settled so if
you have this genetic problem there's a
couple things that you really need to
focus on right number one going on the
healthy version of the ketogenic diet
because the biggest risk factor for this
condition is heart problems right so the
healthy version of the ketogenic diet
has the ingredients that support the
inside lining of the heart I would also
recommend doing intermittent fasting
which will lower insulin because going
in the high carb diet creates more
inflammation in the arteries and we're
trying to prevent a heart attack okay
not create it a couple key nutrients
that I would recommend would be and this
is based on some some pretty powerful
research extracts of red yeast and then
another one called polycosanol now
that's believe it or not from sugarcane
but there's no sugar in it okay but it's
apparently it's a a good combination
with the red yeast to help keep the
cholesterol in check niacin not
niacinamide is another good thing to
take to help regulate cholesterol and of
course exercise is important garlic can
help thin the blood and prevent the
stickiness to the platelets and then the
last thing that I would recommend is
tocatrinols that's a type of vitamin E
that really supports the inside layer of
your arteries to prevent against
oxidation prevent against scarring and
plaquing and it's probably one of the
best antioxidants for the heart
tocatrinals don't buy it with the
tocopherols get it as a standalone other
points in addition to that would be to
realize that steroids and stress can
increase cholesterol and I'm talking
about the bad type okay also birth
control pills or estrogen therapy can
increase your cholesterol and of course
any type of sugar will do it smoking
will greatly worsen this situation and
of course alcohol
and diuretics can also worsen the
situation as well as beta blockers now
like I said before like 85 of the
population doesn't even know they have
this condition but there are a few
indicators that can give it away other
than getting a test okay one is these
little fat deposits on your Achilles
tendons okay and they also can form on
your wrists
as well as on your eyelids they're
called xanthomas it's basically
cholesterol building up in the tissues
you can also have a condition called
Arcus sinilis which is a little
whitening around the iris of your eye so
again check with your doctor before
taking any of these recommendations I
just wanted to create this video
food for thought
something to look at something to
question and if you have not seen my
video on niacin that's a really good one
to get the full picture and I put that
up right here
