no I'm not doing Kido I can't live
without bread listen I totally
understand and you probably have your
mind made up but just hear me out did
you realize that an average American
consumes 53 pounds of bread per year
that's 26 kilograms is that a bit
excessive that's a lot of bread the
glycemic index of bread is 71 okay and
it can actually go to 80 81 to depending
on what kind of bread it is so even no
bread is low-fat it'll be broken down
into sugar then convert it into fat in a
big way so the low-fat bread has too
many carbs that just turned into fat and
it'll spike insulin which then blocks
the ability to burn the fat so if you're
trying to lose weight it's gonna be
almost impossible if you're consuming
bread a lot of white bread has bleach in
it which is chlorine dioxide and there's
some animal studies that show that this
can lead to type 1 diabetes destroying
the pancreas then you have an enzyme
called transglutaminase which basically
changes the texture of the dough but the
problem is it worsens the sensitivity to
gluten gluten is the protein in certain
grains and 20 million Americans are
sensitive to gluten or are gluten
intolerant that means that when you
consume foods with gluten it will
actually destroy the little roots on the
inside of your digestive system those
are called villi and basically make them
go away so they're blunted so you can't
absorb anymore especially leaving like
that Siple vitamins and nutrients so it
can really impair the absorption of
nutrients and it can even trigger
autoimmune diseases and affect your
friendly microbes now when you consume
whole grains you're getting the brand
which is loaded with something called
phytic acid which blocks zinc creating a
zinc deficiency
also the more bread that you consume the
more you depleted a vitamin b1 other B
vitamins vitamin E and zinc b1 and
vitamin E are essential for the heart so
this is what I'm gonna recommend there
are alternatives that you can do one is
called gup-c bread or cloud bread it's
made from egg whites cream cheese baking
soda and salt I put a link down below
for the recipe but this actually is
pretty good you can also make bread out
of almond flour cauliflower chia seed
flaxseed coconut flour zucchini so there
are alternatives and here's the thing if
you crave bread
you're usually deficient in vitamin b1
and if you started taking nutritional
yeast that will actually decrease the
cravings if you start doing healthy keto
and intermittent fasting your hunger
will go down making it much easier to
avoid bread but if you wanted a real
amazing bread recipe that tastes almost
identical to bread and it'll make you
happy and yes you can put butter on it
check out this video on this page right
now
