let's talk about eleven causes of
depression I'm currently reading a very
interesting book by Kelly Brogan MD
amazing credentials she's actually a
psychiatrist and this is what she said
there is not one study that proves that
depression is a chemical imbalance
people are taught we're told that oh
yeah you have depression you have a
chemical imbalance just take this drug
it's going to fix it well 10 20 years
later they still have the depression and
they're on five or six or seven or eight
medications or they might say it's
genetic you have the gene for depression
which is absolutely not true it's never
been proven it's more epi genetics
epigenetics are those factors that
control your genes a lot of its
environment the food that you're eating
the nutrition that can affect the genes
so let's go through the eleven causes of
depression number one low vitamin D this
is why people in the winter a lot of
times get the blues because they don't
get much Sun vitamin D can greatly help
someone's mood and pull them out of that
depression number two low vitamin b12
now our bodies store b12 for up to a
year but at some point if you're not
consuming animal products or you have a
problem in your gut and you run out of
b12 you'll not only have a lot of
neurological problems from that but you
can get depression number three Mohs ink
or low chromium you can get both of
these trace minerals from shellfish a
lot of people when they consume
shellfish just feel better it brings
their mood up and that's one of the
reasons why number four low blood sugar
or high blood sugar but if you have low
blood sugar
chances are you can have high insulin
that's pushing the blood sugar down so
you can actually have depression from
low blood sugars or high blood sugar or
normal blood sugars because you have
insulin resistance this is why keto and
intermittent fasting are very important
when you do intermittent fasting you can
greatly elevate the moon
and when you do the ketogenic diet and
you're producing ketones ketones are
great mood stabilizers and also ketones
feed the brain all right number five
lack of sleep and when I'm talking about
depression I'm talking about either
hopelessness or apathetic you don't care
anymore
anxiety is different anxiety is more
like I'm nervous I'm constantly thinking
about problems and I don't have any
solution to that
that's anxiety all right number six
fatigue so many people that are
depressed actually are physically
exhausted and guess what that will make
you depressed being tired will give you
the sensation of depression it's very
difficult to be depressed a huge full of
energy this is why sleep is very very
important alright number seven
postpartum you just gave birth and now
you're depressed this is very low
estrogen okay I put a link down below of
another video that I did to increase
estrogen and you can watch that if you
just had a baby and you're depressed
alright number eight you're going
through your menstrual cycle and at some
point during that period of time you get
depressed same thing it's low estrogen
now number nine you're taking some
medication that's that has side effects
and one of the side effects is
depression now the problem with certain
psychiatric medication is they inhibit
certain neurotransmitters like serotonin
so they caused this recycling effect so
they prevent the loss of that
neurotransmitter the problem is over
time your receptors downgrade that means
you need a little more medication to
create the same effect
and over time you need more and more and
more and the side effects go higher and
higher and next thing you know you need
another medication and another
medication and you're getting more side
effects and more side effects alright
number 10 you have stress due to a loss
let's say you have a loss of a loved one
well guess what depression is a normal
response to a loss if you weren't
depressed that would be a problem okay
so this is normal 11 invite
mental situation you're stuck in an
ongoing situation a problem that you
can't solve and you become depressed
because of that so the best thing to do
for these situations is to make sure
your sleep is good that way your energy
will be up make sure you have enough
vitamin D and b12 and trace minerals and
definitely get on keto and especially in
a minute fasting all right thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
