hey guys I want to talk about gall stone
symptoms okay what are they number one
bloating
indigestion burping or belching which is
kind of the same thing constipation
sometimes diarrhea but more
constipation um pain or cramping
underneath the right rib cage okay right
there um right scapular pain that's
right on the that bone in the back there
could be on the inside or right
underneath the tip of the scapula it can
go up into the upper back up into the
neck into the face anything in the right
shoulder it's worse when you eat greasy
fatty junk foods like a
doughnut um chest pain why because the
gallbladder could be swollen backed up
putting pressure on the liver which is
then putting pressure on the heart
nausea vomiting your stools float or
they lighter color like a gray or a
light brown
so these are indicators that there could
be gall stones okay so the question is
what causes gall stones number one
decrease bile b i l e bile is the
detergent that dissolves the grease it's
the thing that dissolves cholesterol to
so they doesn't form into a stone so
some people say that what causes gall
stones is eating greasy foods but greasy
Foods triggers the release of bile it's
really the combination of lower bile
because you can't dig digest certain
cholesterol uh particles and it also
backs up the liver and creates an
imbalance but it's really the
combination of higher levels of insulin
insulin will decrease the bile
production okay so really it's the
insulin behind that that's why so many
diabetics have gall stones but other
people do as well if you take an average
person that has gall stones um they're
usually on a high carb sugar diet let's
take myself for example when I was going
through college
um I was making some meatloaf okay and I
had the recipe from my grandmother but
of course I never read the directions I
just kind of summarize it I didn't see
at the bottom line where you had to
drain the grease from the meatloaf the
tray I didn't do that so here I took a
pound of hamburger with bread and
ketchup which is all sugar cooked it
with all the grease okay now what that's
going to do it's going to massively
trigger the insulin Spike because
anytime you combine meat with sugar you
really accentuate and add the spike of
insulin there so I basically went to bed
consuming that whole meatloaf woke up at
2:00 in the morning with the most severe
gallbladder attack you can possibly
imagine now I didn't have a stone that I
knew of but these symptoms are similar
to a gallbladder attack you know it
doesn't necessarily always have to come
to a stone it could just be the an
irritation to the gallbladder itself
okay so anyway um little did I know it
was my gallbladder and I had started
getting right shoulder pain that just
kept going on and on until about 12
years later I fig finally figured out
the connection improved my gallbladder
and all my right shoulder pain
completely went away I never had a
problem again but the point is that
these two combinations low bile and high
insulin from eating junk or sugar will
definitely set you up for a gallbladder
uh symptom or a golf Stone what's
interesting is people had the
gallbladder out and then they um they
don't change diet they think it's they
can keep eating and they get the pain
back you know we'll I'll do another
video on that specifically so now um
what do we do to improve the vile and
decrease the insulin I'll put some links
down below but you need to go on the
ketogenic eating plan and intermittent
fasting together both of those are
essential to improve your gallbladder
function okay I'll put some links down
below uh I also recommend one product
called the gallbladder formula and the
reason recommend it is simply because it
will give you actual purifi bile salts
to give you a jump start to start to
dissolve this see bile is recycled so if
you lose the bile somehow and you don't
have enough you're always going to be
deficient unless you put some back so we
want to add some purifying bile salts
but in the formula we also I put
something in there to lubricate the duct
the bile ducts so it can go through easy
I also put something in there an herb to
help dissolve the stone is called Stone
root I also put something in there to
help you increase your
enzymes uh for the pancreas to take the
stress off the gallbladder I also put
something to acidify the stomach called
ban hyoc chloride to help uh the stomach
activate more bile relase so there's a
lot of things in there to help heal the
gallbladder improve the situation and
the combination of these would be
exactly what you need to do to handle a
stone or improve gallbladder symptoms
thanks for
watching hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
