all right in this video we're gonna
answer the question will fiber bump you
out of ketosis okay I get this all the
time first of all let's talk about what
a fiber is a fiber is actually a
carbohydrate however it has no effect on
blood sugars or insulin so it's low on
the glycemic index okay fiber basically
feeds your microbes your bacteria in
your gut and your microbes then give you
back butyrate or butchart acid which
then feeds the colon cells energy so the
colon cells actually take that and they
use it as food to function correctly
also butyrate helps blood sugars so it
can help lower insulin indirectly so it
does have a positive impact on your
blood sugars so when I say it has no
effect on the blood sugars I'm talking
about it has an indirect effect down the
road okay alright so here's the problem
with fiber it can cause retention of
fluid some fibers are soluble some
fibers are insoluble and basically
certain fibers tend to gel and that can
actually expand in your gut and you can
feel like your belly swelling like you
gained fat but actually it's just water
weight okay now if you have SIBO small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth I've put
a link down below this is interesting
because this condition is a situation
where you have microbes growing in the
small intestine where they should be
growing in the large intestine if you
consume fiber especially large amounts
of fiber and feed these microbes you
will get some pretty severe gas you
might really feel distended and bloated
and feel like you just gained so much
weight just realize that's gas not
necessarily water weight but it's gas
okay so if you get worse on too much
fiber then check for SIBO I have a video
on it so in certain individuals
especially if they have a history of
antibiotics have damage in their colon
and so if they do too much fiber it
irritates them so we have all these
different
actions that can occur with fiber it
could be past damage with your digestive
tract it could be that you don't have
the microbes to handle the fiber and you
have to go slowly so you really just
want to test the waters and see how your
body reacts to fiber in general I always
recommend seven to ten cups of salad or
vegetables per day now I recommend the
salad be raw but the cruciferous
vegetables and some other vegetables
like onions for example saute or
slightly cook those because that way
they are easier to digest you wouldn't
want to consume raw Brussels sprouts
because it can be really hard on the
system your body just can't assimilate
that but maybe sometimes kale will be
fine or a cabbage in a salad but for
myself I cannot do broccoli raw so test
the waters if you feel good with a large
amount of vegetables then you're fine if
you don't cut back slowly get into this
but if you start gaining weight on
vegetables we know it's water weight
okay now will this extra water weight in
this bloating knock out of ketosis
potentially it could temporarily but
it's not from the carbohydrates it's
just from the stress of feeling bloated
now when you look in the back of the
label
nutritional facts you'll see that some
foods have carbohydrates okay and then
some foods have fiber you just basically
conduct the fiber from the total carb to
get your net carb and that's what you're
operating off of when you're doing
ketosis where you want to keep your
carbs to 20 to 50 grams or less I don't
recommend counting the vegetable
carbohydrates okay I don't recommend
counting the salad we want you to
increase that because there's so much
fiber and it has barely any effect on
your blood Sugar's I would not worry
about that now some other fibers that I
want to bring up a chicory root which is
inulin isn't a lot of keto friendly
snacks and chocolate and things like
that then you have something called
fiber yum the name for that is isomalt
Oh oligo saccharides am oh they call it
a fiber but there is some glucose and a
few other sugars in there so it can
spike the sugar a little bit it's not
just pure fiber and so if you're gonna
consume this just do very small amounts
occasionally and then you have corn
fiber you want to make sure that this is
non-gmo but they're starting to use
soluble corn fiber more and more then
you have gar gum which is a thickener in
a lot of different products so realize
that these fibers that are in a lot of
your foods tend to upset your GI tract
simply because the interaction with the
microbes so be careful about doing too
many of these if you're doing keto
because it can be the reason why you
have either diarrhea or constipation
alright guys thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
