you know my terrible debilitating
painful heartburn was the best thing
that ever happened to me but also I want
to show you three things that will help
your heartburn and one of these things
will correct it from here on out it
started in college where I started
getting this terrible burning I'd lie
down and this acid would just come up
driving me crazy it was just so bad
because I had to literally have all
these pillows and kind of Pro myself up
I started on Ant acids like not just a
little bit I mean I'm talking about like
popping these little ant acids like all
that long but this went on for months
and months and the problem is it never
corrected anything is this how I'm going
to be spending the rest of my life just
taking pills this forced me to think
outside the box to look at Alternatives
that I would never in a million years
look at not just with heartburn for many
many different things if I never had
this heartburn I would never have gotten
into the
Alternative Health field and of course
the side effects from man acids oh my
gosh bloating indigestion allergies
increase infection in your stomach
depression etc etc I had zero awareness
over health I mean it was so bad it just
never even crossed my mind and I was
shopping at the discount grocery stores
putting things in my body that I would
cringe now if you put it in front of me
and then of course that was when I was
introduced to to this thing called
coffee not just a little coffee but a
tremendous amount of coffee so I was
guzzling the coffee eating the junk
foods of course drinking alcohol and it
caught up to me and I think there's
nothing more than pain to motivate you
to re-evaluate your actions and and try
to figure this out the big problem with
ano acids is that it creates
achlorhydria it means that it depletes
your stomach acids think about the
purpose of this acid in the stomach what
does it do why how do we have it one
that acid is extremely acidic you know
I'm talking like between 1 and three I
mean people always say like well you
need to alkalize your body really you
want to alkalize your stomach no you
don't you want that super acidic so if
you don't have the right pH in certain
parts of your body the enzymes can't be
activated and so what happens in the
stomach as that food starts breaking
down with the enzymes and then it goes
into the small intestine then when it
gets triggered is an alkaline substance
from the pancreas to help prevent the
acid from burning a hole through your
small intestine and bile from your liver
also is released from the liver into the
gallbladder and then into the small
intestine that's alkaline as well so
that's going to alkalize it now there's
a whole different set of enzymes that
are released when you change the pH to
alkaline so it's really really important
that we have these correct stages of
things that happen in our digestion
heartburn is not really tooo much acid
heartburn is a valve problem and you're
getting this uh acid that's going up
through the valve and it's kind of like
right here okay and a little bit higher
up right through in here that's where
you're going to feel it now if you
assume that your problem is too much
acid then it makes sense to take an
acids because that's getting rid of this
acid but if you know the truth about
what's really going on you have a valve
problem the valve is just not closing
and one of the things that keeps that
valve nice and tight and closed is the
acidity in your stomach that is the
missing piece of the puzzle that I wish
I would have known back when I had this
problem because my direction was getting
rid of the acid not doing the reverse
now there's three simple things to do to
fix this problem okay so let's just
start with number three and then we'll
work backwards number three is you must
increase and add more acid to to your
stomach what's going to happen if you do
that is you're going to trigger a little
sensor on that valve on the top of the
stomach to close and that's instantly
going to make you feel better you can
start doing apple cider vinegar and Bain
hydroc chloride take maybe four to five
before a meal I mean people have to
realize that there's a lot more going on
than just heartburn when you have
heartburn the pancreas is not being
triggered appropriately to release its
enzymes the liver is not getting
triggered correctly to release bile so
you're going to find a lot of undigested
food that gets stuck in the small
intestine and then creating all sorts of
problems from that point down and food
is just filled with microbes you're
going to end up with microbes in the
small intestine and that could actually
start to breed and develop in ferment
all right let's go to number two and
then we'll go to number one the most
important one number two there's a
couple key nutrients that are required
to build up stomach acids so find a good
electrolyte powder for the the
pottassium uh get a trace mineral
supplement for zinc and then also uh
just make sure you have enough sea salt
now of course when I had this heartburn
what was I eating all processed foods I
was just depleting nutrients left and
right the most important nutrient that
you need to correct this problem on a
permanent basis is are you ready for
this thiamine B one why when you're
deficient in thine especially I was
because I was eating all these carbs
what happens is the stomach cannot
produce acid you deprive the autonomic
nervous system which is directly
controlling the valves of the body like
that valve on the top of the stomach if
you don't have enough B1 you can have
all sorts of problems with the digestion
uh everything moves slowly through the
system you don't digest finding a
natural B1 source is going to ultimately
correct your problem one last thing if
you find that you take this acid okay
like from Alid vinegar or um ban hyoc
chloride and you get burning that means
you might have either gastritis like a
inflamed lining of the stomach or an
ulcer in which case you can't do any
more acids you can't do ban
hydrochloride at this level we have to
heal the stomach
first and for information on that
exactly how to do it I put this video up
right here check it
out
