hey guys this Dr Burke here I want to
show you the best remedy for itchy feet
now first of all what is like when
you're the bottoms of your feet itch
what is that that is a sluggish
gallbladder okay everything is kind of
just sludging in there it's not coming
out you're not able to filter out the
toxins and things like that people don't
really know what causes that even
scientists don't know why um you get
itchy feet with a slugger skull bladder
I have my own thing Aries I think it
mainly has to do with the inability to
eliminate histamines okay a lot of the
histamines that cause itching get
trapped they have to go through the
liver so the bile b i l e which helps
drain through the gallbladder uh is
almost like an
anti-histamine type substance because it
actually cleans it out so when your
gallbladder is sluggish or your liver is
congested for some reason uh one of the
symptoms is itchy feet okay so one of
the remedies that I use is the
gallbladder formula why because this has
the bile in it it helps lubricate the
bile ducts if you don't have a
gallbladder you definitely need this
because this will give you the missing
element and plus it has digestive
enzymes through the pancreas so it's
everything uh about supporting these
three digestive organs the stomach the
gallbladder and the pancreas with
emphasis on the gallbladder and just
realize you're going to have to change
your diet as well you're going to have
to probably give up alcohol alcohol junk
food sugar things like that but the
whole point is that itchy feet and other
places you could itch in your back you
can itch on your hands the back of the
neck on the head it's usually a sluggish
gallbladder okay so that's the tip and
uh put your comments below and I will
see you in the next video
