alright guys I'm back and today we're
gonna answer the question what do
electrolytes do now electrolytes are
electrically charged minerals that allow
things to move in the body they allow
the muscles to contract and relax they
allow the nervous system to communicate
and they have many many functions if you
can recall back to chemistry where you
saw that little plus or minus sign on
the right upper corner of an element
like calcium as a plus 2 chloride is a
negative 1
potassium is a plus 1 sodium is a
negative 1 electrolytes are basically
charge minerals that have various
function all right listener with sodium
sodium is considered this bad mineral
but it's actually not it has a purpose
it helps you maintain fluid volume
outside the cell within your blood most
of the sodium is not inside the cell
it's outside the cell so the sodium
helps hold fluid in the body and this is
one reason why if you drink way too much
water without sodium you're going to
dilute sodium and you're gonna create a
condition called hyponatremia it's very
very dangerous so sodium has a very very
important role in many different
functions and sodium excites nerves and
muscles so if you're deficient in sodium
you're gonna find you're gonna have
weakness within your muscles you might
have issues with the nervous system as
well
insulin sensitivity so sodium helps
insulin work better and it can prove
insulin resistance which is probably one
of the biggest root causes to the
majority of health problems ok next one
this is interesting it protects your
heart now you would think that sodium
worsens the heart but if you're
deficient you're gonna have problems
with the heart I will say that most
people are not deficient in sodium they
have too much so the ratio of sodium
potassium is out of balance but the
point is that sodium does protect the
heart in the right amount ok hydration
and also it helps keep LDL which is the
so called bad cholesterol which is
really not but keeps LDL in check all
right potassium what does potassium do
it maintains intracellular volume so
most of the potassium is inside the cell
not outside the cell so if you have
enough potassium inside the cell you'll
have the volume that you need and sodium
potassium work together as the sodium
potassium pump which generates a lot of
electrical energy for the nerve in the
muscle and also to allow things to go in
and out of the cell through the cell
membrane and they need to be in the
right ratios or you can have a big
problem the average person is very heavy
on sodium very low in potassium and that
creates big problems all right next one
is antihypertensive effects so it helps
you lower blood pressure stroke
prevention bone health muscle synthesis
so if you're trying to get more muscle
mass it's not just about eating protein
you need potassium also potassium is
involved in making hydrochloric acid so
if you're having digestive problems you
may need more potassium cell energy we
mentioned that cell pump I mentioned
that kidney stone prevention interesting
all right kidney protection now
sometimes you'll read that potassium is
bad for the kidney only if you're like a
stage five you're in kiddy Dallas's
where the body can't get rid of
potassium but our body has all these
mechanisms to get rid of excess
potassium unless the kidney is very very
very damaged but we need potassium to
protect the kidney all right next one
antiarrhythmic so if you don't have
enough potassium the rhythm of the heart
can go off you might have palpitations
it might be so severe that you have
atrial fibrillation insulin sensitivity
so you can see sodium and potassium
actually help make insulin sensitive so
you need both of those minerals to help
with insulin resistance and arthritis
especially rheumatoid arthritis but if
you have rheumatoid arthritis I would
recommend something like 6,000
milligrams and you should see a lot of
benefit alright magnesium energy
production the mitochondria which is the
energy factory needs magnesium to
produce energy also magnesium is
involved in over 300 enzymes and I'm not
just talking about digestive enzymes I'm
talking about cellular enzymes that
build things in the body like proteins
things like that bone support
cardiovascular function
vaso dilation and of course that's going
to bring the blood pressure down opening
up the coronary artery which is the main
artery to the heart muscle calcium
balance so you need magnesium with
calcium they work together just as
potassium and sodium work together
it helps absorb vitamin D and vitamin b1
alright the last one is calcium helps
your lower blood pressure lowers
cholesterol decrease risk of cancer
muscle contraction this is muscle
relaxation so is this it's a bone
support blood clotting cell signaling
the majority population has a
subclinical potassium deficiency and a
magnesium deficiency usually people are
heavy on the sodium and the calcium but
very low on these two minerals and you
may not notice any big things other than
some fatigue it may be some heart
palpitations but over time they can
definitely rush become magnified alright
guys now you know electrolytes do and
check out some additional videos I have
on this board relating to electrolytes
