so in this video we're going to talk
about how to boost your pregnenolone
for more hormone energy okay what is
pregnant alone it's a precursor or a
main building block to make your sex
hormones and your stress hormones okay
so we're talking about DHEA
estrogen progesterone testosterone other
androgens and cortisol this is made out
of cholesterol now you've probably
watched my other videos when I talk
about cholesterol and the purpose of
cholesterol is a hormone building block
well here we have it so if you're on a
statin drug which basically blocks your
ability to make cholesterol guess what
happens to the hormones they all take a
dive okay so we need cholesterol very
very important if we don't have this
enough of this our memory suffers we get
tired we get brain fog we can't sleep we
lose our vitality libido and we we fill
up with inflammation okay because
cortisol is an anti-inflammatory now
sometimes when you go through stress
this hormone will hog a lot of this
right here so it won't leave enough for
for making these hormones there's a term
called pregnenolone steel where the
adrenals are hogging this at the expense
of these hormones right here so stress
is one reason why your body might not
have enough of this also the thyroid if
the thyroid is slow that could be
another reason why you're not able to
make this as well in which case you
should watch my video down below and I
cover what to do if you have a thyroid
problem so there's a couple points one
understand you want to make sure you
have enough cholesterol are you eating
enough eggs high quality meat butter if
not you should probably start next one
is keep your insulin low alright next
one is lower your stress okay because we
want to help lower this right here now I
have a really amazing video for that
it's called stress webinar if you
haven't watched that at some point watch
it the next couple days it can really
help your stress level okay next one is
get enough
son because vitamin D can greatly lower
cortisol okay
by the way mushrooms do have vitamin D
especially mushrooms that are actually
out in the Sun leave it or not okay
sea salt when the adrenal glands are
stressed and overwhelmed and fatigued
you can actually take a little more sea
salt to recharge them and lastly you can
actually even take this as a supplement
okay it's very easy to get it's not that
expensive and this could actually give
you a nice boost if especially if you're
going through menopause or premenopause
by the way so I don't have any specific
brand you're just gonna have to go by
reviews and then read the back the label
as far as the dosage but a lot of people
take it with great success and these are
some other things that you can do as
well alright well thank you so much for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
