so today we're going to talk about leaky
bladder okay but not just leaky bladder
frequency of urination urgency to
urinate retention of urine and a leaky
whether it's triggered by a cough
laughter sneeze etc it's really all
related to a neurogenic bladder because
the bladder is controlled by the nervous
system it's called the autonomic nervous
system especially the sphincter or the
valve that controls the release of urine
so the autonomic nervous system controls
pretty much all the valves in the body
even including the valves in the eye
that allow light to go in and out it's
like an aperture or a little kind of a
circular muscle that can open and close
the same thing in your bladder and the
tone of the entire bladder itself is
controlled by the autonomic nervous
system so so if your bladder tends to
spasm versus it loses its tone and
becomes flaccid that could be related to
the autonomic nervous system so if you
are a diabetic your risk of having a
leaky bladder goes up by 200%
interesting why is that well I think the
reason is because when you're diabetic
you lose one of the most important
nutrients that supports the autonomic
nervous system which is thiamine which
is b1 so I'm gonna put a link down below
of another study that shows the link
between thymine improving bladder
symptoms okay and also one of the ways
that someone becomes thiamine deficient
is just by having too much sugar in the
blood because when you're deficient in
b1
[Music]
the nerves in the body and neuritis
neuropathies and definitely the
autonomic nervous system which by the
way originates in certain parts of the
brain but there also as other B vitamins
involved could be b12 b6 so one of the
things I would recommend if you have a
leaky bladder is to take some b1 and
also take the whole complex as in
nutritional yeast and see if it can help
you and you just might be very surprised
of how much relief you can get for these
symptoms right here thanks for watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
