so I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know can I do
keto if I am on medications now it's
kind of a broad question someone can be
on a lot of different medications so it
really depends on what medications are
talking about
but because keto has this huge effect on
lowering insulin and so many health
conditions are connected to high levels
of insulin so generally speaking the
need to lower your medication is going
to be a very very high because insulin
is connected with so many things so for
example if you have high insulin you can
have high blood pressure about high
insulin you can have diabetes unless you
have type one that's low insulin but
most people are type two which actually
they have high levels of insulin
inflammatory conditions is a situation
we have too much insulin high
cholesterol too much insulin low
testosterone sleep problems sleep apnea
is high levels of insulin polycystic
ovarian syndrome is high levels of
insulin which then converts to high
androgen levels and then mood disorders
whether it's depression anxiety is
usually connected to blood sugars and
high insulin so as you do keto and
insulin becomes lower these medications
become stronger they have more powerful
effects and the need for medication goes
down now I just need to mention don't
ever come up medication without the help
of your doctor I'm not telling you to
come up your medication I'm just giving
you data for you and your doctor to
research because you do want to work
with the doctor that will help you
reduce medication over time there are
certain doctors that have this idea that
you will always be in this medication
and there's nothing you do to change it
and you just need to find another doctor
because most conditions do not require
permanent medication for the rest of
your life especially if you find the
cause okay so there's a couple points
you want to know about if you're on
insulin for example or even metformin
and you do keto the need for that
medication is going to go down if you're
still taking the exact same amount of
medication whether it's metformin
or insulin you're gonna end up with very
very low blood sugars hypoglycemia and
you could actually have problems with
that because you don't actually want to
take insulin for example when you have
normal blood sugars because it's gonna
push it down the same thing with blood
pressure generally speaking you don't
want to take blood pressure medication
if your blood pressure is normal because
it's gonna push it down you're gonna end
up with low blood pressure and feel
dizzy and weak so again get with your
doctor on this but be aware that the
doctor might not realize the importance
in the power of keto on the body and in
improving these symptoms so you're gonna
have to basically bring things up you
know hey doc can you check my blood
pressure sugar and things a 1c and just
make some adjustments because it's going
to create a powerful effect so it's
nothing really to worry about it's just
something that you want to put attention
on so you're aware of it
I guess another question that we can ask
is this will my medications affect my
ability to get into ketosis okay that is
absolutely true especially if you're
taking insulin okay that's gonna block
your ability to give you ketosis if
you're taking corticosteroids or
prednisone that will block your ability
to eat in ketosis if you're taking
estrogen estrogen therapy that can block
your ability to get into ketosis there
are certain medications with high blood
pressure and high cholesterol that have
a side effect of insulin resistance
which will then make it more difficult
to get into keto but the overall goal is
to use this as a way to correct your
diet and normalize body function so the
need for medication is not there alright
thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
