had another question is the meat that
I'm consuming especially beef spiking my
estrogen let's talk about that now
pre puberty boys are most susceptible to
the adverse effects of excess dietary
Astrakhan and a young boy makes about a
hundred micrograms of estrogen every
single day one kilogram of beef contains
less than point zero two micrograms so
that child would have to consume 50 to a
hundred pounds of beef to get just 1% of
what his body makes that's one microgram
every single day so unless that boy was
a dinosaur consuming a tremendous amount
of meat that is not going to happen
so no meat does not spike your estrogen
now what about milk well that's a whole
other discussion yes it can especially
if it's not grass-fed but even then
there are all sorts of growth hormones
in milk so if you're gonna give milk to
a child only use organic grass-fed I
would definitely not use commercial and
I don't even know if I would recommend
doing any milk a much better product
would be some grass-fed organic cheese
but there's a lot of factors in milk
that influence our endocrine system and
if someone's gonna consume milk and they
have a prostate problem or they have
cysts in their breasts or they had
breast cancer or any type of problem
with the prostate or the breast or the
uterus or the ovary I would definitely
avoid milk because those reproductive
tissues have receptors for estrogen now
what about soy well you'll see
conflicting data on soy some people say
it's good and it can actually help
regulate the bad and good cholesterol
some people say it's bad some people say
it's really the quality of soy because
the most of the soy grown actually
around the world is GMO and then you
have refined soy products as in soy
protein isolates that has a different
effect all I can say is you yourself
read the articles below that I put down
in the description and decide for
yourself what the
want to start doing Sawyer not I do know
that some women take soy to increase
their breast tissue and they also had a
patient who came in a while ago who was
drinking a tremendous amount of soy milk
I'm talking like almost a gallon a day
and take a while guess what his main
symptom was he started developing breast
tissue and started lactating so that was
enough for me to cut down to about a
half a gallon a day and I'm being very
sarcastic and then we have endocrine
disruptors okay those are chemicals in
the environment including pesticides
herbicides insecticides that mimic
estrogen so endocrine disruptors are
really estrogen disruptors because they
can create an estrogenic effect and
that's another way that people will get
an elevated amount of estrogen in their
bodies all right thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
