hey guys I'm back for another short
video now when people think of ketones
they automatically think of fuel right
well ketones go way beyond just fuel
there's many other benefits
the first one is reduces appetite and
when you cut down your appetite it
really helps in any type of program
because the worst thing about any diet
is getting hungry so if you're not
hungry you can do it a lot longer number
two it reduces something called
oxidative stress so you have all these
antioxidants that are helping you with
the oxidation if it's too heavy on the
oxidants and not enough antioxidants
you're gonna get something called
oxidative stress and that's gonna break
down the body age the body if you think
about a car rusting out same thing
happens in the body number three it
calms the sympathetic nervous system
this is the system if an overdrive can
prevent you from getting a good night's
sleep you can keep you in stress mode it
keeps you in thinking thinking anxiety
mode so when we calm down this nervous
system you get into a deeper sleep you
feel much less stressed number four it
reduces arteriosclerosis this which is
that hardening of the arteries the
arteries that become stiff blood
pressure goes up
ketones have the ability to make your
arteries elastic number five it has
anti-inflammatory properties this is
huge for arthritis autoimmune conditions
and all of the inflammatory conditions
out there if you take a look at all the
drugs out there the majority of money
that is invested in drugs go to the
anti-inflammatory drugs number six it
will increase your o2 your oxygen and in
decrease your co2 so you'll breathe
better number seven it has effects of
cardio protection so if your heart is
bad if you have any damage with the
heart ketones can bypass that fuel
system and go right in and feed the
heart muscle cells the heart loves
ketones same thing with the brain of the
nervous system your nerves love ketones
so it gives you this nervous protection
support so anything with Alzheimer's
memory problems you want to go with
ketones and nine it deprives cancer
cancer lives on glucose it cannot
survive on ketones alright thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
