hello everyone I have a very uh special
short presentation I going to tell you
what I'm going to be talking about at an
upcoming event that you need to be there
it's called hack your health and we have
the CEO the person who's putting this
whole thing on Robin is here with us you
know I've been doing a lot of research I
want to share with you some of the
updated things that I'm involved in that
you're it's going to blow you away and
uh it's really going to be good for me
to finally meet you in person because
I'm sitting in front of this camera and
behind a computer all day long and I
need to get out of the house I need to
go meet people so um I want to share
with you uh four things I'm going to be
talking about that you're not going to
want to miss okay so I'm going to talk
about hopefully Robin if you give me
enough time um but I want to talk about
cancer uh this is something I can't talk
about on YouTube but there is something
very very new that I stumbled on that is
even more powerful than fasting for
cancer I mean there is a gentleman who
um I did a video on who had stage fourth
cancer and his entire success was doing
fasting prolong fasting and he should
have been dead six years ago he's still
alive going well we have before and
afters of him getting rid of his cancer
using fasting right well there's
something else that's even more powerful
than fasting and
it is uh basically the poor man's cure
because it involves no surgery no drugs
and no money okay so there's nothing to
buy there's no supplements anything you
need to hear what I'm going to talk
about on that the the research that I
stumbled on this was on animals okay so
it's true it's not on humans but the
principles are the same so you're not
going to want to miss this this will
blow you away so I'm going to cover
cancer and the second thing to cover has
to do with autoimmune diseases and um
Robin I don't know if you if I mentioned
this before but we know that like heart
disease and cancer is probably the the
two top most things that get people
right um but there's a third thing
that's even bigger right now that just
popped up it's an epidemic and that is
autoimmune diseases did I did I mention
that you have yes and I'm really
interested in this topic yeah autoimmune
diseases are on the rise like on a
massive scale but out of all the
autoimmune
diseases uh the thyroid Hashimoto is
number one yeah and uh the question is
why I had the answer I'm going to share
with people exactly why out of all these
autoimmune diseases that are you know
just trending up why is that Hashimoto
is number one I'm going to show you uh
some solutions for that and we're going
to talk about that that's going to be
really interesting
number three I'm going to talk about
something that I was involved with um a
long time ago that involves the heart um
you know people are
really talking about cholesterol LDL
clogged arteries Etc but um there's more
to heart problems than just a clogged
artery back uh I don't know maybe this
is 20 years ago um I studied U the works
of Dr Royal Lee when had something
called the endoc cardiograph which is an
an older unit of what they have now of a
sound recorder for your heart and so I
had this crazy idea I wanted to digitize
it so hired a bunch of acoustic
engineers and um people to put the SC
together and start to um have a digital
version of this endoc cardiograph which
is a very sophisticated heart sound
recording system because he developed a
technology of using um n nurition to
evaluate heart sounds because out of all
the organ tissues the heart is the most
responsive to nutrition I mean like you
could see changes quickly and so um back
in the 40s and 50s um royy had all these
doctors using this this technology of
using the endoc cardiograph which he
developed as well as this this method
until I think it was like the early
1963 is time frame where the FDA came in
and shut them down and confiscated all
these units of course because it was a
big threat but that technology was kept
alive and it's still going today not not
in a large scale anyway what I want to
do is I want to share with people what
we kind of found when I actually even
did that in practice when I was in
practice as far as the relationship
between um how the heart responds to
nutrition um again not just about
clogged arteries but about with vular
function what's behind
murmurs what's behind um angina in a
heart attack when someone has no clogged
arteries what's up with that what's
really behind
arhythmia what's behind um when the
heart starts to enlarge when it starts
to work harder and get bigger okay what
nutritional factors relate to all this
I'm going to share all that with you
it's going to be very very important
especially if you have a heart which you
do so you're going to want to know about
that and um the last topic I'm going to
talk about has to do with uh I think
Medicine of the future which is going to
be something called metabolomics okay
metabolomics what is metabolomics it has
to do with um metabolism which the Greek
word for metabolism is change or
transformation so you have food that
changes into energy into body tissue Etc
and you have waste coming out and so
metabolism is a very broad term but
metabolomics has to do with assessing um
what's called metabolites which are
these all the different chemical things
that happen in in these biochemical
Pathways in your biochemistry and so
there is actually
a it's not really new but it's new for a
lot of people because even like even
doctors don't even know much about it
but it's a new technology that's coming
out that is growing really fast in the
research area there's like
81,000 studies on it already but
metabolomics
allows uh a practitioner to look inside
your biochemistry to see a picture to
see like a kind of an imprint in time
and the question is like how is it
different than a regular blood test well
a blood test will assess a series of
biomarkers maybe I don't know six to 13
biomarkers mainly and it gives you more
data but it doesn't really tell
you what's going on behind the scenes it
kind of tells you the symptom it doesn't
tell you why so metabolomics is a fairly
new technology that will show you what's
really underneath the hood because where
medicine you know they treat disease
they diagnose disease metabolomics looks
more at um function how is the body
functioning right now and what can we do
to fix the function and what can we do
to create more Health right so it's
completely different model that I think
it's going to
disrupt um the medical um kind of the
standard of treating these treating
symptoms versus like really
understanding what's going on so I'm
going to share with you
um this topic uh especially as it
relates to me because what I'm doing is
I'm doing a metabolomic test every two
weeks now and I'm analyzing my own body
I'm learning all this amazing data with
some top people that are involved with
this using me as a guinea pig and um I'm
going to share with what we're share
with you what we're finding or we're
discovering because yeah you can put
everyone on a certain diet but this
allows you to really tailor make and see
if what you're doing and eating is
working for you because not every person
needs to exact same thing now you could
do like a blood test to measure let's
say vitamin C or you can go by the rdas
right but but this test allows us to see
if you're
using IF what the inputs of like vitamin
C is being utilized efficiently for
these different Pathways that need it so
let's say for example your demand is
really really high for a certain
nutrient you know who I mean
this will pick that up versus trying to
just do a blood test and say you're
normal blood test doesn't really tell
you what's going on deeper in the cells
so we're able to look at the biochemical
steps between the different steps like
the the chemistry like even the KB cycle
of all these different steps it's like
an assembly line we're able to see the
inputs the changes that occur and then
from the changes we could see
bottlenecks missing co-actors those are
like nutrients and really um do a deep
dive on your true health and
primarily my whole focus is on the
mitochondria because if you can just get
your mitochondria really healthy um
you're going to be healthy you know
there's no way you could be sick and
have a really healthy mitochondria so
many diseases stem from the mitochondria
including cancer so this allows us to
have um a way to measure that MIT
andrial efficiency in function which I
think is going to be a game Cher versus
just the blood test so um I'm going to
be getting into that and um explaining
it I mean like even like there's certain
toxins heavy metals that can block
Pathways but it's almost like do you
want to detox or do we do we just want
to make these Pathways work better so
this you might need more of a certain
nutrient to really just push through
poll ution chemicals oxidative stress to
just make sure it works right um so it's
a it's a better strategy for creating
health and it gives us the whole whole
picture and it even allows a a
practitioner to predict of what could
happen down the road or what's going to
happens but like with diabetes You can
predict it like two decades before you
even get it so that's going to be yeah
it's going to be amazing you know you
get a blood test and your blood sugars
are normal that does not tell you
anything about you know if you're going
to get diabetes tomorrow whatever
because you want to look at um the
deeper underneath the hood so I want to
share um this technology with um and
make it really simple because I think
the the reason why it hasn't caught on
so far because it's I think it's been
out in the late 60s is because um we
really um just the word metabolomic
stops you right there it's like it puts
you to sleep it's like what's
metabolomics what's that um
you have so many I think one of the
worst things that's happening now is to
get misdiagnosed right they they don't
have all the information you got missing
information all of a sudden you get the
wrong diagnosis get the wrong treatment
and you get you go down this path
so this is going to be a great tool to
get the complete picture to make sure
there's nothing missing to be able to
look at all aspects to um narrow down on
someone's problem a lot more than what's
happening right now with the typical
blood test and so you can then over time
test yourself against yourself over time
so you know I was initially interested
in the um the genome and genome and the
um genetic testing but that's really
only to tests the potential of what
might happen right so if we have the um
genome plus the epig genome the
environment that's interacting on your
genes then then we get the the
metabolomic testing so we could see how
everything is being affecting you and
looking at very specific um biomarkers
to be able to um see where you're at and
uh how you're improving and if you're
not and uh to give prediction so those
are the kind of the four topics that I'm
going to be discussing and I'm going to
try to cram that
into oh Robin how much time do I
have you have um 50 minutes okay then
I'm gonna to talk
fast um but uh so this event is going to
be in
Austin right and the date is going to be
when May 31st through June 2nd awesome
and then um also how much does it
cost uh the general attendee ticket is
$299 but um we created a discount code
for your community Dr Berg so um the
general admission ticket would be $249
okay okay that's really cheap so
everyone can come to that that's great
and uh I mean we're trying to bring as
wide of an audience as we can we'd like
to the whole goal of this event is
to educate as many people as we possibly
can I love it yeah there's going to be I
think several thousand people that are
going to attend this um you have a lot
of
speakers and I think um you
know your organization was called keto
com but kind of switch it to more
hacking your health because you know if
we look at the whole picture of Health
there's a lot there's there's additional
things other than diet right I mean
there's a whole bunch of things that you
can Implement yeah we we kind of um we
found ourselves in a place
where the the sole conversation was
about the ketogenic diet which was
really wonderful when things were uh
just starting and there was so much
research and there was a lot of evidence
toward
implementing a protocol like this for a
lot of different reasons and it helped a
lot of people including myself but as we
continued to have this event continued
to grow what I saw is that it became
very limited we were kind of
um I I felt that we were limiting the
event to only people who were interested
in the ketogenic diet and there's just
so much more to health than just your
diet and as you just discussed it's very
personalized so what worked for me may
not work for another person they may
need to do more or less than what I did
so this enables us to throw a much wider
net that's great yeah and uh I always
like these events because you I get to
meet people behind the camera people
have been watching me for a long time I
love to just meet people so if you're
out there if you're watching my channel
I hope to meet you in person um we'll
have plenty of time to hang out people
and talk to them but definitely come to
the event uh coming up here very soon
it's going to be what is this a three
months three months okay good so yeah I
really hope to see you there and to meet
you in person and
uh this this uh talk is going to
literally blow you away uh I think
you're going to be excited and um a lot
of value in this talk because I'm
there's a lot of things I'm working on I
I you know I have to work work on
several things to keep myself interested
and so I want to share uh some of these
research things that I'm involved with
and um I built a network of super smart
people way smarter than me that are um
I'm Consulting and um picking their
brains and getting some of their
research and some of their data from
books that are not even published yet
and uh so I want to uh they G gave me
permission to share that information
with people so um I will reveal this
information at the event coming up soon
very excited to have you there awesome
okay thank you Robin and uh we'll talk
to you real soon thank you you
