hey it's me again in this video we're
going to show you an amazing technique
to help sinuses to reduce sinus stress
so just real quick my disclaimer is
we're not treating sinus infection or
any type of sinus disease this is just a
great technique to open up the sinosis
so you can breathe better and it has to
do with acute pressure so um here's how
it works um in this is my great drawing
of the side of the head with someone
looking this way and we have seven uh
bones in the neck and you have different
parts of the nervous system that
correlate with different organs and
glands it just so happens the second
vertebra in the neck C2 cervical 2
connects to the sinus passages up here
so there's a direct connection
neurologically to the sinosis okay so
what you're going to be doing is you're
going to be using acupressure not
needles to press this way from back to
forward at the second
vertebra okay so I'm going to
demonstrate this with my camera person
right now check it
out so in the back of the neck you can
see that we have the back of the skull
right here and then we come down to the
first vertebrae and the second one third
one fourth fifth sixth seventh okay so
what we want to do is take your there's
two ways to do it you can have someone
do it on you and I'm going to show you
how to do that you take your middle
finger right here and your thumb and we
place it right underneath the skull and
we drop down one inch okay and you
should be on the second vertebra and
then we just press in like this so we're
pressing directly in at the second
vertebra and you're going to feel a kind
of a knot if they have sinus problems
this is going to be hard as a rock and
so we take our other hand and we WE
station the hold the head the forehead
try not to mess up their hair that's the
most important part and we just press
like this like a
scissors at this second bone and we just
hold pressure Lightly for two minutes
they're going to start breathing better
it's going to open up the sinosis right
here now if you don't have someone to do
this on you you can use a massage tool
like this depending on the size of the
neck you can take this and press it
right in now on him I'm going to take
the medium width and press right in here
but you could actually you see this is a
tripod this can go back on a a couch or
a tall back chair or laying on his back
so we press this right down here and we
just hold this pressure so we don't use
have to have someone do it on us we
press right through in here and then he
lays there and he just lets the gravity
put pressure on these points and that
will open up the sinuses again this is
great for sleep apnea just sinus stuff
so it's the second it's not right up
underneath the skull it's down a little
bit like an inch down and we press
directly inward like that okay so that's
the procedure of how You' use
acupressure again you can use it on your
fingers right here come straight
in or you can use that
device so there's two more quick things
you can do for the sinus uh stress
number one we can drop the pH now what
does that mean drop the pH it means that
uh in in your body you have different
levels of acidic things or alkaline
things and the higher it goes the more
alkaline uh higher it goes above seven
so in the
blood um your body balances the pH
between 7.36 and 7.44 that's a very
narrow range so the blood is slightly
alkaline all right and there's other
parts of the body that's that are more
acid but so we we want it within this
range but what happens when the pH goes
a little too too much above this when it
goes above 7.44 and becomes too alkaline
you start getting more allergies more
arthritis more uh histamines those are
the things that create itching and
things like that so one great technique
you can do is just to drop the pH a
little bit by uh giving someone
something more acidic like apple cider
vinegar so if you have allergies
something to reduce it all you have to
do is um add a little apple cider
vinegar to your water like a teaspoon or
actually and some lemon juice so a
teaspoon of lemon juice a teaspoon of
apple cider vinegar to your water and
start drinking that that drops the pH a
little bit and brings it within this
range and so we're just talking about um
relative values we're not talking about
making your blood very very acid or
anything like that we just want to drop
it down so it's within the range so it's
not excessively alkaline all right so we
want to drink that that will help
produce allergies when you go up too
high and you start taking things that
are too alkaline it can aggravate the
allergies all right so we want to upside
of vinegar lemon and water to help drop
the pH a little bit and help your
sinuses all right number two vitamin A
now what does vitamin A do it supports
the mucous membranes it supports the
inner skin of the sinuses the
respiratory the entire tract all the way
down all the skin internally and
externally as well so vitamin a will
help support the tissues of the sinuses
to help reduce the inflammation in the
sinuses and guess what has the most
vitamin A in addition to carrots it
would be kale all right so again that
kale shake it keeps coming back to kale
you take that every morning it helps
your breathing it helps your sleeping
and it's great for sleep apnea because
sleep apne is really a congested sinus
and you want to reduce the um the mucous
membrane swelling and K is is one way to
do it so go ahead and apply these three
things acupressure dropping your pH and
vitamin A
