let's talk about how you can use clove
oil for either a toothache or an abscess
in your mouth an abscess is basically a
fluid-filled cysts that's either in the
gum area or underneath the tooth in the
pocket there it can be very painful but
clove has some interesting properties
its antifungal
so it's also good for Candida on your
tongue like a white tongue antibacterial
and anti-inflammatory so when it's in
your mouth they can actually help numb
the area and that's why it's good for a
toothache of course that's only a
temporary thing
you'd want to get to the root problem
which is usually related to your diet
there's systemically through the entire
body there's probably too much sugar if
you're new to my channel click the link
below so you know what died to be on to
ultimately correct the problem but for a
temporary thing this is really really
awesome so whether you have a toothache
or an abscess what you do is you can
either chew on a clove okay just take
one chew it and you'll be pressing out
the oil and you'll notice that that part
of your gum will start getting numb but
it's also antibacterial so it can help
to rid the abscess or you can use clove
oil all you do is you take two drops in
a teaspoon of coconut oil and you put
that in the mouth now whether you're
chewing on the clove or putting this
mixture in your mouth it's important to
keep this mixture in your mouth for at
least two to five minutes now another
thing that works very well
an abscess to think or even the white
tongue is chewing on some garlic and
that will work wonders for your breath
and I'm being very sarcastic so you
might want to stick with the clove or
clove oil anyway try it out let me know
how it works thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
