there are certain things on YouTube that
you cannot talk about they're forbidden
however there's an exception to this
which I found under the YouTube
misinformation policy or guidelines
let's look at the medical misinformation
policy vaccine misinformation claims
that contradict health authority and
World Health Organization guidance on
the safety efficacy and ingredients of
currently administered and approved
vaccines content alleging that vaccines
cause chronic side effects out outside
the rare side effects that are
recognized by the health authorities a
little bit further down it says
educational documentary scientific or
artistic content we may allow content
that violates the misinformation
policies noted on this page if that
content includes additional context of
the video audio title or description
this is not a path to promote
misinformation additional content may
include counterveiling views they're
allowing me to potentially say some
opposing viewpoints that's good YouTube
also believes people should be able to
share their own experiences including
personal experiences with vaccines for
example this means that we may make
exceptions for content in which creators
describe firsthand experiences from
themselves or their family just as my
disclaimer I'm not going to give you any
conclusions I just want to give you the
data a series of pieces of information
and you make up your own mind the first
information I want to share with you is
a series of before and afters using high
doses of vitamin D3 what I'm going to
show you is quite significant as far as
the before and afters on autoimmune
diseases in this first image this person
had an autoimmune disease called
alopecia you can see before and after
let's look at the second one it's
another alopecia with high doses of
vitamin D3 here's the next one psoriasis
in vitamin D look at the before and
afters I wanted you to see there is
definitely something significant about
using high doses of vitamin D3 and it's
a ation or connection with autoimmune
disease the second piece of information
is a quote from Dr Bruce Hollis there's
been a number of those studies done on
vitamin D mostly all positive and those
data are really valuable because those
look at lifestyle over a long period of
change but they're discarded when
studies like vital
says if you can put an autoimmune
disease into remission with high doses
of vitamin D3 does that mean those
conditions were really a deficiency of
vit Vin D to begin with we can't make
the conclusion that vitamin D deficiency
will cause an autoimmune disease we
can't say that unless it happens in all
the cases which it doesn't the next
piece of information I want to show you
this graph right here this graph shows
the massive spike in autoimmune diseases
in the United States Ms Celiac Crohn's
type 1 diabetes autoimmune diseases have
surpassed heart disease and cancer it is
the number one problem question is what
the heck is going on is the glyphosate
in the food could it be genetics so
there's a lot of confusion in this area
so I kept looking at this problem from
all different angles and I found some
more information I want to share with
you so you can make up your own mind
first question though what is an
autoimmune disease well it's a situation
where your own immune system is
attacking your own tissues and it's
creating inflammation and there's a lot
of different autoimmune diseases out
there and you can have pretty much an
autoimmune disease to any tissue or even
a hormone or even a structural part of
your body where your body is developing
antibodies against itself if you're
female and you would have a baby and you
had something growing in you how would
the body know that that's not a tumor
and start attacking it the next piece of
information I want to share with you is
out of this book ciac disease has been
strongly associated with some alteration
in certain genes there's a genetic
component to this problem too let me
show you this other piece of information
I don't know if you can see this right
here on the left you'll see the auto
immune disease and on the right you'll
see the genetic variation or alteration
involved if you have a very specific
variation in a gene you're more
vulnerable to get a certain autoimmune
disease while our bodies make a gene or
adapt to something to make your genetics
more susceptible to an autoimmune
disease if you look further into this
each one of these genetic variation also
has a strength the person would be less
likely to acquire a viral infection
protection against certain parasites
because of the heightened immune
surveillance the purpose of that is to
help us survive and there's even some
data I don't know if it's in human
studies but I know it's in animal
studies certain animals tend to mate
based on a more diverse immune system so
that way the child has more protection
to survive longer this is just a theory
but there's some interesting data on
that point I want to just cover a few
more points in this book right here
they're talking about individual
vaccines and what autoimmune diseases
they may trigger towards development of
autoimmune disease typically requiring
some environmental trigger to evolve
into a full-blown disease State being in
practice I've observed when people go
through losses a loss of a loved one
notice a high percentage of them develop
an autoimmune disease so that would be a
trigger the vaccine for Lyme disease is
capable of triggering arthritis and
genetically susceptible hamsters 100% of
the hamsters develop arthritis these
manifestations pointed to subclinical
slowly evolving disease whether this
disease could eventually progress into
its full-blown clinical apparent form
depends on whether the individual was
further exposed to the immune stimuli
including subsequent vaccinations this
is really what I want to show you right
here what we're looking at is the number
of vaccines given to children in 1950 it
was like five now it's in the 30s you
can see this huge Spike of vaccines to
Children the CDC recommends 69 doses of
16 vaccines from birth to age 18 infants
receive 33 doses of over a dozen
vaccinations by 15 months one vaccine is
given hours after birth and 38 doses of
15 vaccines by age two could all these
enes overstimulate an already fragile
immune system is it possible that you
can overdo it that's a question I'm not
going to answer I'm just giving you the
data it's just so weird that we can't
talk about it we can't even have
discussion about it I'm not making this
stuff up I'm taking this right out of
this textbook right here is it the best
idea in the world to bypass our own
immune system if we actually layer that
problem with a baby that went through
C-section that's now going to restrict
the microbiome and by the way if that's
your situation I would recommend start
taking a certain probiotic to refeed the
microbes that are missing or let's say a
child wasn't breastfed they don't get
the friendly bacteria in the breast milk
instead they're fed infant formula on
top of that you layer that with the
vaccines I mean it's kind of creating a
perfect storm how many people in general
are deficient in vitamin D if vitamin D
can take an autoimmune disease and put
it into remission would it be a central
thing if someone had to take a vaccine
just to take more vitamin D to maybe add
some protection I wanted to give you
this information and let you decide
please comment down below and tell me
what you think
