so we're going to talk about iodine okay
you probably already know the importance
of iodine with your thyroid right and
also if a pregnant woman is deficient
iodine that child could end up with a
lord IQ not to mention even structural
problems I've done other videos on the
importance of iodine as an antimicrobial
iodine can be used as a patch over
viruses that can cause skin tags it's
also good for fungus like a toenail
fungus and if there's some type of
problem with radiation in your
environment you need to take iodine
immediately to protect your thyroid
against the damage but there's some
other really important
purposes of iodine that you should know
about and the reason I'm talking about
it is chances are there's a lot of you
out there listening
that are deficient since over 2 billion
people on this planet are deficient in
iodine unless you're consuming shellfish
seaweed or sea kelp or consuming
vegetables on the coastal line chances
are you're not getting much iodine
because our soils are so depleted in
iodine Farmers usually don't put iodine
back in the soil they might put
potassium phosphorus and nitrogen but
not iodine so the level of iodine in
your body really depends on the level of
iodine in the food and the soil that
it's grown on or raised on now before I
dive into some of these other issues
hypothyroid okay if you are deficient in
iodine you could end up with a
hypothyroid condition and you should
just know the general symptoms swelling
in the lower part of your neck
difficulty losing weight okay you've
tried everything it's just not working
it could be your thyroid
next thing could be dry hair dry skin
thinned hair and even constipation so
those generally are the common symptoms
with the thyroid there's a lot more but
I wanted to cover those the first thing
I want to talk about is the relationship
between iodine and estrogen
iodine buffers or helps regulate
estrogen iodine helps prevent someone
from developing estrogen dominance okay
that's a situation where you have too
much estrogen and you might have heavy
periods you might get cysts in your
breast like as in fibrocystic breast you
might have cysts on the ovaries you
might have extra waking in the lower
part of your body the problem with too
much estrogen is that can increase your
risk for cancer breast ovary uterus and
in men you can even develop more of a
risk for prostate cancer so low iodine
could relate to high levels of estrogen
high levels of estrogen can directly
block the thyroid creating a hypothyroid
condition and the same thing goes with
low iodine it can actually cause a lack
of production of thyroid hormones giving
you a hypothyroid case so you can see
how iodine can help the thyroid generate
hormones and it can help buffer the
estrogen which is potentially a problem
for your thyroid iodine is also
important in the liver it helps you to
detoxify certain things it's involved in
this phase one phase two detoxification
okay iodine is needed for phase two
especially in the detoxification of
plastics herbicides fungicides heavy
metals things like that that act like
estrogen and they're called endocrine
disruptors
so iodine is needed to really dismantle
all that and remove that from the body
if you don't have enough iodine it kind
of backs up in the liver it backs up
into the body if you have a hypothyroid
condition a slow thyroid your ability to
metabolize cholesterol is not going to
be good
so what does this mean it means that the
cholesterol in your body is going to be
elevated okay number one and really
unusable for certain things
you see we need cholesterol to make
certain things especially like vitamin D
your cell membranes and bile the bile
that is stored in your gallbladder is
produced by the liver is made out of
cholesterol and it regulates cholesterol
so if you don't have enough cholesterol
whether because your thyroid is lowered
or you're taking a Statin drug
you could end up with a bile the
efficiency and anytime you have a bile
deficiency
with an elevated cholesterol you get a
super concentrated or a saturated
situation where you can develop
gallstones and bile sludge okay and if
you have bio sludge or gallstones you're
going to get pain or discomfort
underneath the right rib cage you can
get pain especially after eating in your
stomach area that pain can refer up to
the right shoulder and the shoulder
blade and the back part so without
enough bile
you know like I'm not even saying you
might get Stones you just might have
sludge that produces the same symptoms
and it's really hard to detect so this
lack of bile can create a lot of
discomfort but also
one of its functions is to help you get
rid of cholesterol okay so now we have
another reason for it to back up in the
system and also to get rid of estrogen
and other things like that are in excess
like toxins so we have some enzymes in
the liver that are dependent on iodine
that can back up toxins but also without
enough bile you can just have this
backup of toxins through that pathway as
well bile also helps to kill
bacteria in your small intestine it
prevents what's called sibo small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth okay
because it acts like a detergent to
clear that out and so without bile or
enough bile you can end up having this
bacteria that overgrows and then you get
all this bloating especially if you
consume fiber
vegetables salad things like that now
another thing that iodine can help
someone with is if they're producing too
much cortisol like because they're
really stressed right and they just have
high levels of cortisol iodine can help
lower that another thing that iodine is
good for is to help buffer
the excessive estrogen effect from
consuming soy products that's probably
the reason
um some of the Asian population can get
away with consuming a lot of soy because
they also consume a lot of or seek help
that has iodine in it okay so if you
wanted to get iodine sea kelp is a good
way or seaweed same thing shellfish any
fish that lives in the ocean okay will
have a good amount of iodine but the
problem is like I said before our soils
are so depleted so unless you're
consuming fish or seaweed or sea kelp
um you're going to have a hard time
getting iodine now sea salt has some
iodine in it not too much but it has
some probably someone's wondering right
now what about Hashimoto's
should you be taking a lot of iodine if
you have Hashimoto's the jury's out on
exactly if you should but I will say you
need some you need sufficient amount of
iodine for Hashimoto's and other types
of hypothyroid conditions but you don't
want to take a lot of iodine if you have
Hashimoto's just take a normal amount
from sea kelp the mineral that you need
in moderate amounts would be selenium
okay selenium you can get that in c-calp
and Brazil nuts as well as in shellfish
or seafood but selenium is really
important in the conversion of the
thyroid hormones from T4 to T3 T3 is the
active form so it helps make this
conversion
zinc also helps vitamin D can help
reduce the inflammation in Hashimoto's
but anytime someone has Hashimoto's they
also recommend in addition to that take
what's called myo inositol okay take
that as well but I would not be afraid
of taking some iodine just don't take
large amounts but I really wanted you to
get this very important relationship
between
iodine and the gallbladder iodine and
cholesterol iodine in the thyroid and
how that can relate to having all sorts
of additional problems I created a very
unique video on iodine years ago
and if you haven't seen that I think you
would enjoy it I'll put it up right here
