hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about the best stretch for a
whiplash injury now of course you're not
going to do this right after the injury
I'm talking about like a chronic post
whiplash injury that you're still
suffering from that you're not healing
okay and even if you've ever been in a
car accident before you can apply the
stretch there's two basic stretches now
I'm not going to be talking about the
stretch that you would do if you got
T-Bone from the side there's really two
things I'm going to talk about if you
had a rear end Collision or a front end
collision okay if he was rear ended the
impacts from the back the first thing to
happen is his head's going to go
backwards okay and he's going to tear
and injure the ligaments on the front
part of the neck okay if he's hitting
something or something's hitting him
from the front the first motion's going
to go forward with the neck and he's
going to tear all the ligaments in the
back part the problem with ligaments is
that they heal with scar tissue they're
they don't have a lot of blood supply so
therefore you get stiffness as you get
older so what you're left for with left
with is a just basically an inelastic
tight um uh kind of a connected tissue
which you're going to have to just
stretch to create more space okay now
let's if you had an injury from behind
Okay and the neck went backward and you
damaged the front part of the neck the
stretch that you want want to do would
be forward the opposing side so we want
to stretch the forward and he can even
take his hands on his neck up here and
gently go forward stretch come up
forward okay so I'll I'll show you right
here so you're going to just
basically stretch right
here stretch right here and you can do
that about 10 times do it several times
to the day and it'll give you give you a
lot of relief now if he actually hit
someone from the front or something hit
him and the head went this way and you
tore everything from the back he wants
to stretch backwards to stretch all
these muscles so for this one you can
take your forehead and just kind of
stretch back like this and I like to
just kind of I like to take my chin and
you can do it like
this and you can just take your chin
underneath your chin and stretch back
and
relax okay and what you're going to do
is you're going to stretch all the
opposite muscles and ligaments on the
front part and you're going to give the
back part a chance to uh come out of
that tightness so we're always
stretching the opposite side that was
damaged okay so it's counterintuitive
but it really works so again if you got
hit from the back your head goes
backwards you tear all the front things
you're going to stretch stretch going
forward okay don't stretch backwards
it's going to hurt or if you got a front
end collision your head went forward you
damage all the back part you're going to
stretch backwards like this okay does
that make sense you might want to just
review this video so go ahead and do it
put your comments below and tell me how
much better your neck feels thanks for
watching
