hey guys Dr Berg here listen I'm doing a
really important presentation on heart
nutrition so many people have heart
problems but they don't recognize the
connection between the nutrition and
heart problems we're going to talk about
how to support every aspect of your
heart with nutrition and from the
muscular uh point of view which is
underneath and vagina that's chest pain
enlargement of the heart that's called
cardiomegaly or just heart attacks in
general we're going to talk about the
electrical problems of the heart and I'm
going to keep it really really simple so
everyone can understand this but
arhythmia palpitations atrial
fibrillation and what's behind that um
we'll talk about the vascular aspects of
heart problems in clogged arteries
plaing high blood pressure heart attacks
and what you can do right now to support
and prevent these problems and then
we'll talk about the Val issues which
could be murmurs and some other issues
that a lot of people have but they don't
recognize the connection between
nutrition and heart these things the
heart is one of the fastest responding
organs in the body to nutrition so
register now below and I will see you on
the inside
