hi guys Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about the long-term
effects of low carbohydrates in the diet
okay A lot of times when you read the
news or get advice from a dietitian
they're going to say oh you can do a
ketogenic diet for a short period of
time but don't do it long term because
there's so many side effects okay so
let's talk about that number one there
is no essential carbohydrate you have
essential amino acids that's protein
essential fatty acids that's fat but
there is no essential carbohydrates
um well you do need carbohydrates you
need types of carbohydrates not for
carbohydrate sake but for the vitamins
and minerals for example you need
vegetable carbohydrates for all the
vitamins and minerals that's why you
need them okay not because of the
carbohydrates our bodies will not suffer
from not having or consuming glucose
okay you say well we need that for
energy no you don't your body is much
better uh run on fat fuel or ketones not
gluc
um or people say well they'll they'll
kind of Attie in like a low carb diet is
a low calorie diet they're kind of
meaning the same but they're not a low
carb diet is not a low calorie diet
they're two separate things okay and
they'll say well low carbs are going to
starve your thyroid of of nutrients well
no it's not the thyroid doesn't need
glucose it needs nutrition doesn't need
a lot of
sugar so when you go to on a low calorie
diet that can make the thyroid suffer
simply because you're depriving it of
nutrients okay it has nothing to do with
carbohydrates when I recommend a
ketogenic diet I'm recommending
unlimited vegetables okay by the way so
you want to do a lot of those we're not
even factor factoring that in um so we
need the nutrients from vegetables but
we don't need the nutrients from grains
simply because of the difficulty in
digesting grains and the gluten effect
that it can create on your body it turns
into the sugar very very fast and then I
always like this it's like they say
right uh they say um you shouldn't do a
low carbohydrate long term because no
one can stick to it and you're going to
cheat and you're going to Crave that's
not true first of all um this is the
diet that you can stick with because
your Cravings go away and your hunger
goes away okay that's the two barriers
of any diet if you do a low calorie diet
or high carbohydrate diet you're going
to be craving and it's going to be hard
to stick to that uh or here's another
one they'll say that they say that a low
carb diet is a high protein diet no it's
not low carbohydrates and high protein
are two separate things I recommend a
moderate amount of protein 3 to 6 ounces
and that's totally reasonable and you
need those amino acids for building body
proteins um and then they say well it's
not healthy because you're emitting a
food group well emitting bread pasta
cereal crackers biscuits waffles
pancakes yeah you're admitting those
groups because those are not healthy all
right you can get your B vitamins from
other Foods you don't have to get them
from the grains or they'll say that oh a
ketogenic diet a low low carb diet is
going to lead to a disease called
diabetes or or create keto acidosis
which is another lie because keto
acidosis will only occur if you are a
type 1 diabetic and you're in a
situation where you completely run out
of insulin and you have this serious
disease okay that's completely different
than a healthy person doing a
nutritional ketosis or a healthy type of
ketosis that they're not going to get
ketoacidosis and that's like a severe
high acid level of the body you're not
going to get that it's almost actually
it's probably impossible to get it so
you don't have to worry about that again
it's someone recom it's like because
words have are similar they're they're
saying they're identical keto acidosis
and ketosis they're not identical
they're similar because they say ketones
but they're not identical but they're
similar doesn't mean they're the
same all right so um the truth is that
when you do a low carb diet you fix
insulin resistance and when you fix
insulin resistance you allow the body to
absorb nutrients way more nutrients but
not just the minerals like potassium
magnesium chromium the vitamin A E the B
vitamins vitamin D omega-6 fatty acids
when you have insulin resistance you
can't absorb those
nutrients um so the benefit of long-term
low carbohydrates in the diet uh we're
going to reduce insulin you're going to
have heart
improvements weight weight loss
improvements skin improvements like acne
is going to go away polycystic ovarian
syndrome is going to go away uh less
liver fat less diabetes less insulin
resistance better cognitive function
better mood less uh dementia I mean it's
kind of Nob brain but I do know that
every time we have a recommendation
that's so positive you have to have some
someone that objecting to it that it's
just it just always happens like that so
you just pretty much have to realize
that of course someone's going to object
to it just ignore that um and um do a
low carb diet all right thanks for
watching
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press this little button down below okay
thanks
