okay so we're here at series uh part two
um why people can't lose weight now
here's the thing when you're 18 years
old um most people can burn fat easily
and without much problem uh they can
even go on a diet they can even do
pretty much any diet and it it works but
when they hit this age 52 or even in
their 40s or older uh something starts
to happen where they can't lose weight
anymore so what's the difference between
this and this and I want to show you in
relationship to hormones what occurs at
age 18 you have the most fat burning
hormones that you will ever have in your
life and after 18 it goes downward where
you only have a little bit left okay so
you got one right here and some of you
already experienced this and you know
this but um if you're 18 years old you
have something to look forward to U
because it's all downhill from here no
I'm just kidding so we want want
to realize that you're dealing with not
enough fat burning
hormones
now do we just take hormones would it be
a good idea just to take some more the
problem with taking hormones in general
is that the feedback when you take these
hormones outside the body inside your
body your body then works less in other
words it'll pump out instead of pumping
out that last one it doesn't need to
pump out any anything so it gets these
hormones it connects to the gland and
the gland stops to produce and becomes
dependent on the hormones that you feed
it so it has a reverse effect so every
time you take a hormone you basically
shut down your own body's gland that is
supposed to make it thus all the
environmental hormones the growth
hormones in the food supply and what
that does to our body not to mention
birth control pills HRT and all the
estrogen as well um so the problem is
taking hormones might help you in the
short run but in the long run they can
shut things down and make it
worse so that's not the thing that I'm
going to jump and tell you to do now if
we look at the fat making hormones
you're born with a certain amount and
they Peak out at 18 but the fat making
hormones do not decrease when you're 52
they stay the
same it's not fair but so the ratios
you can see the ratio is one to one here
it's like it's com it's completely
unfair because the odds of you trying to
lose weight doing the same thing you did
when you're 18 is much less than winning
the lottery so it's not going to happen
um so we have to use this information
wisely so instead of trying to stimulate
this last hormone you have with all
these uh pills and
stimulants um why not
not avoid triggering this right here
because these these fat making hormones
are dominating in other words this is
what's really keeping this last one from
working and yes you have to be a little
bit more strict yes you have to a little
bit you have to use more uh discipline
but you can still overcome this problem
and these are the two hormones that we
want to talk about insulin and cortisol
insulin is the hormone that regulates
blood sugars it's triggered by sugar and
is a fat making hormone cortisol is a
stress hormone that's triggered by
stress so what I would recommend if I
were you and you had the situation is I
would put less energy trying to
stimulate this and more energy try to
lower the fat making hormones that
you'll be more successful now how do we
do that that means that someone at 18
years old can get away with eating more
sugar than you can so I would avoid all
sugar added and even in food that are
hidden so I want to keep that insulin
down to zero again I just last week I
think it was last week I created a video
on on that point okay insulin um the
other thing is the hidden uh insulin uh
like an MSG you go to a Chinese
restaurant and it's hidden as modified
boot starch in a lot of different foods
restaurants and it something that makes
the food taste better but it will Spike
insulin by 300% so watch out for that
cortisol this is a stress hormone so you
want to start doing things to reduce
stress more sleep uh long walks
um avoid people that are stressful avoid
situations that are stressful anything
that can lower stress is very very
therapeutic to your metabolism um so
these are the two things that you want
to put attention on mostly right now not
necessarily put focus on this one right
here so what I'm trying to do is give
you strategies not necessarily the
details of every single little thing but
this would be uh part two focus is put
more attention on limiting the fat
making hormones than trying to put
energy try to stimulate the fat burning
hormones all right I'll see you in the
next video in part three
