let's talk about the seven healthiest
foods you can eat now the question is
what makes a food healthy but the figure
that out we must also look at what foods
make us sick and at all the things that
can make us sick as you might know
already insulin is at the top of the
list so any foods that raise insulin uh
because your blood sugars are now raised
would not only inhibit your health but
it's going to make you ill also foods
that deplete of nutrients um will make
you ill as well so we want
nutrient-dense Foods we want foods that
enhance nutrient absorption it means low
carb as one of the factors now the two
foods that don't trigger insulin don't
create an insulin response would be
fiber and fat okay and uh as far as
protein goes the leaner the protein the
higher the insulin response in other
words on the insulin index whey protein
and very lowfat lean protein really
creates an insulin Spike compared to
fattier protein so we really want a
higher fat lower protein ratio in Foods
if possible and then nutrient dense not
only do we want vitamins and minerals
and uh trace minerals and essential
fatty acids like omega-3 fatty acids but
we also would like phytonutrients
because the phytonutrients give us
additional health benefits that go way
Beyond just the regular vitamins and
minerals so the first food on our list
is sauerkraut okay now what makes
sauerkraut so down healthy well in one
cup of sauerkraut you have only six
grams of carbs with 4.1 grams of fiber
giving you a net carb of 1.9 grams so
it's just under two grams of carbs for
an entire cup that's incredible so that
definitely fits the definition of low
carb high fiber and high nutrient
because sauerkraut has the highest
vitamin C of any food out there in fact
in one cup of sauerkraut there's over
700 milligrams of vitamin C and the
daily requirements that we need are only
roughly around 75 milligrams and one cup
of sauerkraut gives us 700 milligrams so
vitamin C is very very important in
collagen in building bone in protecting
the heart against free radical damage
it's a very powerful antioxidant and
without vitamin C you get tired like in
scurvy your joints fall apart you can't
build connective tissues and so your
skin becomes more wrinkled and you look
older and the thing about sauerkraut
it's a really good pre and probiotic so
it's great fiber to feed the microbes
and it's fermented so it has a lot of
friendly bacteria the type of bacteria
that can actually enhance your own
bacteria because if we compare that to
Yogurt which has probiotics those
friendly bacteria and yogurt get
destroyed at the stomach level whereas
the probiotic and sauerkraut survive and
it gets into the large intestine and the
other cool thing about sauerkraut is the
vegetable is cabbage and that's one of
the cruciferous vegetables and
cruciferous out of all the different
vegetables have the highest most potent
and Powerful phal nutrients of all the
vegetables that you can possibly eat the
unique thing about sauerkraut and
cabbage is that it's very easy to digest
and if you have digestive problems
cabbage is probably going to be the best
vegetable to digest it does not produce
a lot of gas like other vegetables like
broccoli it will Spike something called
acetylcholine which will help you have
regular bowel movements and increase
digestive juices and support your brain
and cognitive function Sauer cro is very
high in lactic acid which is beneficial
to your good bacteria and not very
beneficial to the bad bacteria pathogens
so pathogens cannot exist when there's
too much lactic acid also sauerkraut is
a really good source of vitamin K2 K2 is
made by bacteria and vitamin K2 which is
also in certain fats helps to keep the
calcium out of the joint and out of the
arteries and in the bone and lastly sou
Kraut is very high in vitamin U now
you're probably going like what is
vitamin U um I put a link down below for
more information on vitamin U but it
actually is a vitamin and it has some
really cool effects on things like
colitis inflammation of the colon uh
great effects on ulcers it's really good
on gastritis and acid reflux and gird
and even gut inflammation all right
number two
arugula now if you've been watching my
videos I recommend a good amount of
salad every single day and if you're
going to eat salad might as well use a
green or a base of salad that has higher
amounts of nutrients and arugula fits
that to a tea arugula is one of the
cruciferous vegetables and so it has a
lot of different faton nutrients it's
really good for your liver because it's
really good for liver function and if I
have the option of getting arugula I
will always have a salad with arugula
way more than other types of salad
especially spinach because spinach is
high in oxat which can lead to kidney
stones but aruga is low in oxalates
oxalates bind with calcium and can form
kidney stones and arugula has a really
great flavor it's kind of like a peppery
sweet spicy hot flavor and it doesn't
need much to season it so sometimes I'll
just add the extra virgin olive oil and
maybe a little sea salt and that's it
arugula is really good for inflammation
it has very high anti-inflammatory
properties arugula is also high in
nitric oxide which is good for libido
and erectile dysfunction and for
cardiovascular health because it
supports the endothelial wall That's the
inner part of the arteries and you can
develop clots and plaing arugula is also
high in calcium potassium
folate magnesium vitamin C and K1 and
lastly arugula has some pretty potent
anti-cancer effects all right the next
food on the list is salmon now of course
I would always recommend getting the
wild caught salmon and the type of
salmon that is the fattiest type of
salmon I also like to keep the skin on
it because there's some serious extra
fat right beneath the skin now if you're
concerned about the mercury levels the
mercury levels in Salmon are
substantially less than other types of
fish and they're way below the danger
threshold and the other thing you need
to know about is it's high in selenium
selenium counters Mercury if there's
selenium present you're not going to be
able to absorb Mercury so if you're
going to eat salmon you don't have to
worry about Mercury now out of all the
fish salmon is
extremely high in omega-3 fatty acids
and omega-3 fatty acids are really good
for the brain the heart your joints
omega-3 has anti-cancer properties most
people are consuming way too many Omega
6 fats as in soy oil corn oil canola oil
cotton seed oil and they're very very
low in omega-3 fatty acids so they have
this imbalance that generates a lot of
inflammation in their bodies so if you
want to systemically keep inflammation
very low you want to consume food high
in omega-3 fatty acids and this is why I
recommend salmon at least a few times a
week now as far as the fat to protein
ratio it'd be like a one to two ideally
want more fat to protein but because
salmon has these other health benefits I
included salmon on the list it's easy to
get it also tastes good so people will
consume it on a regular basis and you
can always add some additional fats to
Salmon to spike it even more you know if
we look at omega-3 fatty acids and
compare salmon to something like codfish
if we look at just three ounces salmon
has over 2,000 milligram of omega-3
fatty acids and cod has only 171 mg
let's see 2,00 to
171 mg I think I'll go with the salmon
and salmon is high in pottassium
zinc and calcium all right the next one
on the list is cod liver now before you
turn your nose up to Cod Liver just hear
me out you know organ Meats in general
are super super nutrient dense the
problem is the majority of the
population do not like to consume them
because they don't taste very good and
sometimes it's hard to find high quality
uh organ Meats because of all the
toxicity in the environment you would
never want to have conventional um like
beef liver or organ meats you want them
organic but wild caught cod liver is not
only easy to get it's very very
delicious it doesn't taste bad at all
it's not even fishy as long as you eat
it within one to two days don't make the
mistake of eating half of it and then
putting in the refrigerator and then
forgetting about it and then coming back
a week later it'll be a little bit fishy
but if you eat it within one or two days
it tastes actually amazing it's actually
delicious the texture is like pudding
and it doesn't even to me taste fishy at
all now you might consume it and you
might not even like the flavor but I
think you should at least try it once
personally I think consuming organ Meats
even beef liver is a very good thing to
do I just cannot seem to consume beef
liver I just don't like the taste but I
will consume Cod Liver all day long now
the unique thing about Cod Liver
compared to beef liver is that cod liver
is much much higher in omega-3 fatty
acids in fact we have some cod liver
right here if you can see this right
here Icelandic cod liver oil I think
it's a little blurry but this is wild
caught okay and it comes within its own
oil so so the oil that they put in this
is C liver oil and it's quite delicious
now I do not recommend consuming the
whole thing in one sitting it's a lot of
fat and you might not be able to digest
it but one half of these would be great
so uh maybe once a week I'll do half of
this on my first meal and then half in
the second meal now if you're on omad
just do half of this on one meal and the
other half the next day you can just
keep it in the fridge but like I said
before if you leave it in the fridge for
too many days it might taste a little
fishy now the unique thing about cob
liver oil compared to fish oil in
general is that cob liver and cber oil
has omega-3 fatty acids they have EPA
and DHA Okay but fish oil does not have
the vitamin A and vitamin D that cod
liver and cod liver oil has so cod liver
and cive oil have this additional extra
benefit and vitamin A and I'm talking
about the active form of
retinol is essential for your eye it's
essential for the immune system it's
essential for the inner lining of your
skin I'm talking about the sinuses the
esophagus the trachea your lungs and
it's really good for your kidney as well
and of course vitamin D as most people
know is awesome for blood pressure pain
depression your immune system and
there's not many foods that are high in
vitamin D now Cod Liver also has vitamin
K2 it has iodine and it's loaded with B
vitamins and the cool thing about cod
liver is its fat to protein ratio it's a
five: one ratio so it has five times as
much fat to protein so on the insulin
index it's extremely low it will not
trigger insulin but the more fat to
protein as far as a ratio the more
ketosis you're going to be in and if you
don't actually like the cod liver
at least do the cod liver oil cod liver
oil is one of the best things that
children should consume as well as
pregnant females because of the huge
benefits on the nutrients as well as the
essential fatty acids omega-3 and one
last thing where you going to find this
you're probably not going to find it in
the grocery stores just do a search
online go to Amazon do a search and
you'll find a lot of different companies
all right the next one and some people
will disagree on this hamburger okay
hamburger just hear me out I'm not
talking about hamburger with a bun I'm
not talking about conventional beef I'm
talking about grass-fed organic
hamburger okay not lean hamburger with
like 90% that's too lean I don't
recommend that but why would hamburger
be on the list as a healthy food I'm
also looking at the Practical aspects of
food too it's easy to get it's easy to
digest you can put in a lot of different
foods and it has some pretty good health
benefits
now some people are going to say well
red meat is unhealthy and blah blah blah
well that is completely false I put a
link down below if you haven't seen my
video on red meat because if you're
eating high quality red meat it doesn't
cause cancer it's not going to cause a
heart problem grass-fed organic red meat
is not like the processed meat or like
you would eat a hamburger at some fast
food restaurant it's completely
different and some people have a problem
digesting red meat but they usually
don't have a problem digesting hamburger
and that is usually because if you
compare most uh steak with hamburger
hamburger has more fat in fact hamburger
compared to steak is a 2:1 ratio it's
twice as fatty as its protein and that
helps keep the protein in your small
intestine so the digestive juices and
bile can act on it and you'll get better
digestion if you're consuming leaner
protein it goes through the body faster
and you don't have as much time to fully
break it down not to mention as we age
we lose our stomach acids and so the
older you are the less stomach acid you
have to digest red meat so a simple
solution is just to start taking ban
hydroc chloride for your stomach so you
can increase the acid and digest red
meat because a lot of elderly people are
low in iron they're anemic and that's
also because they don't have enough a in
the stomach you need an acidic stomach
to absorb minerals especially iron and
calcium and break down protein and kill
pathogens so typically hamburger is easy
to digest I consume a lot of hamburger
on a regular basis on the ketogenic
plant hamburger is a really good source
of amino acids it's a really good source
of available iron compared to to like
the iron in spinach the type of iron you
would get in red meat as well as
hamburger is so much higher also
hamburger is rich in B12
phosphorus zinc it's an excellent source
of selenium B6 B2 B3 and B5 it's also
high in something called carnosine in
fact beef is one of the highest sources
of carnosine and carnosine reduces is
something called
glycation glycation occurs naturally on
our bodies and promotes aging glycation
is when you have a sugar that attaches
to a protein or a sugar that attaches to
a fat and it binds it up and it makes it
unavailable so it kind of clogs up the
body and if you're consuming carbs with
sugar or carbs with fat you're going to
have a lot of glycation so carnosine
inhibits glycation decreases
inflammation and carnosine also helps
your immune system now hamburger also
has a lot of creatin and creatin
improves exercise performance exercise
endurance and can promote muscle growth
and muscle mass now there are other
meats that are higher in fat like Duck
and lamb but even pork but I picked
hamburger as something on the list
that's very practical easy to get tastes
good and has a lot of health benefits
all right the next one on the list is
peans now I want wanted to pick Foods in
different categories since a lot of
people consume nuts I wanted to talk
about the healthiest nut of all the nuts
and the reason why now out of all the
nuts peans have the lowest net carbs and
as you can
see my peans right here and I love to
just take like a handful of peans right
after a meal and it gives me a good
amount of fat and it's very satisfying
after a meal now the carbs in peans per
cup is 14 grams and it has a good amount
of fiber like 10 grams so that gives us
a net carb of only four grams for an
entire cup now remember you're allowed
up to 50 grams of carbs if you're on
keto so four grams are
insignificant and the fat content is
pretty high it's like 71 grams now there
are other nuts that have higher amounts
of fat like macadamian nuts and
pistachios but peans have the lowest net
carbs and peans have a very good ratio
of fat to protein it's like seven fat to
one protein so that's going to be very
low on the insulin index pecans are very
rich in zinc and copper zinc and copper
always balance each other out so anytime
you have a food that has both zinc and
copper that's a good thing but peans are
also loaded in vitamin B1 so if you have
stress you want to definitely have peans
as part of your diet now peans out of
all the nuts are very low in oxalates
again oxalates can bind with calcium to
form kidney stones and pecans are really
good for the heart they're good for your
blood sugars and out of all the nuts
peons have the highest amounts of
antioxidants which can decrease the
complications from chronic disease like
diabetes heart disease and inflammatory
conditions and consuming peons are very
easy to digest they're easier to digest
than walnuts peanuts Brazil nuts and
even macadamia nuts and I like peans
because of the taste as well because you
can add them in different recipes for
keto desserts and I put some down below
if you want to check them out all right
the last one on the list is extra virgin
olive oil you want to make sure you have
the real stuff as you can see I use the
real stuff right through here there's a
lot of different types that you can use
I don't know you can read that um but
you can see I use this olive oil I use a
a lot of it on a regular basis olive oil
is interesting because if you buy the
cheap stuff at different um grocery
stores you'll be lucky if you get the
real stuff because there's so many uh
types of fake olive oil out there that
they blend other oils and it's just not
the same the real stuff has a a little
bite to it it has a great Aroma like
fresh cut grass it's peppery and it
gives you a little tiny irritation in
the back part of your throat that's one
indication to know that it's the real
stuff but I put it on my salad on a
daily basis so what's so healthy about
this extra virgin olive oil well it does
have vitamins it has vitamin E it has
vitamin A it has minerals like magnesium
and potassium now it is a fat so it's
going to have zero effect on your
insulin which is really good but it has
significant
phytonutrients it has phytonutrients
that can extend your aging you can live
longer it supports things like telome
which if you have shorter tulir you're
not going to live as long it supports
and repairs
mitochondria and if you don't already
know this cancer is a disease of the
mitochondria and anything you can do to
protect support and repair mitochondria
will give you anti-cancer benefits now
olive oil as far as an
anti-inflammatory and something to help
relieve
pain is equivalent if not comparable to
the effects of ibuprofen I'll put a
study down below so you can check that
out and compounds in extra virgin olive
oil can reduce beta ameloid that's that
stuff that develops as plaing in your
brain when you have Alzheimer's so it's
really good for the brain and good for
memory and focus and
concentration it also has some really
cool effects as an
anti-clotting
antimicrobial and retinal protective so
in other words it supports the retina of
the eye especially if someone has
diabetes or high sugars or high insulin
there are certain Photon nutrients in
extra virgin olive oil that are 20 times
more powerful than green tea so don't
use it sparingly dump it on your salad
and the fat in the olive oil will help
you extract a lot of the phytonutrients
in the salad all right there you have it
the seven healthiest foods now that you
know what to eat let's talk about what
to avoid with this video right here
check it out
