hi guys in this video we want to talk
about the nonstress cause of cortisol
now if you've been watching a lot of my
other videos you know that cortisol is a
stress hormone and it's triggered by
stress uh imagine stressed or physical
stress so mental stress or physical
stress or other body stresses but
there's another cause to high cortisol
that I want to talk to you about and you
guessed it it's high insulin right now
cortisol is the counter hormone to
insulin they work opposing each other in
a very interesting way the name of
cortisol which is the adrenal hormone is
a glucocorticoids gluco meaning sugar
glucose or corticoid meaning the the
cortex or the outer part of the adrenal
so there's a inside and outside of the
adrenal on the outside cortisol is made
so basically one of the functions of
cortisol is to um you know control blood
sugars in a certain way the and this is
how they do it they turn your body
protein not just your muscles but your
joints your tendons your
ligaments even the structures inside the
cell it starts to mobilize that and turn
that into sugar as fuel because this is
an emergency hormone it's a stress
hormone it's a all the long-term
maintenance uh type functions tend to
turn off and all the quick coping
emergency actions
are kick on okay so increase blood
glucose to your um your cells for quick
energy um mental acuity very sharp
thinking you know but of course over
time it's going to go the opposite
because you're going to end up with
diabetes and your brain fog but the
point is that this hormone turns protein
your own body into sugar and it also it
helps you absorb sugar so it forces the
glucose in the cell it basically B
bypasses something called insulin
resistance insulin resistance did a lot
of videos on that you've probably seen
many but I just want to kind of give you
another angle if you've never seen this
you I'll put some links Down Below on
what insulin resistance is but basically
insulin resistance is a problem in the
receptor to insulin your receptors are
not receiving insulin anymore so because
too much insulin is toxic to the body we
don't need a lot uh your body will start
to block it from going in okay it's just
a survival mechanism so you eat a lot of
sugar you eat too frequently you eat the
wrong Foods
MSG and you spike all this insulin right
and then your body rejects it now what
happens is if it's rejected the
cells start to close down and uh it
doesn't absorb insulin anymore so it's
kind of a protective mechanism so you
never get the feedback loop to the
pancreas so there's no off switch so the
pancreas senses uhoh the cells have low
insulin we better produce more so it
produces five to seven times more
insulin than a normal healthy person so
here you have the situation we have
massive amounts of unavailable insulin
because it's unavailable to the cells
the cells are starving of glucose and
sugar and Insulin but you have all this
excess insulin just pumping on
everywhere else and you have all these
side effects I mean k cholesterol belly
fat and a bunch of other problems but
inside the cell where's there's a
problem so cortisol is then triggered to
compensate to force the sugar into the
cell as emergency type thing so you get
this higher level of cortisol that and
that gives you other bad effects like uh
destruction of protein like it goes
after your quadricep your muscles and
your thigh start going away your butt
you lose your butt so now you don't have
uh the legs are skinny no butt and all
gut so in in the videos I talk about all
the things you have to do to avoid
stress to uh get this cortisol down so
you can be healthy and get your lean
body mass and prevent atrophy of the
muscles but you might not want to
overlook this insulin resistance uh
problem you must lower insulin to
decrease the need for insulin to then
decrease cortisol all right so I'll put
some links below if you want to know
what to do but I just wanted to make
that point thanks for
watching uh how about um I'm not sure
just press it okay that's sounded crappy
press the subscrip why can't I say
subscribe
subscribe press hey thanks for so much
press the Subscribe button now I forgot
what to say I will see you in the next
videos press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
