so I wanted to create a quick video just
to answer another question someone was
doing in a minute fasting and their
cholesterol was actually going up and
they were concerned and I understand you
know you don't wanna get a clogged
artery and then end up getting a heart
attack I totally got it but just hear me
out for a second because if you're doing
in a minute fasting and keto together
you are not gonna get a heart attack
okay even if your cholesterol does go up
temporarily when you do fasting
you're gonna mobilize your fat okay
what's in the fat it's filled mostly
with triglycerides okay
there's also some cholesterol neuro as
well triglycerides are going to be used
as energy okay primarily cholesterol is
not going to be used for energy
we don't use cholesterol for energy it's
used to make hormones sex hormones like
testosterone estrogen also cortisol
which is your anti inflammatory hormones
and there's many other ones it's also
needed for cell membranes okay
all of the cell membranes in your body
need cholesterol so your body makes a
lot of cholesterol it makes like 3,000
milligrams per day so when you eat more
cholesterol your body will make less
when you eat less your body makes more
there's a feedback mechanism going on
but this next point is very very
important
repair cholesterol acts to repair damage
in the body and because cholesterol
doesn't just float through the arteries
it has to be put in a mechanism or a
little shuttle-bus of protein so it can
be transported through the body easily
because cholesterol and blood don't mix
that well okay so it's put into little
shuttles they're called LDL HDL etc and
99% of the time when you do fasting
you're gonna see a huge drop in
triglycerides you're going to also see a
drop in LDL you may initially see a
spike in cholesterol simply because it's
being mobilized but you normally will
see a drop in LDL okay
and a spike in HDL and these two shuttle
buses kind of work in tandem so the LDL
takes the cholesterol from the liver out
through the body to do its work and the
HDL will take the excess and bring it
back to the liver from recycling so if
your cholesterol is a little high
realize you're just in the transition
phase it's gonna come down and despite
it being high it's still not a problem a
really good test for you to do would be
this right here take your cholesterol
and then you - your HDL and your LDL
okay and you're gonna get something
called remnant cholesterol because
what's happening you have this dynamic
situation where your body is feeding the
hormones building the cell membranes
doing some repair but also cleaning up
any extra as well but the other thing
you really need to know is that what's
really behind the high cholesterol and
the high triglycerides is the
carbohydrates
it's the desserts it's the sweets etc
when you do fasting or you bring your
carbs down the body stops storing okay
and it starts using the stored energy as
fuel so I don't want to beat a dead
horse but it's an important message and
I know I've said this same thing in a
thousand different ways but for some
people it does take the repetition
before it finally sinks in and they
actually do apply the information if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
