hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about how to reverse
atherosclerosis that's hardening of your
arteries now typically people have this
idea that this problem comes purely from
consuming too much cholesterol okay so
let's kind of dissect really what
happens here's an artery there's always
a
pre-existing lesion or crack in the
artery before this whole chain of event
occurs it's a micro hemorrhaging and uh
what happens is the cholesterol comes in
there as a Band-Aid to heal the the
bleeding crack in your arteries so
that's what that's one big purpose of
cholesterol and it actually works with
calcium to form a like a little band-aid
and what causes the lesion or the crack
is usually either a low Vitamin C
situation because the person is not
consuming enough vegetables okay that's
number one because vitamin C and and I'm
not talking about the synthetic vitamin
C I'm talking about real vitamin C in
its whole complex because vitamin C in
the complex has uh a factor it's a type
of copper in an enzyme form called
tyrosinase which basically helps you
form collagen okay so if you don't have
that factor you get a lot of cracks and
problems in the vascular system okay
loss of collagen everything becomes very
rigid so we need the vitamin C from the
vegetables okay the other thing that
will cause it would be high ins insulin
because the person consumes too much
sugar or refined carbohydrates that can
also cause inflammation in microing so
we have this lesion the body comes in
forms a little plaing thing to try to
protect it with cholesterol and by the
way cholesterol will also go way up with
insulin in fact unless you have a
genetic problem with uh cholesterol
which is very rare I will bet anything
your cholesterol is coming from too much
insulin so if you were to cut out all
the carbs like refined carbs and sugars
and alcohol that cholesterol will come
down faster than anything with probably
within a month okay that's just a side
down so here we got this combination of
cholesterol and calcium plaing and then
what happens is that it starts getting
bigger and bigger and bigger and um it
creates like a clogging of an artery
okay now other things that can cause
this calcium buildup would be taking too
much calcium in the wrong form
especially let's say you're taking
calcium carbonate that is limestone that
is
cement okay then you actually add it
with vitamin D calcium with Vitamin D
you know what vitamin D does it actually
helps you absorb calcium in the gut by
20 times okay not not by
20%
20x so you're absorbing all this calcium
and the blood is filling up with calcium
that's going to cause what called hyper
calcemia so the combination of this
vitamin D with calcium which so many
people are taking as a supplement
because you get tested by the doctor he
says you're low vitamin D so you start
taking it you add some calcium in there
right and you think you're doing
yourself some good but what happens is
you're just filling up the arteries with
calcium especially if you don't have the
mag magnesium because magnesium helps to
buffer the calcium as well so what's
missing in this whole picture well
in order for you to um have vitamin D
work correctly in calcium you need
another vitamin called vitamin K2 if
you've never heard about this you need
to do some research I put some links
below so you can watch some more data on
K2 but vitamin K2 probably in the next
few years will be very very um
mainstream because what it does it
basically removes calcium from the soft
tissues of the body it helps to clean up
the calcific ation on the arteries it
basically prevents your arteries turning
into bone and
stone it makes your arteries more
elastic it's really good for blood
pressure so um K2 well guess where you
get vitamin K2 it's in it's a fat C of
vitamin so it's in all the
fats that the doctor has been telling
you to avoid it's in cheese it's in egg
yolk it's in grass-fed fatty meat Meats
it's also in a soy product called NATO
it's a Japan dish but mainly it's in the
fats so here the person is consuming a
low-fat diet their arteries are clogged
they put them on Kuma tin and by the way
blocks vitamin K1 so now you can't eat
the
vegetables where you going to get your
vitamin C from you take it from a pill
it's usually going to be synthetic so
you're going to take the synthetic
vitamin C which will actually aggravate
everything so really is is messed up
what we need to do is we need to if
you're un cumon you need to
take the right amount of vegetables okay
I have a video on that if you want to
see that uh that are low vitamin K get
the vitamin C heal this original thing
start taking vitamin K2 you can take
D3 and you can probably even take some
calcium but probably not a good idea
unless you have cramps in your calves
that's a good indication that you need
calcium but most people can get it from
the food because you're eating these
Foods right here like cheese that's
going to give you enough calcium I think
the only time that I recommend a calcium
supplement is typically if the person
has cramps in the calves or they have
osteoporosis or osteopenia okay I like
to get that one from the food but
vitamin D is important as well but we
need the vitamin K2 okay so if you were
to do these things reduce the insulin
take the vegetables add the K2 uh avoid
the calcium you'll be in pretty good
shape and you can create some nice
change over time and by the way people
that are taking anti acids while they're
getting the calcium carbonate you be bit
off juning on cement down the street you
know all right so I threw a lot at you
um hope this helped and I will see you
in the next video hey guys thank you so
much for watching please click the
Subscribe button and I will see you in
the next video
