so I had another question do calories
actually matter on keto let's talk about
that the answer is yes and no not all
calories are treated equally by your
hormones the endocrine system
biochemically they're not treated the
same I'll go into that so it's false
that a calorie is a calorie and all you
need to do is lower your calories and
you're going to lose weight that is not
true
for example certain specific types of
calories trigger different hormones I'm
talking about cortisol I'm talking about
insulin growth hormone so that can have
a huge effect whether you lose weight or
you don't lose weight just by the type
of calorie you're consuming
carbohydrates definitely will increase
insulin insulin blocks keto protein can
also increase insulin especially if you
have it in large amounts and especially
if it's lean protein low fat protein
interesting fat has the least effect on
insulin which means it has the least
effect of stopping your ketosis now
carbs are pretty much 100% used as fuel
in the body protein is a partial fuel
use and partial body replacement so you
need protein to replace your your
muscles your hair your nails your skin
so not all of its used for energy same
thing with fat part of it is used for
body parts like brain and nerve tissue
the cell membranes and part of it is
used for fuel so that's a difference
right there keto is low carbohydrate
calories moderate protein calories and
higher fat calories so if you wanted to
lose weight and your metabolism is slow
and you have a thyroid problem and
you're menopausal and you can't sleep
and you're under a lot of stress okay in
that situation you are going to have to
lower your fat calories we want to
increase the fat calories at first to
get your body to adapt to fat-burning to
make it easy so you can do in a minute
fasting longer
once you're in fat-burning you want to
cut down the fat we don't want to use
your dietary fat as fuel we want to use
your own body fat as the fuel source so
if you have too much about that could
prevent you from losing your own fat
even though you're in ketosis okay
so we do one that lower the fat and we
do want to reduce the frequency of
eating possibly to one meal a day do it
on the gradual maybe two meals a day and
then shorten the window to four hours
and three hours and two hours and then
one hour of eating so you have now 23
hours of fasting okay that's what you
would want to do so the question do
calories matter on keto certain calories
do with certain circumstances hey guys I
want to talk about these two books right
here okay I want to explain it this book
right here is a very short book it
explains why to do keto and how to do it
it's filled with pictures you can get
through this in 45 minutes
real quick just very important to know
the details the basics of how to do it
now this book the new body type guide
should have been called be on keto
because I rarely find someone that has
just a weight problem they usually have
a lot of other body problems and in this
book I cover all the reasons why keto
and intermittent fasting might not work
for you we go into the body types we go
into inflammation we go into stress
hardcore and what to do about it so if
you want to maximize your results you
definitely want to get this one right
here okay so my goal is to get you to do
keto correctly and what I mean by that
is do it healthily
it's called healthy ketosis so we can
avoid all the issues that happen with
transitioning the fat-burning keto flu
keto fatigue keto rash kidney stones
gout etc and right now on my website if
you get this you get this at no extra
cost I put a link down below check it
out
