I want to talk about MSG monosodium
glutamate versus glutamate because
sometimes you hear glutamate and you
think wow it's not going to turn into
MSG is that bad I've done videos on
talking about cancer consuming glutamate
glutamate is an amino acid cancer can
live on glucose or glutamate glutamate
doesn't cause cancer but if you have
cancer cancer cells could live on
glutamate this is why we recommend
interm√≥n fasting for those people that
have cancer but if you don't have cancer
you don't have to worry about it simply
because every single food that you eat
has glutamate okay it's an amino acid
like I said and the body actually has
about four point four pounds of
glutamate that makes up its tissue so
it's part of our food supply it's part
of our body now in 1909 there's a patent
at MSG and they call it accent they
still sell it now and it's a flavor
enhancer and basically the problem with
them is G is that it tricks your taste
buds in making the food taste better
than it really is and it gives you that
savory sensation I remember living in
San Diego with my wife Karen this is
before we were into nutrition or he knew
anything about nutrition we would go to
this restaurant and we would love to
consume this hot and sour soup okay it
was loaded with msg it tastes so good
but after we would consume it I noticed
my hands would be so swollen and puffy I
had so much flu to attention because
you're talking about
monosodium glutamate and then I noticed
my blood sugar is kind of crash after as
well and then about hour later I was
starving for more of it so the problem
with MSG is it can raise your insulin
levels and push down your blood sugars
give you like more of a hypoglycemic
reaction and then now you're hungry for
more food and plus it has a lot of other
side effects which I'll get into so let
me just differentiate between MSG and
glutamate all right so right here we
have something called el glutamic acid
now when I'm talking about glutamic acid
I'm really talking about glutamate
because one will turn into
the other okay so don't get hung up on
the terminology but l Lu tannic acid is
the natural form of glutamate found in
foods and D glutamic acid is
artificially made and I want to talk
about the difference between these two
this is MSG okay
so when you have the D before it that
means it's MSG when it has the L it's
not MSG so it's not going to create a
reaction now what's so unique about D
glutamic acid is it's unbound versus the
L version is bound to a protein so when
you consume food with this glutamate
it's always bound with protein now if
you're consuming just pure fat for
example you're not gonna have glutamate
and that's why when I said almost every
food contains glutamate I said almost
okay
fats don't contain glutamate so we have
this version which is bound to a protein
and this version that's unbound and what
this means is when you digest the food
this is much slower going into your body
this is super fast it's gonna spike the
amount of glutamate by eight to ten
times in your blood when you consume
this because it goes in like a rocket
ship but this is slower and our body
regulates how much it wants okay so it
can shut off any excess amounts this
we're just shoving it into the blood
large amounts and it can create a
problem this version is artificially
made and maybe you've seen this in some
of the ingredients hydrolyzed okay that
basically makes this protein unbound
okay so it breaks it up so it's free it
can go on your body or Otto lies which
is another term to describe how it's
broken down into a smaller particle or
modified so simply this is free unbound
glutamate and this is bound glutamate
okay now here's the problem when you go
to the grocery store there are so many
products that have msg that are not on
the label that is the problem
especially if it's listed as a
processing aid they don't have to put it
in the label here are some of the
symptoms that people have when they're
exposed to msg hives rashes they become
irritable forgetfulness with simple
words mood swings which describe maybe
some of your friends and family members
achy joints pain headaches and the list
goes on and on and on now here are some
of the names in the ingredients that
potentially could have msg natural
flavorings flavorings a vegetable broth
textured vegetable protein multiple
dextran bouillon cube authorized yeast
protein isolates smoke flavoring like
those barbecued potato chips that people
eat gelatin imitations soy sauce so
anyway I just wanted to be increased
your awareness of all the different
versions of MSG and the difference
between MSG and glutamate thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
