and has a grocery store that looks like
it's straight out of The Walking Dead
there's nothing left on the shelves
except for the vegan
section and and even in a natural
disaster people would rather die than
eat fake meat Foods fake meat
substitutes what I'm going to share with
you today is absolutely crazy and I was
shocked to hear about this but way do
you hear about the story they're they're
trying to pass this bill that uh
basically TS livestock for a reason that
they say is just for the environment
it's to protect the animals from disease
but there's actually another motivation
to this that you've got to hear the
story and today we have John Moody who's
a homesteader he knows a lot about it
he's personally experienced uh this area
for for years so I brought him on to
kind of explain to us what is going on
because it involves you and I because it
involves our food so welcome John thanks
for being on here hey hey good
morning good morning John uh can you
just give us a little brief overview of
what's going on now with this bill
they're trying to pass related to
electronic identification of of
livestock animal livestock tracking ID
goes way way back in history started
with branding animals out on open ranges
how do you know whose cow is who's
that's where branding originally came
from being able to sort keep track of
cattle uh know when they got sold at
Market who gets paid for this cow uh
very practical nitty-gritty issue as a
farmer so branding was replaced as time
went on by these ear tags that cattle
now wear so if you've ever seen a cattle
in a field see you got this big ear tag
with a number and whatnot that was like
the updated version of branding ear
tagging cattle and back in the
1990s uh the government USDA fisis some
of these agencies along with the rise of
the big beef industry which is very
different than the actual Farmers they
wanted an even newer version of cattle
tagging they wanted
electronic animal tagging that would
allow them to know the exact number and
location of all livestock animals all
the time wow and and what was the
apparent reason that they said that this
is going to be good for everyone like so
many government programs it sold the
idea of safety um so the the government
said oh we sometimes have disease
outbreaks in animals and we need to be
able to know where these animals were
where they came from to quickly respond
to when we have a significant disease
outbreak you know the irony there is
like Ireland in
2022 um rolled out electronic ID for
under this guys well we need this um to
you know diseases and other things in
our animals now this is a country that
as far as I'm aware has never ever ever
once had a significant animal like have
you ever been you know perusing the
newspaper or listening to the Nightly
News and it's like Ireland epicenter of
animal disease outbreak that
rocks so you know so on the one hand um
congresswoman Hegman and others have
pointed out this idea we need a new
system to deal with animal disease
outbreaks has no evidence at all we've
never had an animal disease outbreak in
America get out of hand um no other
country that's implemented this program
has even had you know nationally let
alone globally significant animal
disease outbreaks I mean even in Ireland
I think a year later right they
announced the need to call which AKA
that means kill right yeah
41,000 livestock
because to meet climate change targets
right yeah and and that's one of the the
you know what's really going on here
when you look at what the industry is
saying about this um and then what you
know non-governmental organizations Nos
and what likee are saying about this is
I think your listeners already well
aware there's been a huge push to get
Americans in Western countries to eat
less meat yep you know since we just had
the hurricane um I always love there's
this really funny meem my friends always
post after natural disasters and has a
grocery store that looks like it's
straight out of The Walking Dead there's
nothing left on the shelves except for
the vegan
section and and even in a natural
disaster people would rather die than
eat fake fake meat Foods fake meat
substitutes the world economic Forum the
World Health Organization the United
Nations um listeners can easily go look
up their push to get people to eat less
meat yep um they want them to eat less
meat because they say it's bad for us
which is ridiculous they want us to eat
less meat because it's harmful to the
environment which to anybody who's ever
been on a pastured cattle farm versus
any other type of environmental use of
land would know how absolutely insane
such a claim is
um but the real reason they want us to
eat less meat is because they want us to
eat bugs and they want us to eat plants
and nobody's doing it yeah no amount of
propaganda no amount of
subsidization has successfully gotten a
large number of
westerners to adopt a plant bug based
diet so now in certain countries they're
using Eid RFID
and those are that's that stands for
electronic ID identification yeah RFID
was one of the earlier names for it
radio frequency
identification um now it's often being
called Eid electronic identification of
animals and so in these countries
they'll roll it out under safety and
then lo and behold within a few years uh
they're then using it for environmental
reasons and and trying to force Farmers
to radically reduce the number of
livestock because what will happen if we
radically reduce the number of
livestock they have a solution waiting
for us but it's kind of like a it's a
little bit of a bait and switch and I'm
being sarcastic because it's a lot of
bait and switch they come in with this
apparent oh yeah safety we're gonna
protect you know the farmer but these
farmers are being wiped out right what
what happened in in Michigan uh Michigan
I think it was around 2000 somewhere
between 2007 and 11 I believe they
implemented you know Eid type
tracking and a number of groups looked
at the perform you know what happened to
the Michigan Farm economy and farm base
compared to states that did not require
electronic tracking and stuff and
Michigan was just a nightmare they lost
significantly more Farms I think it was
over 4,000 Farms was it wasn't it yeah
just a very very large number of farms
they lost and you know maybe this will
help listeners why why would changing an
ear tag um cause you to lose more
Farmers yeah because all of these things
are more labor more compliance more
cost that gets passed on to your farmer
which which means at the end of the day
you eventually see this on your
plate you know if if farmers are forced
to call
animals under the guise of environmental
reasons or under the guise um you know
eggs during Corona virus eggs went up in
price eggs still haven't came all the
way back down well why because there was
forced calling of large numbers of
chickens and whatnot it's funny how they
use even they use that word calling I
mean it sounds
benign it's like why don't just say
killing yeah one of the differen is that
often when animals are called they're
not allowed to go into the food supply
when chicken houses are liquidated
that's literally the you know so you'll
have these large kfo chicken houses if
they get a disease in one of these
houses they quite literally liquidate
the whole house I think they use
nitrogen gas or some other gas and they
gas the entire house kill all of the
chickens and then bury them in a giant
landfill hole taking stuff out of the
food supply um to where people can no
longer accesses this this just happened
to the strong Sisters Farm in Michigan
number of months ago they had pigs at a
butcher in
Indiana and they went to pick up the
pigs that had been slaughtered and
dressed and whatnot and I think they're
going to take them to another facility
then to be cut up turned into sausage
and other things and Health Inspectors
forced them to call those pigs they
poured motor oil on the carcasses so
that they could not go into the food
supply
incredible incredible you know what's
what's so ironic is they're going
after the key food that actually is
probably the most healing food that you
can eat is is grass-fed red meat and I
find it very interesting I mean that's
how I turn my health around and so many
others are using red meat to heal their
bodies and of course out of all the
things yeah we have to get rid of that
this is what I want to know like the
tagging does this also involve all
livestock even the the the big companies
or just the small farms or just everyone
so the current version that's gonna uh
go into effect November
5th there there's some debate of what
version it is at the moment I was
actually just talking with somebody this
morning before you and I talked because
originally the rule was only going to
apply to
steers um traveling for interstate
commerce but last I heard they've
already expanded on this rule um but but
to some extent it doesn't matter what
the current version they're rolling out
is because back in the early
2000s they told us what program they
really want um it was called the
national animal identification system
Nace and it would require every farmer
and Homesteader in America to
individually radio frequency ID tag
every single livestock animal they have
cattle pork chicken
lamb goats you just name it the program
came with a 1 1800 phone number The
Perennial question why did the chicken
cross the road um the USDA did not want
to know why the chicken crossed the road
but you had 24 hours to report when and
where the chicken crossed the road to
the government orace I believe it was a
$500 fine per animal
offense now what made this program
really interesting though is it Exempted
um refinement animal feeding operations
no no way I mean it logically makes
sense why would you need to track an
animal that is trapped in a concrete
barn and is never going anywhere its
entire life homesteaders farmers and
whatnot we would have to do this we
would have to make phone calls we would
have to keep very stringent records on
all of our animals um butchers would not
be allowed to accept animals that do not
have the upgraded animal ear tagging but
if you're a kfo well your animals are
never going anywhere anyway so just tell
us what kfo stands for confined animal
feeding operation got it so so this is
where the vast majority of animals in
America um the vast majority of beef is
still born right where I'm sitting on
farms like mine um so the vast majority
of beef in America starts somewhere like
this but then they're sold at auctions
which that'd be a whole another story
for your listeners the broken beef
auction system where you go to the
auction house and there's 2300 Sellers
and guess how many buyers show up to buy
cattle how many one or
two because what why would the four or
five big beef companies bid against each
other why would they give Farmers more
money um when hey you go to that auction
Tim and Jeff you go to this other
auction and will never be bidding
against each other wow wow and
so all all this beef starts in places
like here but it goes through these
auction houses and then the beef get
relocated to these feed Lots which
you're very familiar with and your
listeners have heard of where they will
have thousands and thousands of cattle
basically sitting in mud pits being fed
nothing but corn and soy to quickly
fatten them up until they run them
through the processing facilities yeah
you know pigs and chickens though are
are often raised their entire
lives in enclosed barn structures um so
animal housing units and other things as
they're called in China I want to say
they were building something like a
100,000 Pig confinement farming
operation it it's like the size of a
small City this building that's going to
house
you know over 10,000 SS alone and then
all of the piglets terrible um yeah I
have two pigs and they get five acres so
that's a lot of space a lot of exercise
what what um this bill um they try to
pass it a couple couple times uh but
with your with your persistence and help
you know you got it defeated but then
you're saying it's coming up one more
time and yeah to be to be voted on well
no so this is actually the way the US da
is doing this um and and this is just
one of the problems with how these
agencies
operate they can write what they call
rules without a bill or law ever having
been
passed so the um Nace is a program
created by the USDA out of thin air by
them just basically grabbing a sheet of
paper and some Crayola crayons and going
you got to put these tags on your
animals um and so that we have a Bill in
Congress and the Senate it is
congresswoman Harriet hegan's Bill
to stop the USDA from doing this um she
successfully stopped
RFID I think on two or three different
occasions now either through bills or
through lawsuits you know in 2009 we
stopped it through
protests um and Farmers like Wendel
Berry and Joel salatan and others saying
we're just not going to tag our animals
you'll have to take us to jail before we
start throwing these tags on wow okay so
is this a national program or does it go
state by state this is National so this
is this is a national program from the
USDA and and again they've they've tried
to get people to accept it this time by
rolling back everything that's involved
um which is why I've been out there like
you know sounding the fire alarm because
their goal is to get people not to care
as much because it's only Interstate
steers or maybe it's only Interstate
steers now and dairy cattle but they've
told us repeatedly for two decades what
they want is a universal livestock
tracing system that gives them um
complete and total knowledge of location
and numbers of every livestock animal in
the
nation so what can can an average person
do about this because sometimes it's
kind of hopeless and overwhelming well
the the good news is it was average
people who stopped this program in 2009
the the protests I went to for the USDA
listening hearings um for every one
farmer that was there there was 10
people eating uh and that's why people
like you are so important because the
majority of your audience are
eaters and they're just always like well
I'm a farmer and that's like that's why
we need you to speak up for your Farmers
because um America I think is now down
to maybe only two or three million
farming households in the nation um
contrast that with just a hundred years
ago 50% of American households were
farming households wow incredible and
and now it's just two or three million
total farming households are left 's not
enough Farmers left to successfully push
back
anymore against basically the calling of
the farmers themselves at this point um
so you know your listeners average
people um it it really starts with you
buying your food directly from local
farmers um that is one of the biggest
things you can do is reallocate where
you're spending your money so your cows
are no longer going through these feed
lots and through all of these
just atrocious systems and places uh for
helping stop rfad proper you can call
your Congress um Congress person or your
Senator really it's best to call both
and ask them to support hegan's um
amendment that would stop the USDA from
being able to require RFID tagging on
animals of any kind and so what we'll do
is we'll just on in the description
we'll put this information specifically
so they can remember it but I think
think everyone needs to step up the
table and do something about it because
if we have uh a number of people do this
then they're they're not they're not
going to pass it or they're gonna or
actually it's going to be defeated yeah
and and other things you can do um some
Farmers still don't even realize this is
happening in November uh the USDA did a
very they learned from their mistakes
previously where they they'd announced
this very broadly it was happening so
they would get a lot of push back this
time they've been very very quiet
about the implementation of the program
you know because they're like well it's
just for one small type of animal it's
um so this has really flown under the
radar over the past year um so letting
your farmer know that that this is going
to happen letting butchers know this is
going to happen and getting them on
board with not
complying um I've been able to get some
butchering associations homesteaders
Farmers um non compliance and your
farmer knowing that you will support
them if they don't
comply it is really really crucial um
years ago when my Buying Club was rated
one of the reasons I was willing to
stand up to my State Health Department
to protect people's access to food in
Kentucky is I had people who said to me
if you will fight for this um even if it
means you going you're going to jail
we'll make sure your wife and kids are
taken care of while this happens your
Farmers need that kind of committed
support to be willing to risk running a
foul you know of the USDA so there's
also a seminar there's I think there's
two seminars there's one in November and
then there's one next year tell us about
this seminar what that's all about yeah
so years ago Joel salatin you had him on
your show a couple months ago I think
people loved it um Joel approached me
about starting a
conference to organize push back against
um all of this regulation that makes
accessing real food so hard and so
expensive um and we named it the Rogue
food conference so and our next one is
in November uh November I think it's 8th
and 9th in Dallas Fort Worth um it's
actually on the Fort Worth side kind of
Northeast H sorry Northwest side of the
Dallas Fort Worth area at Met church
beautiful Church beautiful location and
the theme is going to be come and tag it
um
and so the the theme is people coming
together to work together not just to
stop RFID but to really remind the
government um that we get to decide what
we eat and who it comes from years ago
there was a
lawsuit that was filed against the
federal government over the interstate
ban on the sale of raw milk um yep so
that there's supposedly an interstate
ban on transporting raw milk across
lines for sale no law was ever passed
for this by the way this is once again
some government agency some government
bureaucrat um grabbing colored pencils
and making law out of thin air some
people sued over this interstate ban on
the sale of raw milk the government's
response to this
lawsuit is startling if you've never
seen it I I'll send it to you afterwards
because you might want to just read it
to your listeners sometimes but in this
response
they say things like there is no
fundamental right to choose what you eat
or what you feed your family there is no
fundamental right to
food you know um they basically you know
they went Point by Point basically to
saying we are the final Arbiter of what
food is and we're the final decider of
who you can get food from wow that's in
totally 100,000% insane that is crazy I
can't even I'll have to put the link
down below so people can read that and
also we'll put the link for this uh this
seminar in U November yep is it October
or November November November 8th and
9th um Dallas Fort Worth so Rogue food
conference come and tag it and then
we're gonna be down in Florida in March
um doing a rogue Health and Wellness in
Florida for for people who need some
vitamin D um come deep winter yeah
yeah so and then just um as a side note
I just think this is fascinating tell
tell um tell the listeners what happened
to you you got raided yeah and how you
overcame that raid yeah so it was
Memorial Day Weekend 2011 um this was at
the height of the
government um shutting down raw milk
Farmers local food buying clubs um all
you know basically anybody who was a
little too successful at local food um
the government went on a decades long
Rampage trying to shut them down put
them in jail find them out of existence
so you can go on YouTube see the video
footage of
rossom rossom um food co-op in
California so this is like total hippie
California people and um all of these
police and SWAT people are running
through rossom co-op with guns drawn as
if the hippies and the kale are going to
shoot back right just totally absurd
things so we were raided and sered cease
and assist in quarantine orders Memorial
Day Weekend
2011 um up until that point pretty much
everybody who'd been raided or faced the
government had been shut down or lost um
and we were just really really fortunate
that all of my buying club members
almost like 90% of the members were all
willing to go to jail with me wow and
and so um my strategy for beating the
Kentucky Health Department was pretty
simple I look really bad in prison
Stripes um and so if I'm going to jail
I'm going to jail with
friends and so I took two sheets of
paper on one sheet of
paper I um typed up the pertinent
sections of the Kentucky state
constitution and then on the second
sheet of P paper I put a simple line at
the top and it said I the
undersigned in accord with my god-given
in Kentucky constitutional rights and
taking my milk from my
cows and if anyone at the the Kentucky
State Department of Health would like to
talk with me about this they can reach
me at the name and phone number below I
put these two sheets of paper right next
to the cease and assist in quarantine
orders because I wanted people see know
like the ceas and quarantine orders are
real credible threats it was something
like a minimum of 30 to 90 days in jail
for breaking a ceas and assistant
quarantine order a minimum of5 to
$10,000 in fines uh you know so I didn't
want to dup people into doing this I
wanted them to fully know like if you
sign this with me this is what they're
threatening us over milk so I put the
cease and assist in quarantine orders I
put these sheets of paper and we had
like 90% of our members choose to break
the quarantine and take their milk
anyway wow what happened so then I went
on a media campaign to make the Kentucky
Health Department look really really bad
um you know because like I live in
Kentucky um I always joke you know um in
Kentucky like roughly 80% of all smokers
of America who are left smoking still
live in Kentucky and 100% of them seem
to live in my County you know we have a
gas station just up the road from my
farm and it almost seems like a lot of
my neighbors exclusively eat breakfast
lunch and dinner out of that gas station
Diner um it's you know you you look at
the data on health especially in
Kentucky and these you know these
Southern Central States it's it's
terrifying um so I would go on radio
shows and other places and I'd just be
like I don't understand why the health
department is spending all of this
energy on people who are desperately
trying to be healthy desperately trying
to raise Healthy
Families um while Kentucky literally has
a smoking opioid
obesity diabetes heart disease cancer
epidemic and and so I just asked this
question to get to get people thinking
about like why does the government spend
an inordinate amount of time and money
trying to make it so hard for people to
access healthy food right it's
like it's almost as if they want to make
us sick and again I'm being very
sarcastic what was the final thing of
that story what happened yeah so it took
about a week but on Wednesday night or
Thursday morning um I started to get
emails from some of my buying club
members where they were forwarding
something from the health department um
and the health department Department
never said they did something wrong they
never
apologized uh but the email basically
said that there had been a
misunderstanding U you know because
sending people to a private Buying Club
where people are merely picking up food
from local farmers and threatening them
all with fines in jail is just a
misunderstanding um but but but they
completely walked away and the best news
for us has been uh ever since that know
that's 13 years ago now um unless a
farmer in Kentucky does something really
silly like tries to sell raw milk on
Craigslist or Facebook
Marketplace um the Kentucky Health
Department has left raw milk alone in
our state raw milk has been allowed to
thrive because a bunch of good people up
in Louisville just like moms with babies
and dads who are plumbers and doctors
and professors and accountants
they were willing just to sign a single
sheet of paper and see if the government
would come and take
it you know I think the moral of the
story is just that we we all can do
something about it and you have to not
leave it for the other guy you have to
personally stand up and fight for this
your food and and they don't want to be
embarrassed so they'll they back down so
that's amazing that's an amazing story
so thank goodness we got people like you
that are like setting the trend or or at
least figuring it out so other people
can do similar things yeah well and
again like I I'm only not in jail
because because my members agreed with
me that I'm the sole Arbiter of who gets
to decide what my family eats and where
it comes from exactly and and that's why
Joel and I are doing Rogue food and
Dallas this year moving it to Texas you
know listeners that are down in that
region come join us um because because
I'm just just one person um I'm easy for
the government to jail get rid of
Silence um a friend was pointing out
this morning that he was searching for
rogue food conference on podcasts and
stuff and other places and he's like
you're clearly being censored you know
because he put it in he's like I don't
see it anywhere he's like you've been on
you and Joel have done 20 podcasts in
three weeks and it doesn't show up in
any search results because the thing
corporations and governments fear most
are people who actually take action and
people who realize I I really can make a
difference I'm not I'm not as helpless
as they're trying to make me feel and
think I am right right and uh so I'm
going to put these links down below so I
think we really appreciate if everyone
contacts their representative and tells
them that you object to this and uh this
crazy stupid bill and I guess we'll just
put the details as well so um everyone
can not have to memorize that
amazing John I really appreciate you
coming on uh this is going to be uh I
think a really big deal to stop this
because it's at the heart of healing
someone is the grass-fed meat so thank
you for being on and uh we'll have to do
H an update really soon to see what
happens after this November thing and
again um thank you so much for your work
since getting to know you now over the
course of the last few months we've had
like friends from all over through our
house and they're like oh they're like I
love Dr Berg uh you know love his videos
I love what he's doing um and so you you
know men like you are making such a
difference for small farmers and
homesteaders because you're using your
influence uh not to enrich yourself but
to enrich everybody I just want to thank
you for that hey my pleasure thank you
