so I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know should I
take a multivitamin mineral what I'm
doing in a minute fasting okay so let's
just talk about that a couple things you
need to know number one the RDAs or the
required nutrients are much less when
you're doing in a minute fasting your
body tends to recycle these nutrients if
you're not eating as frequent you don't
need as much of the required nutrients
okay number two when you do in a minute
fasting you go into a toff adji which
basically is a condition where your body
is recycling protein amino acids so
becomes more efficient you increase
growth hormone which then protects you
against the loss of protein so again you
don't need as much protein if you're not
consuming the frequency of eating so
it's really easy to get your amino acids
okay so even if you ate once a day and
you're eating a certain amount of meat
or fish or eggs you're gonna get your
amino acids pretty easily it's not going
to be a problem fatty acids again not a
problem because those meats and proteins
usually come with fat so the eggs the
fish the grass-fed dairy other fats also
because fat comes with protein you're
going to get your fatty acids omega-3
fatty acids from the eggs and the fish
from the other fats okay now with fries
the vitamins go there's two types you
have the fat soluble vitamins vitamin A
D and K okay and then the water soluble
which is vitamin C and vitamin the beet
complex
okay it's going to be pretty easy to get
the fat soluble vitamins from the fat
that you're consuming in that one meal a
day so we don't really have to worry
about that okay but the water soluble
that's the vitamin C if you're consuming
the large salad each day or the amount
of vegetables then you're going to be
fine because you're going to get your
vitamin C in that amount pretty easily
if you're not consuming vegetables
that's going to be a problem the thing
you need to know is you don't want to
consume a synthetic vitamin C why
because they make synthetic vitamin C
out of corn starch in sulfuric acid so
you have mostly ascorbic acid and maybe
they throw in a little pinch of rose
hips or bioflavonoids
you want to consume the vitamin C
complex as Nature has designed it not in
some isolated fraction of or a part of
the vitamin complex so as far as B
vitamins you can get that from
nutritional yeast you can get it in
liver you can get it in Brewers EES
there are several sources so I'm going
to recommend probably nutritional yeast
will be the best bet for that so the
minerals you can get that in the green
so you can kill two birds with one stone
you can do it electrolyte powder to make
sure you get all the minerals trace
minerals so you can get that in seek
help or seafood okay this is the one
that's I think the hardest to get just
because it's not in the soil so you're
gonna have to add that to the diet or I
find some plant base trace mineral a
liquid or a powder that will can help
you because even when you do sea salt
you're only going to absorb a certain
portion you're not going to absorb a
hundred percent of those minerals in sea
salt and then final nutrients which I'm
going to include in this even though
they're not required they give you a lot
of additional health benefits so
cruciferous kale broccoli Brussels
sprouts cabbage cauliflower I'll give
you these wonderful complexes of
plant-based chemicals that will help you
a sprouts really really healthy so if
you really wanted to get a multivitamin
mineral make sure it's a food based
whole food concentrate not the typical
synthetic that you would get at the
drugstore GNC or Walmart where you're
basically buying synthetic vitamins and
calcium carbonate limestone and all
sorts of other additional things that
you don't really need all right well
thanks for watching hey guys a lot of
you already have my book some of you
don't but this new edition called a new
body type guide is an upgrade from my
last Edition called the seven principles
of fat burning it has a hundred and
fifty six images three hundred seventy
eight pages full glossary I talk about
Kido in a minute-- fasting the body
types in detail I have a new stressed
chapter I'm going to show you exactly
what to eat any comprehensive FAQ I put
a link down below check it out
