from the first local news station in
high
definition this is N9 news
[Music]
now it is a problem I think we've all
experienced we diet we work out but
still the pounds we just can't keep them
off yeah we talk about this all the time
well either way they don't go away they
creep back on and tonight we're going to
take a look at a new diet program that
says to lose weight you need to know
your body type and how to Target your
weight loss take a look Caroline how was
school today for Lori the evidence is on
The Cutting Board okay I'm going to go
ahead and put the fish on and on the
grill I'm one that needs a little bit of
protein this is because Lor's weight
problems are adrenal and that's one
where you sort of gain around the middle
and you sort of have a little Pooch she
used to wear a size 14 she's now down to
a size eight and working her way towards
a size six and she's kept that weight
off for 10 months so what are we going
to work on today and this is the man
that Lori credits for her weight loss Dr
Eric Berg a chiropractor specializing in
Nutritional Weight Loss so there's four
body types adrenal thyroid ovary liver
Dr ber believes that each body type
predisposes someone to certain health
problems high blood pressure and causes
people to gain weight in different ways
in the thyroid body type it's weight all
over his program begins with getting you
healthy in other words when your body's
under stress it can't burn fat he uses
Advanced acupressure for what ails you
raise this up okay a little stronger
isn't it in Mna Welter case she suffers
from some shoulder pain and leg weakness
cuz I used to carry things in one arm
and leave one arm open to P my body up
the stairs and now I can just run up the
stairs that was 45 pounds ago once Mna
conquered her physical ailments Dr Berg
began a very specialized diet for her
body type she too is adrenal I don't eat
breads I get carbohydrates from
vegetables and fruit but Mna and Lori
can have cheese butter nuts and eggs and
this isn't a magic fix this is something
that you incorporate into your life and
it's long
term all right well you should keep in
mind that you should not start a diet
plan until you've had a chance to talk
it over with your doctor first now our
story focused on the adrenal body type
but there are three other body types
that gain weight the ovary body type
where your fat gathers just below the
belly button and you tend to get those
saddle bags then there is the thyroid
type where you gain weight kind of all
over your body and the liver type which
gives you that beer belly look Dr Eric
Berg is here in our Studios today and we
welcome you I know you're here to take
some web questions right our uh live web
chat today and how to Target your weight
loss he'll be here until 7:30 tonight so
you have a chance to talk to him you can
take part just log on to our website
wusa9.com or you can send us an email at
TalkBack wusa9.com we will talk to Dr
Berg in our six o'clock hour so you have
a chance right now just about what 40
minutes or so send in those questions
you're going to talk back live we would
love to hear from you D Eric Berg is
here with us now in the studio taking
your questions on our live web chat and
we are glad that you're here now we had
one person who wrote in we've had
several people to write in but one
person wrote in and said I noticed that
over the past year that I have not
gained weight but I have belly fat my
pants fit tighter around the waist but
my actual weight has not increase do you
think that the target diet would help me
I'm getting very frustrated and that's
Debbie and upper marbor what would you
say to Debbie well one of the challenges
with the weight in the stomach because a
lot of times people think that's from
the food they're eating but it's
actually coming from a hormone a stress
hormone that can actually make the fat
accumulate around the belly and not
necessarily in the legs or the arms so
it's it it kind of tells you where the
problem is it's it's either adrenal or a
liver body type and you've broken it
down into all these different body types
that tell you sort of how you should go
about targeting your weight loss we have
another question here from Dr Frank he
wants to know can this diet be followed
long term or is this one of these quick
fixed diets you do it for a while and
then really you can't sustain it well
the whole principle is it's actually not
even a diet it's a educational book to
teach you how to burn fat because even
the derivation of the word diet comes
from way of life so it's kind of a
lifestyle change so you can do it long
term
cuz diets just come and go and they
people don't need another diet they need
a to understand how to burn fat
lifestyle change right yeah all right
Carol would like to know if you can be
more than one type and if so she wants
to know which one should you follow and
I'm kind of like that too I looked at
the was it four or five different and I
said well I'm this one but I'm also
maybe this one too so what do you do in
that case well some people are a mixed
body type but they always have a primary
and they have a secondar so when you do
the program you're going to start out in
a certain step one and then it's going
to tell you what to do based on your
response to that the start Pro like step
one so if you actually have high energy
with step one you're going to go to plan
a if if it's low you'll go to plan B so
we have it all figured out it's very
very simple and actually you wrote a
book about it right the principles of
burning fat yeah yeah this is the
educational book it's based on about two
years of uh research on the uh the body
types and how to be fat okay some of
them um involve not just carbohydrates
because they're you know there's so many
The Zone and Atkins and everything else
but yours it's sort of breaks it down
into more than just not eating
carbohydrates right one of the biggest
biggest missing links is the educational
step on the actual hormone connection to
burning fat as compared to just using
calories and fat grams this is more of
how to trigger your own body's hormones
to to dissolve certain fat around
certain parts of your body okay we want
the viewers questions to keep on coming
in all right now we talked to several
doctors and nutritionists about this and
we want your questions to come on in our
web chat will continue um throughout the
evening we're going to come back on at
7:00 tonight and talk more with uh Dr
Berg and we're going to read off more of
your questions tonight so again go to
our website it's an interactive quiz
it'll tell you about your body type log
on to wusa9.com click on the live chat
on our homepage and you can also email
your questions at Talkback on our
website wusa9.com also at 7 o'cl we're
going to show you several Health
calculators on our website we can find
out your body mass index we've talked
about that a lot too and the calories
you can burn during exercise depending
on your height your weight and much more
so we've got lots to talk about all
right stay with us it's all about
getting in shape and getting healthy at
the same time so
Derek you know Dereck you and I are
always talking about how do you get off
the weight and keep it off it's tough
for us it's tough for everybody but I'm
here with Dr Eric ber and I'm me he's
there talking to our viewers uh as the
questions come into our website and
we're getting a great response you keep
going here but the idea he's come up
with a a way that you sort of Target
your body shape and then you figure out
what you can eat you get your body
healthy and then he says the weight can
come off and stay off for a lifetime so
let's listen to what Cheryl wrote in and
said um now if you would just listen to
this for a second Cheryl writes in and
says I've been in premenopause in the
cycle for the past four years I'm losing
inches because I exercise I watch my
diet problem is I've been stuck at the
same weight for the past four years you
know you sort of plateau I've been there
too what what do you suggest for her
well when you're going into menopause um
the ovaries are T going actually
shutting off and the adrenal glands
right above the kidney are taking over
so they're going to be more stressed so
if there's any stress going into
menopause that's the area that she needs
to Target and support nutritionally and
also with exercise okay now I know we
have a lot of people here on the the
live web chat with you this amazing the
response is terrific uh Denise wants to
know she says what program do you
recommend for a new mother because you
know moms they put on the weight as
they're carrying the baby what would you
say to her well this program is
extremely healthy so it's not uh based
on calorie uh cutting so it's it'll
support um a baby very very well she
would probably just have to modify it to
make sure that includes a wide range of
foods and but mainly the program will do
that so I wouldn't see a problem with
that all right here's a guy Matt he says
the harder I work out the more I gain
weight I start to cut calories but my
stomach gets bigger and bigger and I
know from working out you put on muscle
mass you're going to gain weight but
what would you say to him about his
midsection well if someone actually is
exercising and putting more stress in
the body if they have an adrenal body
type more stress means more stress to
the adrenals which make actually more
fat around the belly so some people that
exercise too much will actually gain
more weight so if you're an adrenal body
type you should be doing light exercise
uh something below like 120 pulse rate
so it's not cut out the exercise totally
because you want to keep your heart
healthy no you want to adapt it towards
your body type all right interesting all
right Jennifer says I'm 39 overweight by
100 pounds I have sugar Cravings
constantly I don't necessarily want to
change the type of food I eat that's
tough what can I do well any type of
Cravings will indicate certain
weaknesses within the body types but
Cravings in general mean that there's
some out of balance situation once she
gets her body Back in Balance with the
program those Cravings will go away it's
not an issue all right now I called you
Dr Berg now you are a chiropractor a
nutritionist we always tell people don't
start a diet unless you talk to the
medical community I assume that you
support that idea oh yeah yeah
absolutely okay all right I want to tell
you too that you have an interactive
quiz right and it sort of allows our
viewers to go online w us a9.com and
determine their own body shape can you
walk us through how that works sure what
you do is you actually go into targeting
your weight loss okay and that's right
there on our homepage and then you go
right down here mhm free body type quiz
okay and you answer these questions and
these questions will tend to pull out
your main weakness and classify your
body type as you click down here and
then you can press way down here
enter somewhere down here and then it
will tell you it bring up your body
type and then you it'll tell you what
foods to eat and and what type of a
category you sort of fall under right it
won't actually tell you that but it'll
tell you body type and then you'd have
to go either to a seminar that I give or
out of my book to get the exact program
okay all right well Dr BG we appreciate
you being here obviously a lot of people
want to talk about this so thanks so
much and you can go online and take this
body type quiz by logging on to our
website I bet lots of people know it by
now wusa9.com and click on news and go
under Health that's where you'll find
all the information we also have a
number of Health calculators on our
website as well you can get personalized
information about your body mass index
how you can take in calories how many
how you can burn them during exercise
and how many carbs you can eat in a day
again Health calculators on our website
right now and that body type quiz that
Dr Berg just showed us on our website
wusa9.com
Derek back over to you all right thank
