hi guys I wanted to create a video on
some unique things about the pancreas
and its function and its malfunction
okay the pancreas is located underneath
the left ribcage it can also extend over
to the right a little bit but it has the
interesting dual function of being an
endocrine gland and an extra print gland
okay so it makes hormones and it can
make and secrete enzymes okay
so insulin you pretty much know what
that is it regulates the blood sugars
right at lowers the blood sugar glucagon
is a hormone that opposes insulin so
what happens this is triggered when
you're not eating so it does the
opposite of insulin so it raises blood
sugar by mobilizing fat to keep your
blood Sugar's level between meals okay
so and it's also triggered by exercise
and consuming a moderate amount of
protein and also how it's at one of the
fat burning hormones glucagon
but you know what insulin does now you
know what glue gun does enzymes every
time you eat the pancreas is a workhorse
to produce enzymes to help you digest
food especially if you're consuming more
cooked foods or pasteurized foods things
like that because your body has to break
it down the enzyme lipase for example
works with bile to help break down fats
to the smallest particle so there's a
lot of enzymes that your body makes one
is being called elastase which basically
is a protein enzyme that helps
specifically break down elastic fibers
like collagen facha cartilage that type
of thing and then you have bicarbonates
so bicarbonates are there to help
neutralize the acid coming down from the
stomach so it has a little tube and you
got the stomach you have the small
intestine so that acid coming down there
needs to be neutralized because you have
like between one and three very very
strong pH and you need to quickly chill
that out so that's why your pancreas
makes the bicarbonates to neutralize the
acid coming in the small intestine okay
so there's a condition called endocrine
pancreatic insufficiency okay that's
basically when the pancreas stops making
enzymes alright so here are the symptoms
diarrhea
loss of appetite weight loss so then we
have stat areia which is basically your
body's not breaking down fats so the
stool is oily and it leaves the little
skid mark in the toilet and it has a bad
odor okay and then you have gas
abdominal or stomach pain decrease
absorption the fat size of item ins and
it can affect blood sugars in other
words pancreatic insufficiency can cause
type 1 diabetes and even type 2 diabetes
because you're decreasing the function
of the pancreas so what happens when you
have one part of the gland being
dysfunctional you're gonna have the
other part too so when you no longer can
produce the enzymes you're no longer
going to produce the hormones as well
okay now I want to talk about the causes
of periodic insufficiency so you have
cystic fibrosis which is an inherited
condition which basically starts really
blocking the function of different
organs of sinus lung liver and pancreas
so that would be one cause the next
cause would be something called chronic
pancreatitis so there's this chronic
inflammatory condition of the pancreas
which could be caused from gall stones
because if you block that duck with the
gallstone and it backs up these enzymes
back up those enzymes are so powerful
especially the proteases they can start
dissolving creating inflammation and its
own gland okay so that would be one
cause or there can be a virus or an
autoimmune condition of the pancreas or
the person drinks a lot of alcohol
really destroys the pancreas or
high-fructose corn syrup
the liver dust doesn't differentiate
between the effects of high fructose
corn syrup and alcohol they're both very
very similar so consuming high fructose
corn syrup is like drinking alcohol as
far as the liver is concerned it creates
a lot of liver damage but it also has
something called a cytotoxic effect on
the cells of the pancreas that make
insulin okay in other words they kill
the beta cell they have the capacity to
actually kill the
make insulin and that is a link between
high fructose corn syrup and not just
pain chorionic insufficiency but
diabetes directly so there's two
additional things that go even beyond
regular sugar high fructose corn syrup
which is a type of sugar or you can have
pancreatic insufficiency which is
another cause of diabetes so there is a
huge link between high fructose corn
syrup and diabetes
I put an interesting link down below
check it out okay guys I'll see in the
next video hey if you're interested in
finding out the underlying cause of your
body issues click the link below and
take the evaluation quince
