I want to talk about the amazing
benefits of radishes okay the number one
single best thing for mucus that you can
use would be radishes radishes have
certain properties that are high in
sulfur that help pull mucus from the
deep sinuses in the body you could even
make a cocktail out of juicing the
radish ginger and lemon okay
now you talk about the ultimate
roto-rooter on steroids one time about
I'd say about 11 years ago I had this
serious sinus infection and I wanted to
clean my body out so I took daikon
radish and I juiced about 11 to 12
ounces of daikon radish okay and I drank
it really fast now the daikon radish is
very spicy it's very hot and by the time
it hits my intestines it was on fire
so you want to use a little bit of
radish ginger and lemon and you don't
need you don't need 11 ounces you just
need a little bit okay and you can
dilute it with water drink it down
you know plug your nose and it will
clean out your mucus from your body it's
a great cleansing thing it's great for
the liver it's wonderful for the kidney
it's good for the gallbladder and
definitely it's great for the lymphatic
system it has anti-cancer properties
it's one of the cruciferous vegetables
but I normally recommend it for anyone
that has mucus or real thick mucus that
they can't seem to get out of the deep
sinuses through here or even the back of
their sinuses up in their head all right
okay thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know
hey that runs
