this is complete completely random.com
day at the Burks what are we
making my other mic broke and this is
this is what we're GNA use it's pretty
cool though I could hear everything by
the way I I crack up at at you guys who
comment about Dr B Berg being so serious
and like I'm the the Froot Loop
this look look at him look at him what
is she talking about he's
hysterical okay oh and by the way this
is Charlie he was little he was getting
a little big and so we decided to um put
them in the dryer put them in the dryer
that was good okay so this is a really
fascinating recipe these are actually
cauliflower wraps because we're doing
the um cruciferous recipes right yeah
totally so I really doubted this recipe
I made it and I'll be darned it actually
makes a a completely foldable holds
together wrap that you can it's awesome
make a sandwich with or have a taco or
anything it's I didn't think it was
possible I was um doubting it and I was
wrong this actually is a great little
wrap even made a little sandwich you
want to try a little sandwich yeah I
want to try it and I'll oopss
this is really going to be a big HP you
like it
mhm especially for people that like rad
unbelievable
cauliflower who would ever think that
who would have thought
it that's awesome
mhm I'm really surprised but it was very
very easy cauliflower is one of these
things that just sort of morphs it's
kind of in like tofu you know you can
takes on flavors and it it's this great
consistency and yeah clearly it's
another way to get consume cruciferous
we're trying to get everyone to consume
more so right so not only can you
consume more cruciferous but you you
have a bread replacement basically if
you like to have a sandwich or um taco
shell I think or I mean you could just
get
creative they don't
[Laughter]
bre I am so impressed I mean we' have
barely started to experiment with these
maybe you'll see I don't know maybe we
can do like crepes with whipped cream
and chocolate or something I always go
write to the dessert menu right maybe
but um with eggs as you know stick an
omelette in there give your kids a
little
wrappy yeah why not what do you think
what do you think
Charlie Li it all right let's let's go
right into the show you how how to howto
part howto part yeah Roger that
[Music]
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the Subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
