hey guys this video is mainly for
beginners and I'm gonna show you how to
do in a minute fasting and actually give
you a cheat sheet it's down below you
can click the link below and print it
out and I actually detail exactly what
you do step by step but I'm just going
to summarize it right here now why is
intimate fasting so powerful now when
your body fast it does something very
very interesting certain genetic
switches turn on that put your body into
a repair mode in a healing mode so your
inflammation drops your brain cells
start growing and it's a survival
mechanism because if there's no food
around and you're starving your body has
to survive better you have to think
better you have to you have to be not
have hunger and that's within a minute
fasting your hunger goes away you don't
have cravings anymore so it makes it a
lot easier but your brain cells start to
grow it's very interesting so your
cognitive function improves so where do
we start we start where most people are
at which is like six meals and I'm
talking including snacks in that as well
a lot of people are snacking through the
day and they snack at night and
unfortunately they're just eating too
frequently the problem with that is
every time you eat you trigger this
hormone called insulin and now we have
high insulin and now we become a
pre-diabetic and there's so many
conditions connected to that and you
don't even want to go down that road so
this is very very very bad okay now the
first step is to do three meals today no
snacks so at this point what we want to
do is we want to eat correctly and what
I'm gonna recommend is something called
healthy ketosis if you click down below
I have a video that will then allow you
to download like an acceptable food list
so you can find out what you should eat
on this program because you want to
combine in a minute fasting with healthy
ketosis together if we do that we can
really get the body healthy so three
meals and when you eat this certain way
you're it's going to make it easier
because your body is then going to adapt
to fat-burning that takes about three to
five days to get into that
mode where you're actually living off
your fat our bodies have I mean a skinny
person has over a hundred thousand
calories of fat sitting there on their
bodies in storage we only have 1700
calories of stored sugar our bodies were
not on a survival mode not meant to live
off the stored sugar but that's what
people are living off of and that's why
they're so dependent on food what we
want to do is we want you to run off
your fat fuel this is healthy and it
should be a primary fuel that you use
simply because our bodies have so much
of it so and when you actually convert
to fat-burning which you have to combine
in fasting without the ketosis you all
start tapping in the fat what's going to
happen is your your hunger is gonna go
way way way way down and here's the rule
if you're not hungry don't eat go as
long as you can because why would you
want to break the fast with eating
because you're in fat burning might as
well ride the wave and allow your body
to just burn up some of this this stored
reserve or a potential energy we're
going to call it so we go from three
meals no snacks down to two meals a day
now for some people they need to add
more fat to the meal to make it easier
to be more satisfied to go longer as far
as your breakfast goes usually what's
going to happen after about three days
you're not going to be hungry in the
morning so if you're not hungry in the
morning don't eat because if you do it's
going to stimulate insulin and now your
sugar is going to come down because
insulin pushes the blood sugars down
you're gonna end up with lower blood
sugar and that's when you're gonna be
hungry so you weren't hungry until you
ate now you're hungry an hour later
that's what we're trying to avoid so
start to eat only if you're hungry let's
say you're hungry now at 10:00 in the
morning and then 11 a morning until
eventually you don't even need a
breakfast anymore a lot of people are at
two meals a day okay and there's a thing
called an eating window it's basically
the time between the these meals right
here
so some people if they have to snack
they'll do it
within the eating window okay verses in
the fasting period over here so now the
next step after two meals is to start to
push these two meals together closer so
if we push them closer to let's say four
hours a four hour window of eating that
gives us 20 hours of fasting okay now a
lot of times when you actually read
about in a minute fasting there's
different ratios that people are doing
like 4 to 20 6 to 18 that basically
means the 4 hour window of eating 20
hours of fasting or 6 hours of eating 18
hours of fasting or 8 hour window - 16
hours of fasting so we want to kind of
keep improving this especially if you
need to lose weight and you need to
improve something in your body whether
it's inflammation an immune problem a
body organ issue dementia something very
interesting happens when you do a 6 to
18 a six hour window of eating and an 18
hour fast okay what happens is you go
into a toff ajit what is that
it's where the body starts eating up its
old damaged protein it starts to recycle
like a self-cleaning oven cleaning up
all the old crap in the body like dead
proteins altered proteins and damaged
mitochondria and even viruses and
bacteria and Candida it starts cleaning
all this stuff up that's when you start
to look younger feel younger you have
less stiffness in the body so this
happens at 6:00 our eating window and 18
hours of fasting and then when you go to
20 hours it's going to be more okay so
here you are at a four hour window of
eating and a 20 hour fast so if you want
to take the next level what you do is
you just do what's called oh man that
means one meal a day okay a lot of
people are doing this probably not as
many as doing this but a lot of people
are doing this especially if they're
over the age of 50 and their metabolism
is slow and they have a thyroid issue
and they want to lose weight but not
even necessarily those people a lot of
are actually fit they do one meal a day
just they just feel better because
you're burning your fat and what happens
when you do that as your body starts
conserving nutrients it starts to retain
nutrients so you're going to be eating
less calories because there's no way you
can have the same calories of three
meals but you don't need the nutrients
as much anymore because your body's
holding on to those nutrients the same
thing with protein so you're not going
to lose muscle you're not going to do
anything because you have these enhanced
hormonal factors like growth hormone and
you have retention of nutrients so you
eat this one big meal right here and
then you you go for what 20 23 hours of
fasting and then some people do
prolonged fasting that's in another
video but the point is that this is a
summary of what you're gonna do and you
can download the cheat sheet on this
that explains in detail step-by-step so
click down below download it print it
out and get started immediately so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications daily notifications
that sounds weird well I'll just remind
you on a daily basis how about that
