let's talk about the benefits of
selenium we're gonna talk about 12
benefits selenium is a trace mineral
extremely extremely powerful as an
antioxidant it's involved in a lot of
different enzymes as a helper mineral
that's called a cofactor its main job as
an antioxidant is to protect against
oxidative damage so it's really good for
any type of chronic health problem
reducing the complications of chronic
issues like diabetes autoimmune
conditions where there's inflammation it
helps to buffer that so number one it
actually helps make something called
glutathione which is the most powerful
antioxidant in your body especially in
the liver there were two oxidative
stress reduction so it reduces the free
radicals in the body that create a lot
of damage and that's why it has pretty
powerful anti-cancer effects because if
you can protect the DNA damage in your
mitochondria in the nucleus of the cell
you can actually counter the effects of
carcinogens and their effect on
different parts of your body carcinogens
are things that cause or trigger cancer
number three selenium is required for
the conversion of t4 to t3 so it's very
important and getting your thyroid to
work correctly especially in Hashimoto's
which is an autoimmune hypothyroidism
it's just as important for the thyroid
as iodine if not more important
and by the way 90% of hypothyroid
conditions are autoimmune alright number
four it reduces complications of certain
diseases for example diabetes peripheral
neuropathy cataracts anything that's
producing a lot of free radical damage
it can help counter the effects of that
I already mentioned this anti-cancer
anti-tumor effects and I will put some
of the research down below seven alcohol
related liver disease if
you have cirrhosis in the liver or a
fatty liver and you have a lot of
oxidation you want to take selenium also
number eight arsenic poisoning take
selenium for that as well
number nine autoimmune I mentioned that
it can significantly reduce something
called thyroid peroxidase antibodies as
well as hydrogen peroxide which
generates a lot of free radicals you
want to use selenium as the main
antioxidant now realize the RDAs for
selenium are fifty five micrograms okay
not milligrams micrograms
but the therapeutic dosage that you
would want to take if you had any of
these conditions right here would be 200
micrograms now are there any toxic
effects of selenium yes if you take way
too much like if you take lots of grams
of this product you can have certain
health problems that are related to
digestion heart cognitive function but
it's very unlikely you're gonna overdose
from that especially if you're getting
it from a supplement because the
supplements usually come in micrograms
not milligrams all right number 10
benign prostatic hypertrophy enlarged
prostate selenium is good for that 11
diabetes pre-diabetes insulin resistance
number 12 it has the ability to detoxify
mercury so if you're consuming fish that
has mercury fish normally also has
selenium but really the negative effects
of mercury have to do with blocking the
antioxidant with selenium so if you have
enough selenium you're not going to have
near the side effects from mercury now
the type of selenium you would want to
get for in these conditions would be
Celino methionine this is the one I
would recommend taking if you wanted to
counter some of these effects right here
now what about Brazil nuts the problem
with Brazil nuts is yes they have
probably more selenium than any other
food but they are also
very very high and find a gasset which
blocks selenium so if you're going to
take Brazil nuts you want to make sure
that you soak them in water overnight
dry them out and it's called germination
to get rid of this phytic acid so you
can get the benefit from selenium now if
you haven't seen my video on the
relationship between selenium and
mercury when you eat fish I put it right
here check it out
