hey guys today we're gonna talk about
post hysterectomy depression so let's
say for example you for some reason had
to get hysterectomy for if there was
fibroids or endometriosis or something
like that
let's talk about what happens to the
body and what to do to counter either
depression or anxiety or even hot
flashes so in the body how the
hypothalamus and your the pituitary the
master gland another gland that's like
the middle man to the other glands and
so you have this entire pathway here
that then goes down through the body
goes down to the adrenal glands goes
down to the ovaries and we have this
feedback loop going on so the endocrine
system is a series of glands and
hormones that are basically a
sophisticated communication system they
send communication they receive it and
they transmit it so when you have
hysterectomy it's like a sudden shock to
the body it's a sudden menopause
now sometimes we're most fun they take
out the ovaries so let's just say they
take out the ovaries and the uterus so
what happens now these pathways are in
confusion so thank goodness you have a
back-up organ which are the adrenals the
dream ills do make the same hormones
that the ovaries make so here's the
thing the adrenals were not designed to
produce the same amount of hormones to
the ovaries they only produce a small
fraction so we usually have an
overcompensating adrenal gland situation
where we have a spike in cortisol and we
have a severe loss of hormones down here
specifically progesterone and estrogen
and that's really what's creating the
depression and anxiety together so what
can you do there's several things you
can do first thing I would recommend is
make sure you take enough vitamin d3
better yet get Sun every day about at
least 45 minutes would be great because
vitamin d3 is very good for depression
and to bring up your mood and it acts
like a hormone in the body more than
just a simple vitamin so it works beyond
just calcium metabolism and bone it
actually works on your mood as well the
next thing I would recommend is
progesterone cream very very important
and it will actually bring the person
out of depression many times just that
alone now the big focus should be though
on the adrenals because the dream ills
are overwhelmed at this point so
anything you can do to minimize stress
and support the adrenals would be good I
have a video down below of it's a stress
webinar that you can check out and learn
about to extract stress from the body
but there's an oil CBD oil that I would
recommend I would recommend getting the
oil that is completely a hundred percent
free of THC okay and just to make sure
what I would do if I were you is I would
contact the company and have them send
you via email proof that it was tested
and it is THC free but this oil has
special properties to help balance out
the entire endocrine system to help
support the adrenals to help support
healthy course all levels it's also good
for insulin resistance and it can help
next thing I'm going to recommend is the
B vitamins through nutritional yeast
but specifically vitamin b1 this will
greatly help alright guys so that's what
I would recommend for this condition
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
