hey everyone we're back again we have
another great Skype interview and I
wanted to introduce you to mark mark has
a great before and after hi mark how are
you doing
I'm doing awesome great that's great
you're talking your column from Texas
and I wanted to I wanted to call you
because I wanted to hear some your story
like what happened before you decided to
lose weight and I saw that I mean we're
looking at the before picture tell me a
little bit about what was going on with
your weight that led up I had I have a I
have a desk job so I'm real haven't been
real sedentary and it's real stressful
too so basically I just let myself get
very out of shape I I was way over way
my blood pressure was real bad all my
all my glucose and cholesterol
triglycerides all that was really bad
and I feel like I was probably getting
close to diabetic gonna sleep at night
normally bad and I met with a guy last
November about mid-november at a
luncheon and and I didn't recognize him
I had worked with him in the past and he
started telling me about how he had lost
55 pounds with the contoso diet and you
know I sitting there having my sushi and
my rice and not really locking a lot of
what he said but after that later I
thought about it and started doing
research and decided hey if I'm going to
get healthy I'm gonna have to do
something so the change was obvious in
him so that's when I started looking
into low carb and ketosis and decided
hey I'm going to do this because you
know I want to see my grandkids one day
Wow yeah exactly what what was your peak
weight that you reached that you're
working out with that
seventy-three and today I'm down 86 and
a half pounds that's incredible
I started November 28 and since then
I've been completely on ketosis you know
I'm one of those guys that it's these
are all or nothing so I hear people
saying oh you can have a cheat day once
a month or you can have a car day once a
week I I'm not that way if I was I'm you
know I'm kind of like if I have a cheat
day I'd be afraid I couldn't get back so
I've been he tells us ever since
November 28th yes sir okay that's a
pretty that's a significant weight loss
so so were you on blood pressure
medications at the time I my doctor was
telling me to get on it and I was always
afraid of blood pressure and diabetes
medicines I was afraid that once I got
on it I wouldn't be able to get off so I
basically just didn't do what he said
and went on for several several more
months you know really not being in good
shape but since then all my blood
pressure is normal all my glucose
cholesterol triglycerides are all normal
and losing weight something somebody
asked me what you know what's the
negative side of this and the only thing
I can think of itself had to buy several
sets of clothes that could be expensive
so it might be a problem if my wife had
he'd the wind 'red at fun in Clarence
bill oven matter it would be really
rough it really would I mean the the
price of having to tailor-make all the
clothes and buying your clothes I mean
that can get really expensive it's
almost like is it really worth a stack
of clothes that I that fall off of me
basically and my wife is scared to death
to get rid of it she's like she saw me
gain and lose weight so many times I've
tried so many different diets and you
know they might can drop them some
weight for a while but it all come back
and this is nothing like I've ever tried
before I'm I never get hungry I mean I
get hungry but I don't stay hungry
that's a big difference before I would
like to starve and I'm I'm satisfied
even doing the intermittent fasting is a
breeze I enjoy the good foods you know
the veggies and the higher fats and
moderate proteins just like you thought
hey Mark questions so that brings up the
question I was going to ask you so the
main difference as far as which what's
what is making it easier before doing
other diets in this one would you say
it's just basically the cravings and
hunger would that be the big thing I
don't have cravings like I used to at
all
but I enjoy my food but it's not like
I'm you know sitting around chomping at
the bit because I'm so hungry I'm just
not hungry like I used to be
I enjoy my food a lot more too you know
I have salads a big salad every day I
make my own dressing and follow the
recipes that you got out there I make my
own balsamic vinegar dressing with oh
it's good isn't it yeah I know I hear
you you know I haven't touched bread or
noodles or rice beans corn any of that
there's November 28 then I don't miss
them Wow so that's so cool because it me
trying to do an eating plan on top of
hunger and cravings is totally insane
and for those of you that are watching
that are new to keep ptosis in a minute
fasting ketosis is a type of eating plan
that omits a lot of the carbohydrates
but we're still doing a lot of vegetable
carbohydrates
we're just limiting the sugar ones and
that way you can drop a hormone called
insulin force your body into fat burning
and when you're burning your own fat
that's what your body is living off of
it's not living off necessarily the
dietary food living on your reserved
thus you're not going to be so hungry
anymore
in fact you ever get to a point where
when you have to eat you're like I'm not
even hungry I'm just gonna eat because
it's time yeah and I when I'm like that
noise
it takes lips over all it takes less
food to satisfy me and and to make it
you know I don't find myself longing for
food I don't think myself you know
reaching out and grabbing something like
I used to
you see I really noticed that you know
looking back how much I would grab for
food and not even think about it and
just just eat something down and just
how to have it right it's so that's so
awesome
and also like when the person starts to
eat and then they become hungry because
you're spike in the insulin and they're
snacking especially at night a lot of
guys have snack their graves and they
spiked insulin now they're really hungry
so they weren't hungry before and
especially even doing like lean protein
and vegetables without the fat that
could be a problem so give me an example
of how many meals do me today
I'll have your kale shakes but other
than that I'm good the whole day
Wow and then what do you when you eat a
meal give me an example of what you
would eat in that meal oh I'll have a a
regular dinner plate full of salad and
I'll have spinach and some Cato in it
some romaine lettuce some shredded
cheese and tomatoes and the dressing
that uh that I make myself and that's
the bulk of my meal and after that I'll
have maybe a grilled chicken breast
wow that's awesome and then do you find
that when you initially did this did you
have to kind of gradually go into it or
could you use jump right into one meal a
day oh yeah no it was some of them was a
learning process I didn't understand all
of it at first
Franklin ruin I started I was really
just doing low carb and then I started
doing research and I got on YouTube and
I put in ketosis and there was a doctor
that was promoting ketosis and that
really got my attention so you know I
started watching your videos and
learning a huge amount the ways that can
help me another thing I wanted to point
out is how much energy I have it's it's
really amazing because I get up at 4:30
in the morning now and I'll go in and
work out before I go to work and I can
do 7 miles on the elliptical with and I
could just keep going because my
Energy's just non-stop the only reason I
have to stop is I have to go to work I
run out of time Wow
that's awesome and then has anyone like
that knew you before just go what the
heck are you doing you're shrinking yeah
just this last Monday I met a guy at a
restaurant and he looked at me he he
said I'm shocked so I said I hope that's
a good way he said oh yeah there's a lot
of people they they really don't think
it's flat don't recognize me how much
I've changed how about your cognitive
function how is your memory your focus
I'm more alert I'm enjoying life I'm
happy and you know I said earlier that
you know I think because of my weight I
had a snore I was snoring horribly
the kids are on opposite ends of the
house and they told me they can hear me
snore and my wife swore that I had the
sleep apnea cuz she would punch him in
the middle and not wake me up but she
thought I quit breathing all the snoring
and any signs of sleep apnea aren't
completely gone wow that's incredible
has your has your wife also jumped on
board or she pretty much eating the same
thing no she's still kind of known what
she's done in the past she's made
statements about thinking about doing it
but you know I think she gets the
hardest thing for her is the increased
fat intake because people have been so
conditioned to eating fat makes you fat
mmm good point yeah and you just have to
you know the bottom line is you have to
have does she have a weight problem
no it's been me I've had the weight
problems so long yeah and that's just
it's like unless there's a big reason
usually physically that a person is
motivated they might not be inclined to
jump in unfortunately but you're already
seeing changes in your blood pressure
and your cholesterol values and
obviously your blood sugars as well so
that is just fantastic I know I saw you
before and after I'm like wow that's
that's a huge change that's amazing yeah
you know and there's so many little
things like I don't have to tilt the
steering wheel all the way up anymore
and I can get in and out of the car
without tilting the wheel that's that's
huge right there Wow I don't even think
about that so so now that you've lost
the way and you've done this you think
there's any chance of ever going back to
your old ways yeah now I know you know
why would I go back all my health isn't
great I'm happy now I enjoy life
people talk about cakes and pies and ice
creams and you know just candy bars
coach none of that's appealing to me I
don't have any desire to go back to the
old life and the old feeling bad and
being heavy I just liked my life a lot
better now that's awesome
one last question do you think that it
helped in some of the videos that I put
out to really understand the why behind
what to do like the why what you're
doing inside your body understanding
insulin is that was that beneficial to
really understand that versus some
people just kind of like oh yeah here's
what you eat this is all you're focusing
on your videos were invaluable
they taught me so much and you know like
even when you talked about diabetes and
you know talking about ketosis and how
to get into ketosis all those things
were I'd highly recommend it to anyone
yes awesome this is awesome mark I want
to thank you so much for taking time out
I know you're on your lunch break it's
been a great story and so your your true
success in them I'm really excited for
you so thank you so much for this
interview well I really want to thank
you so much for everything that you do I
know you probably get a lot of heat from
you know the FDA and the medical
profession and all that cuz you're
bucking against what they're teaching
everybody and you know I think you're
shedding a lot of light and people are
starting to wake up to it and I think
that's wonderful
hey thanks that's why I do these skypes
because no one can argue with success so
if you're getting results how are they
gonna attack you right oh I hope I hope
someone yeah so that's awesome
well thanks
thank you Mark I appreciate that okay
have a good week thank you sir
okay thanks
