everyone have a great special guest
today Thomas LRO is here how are you
doing tom
I'm doing great dr. Berg thanks for
having me on great I wanted to catch up
with you a couple things number one now
you're coming to our summit to actually
be one of the speakers so that's gonna
be exciting yeah I'm stoked it's it's
gonna be great you know um I've had
quite a few people sign up and of you
people that follow you and they're like
I just want to meet you they want to
meet you so in-person so you're gonna
see quite a few fans they're gonna line
up and wanted to meet you so it's gonna
be great not looking forward to it yeah
so we have a lot of people signed up
this year we're gonna go for a thousand
last year was 500 so and these are just
the most wonderful people it's just it's
gonna be a blast so if you're watching
now and you're considering coming you
may want to get signed up pretty quick
because I would hate to have people like
find out it's like sold out and then
like you have to wait till next year so
definitely check it out so yeah let's
let's talk so lately a lot of things
going in the news I you know I always
check in to see what video that you're
releasing and things and you know
because we actually are kind of a same
same wavelength for sure and there's a
whole bunch of data on eggs you know and
cholesterol and so do you have you have
anything interesting to comment on this
egg thing yeah I just put it you know I
know you put a video up like a month or
so ago when this first came out and and
I feel like that's kind of beating a
dead horse a little bit with this whole
anything but it's I think one thing that
just really needs to be out there is
people understanding that it's not the
cholesterol it's the inflammation that's
what we have to look at and you can pick
apart they can pick apart any food they
want to like I could I could find a
problem with broccoli I could find a
problem with cabbage I mean you can find
a problem with any food and when it's a
cohort study like that when things don't
look at the big picture it's very easy
to just extract what you want to extract
out of a study and having been involved
in clinical studies before and seeing
them it's the unfortunate thing as dr.
Barragan you know this and it's
unfortunately it breaks it breaks down a
lot of people is know
that clinical studies aren't always the
gospel I told it great it's about a
corruption I mean you know like I just
did a video on this recently apparently
and I there's a rule that was passed I
think in 2005 that faith I don't think
they follow this but you have to be
transparent you have to upload all the
studies that you actually do including
the ones that don't turn out that well
do the ones that have complications but
into I guess it's a clinical studies
don't quote me but the point is that
before 2005 they can trick what studies
they want to put up and so you're
getting this altered so-called facts and
I mean one thing they can do they can
actually filter out the first six weeks
data so you know you can't you can't
always go by these studies I mean it's
insane well in the first sometime I mean
it's it's I've heard that before you can
filter out the first six to eight weeks
and the fact is the first six weeks
sometimes that's for both positive and
negative that's a really important
period of time like people have radical
ships in so many different important
markers in those first six weeks and a
lot can happen in six weeks a lot of
good and bad and you know of course the
body's gonna come back to whatever
homeostasis is theirs but the whole
purpose of them kind of being able to
take away that first six weeks at first
I thought it was put in place out of
good good faith I thought maybe okay
maybe they're trying to get rid of the
impulse response that happens with the
body sometimes you know massive
course-correction
I mean someone goes on keto they're
gonna have massive potentially
reductions in inflammation within the
first few weeks just because it's a big
shock to their system in their bodies
coming into a whole new world and then
it can kind of balance out sometimes but
most of the time how quickly someone
adapts to something is a very good
indicator of how their lifestyle was
before so I think it's very good
information that should be included in
the study and also rounds out what the
ultimate conclusion is of that study and
what do you do with studies that are ten
weeks long that means you only have four
four weeks of aggregate data right yeah
I mean even one of the things that they
they have listed it's basically
non-compliance and so if you look at
what they mean by non-compliance it's
almost like side effects so you're like
gonna eliminate all the side effects
okay so and I don't know how much of the
how much of this is like diet related I
think it's a mainly talking about more
of the drug studies that they do yeah
which you I think you you were in that
field for a while so yeah it was yeah
and that's that's a really gnarly world
so I was in the lab services world so
you know we were kind of some of the
first that we're doing like the old zrt
cortisol salivary testing and stuff like
that way back in the day when it was
just concierge doctors doing it so it
was interesting seeing as we were in
direct competition with the
organizations that were just trying to
go for a maximum reimbursement you know
so we were working with like you're
familiar with concierge medicine
obviously it's very similar to
chiropractic and stuff that's in the
medical side so it's just where's
doctors that were generally working with
patients on a fee-for-service basis not
based on insurance reimbursable so that
being said a lot of the doctors that I
was working with we're very invested in
keeping their patients happy and doing
the right thing because if they weren't
getting good patient outcomes they
weren't getting paid because it was the
affluent patients that were paying them
directly whereas we were working you
know the other side of the equation or
the doctors that we're just going for
the jugular with whatever they could a
maximum reimbursement so then you have
doctors that will lobby for specific
drugs depending on what the
reimbursements going to be on it it's
like oh my gosh it really is saying yeah
I'm saying you know one one really
touchy subject today I haven't done a
lot of videos not and I probably won't
for various reasons but and I don't want
to get too into it but vaccinations you
know it's the only thing I want to say
about it is and I'll shut up but you
have to say oh yeah it's safe but over
four billion dollars we're spent on the
vaccine courts yeah see you a vaccine
court like wait a second now if you earn
on a slight drug they don't have a side
truck or it's like but you have a
vaccine court
and apparently they don't even have
judges they have like health and
services employees I'm like what and
then so you have this situation where
it's like interesting interesting data
in a year yeah you know so I think as as
time goes on more and more things will
pop up on that but I do know that
certain friends of mine that had have
quite large
YouTube channels they had some of their
social media taken away because they
talked a little too much about that so
you know it's just an area that I'll
probably stay away from right now but
you know people always ask me and I just
like well you do the research you know
it's looking just look into what why
they have the backs of vaccination
courts and then also how much is paid
out and then of course we have to do
companies don't pay that we have to pay
a tax payers pay that I'm like what the
heck is up with that so yeah you know
it's you have studies you have the data
but I think you need to personally
experience some of these these things
yourself to see if it works for you and
then you really know agreed agreed and
and you know back to the original topic
at hand which was the egg study where it
wasn't even called the egg study I mean
am i calling it the egg study I was like
the eggs are just like this
cherry-picked portion of it the fact was
is you've touched on and I've touched on
it they asked these patients once if
they consume dicks you know and that's
like asking it's going up to a 16 year
old asking if they consume a Snickers
bar and I was like if they said no
they'd be lying but if they said yes
they're gonna assume that you did every
day that's not very fair I mean that's
kind of backing someone into a corner so
you can at the very and I have a video
that hasn't gone live yet talking about
the skipping breakfast study there's
another study that came out that said
skipping breakfast is correlated with
increased risk of CVD and all this - and
it's if you haven't if you haven't seen
the whole thing else and did a link but
it's it's just and and the way that I
even opened my video on that I was
talking about okay
like literally by saying like you're
putting someone into a corner just by
how you frame the question so for
example dr. Burke if I say dr. Burke do
you
yep breakfast the word skip and its very
nature is implying that if by skipping
breakfast you're doing something wrong
whereas if I always say dr. Burton
do you eat breakfast or not right
different questions so right yes by how
it's phrased in the study itself even in
the abstract skip skip breakfast so you
can tell that they're there they're
putting people on edge so if someone
comes to me and says you skip do you
skip breakfast and I'm you know someone
that's intimidating because I'm in a
clinical setting and I'm not familiar
and don't know how to navigate the world
I'm just saying like of course someone's
gonna put me in a corner I'm gonna say
no I don't skip breakfast like now I'm
not supposed to breakfast on skipper how
do you neglect your breakfast no yeah
that's just crazy so you're talking
about the questionnaire studies the
video yeah yeah it's so I mean and those
having those have a valid place but we
can't take questionnaire studies and
really try to extrapolate like concrete
clinical evidence that's gonna dictate
what we eat and don't eat didn't I mean
that's that's just not there and all the
study said and the other thing we had to
look at is the skipping breakfast study
what they don't mention in the primary
ports in this study that you have to dig
deeper and those that skipped breakfast
also happen to be generally smokers
drinkers and chronic drinkers and those
that had other unhealthy lifestyle
habits so it's like that's not to say
everyone that's gets breakfast does but
there's a big big difference between
consciously skipping breakfast because
you're fast named or you're playing
around with time restrictive eating and
just forgetting breakfast because you're
not paying attention to what you eat or
what you don't eat you know there's a
lot of people that get up in the morning
and then just like breakfast isn't even
a thought because they're just stressed
out and they're going through their day
and they're it's it's no fault of their
own but they're just they're just going
through life and they're not thinking
about it then there's the people that
have maybe watched our videos and I've
seen this and they're like oh I'm
consciously going to skip breakfast and
I'm gonna make sure that I get my greens
and make sure I get my nutrients within
my respective eating window big
difference between skipping breakfast
and that absolutely absolutely yeah so
you um
you have a small boy right I mean Siwon
years older hose it he's 18 months now
he's going west just now how do I slow
him down you know if I had the answers
that I would probably be sitting here
right now now so we have a little little
baby in the house
five months Lucy so so we're similar
with my granddaughter and so she we're
doing cod liver oil every morning just a
little bit and of course breastfed and
talk about like robust cheeks and just
spot and like the tea I mean teeth are
coming in now but everything's just
coming out perfect so what what do you
what did you guys do with your child did
you did your wife breastfeed and yeah so
he was so my wife was kedo when we got
pregnant she went through a period
during her pregnancy she went through a
period of time where she she thought it
was wise to bring in some low glycemic
carbohydrates just to introduce a limit
of everything and then the third
trimester she went back strict keto baby
was born healthy and very big my wife is
not a large woman she's 5 to 5 3 about
115 pounds and the baby was over nine
pounds so here's the big boy
and it was like okay how did this happen
so then yes I mean the funny thing is
you said cod liver oil so cod liver oil
is we give it to him in the evening so I
wasn't asked you select digression is
there a reason that you give in cod
liver oil or her cod liver oil in the
morning or evening or is it just the
best time oh not any specific time in
the evening you know she's she's still
you know breastfeeding probably several
times a day yeah but she just that baby
is hungry so we gotta like so we're
doing the egg yolk cooked of course just
egg yolk and then with a common one that
seems to I mean Lucy just sucks it up
just you know yeah he likes it
she's learning how to swim just really
happy baby no problems no health issues
you know I I always get I'm sure you
probably get questions about kids too
with you know what do I do for this
where they're always sick you know we
don't you don't have in that situation
yeah Tommy in the 18 months you know
he's been sick
Mary got sick
really bad over his first birthday and I
think it was just because his immune
system was crushed because he had four
molars coming in at one time where I'm
sorry canine and three more or so he had
one coming in and the other one was
coming in later and I think it just
crushed his immune system that's a
little sinuses where he's is all
inflamed but you know he's just had
other than that you know one other
little cold and it's just I mean he's a
he's a good bait what I noticed when
Amber was breastfeeding was that there
was a period of time where she kind of
tested it where she wasn't kedo and the
breast when it would go in the fridge
the fat that would have come to the top
was about yay big
maybe like a centimeter versus when she
would go back in Quito and then we would
actually refrigerate me whatever she was
pumping I'm kidding you not Eric it was
like an inch of fat that was float to
the top it's amazing
the overall volume of liquid was less I
would say and that makes sense because
probably in a slight state of not want
to say dehydration but just less fluid
just because your keto and but I was so
amazed like net net calorie content I
had to have been double just because the
amount of fat was twice as much so like
he would latch and he had a little bit
of an issue with latching because he had
a totally you know you're familiar with
a tongue tie so he had a tongue tie
where the tongue basically a little flap
of skin that holds the tongue to the
bottom of the mouth was a little bit too
large or it was just fastened a little
bit too close to even to the tongue so
he was having a hard time latching so we
were concerned that he wasn't getting
enough nutrients but here this kid was
growing like a weed and the fact that
the number was on keto he didn't have to
consume nearly as much milk just because
the fat content was so high so it was ah
yeah it was really interesting now how
long did she breastfeed for so she
stressed fed for about seven months
before her supply started to go and
that's you know so we were like okay
well what do we do because we were
really cuz we don't like formula no but
then we actually did find we're like
okay if we we can do peas a little hard
to digest but they do make a goat milk
formula which is a to casein so if you
people out there do have to supplement
and it does happen go with like a goat
milk formula or something that's a to do
not this is okay I mean I can't get
parental advice I'm not having a dad
long enough but come on like that the
the formulas that are out there like you
can get a goat milk for me
I think the one we used was Holly an
organic goat milk that's a to casein
those of you are familiar with a 2 a 1 a
2 is the beta casein that is not doesn't
have nearly as many inflammatory
linkages to it and it also doesn't have
the the high opioid level that's
basically the opiate response level that
typical a 1 this so yeah not addictive
because little babies get don't realize
it but they get addicted to formula so
oh my gosh it's just insane so so you um
you started to enhance the diet and then
did you do you actually do solid foods
as well oh yeah he's he's he's been on
solid food we did you familiar with baby
led weaning yeah so baby led weaning is
where you you let them start to have
solid food at a pretty young age like 6
months you just learnt letting them kind
of like pick at it and you just monitor
them closely and you know so by the time
he was 8 months he was eating solid food
so we figured okay if if the supply is
you know not as great as we want to be
let's get him on solid for as much as we
can and you know everything that we were
diving into research wives saying no the
only reason yeah you continued to either
a breast feed or formula feed or milk
feed if the baby's not getting enough
nutrients and our baby was he was eating
I mean you know the funny thing his
favorite food was broccolini like baby
broccoli so he was just devouring that
stuff yeah so it's well it's good these
babies can adapt I mean they they're
gonna quickly develop what they need to
digest that food I think the big
challenge that I think we're gonna have
is other relatives and that you know
like we're gonna bring Lucy's somewhere
to a party or something
all the other garbage because it's
really hard to get everyone in my entire
environment to be on page with that so
you know last thing I'm gonna do is have
some of these you know these parties
where they have all the sugar and then
start that yeah I'm gonna try to avoid
it as much as possible I want her to be
a Kido Kido baby yeah as long as
possible
agreed agreed and it's it's it's a
bummer cause I mean it's I try to keep
it out of my mind but it's a reality
that as kids get older they're going to
be exposed to these things and the only
thing that you can do is teach them that
the way that your
teaching them to eat not necessarily is
the right way but make it fun and if
they feel good there's gonna be a simple
Pavlovian response where they go and
they have that garbage food and they're
not gonna feel good right and you know I
can't be the dad that's saying like you
go to Jimmy's house and you don't you
dare eat that isn't a breed resentment
and it's not gonna work but I know that
if he goes to Jimmy's house and he has a
pop tart that he's gonna come home and
he's a dad I don't feel so good right I
don't exactly yeah I don't want to use
too much force but I do want to educate
them what I do with my kids is I I
showed him a couple of videos on just
foods in general one was actually about
GMO foods and I did see when they were
probably like six or seven eight this
shift so they're like you know what you
see the you know the point where now
they can I'm gonna start a woody now
versus me telling what to eat so yeah I
think it's a self-determined thing that
they have to eventually you know have a
lipoma offered of course used too much
force they're just gonna do the opposite
and then they're gonna go okay I'll just
do this despite you so good yeah not
exactly but I mean it's it's so fun to
watch and it's so fun to see just
everything click and knowing that you
know this high DHA diet that you know my
babies eating is is working and I am NOT
one to ever like try to compare to
others but I see his development
compared to a lot of others and I'm just
like wow okay it's a boat of confidence
for me and we're doing something right
if I fail at everything else I'm doing
in life right now
I know that at least I think we're doing
something right here and it's it's so
amazing and that was one of the you know
one of the key supplements that my wife
took the route pregnancy was you know
like high dose of DHA docosahexaenoic
acid know whether it be from shallow
marine whether it be from some forms of
krill alcohol oil we rotated them up and
I think that I made a really big big
change I'm really think of it yes brain
development yeah I optic nerve do you
find that what about nutritional yeast
did you use that at all we haven't used
it with with him I mean I'm I'm
practically addicted to the stuff I put
everything if I've seen my video where I
but always put it like my favorite is
putting in a nutritional yeast with a
little bit of coconut oil or premise of
putting it with asparagus and a little
bit of coconut oil and mixing it up and
I mean it tastes amazing but I haven't
done any anything with him and
nutritional yeast however he I mean he
eats the asparagus that I make with
nutritional yeast didn't devours it but
I haven't done any specific protocols or
anything like that now when you were a
kid did you were you a junkie or did you
were you raised really healthy in the
very beginning and then what what
happened what did you eat yeah it was
interesting my mom was was hard on us
kids in a really interesting way like I
ran my first marathon when I was 11
years old which was probably too young
to run a marathon but you know my mom's
always about pushing us and it was
interesting I think it raised my sister
raised my sister and I in a very unique
way so it was interesting like from what
I recall with my childhood was was
definitely was not a junk food junkie at
all but there would be random things
that my parents would be wildly opposed
to and random things that they would
allow like I do remember going to
McDonald's and getting McChicken
sandwiches somewhat frequently but then
I also remember hearing that cornflakes
which weren't even sweetened were by
abstain from them at all costs don't
ever touch a cornflake so there was just
these weird mixed messages that I'm just
like okay I go get a McChicken
but I keep you know these weird personal
biases or just getting kind of put onto
us with no real rhyme or reason but I
learned at a really young age I took a
took a real interest in just my blood
work by the time I was like 13 years old
I was really interested in things I I
started working out and I had a friend
that was a doctor and or his friends who
dad was a doctor and I I got some blood
work done for some routine thing and I
started getting like really interested
in like what makes the body tick and I
remember seeing I remember vividly my
middle school cross-country coach
telling me that his triglycerides were
high and this was like a super health
guy and then I remember looking at my
lab results for some reason and finding
that my triglycerides are high that's a
triglyceride
I'm a thin runner and like what's going
on and it just so it was at that very
point in time where I started learning
about okay well you could be a seemingly
healthy person very athletic person
and I have a high storage form of fat
that's not actually depositing as
adipose tissue and I was like I remember
freaking out me like I'm fat on the
inside I'm actually I'm fat on the
inside I'm just not fat so I developed
this sort of interest in it and then I
worked really interesting as I remember
my parents were divorced after about 13
14 years old and I remember I used to go
to dinner with my dad
a couple times per week or one time per
week and I remember I used to feel so
much better if I if I would go with my
dad we'd go out to pizza but I always
found that if I just abstained from food
throughout the course of the day that I
didn't bloat as much when I ate the
pizza so it was funny I look back I'm
like oh my gosh I was intermittent
fasting at 14 years old
various I just felt better granted I was
breaking my fast food Pizza but I was
like I feel so much better
the day after I eat it was wild
interesting well I saw your picture that
you have posted and some of the videos
as well you you were very large at one
time yeah what was it like was it close
to 300 yeah I was about 200 205 pounds
so that was so I went from being super
athletic in high school a little bit of
college to getting into the corporate
world I was in corporate healthcare and
I was a physician recruiter and honestly
I just I cut my lifting down from four
days five days per week down to like one
day per week and I was just it quite
frankly doctor it was like a it was kind
of a bulk gone wrong like it was like I
started me like I want to put some
muscle on and then just stop worrying
about the gym portion altogether because
I was focused on making money in my
career and yada yada and you know next
thing I know it's been really six seven
months later I'm looking at myself being
like I'm a shell if the person I used to
be like what the heck is going on you
know so it's I wasn't overweight for a
really long period of time but what made
it really interesting was that I had
experience I was I looked like the the
football coach that just kind of just
let himself go they used to play
football and then just stop playing
football and just continue to eat like
that I like I was a decently muscled
person but I was just sloppy and what
age was that so I was young I was 22 so
it was like I was way too young and you
know so it wasn't until you know I was
our pre diet
at 22 I went from being seemingly pretty
darn healthy to gaining a ton of weight
and ICRP levels were off the charts I
was in the healthcare world so I mean I
had access to amazing physicians and
everything else so unfortunately I was
at a young age which I think thank
goodness I was at a young age because I
was able to bounce back and recover and
get my head on straight
and I'm I was fearful that I had had
gone on for another ten years
it could have been really serious yeah
Wow interesting yeah I was uh I was very
very thin did the whole wrestling thing
in college and then you know I'm like
you know I need to gain some weight so I
start eating potatoes at first I was
trying like just milk fat cheese butter
and I noticed I was trying to I was
getting skinnier this is actually in San
Diego and I'm like well that didn't work
so I started doing potatoes and I did
not gain any weight to a hit like 28
years old and then I was started to
putting a little pizza crust around my
waist at 28 so but I didn't you know get
extremely weight away but the point is
that I started having a combination of
inflammatory problems probably so much
of you I started noticing arthritis in
my fingers and my back and got so bad
where I actually was living I don't know
where I was at the time but I flew to
Bernard Jensen remember him yep
he was to colon hydrotherapy genius guy
so I got there a visit him because I I
figure well maybe he knows what's wrong
with me and I said I waited all day to
see what was wrong and I said I stand in
line and I said what is going on because
look at my eyes they're all bloodshot
the inside of the eyelids he looked at
me and he just said I don't know I'm
like I came all the way out here I
thought you were gonna solve all my
problems right so that was just a severe
hypoglycemia um it was bad blood sugar
problems high insulin was inflamed and I
was in San Diego at the time and I was
driving on the street and I said honey
let's since the health house let's go
see the house is just like yellow
building so we go in there this guy had
all these protein
protein pills and raw milk and so I
started that and he's had us back in his
backyard working out like all these
things I was I remember I was just
searching so desperately to try to find
what's wrong and then I just happened to
stumble on this book mastering the zone
I started reading the saying about
inside my what I studied this in school
but didn't really click so I I started
eating buffalo burger for breakfast and
I'm like and no more life cereal and I'm
like God do I feel good so I started to
go Karen this is it this is amazing you
know sorry I just don't write in
headfirst she and ice I said I'm gonna
actually I don't want to do chiropractic
anymore she goes what do you want to do
its energy nutrition she goes you don't
know anything about it I said I'm gonna
learn so I said you okay so you're gonna
quit chiropractic and get a nutrition I
say yep so here I am in the basically in
our library or actually on our living
room studying and trying to learn and
going to coast graduate seminars and
stuff and that's kind of how it started
but it was out of desperation for just
straight trying to figure out this
inflammatory condition and severe
insomnia and all that stuff I think I
think most people that I know even when
when do I need the last summit like no
one really gets into this unless they
have a personal health crisis I don't
know do you know you know have anyone
that got into it because well I'm
already doing good I think I just want
to go do beat Duke II know yeah I mean
the only time that I see that is people
that are in the biohacking world that I
want an additional tool but there's no
real call to action there it's more so
just oh well you tell me that I can you
know hiding my cognitive function and do
this so there is a small subset there
but yeah there's almost always a call to
action and like my call to action was I
was you know I was in the healthcare
world and I was the epitome of being
unhealthy like it was just and so if I
had a just a connection at that point
where I'm going oh my gosh okay like
this is a perfect example of what is
wrong with our healthcare system but
also what is wrong with me Rann
so I mean for me it was
was that it was like I want to do the
opposite of what I'm doing now but in
the same vein of helping people right
and as you know then there is the side
mission okay well I've already lost this
way now I want to get really good shape
and see how far I can take this and kind
of a personal mission and then my next
step was I realized that the fitness
industry was extremely unhealthy and
like the fitness industry is like
artificially healthy fluorescent powders
and and whatever it takes to look a
certain way for a finite period of time
and then not really think about their
health I'm like boy oh boy is there a
gap that needs to be bridged here where
you can actually apply true health
principles to fitness okay it's a new
concept okay yeah I am I mean out of
desperation I I remember going into a
room with patients and they're
complaining about some symptom and
thinking if they only knew how effed up
I was here like I'm coming out of I
haven't slept in four days I just can't
sleep on chronically fatigued with
arthritis and they're complaining I'm
like I should be the patient you know so
there was that little secret that I
didn't want anyone to know but yeah
things start turning around but yeah it
was some out of even in like
chiropractic I remember we lived in this
house all these curls and we would have
deep fry night like three times a week
and it's not just healthy deep fry night
right it was no it was Crisco it was
like they would do that and then we
would do meatloaf with counting like it
just constantly carved out and extreme
and I remember having severe right
shoulder pain going what is that coming
from you know mr. gallbladder was
completely inflamed so I think out of
all the people that I've ever met I
think I've had every single symptom that
everyone complains about so I think
that's how I that helped me relate to
people I'm like oh you you have that no
I had that too so and it's good and bad
at the same time but I think for me if I
never went through that I would never
push myself to learn some of the stuff
that I'm into right now would you no no
definitely I mean there's people always
comment in my videos that oh you've got
such a energy that's because there's the
passion is there because every time I
learn something I'm applying it to my
own regimen right and I'm learning it so
that I can be better too so the funny
thing is is here I am an online
Authority like you and but I'm learning
as I go to and it's what's great like I
there sure I have a foundational
knowledge and there's a lot of things
that I've learned and haven't built a
great repository of clinical studies and
information but like I learned and I
love sharing and when you see the
passion you know specific video where
you're like aww Thomas is really heated
or he seems really amped up about this
that's because there's genuine
excitement because I just learned
something that I'm applying to my life
now and seeing a result and I know
you're the same way and it's like
whether I'm not just going to like
regurgitate something that's boring to
me I like I'm gonna stick with in the
vein of what I'm passionate and excited
about and where I've been and where I've
been able to see a change in my life
because I know that my viewers have
expressed the same issues and concerns
you know whether it's gonna be
inflammation based or whether it's gonna
be fat loss based or workout based I
know where they're coming from
yes even though I was only there for a
short amount of time I've been there and
it's so it's a so it's fun that's that's
why I love I love what I do now and I
know you do too it's just I can't ever
imagine being back in that you know
corporate junkie position I know I know
I I'm actually doing exactly what I want
to do like every day I like to research
I like to figure out mysteries of things
and I'd like to educate people and I
could just keep doing that and I do a
lot of that but yeah it's fun and you
know my wife says don't you even want to
read anything else I'm like you know um
aren't you interested like now I'm
interested like I have this new here's a
book right here I'm reading right now
natural products and drug discovery an
integrated approach so first of all like
this
book written by Indian doctors about all
of the natural remedies that drug
companies get their ideas from I mean
this is like pure gold and I'm just
going into like these herbs in the
history of the anti inflammatories
signals but down and of course you know
I'll explain everything my wife and
she's like ok can we talk about
something else
yeah appreciate it that I'm at least
someone's into it but unfortunately
though some of these books are this was
like $150 I'm like he can't just go and
get him for $29 so some of these really
technical books and filled with gold
sometimes you have to be learned you
know but you know I'll have three ideas
for rough to bat for videos that I'll do
just to research on it like they have if
a drug company takes a property off of
garlic extract um they're gonna invest a
lot of money in something like that for
because obviously it must work so I want
to know all about it
that's fascinating ya know that is
fascinating and you know well I know
you've got your you know electrolyte
blend and everything like that I'm sure
you've read have you read this book this
is actually one that I the sole fix
bucket Jenek the reason that you know I
I have not in a Kindle it's a very
interesting book I like a really really
interesting book and when you apply it
it's some of a lot of the things that he
talks about dr. Jeannette talks about or
just exacerbated on a keto diet in a
positive way I mean it's just like the
impact of so that's it that's been my
recent you know third outlet
I'm always have at least one or two nerd
outlets going at a specific absolutely
so so what's a good takeaway that you
want to tell people about that book that
you kind of just just generalized I mean
I did a video on it some people saw it
there's one thing called the NST
receptors which is a wild wild world
like basically they now find that salt
and being deprived of salt or being
deficient in sodium literally if someone
okay it's put it better to put it in an
analogy or an example if you were
deficient in salt or you're on the keto
diet and you're not getting enough salt
and you're not salt in your food with
good healthy salt and you were creating
salt well salt is the one
thing that our bodies inherently know to
get when we are deficient in it hence
why livestock directly know how to go to
a Salt Lick it's really wild and as like
oh my gosh that just clicked like dick
we've got horses so we know like we can
put any color salt brick in the middle
of the pasture and they'll go to it
because we know sou means into that
critical to our function know what's
really wild is in human studies if you
give human something sweet when they're
deficient in salt it's gonna satisfy the
same receptor that would have been
satisfied if they had salt so what that
means is that we have signals that get
crossed that make it like so on keto
like if someone does start getting
cravings the first thing I say is
increase your salt because the signals
are getting across and you might be
craving something sweet because you're
really craving salt and they do that and
they're like I got just like the salt
cravings gone it's that's why a lot of
people crave salt and sugar at the same
time I'm sure it is it's a combination
of that plus of course the hyper
palatability that's just not a natural
it's the same thing why fats and carbs
together are so interesting like I think
there was one study I just thought the
other day it's an older study but let
you look at I took subjects that would
say then give show a picture of cards
and then they'd show a picture of meat
and fat and then they'd show them a
picture of like a pastry where it come
by and the salivary response and
everything of the combined fats in cars
because it's not something that would
really occur in nature like we wouldn't
really very seldom do you have things
that are naturally high in fat and carbs
at the same time very few you don't have
a whole lot of that and it's so I think
there's a couple there's the hyper call
ability there's the signals getting
crossed I mean I'm not a neuroscientist
but about that whole world fascinates me
that's interesting because I'm I'm kind
of like the same way like I'm really
right now I'm into vitamin D hardcore so
I'm just I can't get enough information
about him indeed but I'll I'll kind of
go rotate in two different areas but
vitamin D and I'll just kind of touch on
it just because it's it's like every
single immune cell has a receptor for
vitamin D mm-hmm and you have the cell
called a neutrophil and it's it is
basically an assassin
it's one of your soldier immune cells
that it's triggered by vitamin D and it
has many different strategies one is it
has enzymes that basically will kill
bacteria eats bacteria but it has this
this net structure that's about 25 times
its size that it throws over bacteria
and viruses and and then it releases
free radicals and enzymes and then it
just explodes it actually explodes like
a little popper and kills the thing
yeah there's suicide bombers yeah so I'm
like fascinating so when your vitamin D
deficient they don't gonna work they
don't work that well so it really brings
up raise your defenses way down makes
you susceptible so I am just like this
could be a science fiction I mean sci-fi
movie like incredible just about what
happens inside your body
and like even with vitamin D there's
four mutations that people can have so
if you limitation you're not gonna
absorb vitamin D and you can get these
tested genetically and so you're you're
gonna take either take more or you can
do other things as well to increase the
absorption like take my assaults but I
mean especially with even breastfeeding
a mother that's breastfeeding if they
don't take some additional vitamin D
it's really out of all the nutrients
that one is the the hardest to achieve
just regular foods because it's not
really you know it's like sunshine but
it's not in a lot of foods unless you're
doing combat oil I mean maybe a little
bit of mushrooms but I think mushrooms
is that d2 yep yeah you've got to be
able to have that active conversion and
that's an cod liver oil that's exactly
why I'm a huge proponent of a tube since
the bite bioavailable you're not looking
synthetic and the same thing not to
digress but I mean the live an ad
combination liver oil the the retinol a
the true bioavailable form that actually
has what are called pro resolving
mediators I mean it's like that whole
world and you're totally dead on you
can't really get vitamin D from really
good food sources and the egg supply
that we do wouldn't normally get vitamin
D from I mean that's
that's it's negligible to be completely
honest and right but then everything
you're saying about you know that the
t-cell and the diet item D receptors and
everything it makes sense why we get so
sick in the wintertime when we have less
sun exposure and we're it's a we could
we should have a whole series on this
where we could probably drive people
crazy with with this stuff for for six
hours at a time
[Music]
well I wanted to just chat with you a
little bit I I know your time you're
you're probably going to get back to
studies and or your family right now but
I wanted to touch base and just
collaborate a little bit and also just
tell people that you are going to be at
the event coming at the end of August 29
then we're gonna have a blast and so for
you for those of you who are watching
you should you should definitely sign up
I'll put a link down below and we can't
wait to meet you guys so definite Amoz
thank you so much for this interview and
we'll definitely do more definitely it
was nice to touch base absolutely and
and yeah it's I mean literally at your
event it's probably the only time in the
foreseeable future that people are going
to be able to be with dr. Berg and
Thomas de Lauer at the same time so
world we've got a lot of mutual
followers and everyone that follows my
channel is a huge fan of yours and so
I'll do whatever I can to help you know
spread spread the worry but excited to
see a lot of people there cuz I'm
tracking the who's signing up and I had
I had you know several people I don't
know if it was a group or something but
my staff always surveys like what why
why do you want to come well we want to
meet that just added Tom we want to meet
Tom's yeah you know I mentioned it so
you know what it was I mentioned it it
was right after you'd reached out to me
I just mentioned it in a lesson of a
live broadcast and it was like a subtle
mention it was just like yeah I'm gonna
be a doctor burgers event and you know
so I think that might have been a little
cluster of people that came from just
from that little live broadcast so yeah
I don't want to you know as you know
it's like I don't want to just like put
it out to my audience and if but I mean
I'm happy to if we spread the word more
but I also don't want I know you're
limited on seats so I don't want to like
have both of us blow it up too much and
have people miss out and I like that so
right exactly well we'll just invite the
people that we know
okay
