I'd like to discuss the most deadly
sugar that you can possibly consume we
all know that sugar is bad for us okay
in several aspects and there's many
different types of sugar but the most
common types of sugar if we look at
table sugar high fructose corn syrup
honey so all these items are made up of
two things glucose and fructose and you
really need to understand how each one
affects the body if we take glucose for
example every single cell in the body
can metabolize glucose so glucose is
really spread out through the entire
body
but fructose on the other hand is a
completely different animal only our
liver can break down fructose because
fructose doesn't really increase the
blood sugars or trigger insulin very
high at least initially so a lot of
times people think it's healthier
because it's low on the glycemic index
which is the index describing things
that will raise your blood sugars but
here's the thing when glucose hits the
liver okay
the first thing it's going to do it's
going to start building up your glycogen
Reserve now that's the amount of sugar
molecules that are all attached together
as a stored sugar and really for most
people they don't usually have a
depleted amount of glycogen that's
pretty much a substance that's
sufficient in our livers so what's going
to happen next is this fructose is going
to then start to create a fatty liver
and with that comes a lot of
inflammation scar tissue
and damage in other parts of your body
too like in your arteries this is why
fructose is so bad for heart problems
and as the liver gets fatty now you're
going to start developing insulin
resistance and problems with insulin and
pre-diabetes and diabetes and metabolic
syndrome which is high blood pressure
high glucose high cholesterol and belly
fat you're also going to develop a lot
of uric acid which is behind gout and
some types of kidney stones as well as
more damage inside the arteries the
endothelial cell layer that contributes
blood flow to the heart so even uric
acid levels is a prediction of heart
disease so fructose as a type of sugar
it's a monosaccharide which means mono
meaning one saccharided meaning sugar
even though it's low on the glycemic
index is very very deadly and on top of
that your body deals with fructose the
same as it would with alcohol and even
when you think about what makes alcohol
it's the fermentation of fructose and
glucose so fructose is really a liver
Toxin and if we look at all these items
like honey table sugar beet sugar high
fructose corn syrup all of those are
about 50 50 fructose to glucose but
there's one additional sugar that has 85
percent fructose and if you guessed
agave nectar you are correct the agave
plant in Mexico is what they use to make
tequila but they also process it to make
this refined highly processed sugar
called agave nectar which is very
different than other sugars because it's
so high in fructose so I just wanted to
give you this Awareness on fructose and
the dangers of what it can do to your
liver now if you haven't seen my other
popular video on what would happen if
you gave up sugars for two weeks I put
it up right here check it out
