hey guys someone had a question about
autoimmune what was my thoughts on
autoimmune conditions and I want to talk
to you about that in this video there's
a guy named dr. Roy Lee famous
nutritionist back in the 20s 30s 40s and
50s I think he died in 1963 okay but he
was heavily attacked by the FDA and the
whole thing it's an interesting story
but he had a lot of amazing nutritional
discoveries and one was something called
a PMG which is stands for proto
morphogen and it actually works on
autoimmune okay so in this example let's
just take the thyroid gland we have the
thyroid and the body's creating
antibodies which mean against the body
against its own tissue so it's a self
attack so an autoimmune disease or
condition is it condition where your
body is attacking itself kind of crazy
but that's what happens so you have this
situation where it becomes inflamed and
it just stays inflamed and you can't
heal it doesn't function because there
your immune system is attacking itself
so he had a brilliant idea and I like
this idea
he said if you take an extract the DNA
from another species like a let's say we
took the DNA from a Kyl thyroid and we
extracted it so what he did he took the
cells from another species and he found
a way of extracting the DNA using sea
salt okay because you sea salts will
cause it to burst he takes out the DNA
material and he dehydrates it okay so he
found that the DNA from this thyroid is
similar to ours okay I don't know if
it's identical but it's pretty similar
and then if you take this PMG say this
thyroid extract into your stomach
what happens is your antibodies that are
attacking the thyroid go to this
decoy and leave your thyroid alone okay
this was the whole strategy and theory
of basically giving the body a decoy to
divert the attention of the immune
system to let the thyroid then heal
because it's no longer being attacked so
you can deplete this antibody Reserve
that's been built up so we no longer
have any destructive attacks on the
thyroid so there's several companies out
there that sell glandular extracts for
different organs like the adrenal like
the thyroid like the lung and obviously
if you have the glandular extract you
have DNA in it so the whole idea would
be to take the extract of a certain
tissue that you have antibodies
attacking take it orally to give your
body a decoy left the organs heal to the
point where you no longer have an
autoimmune problem so this is really a
problem with the immune system because
it's almost as if the body has an
allergy to its own tissues so if you
were to have an autoimmune of the
thyroid and someone injected you with
thyroid extract you would have a serious
anaphylactic shock
you would actually have a massive
allergy and you could possibly die but
dr. Roy Lee found that when you take it
orally it goes through the immigration
process properly so it gets the stamp of
approval before it goes in the body okay
because you have this whole lymphatic
like like barrier here and you don't
have that reaction other than and maybe
a real mild spike in histamines which
will create maybe a little fatigue in
which case you would just want to take
this before bed so some of the companies
that sell PM G's or glandular extracts
are not going to make any claims and I'm
not going to make any claims so what I'm
going to recommend is if you have an
autoimmune condition you may want to try
this out to see if it can help you
search out and I'm not going to list any
specific brands but you can search out
either PM G's for a specific organ type
or a glandular extract that you can take
small amounts over a long period of time
take take them before bed to see if it
can help you
so thanks for watching and put your
comments below so I want to know what
you're interested in as far as a future
video click the link down below and
share some ideas I want to hear
