I wanted to create this quick video to
answer the question what is cilantro
good for now cilantro is also known as
Chinese parsley and coriander which also
describes the seeds of cilantro
now cilantro is a powerful antioxidant
it's an antiseptic which prevents the
growth of microorganisms
it's antifungal anti-inflammatory just
like a lot of other herbs it has a good
amount of vitamin A vitamin C vitamin k1
it has minerals calcium selenium
magnesium manganese folate but the main
benefit of cilantro is this it is a
heavy metal key later
now the word chelation comes from the
word claw because a key later attaches
on to heavy metals and binds them and
pulls them out of the body so cilantro
is good to remove aluminum from the body
mercury arsenic lead and cadmium if you
have high levels of things I would
recommend either consuming cilantro with
every single meal or taking cilantro as
a supplement three times a day for three
to four months to see the effect the
nice thing about detoxifying yourself
using cilantro because you're working
with the body using all the
phytonutrients and doing it at a very
gradual level and lastly if you wanted
to know more about the symptoms of heavy
metal toxicity I put a link below so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications
