hey guys today we're going to talk about
the relationship between pregnancy and
nutrients it's so important that a woman
that is going through pregnancy take the
right type of nutrition I'm not talking
about just taking a synthetic prenatal
I'm talking about the food the eating
it's very very essential anytime you do
a prenatal you want to do a food based
prenatal don't get the synthetic
versions because it's not the same
there's over two billion people on this
planet that have serious nutritional
deficiencies and if you're going into
pregnancy I can't emphasize enough the
relationship between the fortification
of nutrients and a growing healthy body
if a woman who's carrying a baby is
deficient in a either a mineral or a
vitamin it creates huge consequences so
let's just kind of go through this
vitamin A deficiency vitamin A is is a
fat soluble vitamin it's essential for
vision and if a mother is deficient they
can have all sorts of problems not just
with night vision but the baby could
have problems with the formation of the
eye the cornea the membranes around the
eye and vitamin A is very important in
differentiating cells in other words you
need vitamin A to tell the cell what to
develop in to so I'm talking about
spinal cord heart ears specific types of
tissues so if there's a deficiency in
vitamin A there's going to be a mix up
in what cells are what premature birth
okay low birth weight and miscarriage
the best source of vitamin A is virgin
cod liver oil I highly recommend that
and then salmon and egg yolks okay then
we get to vitamin D and then we have
rickets okay that would be weak bones
difficulty walking a loss of connective
tissue that holds the bones together and
you get vitamin D from the Sun dairy and
fish and cod liver oil as well so then
we have copper copper as a trace mineral
so if a pregnant woman is deficient in
copper the child could have what's
called swayback which is an excess
curvature in the lower back so it's kind
of exaggerated the best source of copper
is seafood like oysters lobster
Krabbe seaweed or sea kelp okay you can
get copper from that if you're deficient
in iron you can have anemia and that can
set the child up for all sorts of
problems with miscarriages and low birth
weight premature birth things like that
red meat eggs seafood great source of
iron and I definitely recommend a
grass-fed liver okay iodine if you
deficient in iodine you're gonna have it
just a smaller child the brains not
going to develop you're gonna have
cognitive issues the IQ is gonna be
lower and also you can have a
miscarriage okay get your iodine from
seek help from a very good high quality
location then we have the mineral
magnesium okay and you have also
selenium which is a trace mineral if
you're deficient either one of these a
low birth weight miscarriage or
preeclampsia which is a condition a very
toxic condition where you have high
blood pressure the organs become toxic
and you can have all sorts of other
complications you want to get these
minerals from leafy greens seeds nuts
and you can get a selenium from Brazil
nuts and these trace minerals which are
minerals needed in small amounts are
really involved in the enzymes and
enzymes help the formation of proteins
which are all the organs then we have
low vitamin b1 that can set the child up
forgetting something called sudden
infant death syndrome because b1 is
involved in the autonomic nervous system
development and the autonomic nervous
system goes to the respiratory centers
in the brainstem and that's where you
have the breathing centers so sleep
apnea if you're an adult sudden into
death syndrome SIDS if you're a baby
toxemia is a condition where the
mother's gonna have low blood pressure
issues kidney issues liver problems and
there's an increased risk of fatality in
the fetus and also in the mother
okay so pork actually believe it or not
a high quality pork actually has a lot
of b1 nutritional yeast is a really good
source of vitamin b1 spare gas has b1
organ meats like liver
has b1 okay let's talk about vitamin C
vitamin C deficiencies that's involved
in a lot of formation of collagen so you
can get preeclampsia so there could be a
problem with premature birth because if
the placenta is detaching too quick and
the water breaks and then the pregnancy
starts kicking in there way too early
when the infant is not formed yet so
vitamin C bell peppers leafy greens
sauerkraut very high in vitamin C okay
then we get something called folate
which is one of the B vitamins if you're
deficient you can develop something
called neural tube defects which
basically the spinal column and the
spinal cord are not developing properly
so you have this little bulge in the
back where the spinal column is actually
sticking out of the spine in the back
which could be totally prevented if
there's full laid in the system okay
also you can have cleft palate which
you've probably seen people have these
little stitches right here with where
the formation of the top of the palate
of the mouth is not formed and it's
going right into the nose right here and
they have to do surgery and stitch that
up right there so if someone takes
bullet they can prevent this condition
from happening this could also happen
from being exposed to a pesticide and
sometimes it can also be a vitamin A
deficiency a lot of times it's just all
blamed on genetics but there are huge
connections with nutrient deficiencies
as well leafy greens okay so that's why
it's so important for from what someone
pregnant or even well before you're
pregnant to start eating healthy you're
thinking about having a child starting
healthy for a long period of time get
your body in really good shape and so
that way when you have the baby
everything is really smooth manganese
okay another trace mineral very
important in developing the skeletal
structure and if you're deficient you
can have all sorts of problems with even
flat feet a malformation of the bone the
maxillary bone up here so you have
either under bite or an overbite you're
probably going to need braces so if you
looked at a common thread all the
different minerals and trace minerals
are very important in the formation of
enzymes that then have to do with
protein
and building body tissue so you can see
there's so many different trace mineral
deficiencies and also fat soluble
vitamin deficiencies right here and even
water-soluble vitamin deficiencies right
here in relationship to a body that's
not forming correctly so here's the
thing you can actually just not consume
these nutrients because your diet is
lacking them okay you can also be a
pre-diabetic or a diabetic or have
insulin resistance which by the way 65%
of the population has either
pre-diabetes or diabetes so chances are
you might even have this in which case
you're not going to even absorb these as
well as you should compounded by the
fact if your diet is poor too if we add
these together then you're really going
to be deficient and so that prenatal
really doesn't really do a lot consuming
refined foods going to fast food
restaurants eating junk foods depletes
your nutrients big-time especially when
you're doing sugar and refined grain
this if you've had a gastric bypass
that's gonna prevent the absorption in
the small intestine because you don't
that whole small first part of the small
intestine is bypassed
so you don't have access to it so you're
not gonna absorb as much also if you
have low stomach acids
you're not going to absorb the minerals
so you'd need to take more acid so what
I'm trying to do is increase your
awareness on the connection between
nutrition and formation of a healthy
baby so if you're thinking about being
pregnant
starting healthy right now and make sure
that you have everything needed to form
a healthy baby if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
