so let's talk about hypoglycemic
reactions with diabetes okay people that
are diabetics are taking medications
like insulin and they end up with this
low blood sugar situation it's very
common 90% of diabetics using insulin
have or end up with a low blood sugar
situation okay so the medical solution
to hypoglycemia is a complication of
this treatment for diabetes but if I had
this condition the question that I would
ask
would be why is the blood sugars
dropping down too far in the first place
okay and the only correct answer would
be there's too much insulin because
insulin is responsible for pushing the
blood sugars too low okay so that would
be question number one hopefully you
would get an answer to that so the next
question I would want to ask is why am I
taking so much insulin if it's going to
drive me into a hypoglycemic reaction
and why can't I take the least not
possible because the big side effect
from insulin is damaged uh with the
retina with the eyes uh with the macula
with heart
cardiovascular uh with the kidney with
the nervous system there's a lot of side
effects from too much insulin so then
the last and most obvious question would
be how can I take the least amount of
insulin or medication to keep my blood
sugars normal and not too low or too
high and this is where we want to pull
this book out right here mk's manual and
let's see what they say about
hypoglycemia okay under treatment it
says the single most useful treatment
for hypoglycemia that follows meals is a
diet high in protein and restricted in
carbohydrate now that's some good advice
okay I like that
advice protein will instantly make you
feel better instead of taking sugar so
that's one thing I would recommend and
they say restrict carbohydrate that's
awesome
but why don't they go on to say diabetic
patients taking insulin should always
carry sugar lumps or candy with them and
the patient family and friends should be
instructed to recognize the symptoms of
hypoglycemia and giving the emergency
treatment mentioned above so here's the
problem that I see there's this huge
focus and attention on managing this
complication of
hypoglycemia without focusing on the
root issue which is basically how can we
take the least amount of insulin
possible and to the point where maybe we
can even come off the insulin okay so
the two things that I'm going to
recommend would be to definitely lower
the carbohydrates and eat less
frequently now in the transition you
would want to um add more fat to the
diet so you could go longer You' want to
do a ketogenic program you would
definitely want to do inent fasting
because that's ultimately going to bring
your insulin down as low as possible and
just in summary yes I know you're going
to feel better by consuming protein if
you have low blood sugars and you're
going to feel better if even if you have
candy because it's going to temporarily
bring you up but you're never going to
correct this high level of insulin which
is dropping you into a low blood sugar
situation all right thanks for
watching hey if you're interested in
finding out the underlying cause of your
body issues click the link below and
take the evaluation quiz
