so today I'm going to teach you how to
build up the most important
neurotransmitter in your brain okay and
it's called acetylcholine acetylcholine
is a neurotransmitter which means that
it's like a hormone but it works through
the nervous system so it's a
communication particle that creates
different effects and it's involved in
your memory and your ability to learn
with sleep attention focus feeling alert
and your ability to be awake so you can
imagine if you're deficient in
acetylcholine you're going to have a lot
of issues and acetylcholine is the main
neurotransmitter of the parasympathetic
nervous system which is all about rest
and digest it's a neurotransmitter that
works through the vagus nerve that
innervates a lot of different visceral
organs and visceral organs are all the
organs in the cavity in your stomach and
your chest and the anticholinergic drugs
like Medicaid locations to control your
bladder medications for Parkinson's
Disease and COPD all have side effects
of a loss of memory probably because
they create a deficiency in
acetylcholine and I remember my
mother-in-law unfortunately she had
dementia and she passed away but I do
remember her being on a bladder
medication and I always wondered how
much that contributed to her dementia
but unfortunately when people get on
several medications you know you don't
know what is causing what anymore
there's also several conditions that you
need to be aware of that nearly always
have lowered acetylcholine autism
Alzheimer's and Dementia Ms and
Parkinson's disease let me go through
all the things that can increase
acetylcholine in your brain okay as far
as food goes right you want to eat foods
high in choline which is a precursor for
acetylcholine and the food that has the
most choline is egg yolks okay so this
is another reason why you should be
eating eggs I consume a lot of eggs I
probably consume three to four eggs
every single day and it's probably a
really good thing I have been doing this
because
recently on my DNA test that I did which
I'm going to be doing a deep dive on
that to explain what that is and how you
can benefit from it but for me one big
problem is choline right even though I
consume choline I need a lot of choline
to allow that codeine to work in its
Pathways so it's been a good thing that
I've been consuming eggs with choline
unknowingly for all these years but you
can also get choline from beef liver and
blueberries and it's in a lot of other
Foods as well but egg yolks would give
you a good amount now acetylcholine also
needs
helper molecules to allow it to be
produced or synthesized and so one
helper molecule is vitamin B5 and it's
very easy to get vitamin B5 from just
eating pretty much any food but here's
the thing about B5 one of the most
common ways that someone becomes
deficient of E5 is from drinking alcohol
right so if someone is drinking alcohol
even several times a week they're
usually going to be deficient in B5
which can indirectly affect that
acetylcholine you also need zinc to
build acetylcholine so if you're
deficient in zinc that could be one
reason why you're not producing enough
and so you get zinc from shellfish as
well as grass-fed beef magnesium is
another mineral that is needed to make
acetylcholine and you get magnesium when
you consume chlorophyll that's in all
the leafy greens so you can get enough
magnesium if you're having salads on a
regular basis and then you have a trace
mineral called manganese which is also
important in making acetylcholine a
couple good sources of manganese there's
a lot of different sources but hazelnuts
macadamia nuts as well as leafy creams
but you can also get it from sea kelp
and shellfish and many different things
now another thing that's important is
consuming enough omega-3 fatty acids
that could be in sardines that can be in
cod liver oil that can be in Salmon but
omega-3 is important as well now green
tea has a certain phytonutrient that can
help build up your levels of
acetylcholine as well so you might want
to drink some of that during the day as
far as actual choline supplements
there's two that I recommend I wouldn't
do both I would do either or and they're
both very similar one is called
acetylcholine another name for that
would be CDP choline and the other one
is called Alpha GPC either one of those
could be a good supplement if you wanted
to take a supplement now believe it or
not drinking coffee can help raise
receiver choline levels getting enough
sleep because you have enough melatonin
can also build up your levels of
acetylcholine but this next point is
very interesting and surprising insulin
increases your acetylcholine now I know
you're saying dutchberg am I supposed to
start eating all these carbs you get
insulin no all you want is a natural
amount of insulin that your body
produces when you don't consume carbs
you see when you eat carbs over a period
of time you develop insulin resistance
and that creates a deficiency of insulin
especially in your brain this is why the
cells die because they're not able to
get the fuel that's dependent on that
insulin so eating more carbs okay
creates a compensation that literally
starves yourselves of insulin since
we're on the topic of brain power if you
haven't seen this video on the brain
that's the next one you should check out
I put it up right here
