so I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know how often do
I change my exercise routine so let's
talk about that when you train over time
you actually decrease the gains or the
results because what happens if you do
the same workout over and over and over
your body will adapt to it and then it
stops adapting so there's a thing called
muscle confusion okay and that's
basically the the idea of changing your
workouts to keep your body in a constant
confusion so you keep stimulating the
body in a way to cause the body to react
and adapt so you can actually keep
growing and improving muscle mass or
fitness okay because training in general
doing some type of workout overtime
decreases your results if you keep doing
the same thing okay now on the flip side
if you change your routine too
frequently and you don't let your body
fully adapt your gains will also be
limited because you're not reaching the
maximum potential of that workout so
here's what I'm going to recommend you
want to do the same workout for the week
now you may have working different
muscles through the week so you may be
workout three times a week and you have
three different types of workouts that's
fine do the same thing for three to four
weeks until your body actually adapts to
this and it actually gets used to it
then change it okay instead of changing
it and rotating every single week
because we want to create a stress in
the body which then creates the hormonal
shifts which causes your body to repair
and recover and then we want to give it
enough time so based on the average
person 3 to 4 weeks are good now of
course if you're more fit you can change
them more frequently and if you're not
fit you might want to go even longer all
right thanks for watching so we've been
getting a lot of success stories but I
don't have your success story yet so
click the link down below and upload you
before and after I want to actually hear
about your success story I want to see
your before-and-afters and every week we
do featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
