hey guys I recently had a question from
someone who was a diabetic they had high
blood sugars they did keto in in a
minute fasting and then they end up with
low blood sugars hypoglycemia they're a
bit concerned with this complication
this side effect from doing keto and in
there fasting right well number one the
purpose of the medication that you're
taking as a diabetic is to lower the
blood sugars if you're still taking the
medication and you're doing this you
could end up with excessively low blood
sugars because you don't even need the
medication or you don't need as much so
keto and then fasting decreased the need
for diabetic medication okay just get
with your doctor adjust the dosage
reduce it maybe you don't even need it
at all I mean if your blood sugars are a
hundred or less you don't need the
medication so work with your doctor on
that point okay but let's say for
example you're off the medication and
it's still too low but you feel fine
that's not a problem because when you
dookied Oh in a minute fasting you have
actually a new normal because you're not
running your body and sugar anymore so
your body will adapt and you can get by
with a lot less letdown the eighty
seventy even sixty and feel fine because
your body's not running on sugar anymore
okay but if you feel bad if you feel
jittery or you feel like your blood
sugars are are a problem it could also
be symptoms of the adrenal gland that's
trying to compensate and bring your
Sugar's up but it can't okay and then
you'll notice the symptoms of more of a
nice spike in either cortisol or
adrenaline so that could be why you're
feeling that if that's the case then you
just basically go about it a little bit
more gradual instead of doing one one
meal a day do two meals or instead of
doing two meals do three meals no snacks
adding a lot of greens B vitamins
potassium supplements so you can
actually really correct this this
situation a lot better so you can go
longer without meals so you're
supporting the adrenal so you're either
gonna support the adrenal directly with
nutrition or you're just going to
you add in the key nutrients to allow
your body to adapt to run off fat a
hundred percent and that would be the
potassium and the B vitamins mainly so
in summary going from high sugar
diabetes off the medication to low blood
sugar is a good thing you just need to
understand what's happening address the
real cause of it and resolve it alright
thanks for watching hey guys I wanted to
personally invite you to a new Facebook
group that I just started called dr.
Berg's Kido and in a minute fasting lab
okay so I created this so we can share
our successful actions what worked what
didn't work your results so I've put a
link down below so go ahead and sign up
and I'll see you inside
