hey guys today we're going to talk about
the relationship between hair loss and
digestion okay one of the key nutrients
for hair health and growing hair is
biotin it's one of the B vitamins okay
it's an essential cofactor or helper
factor for enzymes that help you make
proteins from amino acids so it's needed
to make hair okay and your microbes in
your gut also make B vitamins including
biotin but when you're exposed to
antibiotics you decrease the amount of
friendly bacteria thereby lessening the
production of biotin but not only that
you have an increase of growth of
another microbe that can't make biotin
okay it's called lactobacillus marinus
I'm gonna put a link down below so you
have the situation where you have this
microbial imbalance in your god that
just can't make enough biotin now
there's a couple things that you have to
realize you might say well I don't take
antibiotics right I haven't taken
antibiotic for yours well I just did a
video on this I'll put a link down below
GMO food has residue of glyphosate okay
so in 2010 Monsanto got the patents for
glyphosate being an antibiotic okay I
mean this is like all over the place
like it's in the water supply
it's in the food supply and vegetables
it's in the feed that are fed the
livestock it's on a ton of foods in the
soy oil the corn oil here's just another
link that I want to bring your awareness
up that your hair loss could be coming
from your digestive system so in which
case I would highly recommend finding a
good probiotic to start building up this
flora and also take a product that has
biotin in it and I put a link down below
of a good source that I recommend
alright thanks for watching hey guys so
there's a whole bunch of people that
really need this information so press
the share button and let's get it
way out there
