hey guys I recent had a question from
someone that wanted to know if it's okay
to consume berries why can't I have
fruit okay because they're so similar
well let's just talk about berries
berries actually have a pretty low
glycemic index it's not a hundred
percent but it's it's on the low side
okay but berries also have a low
glycemic load which is a little
different so glycemic index is things
that turn into sugar fast glycemic load
is how much carbohydrate is in that that
quantity so in other words carrots have
a high glycemic index but they have a
low glycemic low because of all the
fiber so it's really not going to affect
the blood Sugar's too much so these are
very fibrous and they actually very low
on the glycemic load six point five when
even if it was ten or less that would be
low so it's well within the range so
that's why you can consume you know a
cup of berries a day easily so if this
if each one of these were three-fourths
of a cup you're talking about four
carbohydrates four blackberries
raspberries would be five carbohydrates
now realize your range is between twenty
and fifty grams so this is well within
your range strawberries six okay
blueberries are twelve but again the
glycemic load is very low so it's not
going to be too much of a problem now
let's shift to fruits the lemons of
course are for its pretty low right with
the sugar of 1.5 so lemons are not going
to be a problem at all
but look what a peach a peach is 12 but
the sugars are 13 so fruits typically
have a higher glycemic load even though
they have fiber an apple 25 grams of
carbohydrate for a medium apple with 19
grams of sugar that's all a lot of sugar
okay banana 27 grams of carbohydrate
with 14 grams of sugar pretty high but
not as high as an apple grapes 16 grams
of carbohydrate with 15 grams of sugar
it's too high and this is why we don't
want to do fruit
Nikita so we have a couple things to
look at we have the glycemic index we
have the amount of carbohydrate we also
have the amount of sugar and we also
have to look at the glycemic load as
well and how dense is that fiber and and
how that affects the blood sugars
alright thanks for watching
hi guys listen I want to thank you so
much for your wonderful comments and I
want to ask you if you wouldn't mind
giving me your review on Google I put a
link down below I'd really appreciate it
and thank you in advance
