hello Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about insulin resistance
and vitamin C okay the relationship
insulin resistance causes excessive
amount of production of insulin so you
have high insulin okay that's a
pre-diabetic State and it's diabetes as
well that will deplete your vitamin C
reserves okay so vitamin C deficiencies
not only can come from not consuming
enough vitamin C from your vegetables
but it can come from high levels of
insulin okay
so the primary target for vitamin C
deficiency is the vascular system okay
so take a look we got the blood vessel
here and what happens is you have this
little
lining uh around the blood vessel it's
called the epithelial wall the
epithelium it's a very uh tiny single
cell wall of cells that allows exchange
between the lymphatic system right on
the outside of your blood vessel the
function of this epithelial wall is
fluid filtration so it filters fluids
like electrolytes and fluids and uh if
you think about um it goes to the kidney
and you filter blood as urine so this is
what lines it as well that allow for the
filtration so it's a filtration it's a
blood vessel tone mechanism so basically
has receptors for measuring uh blood
pressure so Vaso constriction and Vaso
dilation so that's probably why insulin
resistance will cause high blood
pressure in a lot of people uh white
blood cell defense so you have this
lymphatic system here this is like the
immigration stamp of approval so if it
goes through there and you don't get
stamp of approval from immigration you
get this immune response and it creates
inflammation and all sorts of a Cascade
of issues and really what happens when
you become um insulin
resistive you uh create a problem with
vitamin C so vitam C can no longer build
the collagen in certain places so
therefore we don't we have a little
break in this uh this little wall right
here because the collagens it's all
collagen so then what happens we have an
immune reaction and then it's called a
lesion it's kind of like leaky gut but
in the
arteries so we have number one vitamin C
deficiency that comes from high insulin
and then we get the immune reaction
inflammation and then it signals a
Band-Aid from the liver it's called LDL
it's called bad cholesterol it's not
really bad it's just LDL comes in there
and starts to form a patch okay and then
you have ch uh you have um calcium that
comes in there that helps and other
connective tissue and that's really the
chain reaction of events that happens
when you get a clogged artery but it
starts way over here unnecessarily
people are targeting cholesterol being
the villain it's it's not it's laid in
the chain of events it's trying to help
you and if you have any questions or
confusions or doubts that uh it's not
cholesterol watch the video that I put
down below that'll explain it because
your body makes 3,000 milligrams of
cholesterol every single day so you
don't even eat a fraction of that and so
it's that's not the culprit it's the
refined sugars that Spike insulin that
then create this whole Cascade of
problems this little wall right here the
endothelium actually has properties that
are anticlotting factors okay so when
those get
disrupted again it it sets up the whole
body to form a clot right here but it
all stems from this vitamin C deficiency
and if we take it earlier it's high
insulin so again it could be that you're
not consuming enough vitamin C from the
diet or it could be the sugar okay so
the foods that are high in vitamin C are
the greens the leafy greens the salads
bell peppers have massive amounts of
vitamin C Chili Peppers parsley cabbage
even organ Meats okay not that you're
going to eat that but that has vitamin C
so you really want to get the best of
both worlds you want to get enough
vitamin C from the diet and you want to
cut out the sugar another symptom of
vitamin C deficiencies would be um
bleeding gums or like your gums are
swollen parodontal disease um or spider
veins I'll do another I'll do a separate
video just on that so number one fix
insulin resistance and number two get
enough vitamin C from your diet I'll put
some links down below if you if you need
to know how to fix ins some resistance
thanks for
watching hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
