hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about the best tip for something called
tinea versicolor okay this is a type of
fungus that grows in the skin and it
creates these little white lighter spots
on the chest in the back because this
fungus releases an acid that interferes
with melatonin which normally controls
the pigment if you get it you're gonna
have an 80% chance of getting it again
because what normally happens normally
there's a friendly yeast that lives
around your body okay and it's part of
its called the natural flora or the
microbes or the friendly bacterial yeast
layer that lives on the skin that then
will be converted into a fungus when the
environment changes because you took an
antibiotic or maybe you took some
medication or you're eating junk food or
eating on a sugar and then all of a
sudden it shifts over until this fungus
okay so that happens there's kind of a
concoction you can make and rub it on
the skin that can really help you and
this is good temporarily but really you
want to build up the inside of the body
this symptom is the tip of the iceberg
and the real problem is internal in your
gut and your digestive tract so you
really need to start eating healthy and
make sure at all costs don't get another
antibiotic because that just makes
things worse so here's what you do you
take three drops of oregano oil three
drops of grapefruit seed extract okay
this is a fluid this is an oil and one
teaspoon of coconut oil and three drops
of apple cider vinegar mix it up really
good and rub it into the skin so that
would actually target the unfriendly
fungus but not attack the friendly
microbes that you have in your body
alright so go ahead and check it out and
don't forget to start cleaning up your
diet and making sure that you support
your digestive system thanks for
watching hey if you're interested in
finding out the underlying cause of your
body issues click the link below and
take the evaluation quiz
