hello everyone I have a special guest uh
sometimes I do videos on a lot of
different topics today we're going to do
one on a really amazing success story
from Bart Ratliff and so um this guy I
saw he sent a video and just literally
blew me away in five months he lost 90
pounds okay 90 pounds it's incredible so
welcome Bart thanks for for being on Dr
Robert thank you so much it's a it's an
honor to be uh speaking to you number
one just because of all the wonderful
education he'd give me over the last uh
six months and uh the results
it's produced wow well it's quite
impressive I mean I know some people
might be watching and they might they
probably maybe they lost less than they
might be a little bit more frustrated
but you know what
um I want to cover some of the things
that you did and some of the barriers
that you ran into because people always
want to know like okay what did he do so
let's first talk a little bit about
um what type of pattern of fasting did
you do did you do you know 16 hours 18
hours what type of fasting you do but at
the back by the way the way I jumped in
and this started on May 23rd of 22. I I
started at one meal a day and uh through
the education through videos I knew how
effective that would be for me and to
say the least my first couple of days
you know it's a transition and of course
had the had the headaches the first day
or two but I knew that I took I was 100
committed and devoted because I knew
this would work performing and I kind of
just kind of held fast and stayed the
course and because I knew it would it
would I would no longer have that so one
meal a day I'm a ketogenic diet that's
good I think um you did mention this
before and I want to bring this up I
mean you tried this a while ago but at
that time there was some stress involved
you know and I always bring this up like
um when you have family or spouses that
maybe are not on the same page it's more
difficult I mean it's crazy more
difficult because like uh kind of create
you know when are you gonna eat and then
you gotta be in front of the food or
just a lot of disagreements so I think
you did have a situation that through
you basically you started it a long time
ago and then it worked but then you got
off because of that for a period of time
so maybe you can just touch on that it's
bad you're bad a couple years ago and it
had some success I was actually referred
to a one meal a day by a friend of mine
uh effort out of Salt Lake City and I
said one meal a day are you nuts you
know and then I did some research on it
I I kept on hearing about this omad I
thought it was Oman I said this must be
some guy that created this plan you know
I said oh one meal a day it makes sense
yeah right so uh but yes we were uh
my significant other at the time we we
started it and we had uh success and we
were luckily I was I found you on
through YouTube on the ketogenic you
know to include that with the one meal a
day and then helped us stay focused and
then after several months you know then
there was some other ideas shared and uh
sometimes the uh uh negativity and the
environment that you're in
um
sometimes it
she focuses you on your ultimate goal
even though you've seen how effective it
is and I let
um my um
I just we just kind of got off track and
I kind of got off track even though it
was working very well for me but when
you have other influences in your life
at the time it definitely can deter
somebody and and I was thinking more
about somebody else than myself and
that's that's kind of what happened but
luckily I found my way back so so a
couple years later you picked it back up
and then you you were at um your Peak
weight was like 313 pounds right well
that's when I was started no my pick
weight I was I was 335 when I started a
couple years ago man and but luckily I
didn't gain it all back and I was
sitting into 3 13 when I started back in
May at the end of May so um
question when you were in um High School
were you were you a thin guy growing up
in Chinese I
oh I was always a big guy
I grew up in high school I think I was
just thinking about this the other day I
was talking to a friend of mine that's
also been inspired by my story and even
in high school I think my junior year
was 260. and um and then because I
wasn't even I ended up going going to
six four I think it was my sophomore
year in college but it was only like six
two when I graduated but I was 260 then
I came down to 2 30. I was you know back
and forth a lot of pressure on my health
and uh my always on diets oh really
yours I you know so I went through the
yo-yo string over the years but um so
that that yeah I was a big guy in high
school and then I kind of slimmed down
and then when College happened you know
back in the 80s saying you know I I was
having a good time and it was certainly
not focused then on my health and
nutrition back then to say the least as
it's been like that for many many years
but uh but yeah I I was I think the
highest was in in high school even in
junior high when I was a I was bigger I
always played football but 216 was
usually 260 and then I I would go down
and then like come back up
so so a couple years ago when you
decided uh before you even started
looking and discovered like oh keto
um was there something that motivated
you that said you know what I need to do
this
uh actually my significant other uh she
had an event coming up and we decided uh
she was starting to uh uh to be better
and and do some working out and then I
of course I wanted to support my wife
and uh so I joined along with her and
then I as I was doing some research 20
years 20 years previous I had done uh
read a book called Body for Life by Bill
Phillips and of course his philosophy I
really loved his philosophy on the
strength training and the cardio doing
the high intensity uh hit hitch training
which I really loved but he was more of
a six Miller guy uh six mil a day guy
and that's what my mindset has been all
these years up until a couple years ago
and um but that was one of the reasons
we started it and then there was a guy
that was featured in that body for black
book Everett happened to live in Salt
Lake and we got together and he told me
about the one meal a day and then uh we
started doing that then a couple weeks
later we got back together and I said
well I'm kind of tired all the time I
said we ought to do more fat he
understood you know find out you know do
keto and that's how actually I found you
without the burger wow
um and then as far as
um
the meals that you ate during this
process
um
did you did you do it exactly like the
book or did you kind of have some times
where you fell off the wagon like uh you
know and like what kind of uh discipline
did you have as you gone gone through
this to keep your car can be enough for
my current Journey are you talking about
for my current Journey yeah okay oh well
you know what I I I focus in on my Mills
one of the things I always try to focus
in on are as you say especially on my
protein I will do a grass-fed uh uh
grass-fed grass finish uh hamburger I
mean hamburgers probably uh 70 of my
meals so I'll do basically I'll buy the
pound the grass-fed grass finish beef
I'll cut it in half I'll do eight ounces
one day and then I'll do that two to
three but usually three to four days a
week and then I'll mix in some salmon
some Wild Cuts salmon and then some eggs
and then maybe one day uh once every
couple weeks I'll throw in eggs as my
protein and then of course I always do
my big salad and it's kind of funny
over the last six months
I mentioned this in that video I sent
you but I I kind of start my day
watching one of your videos I love how
you you five to six days a week you
always update a new video so a lot of
times I'll run through and kind of see
the videos that I might not have seen or
it's been a while since I've seen but
one of the things I remember when I
started I was all Spanish I said you
know Popeye Your Spinach you know and
then I started saying you know the
benefits of the lettuce and of the
arugula and I said arugula I never
thought about that and I but now it's
it's it's I always kind of more of a
plan day review I'm a consultant and a
strategist when it goes to marketing and
technology so I'm always big about that
with uh with the projects I'm working on
so I started really kind of focusing in
on that so now that's one of the ways I
start my start my meals now I do my big
salad and uh you know you say five to
seven cups I had this massive bowl and
it I figured about seven ounces I get
the containers with the organic or
regular and the organic leafy greens and
so I just chop everything up I usually
try to find like a nice Red Pepper or
something like that and then I fill up
this big bowl it's usually about seven
ounces I have no idea how many cups it
is but I know it's a massive salad and
um at first I was doing like the blue
cheese and then the more I
saw your videos and I said oh wait a
minute you know how about the organic uh
the organic extra virgin olive oil so I
started buying that and then I just
recently saw the video of the olive oil
that you use so I finally said well I
need to upgrade my extra virgin olive
oil so I just I actually ordered some
luckily I found it on Amazon the exact
type that you use same with the uh with
the uh the um apple cider vinegar so I
was doing the Epic list of Braggs and
then you had had a video about the brags
and and the other the other I can't
remember the name of it but I have it in
my cabinet right now so I upgraded that
it's amazing the strength of that apple
cider vinegar how much stronger that it
is than than the ones that I was using
the mothers brag and then I went to the
one that you recommended it's like twice
as strong so so what I'll do I'll add a
little organic lemon juice in that as
well to kind of help out help out with
that so oh yeah I tell you it's uh you
know um you find all sorts of
interesting things I actually went to
this Farm where they make this olive oil
twice and uh I was just like
come on you got to be kidding you you
guys put that much care that much energy
into producing this I'm like
all right um you still be I'm gonna I'm
gonna use this so I I when I find
something like that I'm gonna tell
people about it because it's so so
um healthy at many different levels so I
mean even if you don't put on your salad
you should probably drink a couple
teaspoons a day or tablespoons it's
because it's like great but
um so you sounds like you're kind of
just you know
you're just kind of doing what someone
else you're piggybacking off of someone
else's success story which or successful
actions which which I'm doing because I
experiment with everything all sorts of
therapies I have three different
therapies I haven't even told anyone
about I'm actually doing them myself
actually more than that and if it works
I will let you know well we're very
excited to hear that right oh yeah oh
yeah so
um
so this is really good and then um what
about do you have um any problem like
social events parties things like that
that you kind of go off the program a
little bit here and there or or do you
just have any way of pushing through
that what do you have that right now I I
do I'm very well aware uh usually wants
to mental health how I'll have to do a
business trip and a lot of them a lot of
times I mean I was just in Miami back in
uh back in September and uh
um happened to be my birthday a week as
well so I was uh hanging out so I I did
stay pretty focused uh I I think I might
have done
um one extra meal two different days and
I uh I did have a bite of birthday cake
and ice cream you know I mean I like a
couple by seven so I might have had a
couple of drinks but I one of the things
I did face out was specifically alcohol
it's not like I'm a bit big drinker
anyway but but I do know I loved your
video and the benefits of alcohol that
was so funny and and also the cheat day
with Karen with the big uh the big guy
the big uh uh Hatchet that she had in
her head that was funny that's one of
the great things I love about your
videos you do have a great sense of
humor and it's very very easy to watch
and uh I I do appreciate uh appreciate
how you frame all those but uh but the
way how I handle that Dr Berg just like
uh on my most recent trip to Texas to
see a group of high school friends you
know
I um
um I do stay very focused on my eating I
might eat a little bit more than I
normally do on my one meal a day and uh
there might be uh you know if I have a
cold beer or something like that like I
said it's just that I might have one but
the way I handle that when I get back
home I go back to my normal one meal a
day eating and then after two days of
eating my back on my process I'll do a
48 hour fast and because they've been
that reset screen I'm back on the train
but uh but that first day after going
off my program if I incorporate if I
have a if I'm especially eating out
because I eat out every every meal when
I'm traveling and there's always going
to be let's face it garbage in the food
that they serve you even no matter how
careful you are but uh um but it does
that that first day back I mean you
definitely feel the effect of that not
eating properly and uh but that's how I
do it I do two days I say steadfast and
like I'm normally eat but then I do a 48
hour and that usually just snaps it
right out I'm back in the back in back
in play again well I can tell you've
been watching my videos because you're
doing all that you're doing these
applying all these different things for
every one or two yeah right that's great
what about um like um through the period
of time uh I think it's uh you're down
95 pounds right now total
um was it was it is it always consistent
you lose this much weight per week or is
it kind of like you lose more and then
less and then nothing and then more and
then less than what how did it go with
your losing weight well you know my
first four months I I took it off pretty
quickly and uh I I always incorporate uh
activity into into my game plan now for
of course at first I mean that that was
like 12 minutes and 12 minutes of of
walking on the treadmill and then I kind
of went up to doing the rowing machine
and then then I as as I got healthier
right because it really I mean it was
great that I was losing the weight but
it was more about feeling good and being
healthy because I know with good health
comes the weight loss so
I did lose more weight at first because
let's face it I was 313 pounds I am six
foot four and it's all what are you
carrying I said yeah I carry it but I'm
a whole lot I mean I had this jacket I
wear that I bought a couple years ago
and I mean I put it on now and it's just
like I wrap it around I mean it's just
that oh my God I can't believe that I I
just how much I filled that thing out uh
over the last couple months I've been
averaging about 10 pounds per month and
one of the things I don't do I do not
weigh every day that's uh you know
because I know I mean you drink a couple
bottles of water the night before your
way so they go up a couple pounds I mean
it's it's it's still uh intense but I do
try to focus in maybe once or twice a
month away and uh but uh but like I said
I mean I'm extremely happy at the weight
I am I mean my God I can walk into a
store and I can buy I'm buying jeans in
the 30s I'm very serious wow and uh you
know it's so weird because it they feel
snug but it's not there's nothing like
hanging over I mean I'm I'm just it's
just it's just absolutely mind-blowing
to me uh to be at that point because
like I said 20 years ago I did lose
Sydney significant amount of weight say
the body of Life Body for Life and it
was a great time and but then I I just
put it right back on that was the whole
six mil Gay Day concept I said my God if
I would have only had this education 20
years ago I mean
there's there's people there's women
watching this going wow uh that that
wasn't my case I can't seem to lose 10
pounds uh per month I just want to
mention one thing if there's any women
watching this is
um
uh you have um a situation where men
typically have it in the midsection less
than the hips and the thighs right well
the type of fat
that is uh hips thighs buttocks is um is
usually more superficial fat versus the
fat around the organs in the midsection
and the thing to know is that it's uh
it's less influenced Believe It or Not
by this insulin problem now
what can we do with that information
well
if you do the diet okay you're going to
lose the stomach for sure in this whole
thing but if you have more hip and thigh
weight you you're going to have to
actually add more exercise especially to
get more lean muscle to burn more
calories and that's that's going to have
to be um
more than even someone that doesn't have
that weight like if you have more hip
weight you're going to have to also add
some pretty serious workouts to the
point where you um you recover don't
ever exercise over a recovery but
definitely you're gonna have to
add that exercise component in there
more than
anyone else so I just want to add that
in there and then you will see more
change but just to rely just in the diet
you may lose your gut but you may not
lose the hip weight
um I also wanted to for those of you
that are watching
um
what would be like
the biggest tip that you would tell
people or advice if you had to give like
one tip if someone
thinking about this but they're they're
not quite sold on it yet what uh what
would you tell them
um to motivate them to get started
well actually uh educate yourself
educate yourself on the on the process
and I highly recommend I mean your your
YouTube channel is phenomenal uh one of
the things I do if I do have any
specific questions I'll go to YouTube
and I'll just I'll type in my question
and put Dash Dr birds and a great thing
99 of the time there's a video that
addresses those specific questions and
uh one of the things uh it's really kind
of stay tuned and stay dialed in and
really understand your why on why you
want to move forward with this with this
health transformation or this lifestyle
change for yourself I mean my whole deal
was number one
um look I'm 57 years old you know I
certainly I I've not been fortunate
enough to have a family and that's
something that you know in the right
situation that would be something that
would just be lovely for myself to to to
start a family you know and that's
something and I that I keep in my back
of my mind but the biggest thing
um
is when I start my day I I do I really
do I pull up when I get up in the
morning uh of course I do my scoop of uh
my scoop of wheatgrass I do my scoop of
uh uh uh
um
um oh my gosh
the um I totally went blank I think you
you mentioned electrolytes electrolytes
thank you so much yeah I mean that's how
I start my day every morning and then
I'll I'll pull up the I'll pull up the
YouTube channel normally by the time
because I'm on the mountain time you've
already uploaded your video for the day
even though it might not really apply to
me a lot I'll watch it because a lot of
times I'll get great tips and tricks on
how to stay more dialed in I mean this
is how my transition the way I ate six
months ago to the way I eat now I'm
being more dialed in and more conscious
I'm buying organic to grass-fed do
grass-finished meat uh what type of
apple cider vinegar what type of olive
oil I mean I buy the organic balsamic
vinaigrette too you know and I I read
the labels and one thing I don't do
doctor I don't do these this all these
keto bars and keto stuff that's in the
stores good
I don't I don't do those I don't do
those I I mean every now and then I'll
do a pint of rubble I love the rebel
okay I mean or or something like that
but that's very rare maybe once a month
I'll treat myself or do something like
that but uh but having that stuff around
people think and then you see all this
stuff on Facebook and Instagram all
these rules on these keto experts and
all they're doing is showing me how to
make snacks snack snack snack snack
snack I mean what uh hello
I mean it's it's it's actually
comical to see all this stuff I mean it
looks delicious I mean if you're gonna
mix like a little keto treat I mean
there's some great ways you can make it
yourself not by the
stuff on my on the shelves I mean I'm
not going to say garbage but I did
mention that word but uh but yeah
there's it's it's quite fascinating when
you look at this and they put keto on
the label people say oh I could buy that
well look at the label it'll really open
your mind and uh one of the other things
I I don't know if I mentioned this um as
far as my my big why you know besides uh
wanting a long healthy life is both of
my parents were greatly affected by
Alzheimer's all the times and uh my lost
my mom in 2006 and at the young age of
73 years old okay and then my dad it was
about to turn 89 this is in 2014 but I I
helped care for them both my mother and
my father and uh that was very difficult
for me to see them go through that and
uh and my sister
my lovely sister Margaret she's uh uh we
both experienced that and she has always
been more Health minded than myself and
uh and it's just so wonderful uh
catching up and chatting with her and
she just loves seeing my journey and I I
have so much support from my friends and
I have a tremendous amount of friends
that are lucky enough to develop some
tremendous relationships over the last
35 years and and my sales and
Consultants speaking
um and it's just so nice to to see such
encouragement uh through my
transformation and luckily another great
thing about it it's uh apparently I've
inspired a whole lot of people I love
hearing people's progress my friend AJ
down in uh Florida and Chris a high
school buddy of mine they reach out to
me ask me and I just said well this is
what works for me and this is how I
found out how to do this a lot of times
if they have questions I'll just Google
Dr Berg and just put it in there and
I'll send them the video to help them be
on track so but it's uh but that's as
far as yeah that's uh one of the videos
I mean uh the keto Basics how to
supercharge your prolonged fasting I
love that video uh any but anytime and
by the way when I do those 48 or the 72
hours which I try to do at least 172
hour a month and I've done that for the
last couple months uh I'll watch the
videos the day before I plan on doing
that and then the next morning I watch
that video every single morning you can
really help me stay focused and on track
on the race I'm not doing this to lose
additional weight I'm doing it
for the health benefit
well I have to say bar you're definitely
the epitome of the what I'm trying to do
with people get give them the right
tools and you're applying everything
that I'm telling you so well done very
well done
proud of you great job I think you're
going to inspire a lot of people from
this video so
um so I do want to thank you for your
time and going over this because people
are going to definitely you know there's
probably a lot of people are just going
to get started just because they want to
lose weight too and now you kind of made
it broke it down so it's easy for them
so
anyway I appreciate your time and uh
we'll have to do a post video when you
get down to 150 I'm just being sarcastic
we're not going to go that low but I
love it but now I uh uh now I I
appreciate uh I appreciate taking the
time to speak to me and uh you know one
of the I I have a really a big service
mentality and this is one of the things
I really enjoy uh about sharing my uh my
transformation and my and my updates I
used to do a little post on Facebook
every two weeks and it's not the picture
I need to sell anything and you see so
much of that in this industry in the
health industry it's just it's just
really disturbing sometimes to see that
and uh but I do that in the fact that
there there is a solution uh no matter
how old you are or what your health
level is I mean you know 57 years old I
was you know plus over 300 and uh you
know if you kind of follow the follow
the plan and educate yourself and stay
focused uh it can certainly happen to
you even when you hit those soft spots
the uh the one of the barriers and then
that's when you you can just push
through those take assistant and do not
give up exactly well thank you so much I
appreciate your time and this is great I
think you're going to help a lot of
people from just telling your story this
is awesome thank you Dr Berg it's been a
pleasure and I look forward to the
update awesome all right have a great
day you too
