drinking excess water will do more harm
than good I wanted to do a video based
on this amazing book it's called water
log by Tim Noakes PhD this guy is the
authority in sports medicine his PhD
lucky has his MD and PhD in exercise
physiology and what he talks about in
this book is fascinating because it goes
completely against what we've been
taught that you have to drink eight
glasses of water every single day and
especially if you're exercising you have
to drink a lot of fluid to prevent
dehydration well this guy has done the
research and he found there is more
damage from over hydration especially
when you're exercising then dehydration
there's very little research that
indicates that dehydration is a problem
but there's some serious research
showing the serious side effects of over
hydration or what is called water
intoxication now if you're doing
exercise especially long-distance
running or marathons and this
information is vital okay because what
happens when you're drinking excessive
amounts of fluid you can deplete your
sodium levels okay and what'll happen
the brain can swell it puts a tremendous
amount of stress in your heart and
people have actually died from drinking
too much water the condition is called
hyponatremia I'll put a link down below
check it out so let's say for example
you're exercising you want to know if
you're over hydrated okay well here are
some of the symptoms do you have a
worsening headache do you have an
increased rising temperature even when
you stop exercising swelling in the
hands and the feet all of these could be
indicators that you just drank too much
water so the body has this amazing way
of letting you know when you need water
okay so you're ready for this are you
sitting down if you've checked out check
back in right now because this is very
important it's called thirst so when
you're thirsty drink more water when
you're not thirsty don't drink water
hey I appreciate your attention and if
you're enjoying these videos go ahead
and subscribe and I will definitely keep
you updated on future events live events
and webinars that we're going to do very
soon
