hey guys I'm back with five myths okay
that are completely wrong let's go
through them number one all that fat
will give you a heart attack have you
ever heard that before absolutely not
true
fat is only bad if you add the
carbohydrates okay like in you know ice
cream for example and if you add sugar
or carbs with protein I'm not talking
about vegetables and protein I'm talking
about sugar and protein that's bad
because that combination creates what's
called glycation and it gets you develop
sticky blood and all sorts of protein
and products that are very damaging to
the tissue so it's not bad for the heart
because you're lowering your
carbohydrate and at my next keto Summit
hopefully you can attend we have two
cardiologists that have been in practice
quite a while and they're going to be
speaking on this very topic so you might
want to come to that all right number
two low carbohydrate diets can starve
the brain right because our brain needs
carbohydrates or glucose it is true that
the brain runs on glucose but it can
also run on ketones okay which is the
byproduct of fat when you have
neurodegenerative diseases like
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's those
neurons are completely deprived of
glucose and that's why they're dying but
that's coming from insulin resistance
what causes insulin resistance chronic
consumption of carbohydrates chronic
elevation of insulin and what happens is
you start to block the availability of
insulin and starve the fuel for those
neurons when you bypass the whole
glucose thing and run your body and
ketones your neurons thrive and when you
add in a minute fasting which I always
recommend you will get neurogenesis the
regrowing of brain cells you're actually
brain grows back
so low-carb diets do not starve the
brain they feed the brain high
carbohydrate diets starve the brain
that's the truth take a look at any
diabetic who's on high carbohydrates
right they usually are very high risk
for all sorts of neurological problems
in neuro degeneration in the brain
number three high-protein diets can
cause bad breath and we'll just add in
their constipation right
I heard that before well first of all
the ketogenic diet is not a high-protein
diet okay it's a moderate protein diet
and that protein in the ketogenic diet
is very necessary because when you go
low protein there's all sorts of
complications including a loss of muscle
protein a lack of raw material for
repair and neurotransmitter production
so it's not the protein that caused the
bad breath the constipation it's the
excessive carbohydrates okay
but again the ketogenic diet is not high
protein it's a moderate protein and
before
Keele acidosis is a dangerous side
effect it is a dangerous side effect of
diabetic type one and sometimes a
diabetic type - who's on insulin but if
you're doing nutritional ketosis you are
actually bringing the person away from
diabetes type two you're preventing that
you're improving that you're not going
to get ketoacidosis by doing ketosis
this is pathological and the other is
very therapeutic
especially - even cancer cells alright
number five eating butter and bacon fat
is not sustainable long term well
actually a lot of people are gonna say
it is sustainable long term because if
you're adding more fat you're gonna
stick to it long longer because you're
satisfied but you're on a ketogenic diet
you're not just eating pure lard and fat
and bacon grease you're eating the whole
food and you're eating the fat with it
some people in the beginning add more
fat so they can go from one meal to the
next one fasting but it's not just a
high-fat diet it's a low carbohydrate
diet which just so happens to have
healthy fats in there and they're very
very healthy and we're also talking
about healthy butter like from grass-fed
cows and we're talking about organic
bacon you don't have to do make him I
mean what's really not sustainable and
very unhealthy is all the vegetable oils
like the corn oil and the soy oil that
people are pushing on you it's in all
the dressings it's in a lot of your food
in fact 25% of the food that you eat in
the grocery store is made from corn corn
oil I for
just corn syrup and definitely if you if
we add in their soy it's probably
another 20% a tremendous amount of food
is soy and corn especially in those oils
and that is very unhealthy long term
because it's GMO and that's glyphosate
residue and it's also badly processed so
the saturated fats have been around for
a very long time and they are really not
the bad guy alright guys thanks for
watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
