[Music]
you
[Music]
hey guys I'm here with Dave Feldman this
guy is awesome he basically is a an
outsider that can take complex subjects
about cholesterol and break them down
for the average person understand and
what I like about you you're a software
engineer so you actually think in logic
so you basically looked at this problem
from an engineering standpoint you know
and you actually just really figured out
because as you would agree that you
would think there's a lot of science and
medicine but there's doesn't seem to be
a lot of common sense when there comes
to own cholesterol there's so much
excitement around particular there there
really is a sort of prevailing I I want
to find a better word for this but a
prevailing attitude towards cholesterol
where it's sort of a almost a near
avoidance of finding good news that
associate suspect cholesterol with
positive outcomes yeah guys if you don't
know this Dave is going to be at our
summit okay and there's a couple little
things that we're gonna tell you right
now that we can't tell you fully but
there's potentially gonna be a release
of some new information that's quite
huge right Dave yes yes hopefully it'll
be done by that hopefully I mean one of
the things that I think a lot of people
can appreciate is it's kind of amazing I
always think that I've reached an apex
of the data that I've gathered both for
my own in of one experiments and those
who follow me and often I'm wrong often
in fact I don't know of a single time
I've been able to give a presentation
where at least 50% of it didn't have to
change from the last one it's it's very
common for me to have a whole lot of new
data and in particular one of the things
that has been a very impressive treasure
trove is this most recent experiment
where I literally gained weight and in
in the current phase of the weight loss
period of that same experiment I haven't
actually fully lost all of the weights
at a game and from
because this has never actually been
done before Eric and I'm pretty I'm
pretty excited to be able to have done
this is that we've never had people
who've gone on a low-carb fever genic
diet and throughout the whole process
took very wide spectrum of tests and so
I thought you know I'm I'm gonna go
ahead and just take this shot all the
time insisting that nobody else follow
my shoot there's a lot of people get
inspired by my experiments but I say
this is the one not to do because in
order to do it you have to induce a
state of hyperinsulinemia I I was adding
of course a lot of carbs and fat and
maintaining at such a level that I would
eventually I was trying to shoot for
gaining about twenty to twenty-five
pounds of fat body fat yeah and and for
what it's worth you really can do it
pretty quickly because that magic mix
going on particularly with the high
carbs I had my carbs up very very high
and it you know I got 219 pounds up I
didn't actually get to the 20 to 25 but
I'm okay with that knowing what I know
now I definitely gathered quite a lot it
the primary purpose I was going for
actually came back to cholesterol what I
was trying to do is I was trying to see
as many people see themselves when they
go on this diet and that had much higher
levels of body fat you may actually have
lower relative LDL cholesterol the
so-called bad cholesterol then you do as
you actually lose a lot of weight so I
wanted to both know okay does your LDL
cholesterol go up as you're losing
weight and also does your LDL tend to be
lower relative to what your LDL
cholesterol would be at when you are at
a lower rate if you say stall
so I actually had hoped to have stalled
right at the top right the peak there so
that I can make that comparison as it
happens I didn't almost as fast as when
I switched over to congenic diet again
the weight started coming off right away
but I got to answer that one question
which is as ldl-c
indeed go up as you lose weight and I
can share that with you now yes it does
nobody has as pristine a dataset as I do
I literally hit my hundredth blood draw
I want to say a week and a half ago and
in in doing so I have practically a
mapped metabolism like I could I joke
about this but I'm gonna probably do it
at some point I literally could get from
you I could have you write down a number
between 100 and 350 and I could move my
LDL cholesterol to within 20 milligrams
per deciliter of that number in like a
week like I've got it mapped out to that
degree without any supplements or
medication off Wow
yeah it's in a bottom line is without
question they can't keep this data down
for too long there's no single larger
influencer on your cholesterol levels
no single larger one then your
metabolism particularly your energy
metabolism and if you're powered more by
fat then you are powered more by
triglycerides carried in the LDL boats
if you will and those boats eventually
get remodeled to LDL particles now
there's some individual variability
between those but that's how I'm able to
accomplish that well the value of that
is that I've gotten later into these
phases of experiments to where I could
do this one which is I could say okay
well now that I know what my LDL
cholesterol will be at roughly when I'm
at a lower weight if I already gain
weight I can see what would happen to it
on the way up and I could see what would
happen to it on the way down but why
stop it cholesterol why not also take a
whole bunch of other tests people would
not normally take especially at the
switch off what would be for example my
inflammatory inflammatory markers like
il-6 like ferritin my c-reactive protein
of course like what happens to all of
these is it changes on top of that I got
a lot of physical metrics like for
example I got respiratory quotient as we
actually had the face mask on you're
actually checking how much you're
burning sugar versus burning fat so I've
got that map down but the most explosive
data that I can also share with you now
it's been my it's something called a
carotid
to media thickness test we you yes you
you actually what you do is and you may
already be familiar with this it's an
ultrasound that you get on the common
carotid arteries on the left and right
side of the neck and I've been getting
it about every six months starting and I
want to say mid-2016 so about a year
after I'd started keto and at that time
I was at a very high risk level which
definitely surprised me but with each of
the six months both my left and right
side regressed more and more regressed
so it's supposed to actually slowly
increase with your age but while I was
here genic I was slowly actually
thinning it on both sides the right side
was thicker and had dropped about a
hundred and fifty nanometers and the
left side was thinner but actually had
dropped another 50 itself and they came
to within one nanometer of each other's
size by November of last year
Wow okay so here's where we dropped the
bomb what then happened after I did this
standard American diet experiment right
would it have started moving in the
other direction I certainly was
speculating a lot on that publicly and I
was saying well I wouldn't be surprised
if it did hopefully it doesn't do it by
a lot and Eric I'm here to tell you that
it did go by a whole lot it actually
went to the highest on both sides Wow
yeah oh my god fact the right side which
had had 150 drop actually moved up I
want to say a hundred and sixty 170 so
it was technically the highest on that
side and the left side which had had
something like a 40 or 50 nanometer jock
had moved to the highest on its side
crossed 600 for the first time so when I
had been insisting nobody else followed
my suit this high yeah I not only I not
only feel strongly about it now but on
top of that I tell everybody I know hey
you know how you've always had like a
relative or you yourself who said hey
I'm gonna take a break from the diet for
the holidays
I say go check out my data here because
I'm gonna tell you I am NOT anxious to
repeat this experiment I why I'm glad I
did all this wide spectrum testing in
the first place and yeah I was just
gonna say guys if you if you didn't get
what he just said he basically did an
experiment to induce a stroke or heart
attack it didn't quite happen but limit
to see how far we could push himself and
basically created a thickening of the
walls on the carotid arteries
unbelievable
I will dad 100% concede that had I known
that the thickness of the carotid
arteries was going to climb that much
I'm I might not have done this
experiment at all it's very possible
what's a percentage like you said you're
talking about nanometers but what
percentage increase is that um gosh
that's that's I've never had it posed to
me that way
I guess you could say on one side it was
about this is really rough math but I'm
gonna say like maybe about 20% and on
the other side I want to say about 25% I
think the thing that'll matter the most
is per my age and gender I had moved
from the beginning of this up to
November of last year I had moved from a
high risk category to roughly a 20 to
30-percent group or even lower and some
I was even below of 20% and then in just
the six months and most likely from
those last four weeks just before the
test was taken I'd moved from that 20%
low-risk category up to 80 85 % risk
category on the thickness now without
question I am obviously banking on
reducing that success by going fully
ketogenic but here's the kicker Eric
this cannot be understated this is the
most important thing to take away from
this experiment for all of that time
coming up to November of last year my
LDL cholesterol was 200 milligrams per
deciliter or higher that was the average
my LDL particle count was roughly 2000
or higher right this is this is well
into the 90th percentile levels of
liberal proteins so if if indeed the
literature were correct that that alone
is a risk factor because see IMT this
carotid intima-media thickness that is
commonly considered to be at risk when
you have higher levels of LDL this
flatly flatly disproves this on an end
of one so so on a for a layperson
explain that in laypersons terminology
as far as the validity of going by LDL
verses other tests like well how do you
explain it to someone who doesn't know
about all this stuff I just that the I
would say that in the literature they
try to find proxies for atherosclerosis
which is the build-up of plaque in the
arteries and that's the reason they like
the common carotid artery this is this
is a fairly large artery it supplies a
lot of blood especially to the brain and
it oftentimes can show an increasing or
decreasing of thickening suggestive of a
thorough sporadic risk so with that in
mind usually getting a regular test is
is something I certainly recommend
because it gives you a sense of again
it's not a perfect proxy by any means
but it is a fairly commonly used one in
the studies and it's one that they'll
often point to to suggest that level of
risk well obviously it tends to track
with the things were used to being
associated with disease insulin of
course hyperinsulinemia
inflammation chronic inflammation and to
be sure
throughout this experiment I knew I was
creating a state of hyperinsulinemia but
I wasn't as far as I could tell
chronically inflamed or sick in some
ways some kind of special illness that
might have further influenced it it was
really seemingly from my perspective
just those four weeks of being on a
standard American diet and gaining
weight relatively quickly
that's that clearly is a cause for
concern now what will be curious is
whether or not it snaps back
as in maybe I see a very large decrease
within you know six months and my next
six much more whether it will decline at
the same rate as it was for the two
years that I was getting it every six
months and if that's the case that that
should only double down just how much
you want to be careful about going off
diet and gaining a lot of weight
especially cheating right so so then
explain the significance of the LDL you
mentioned that but I want you in simple
terms okay so yes LDL cholesterol again
is commonly referred to as the bad
cholesterol and you'll hear quite often
as I certainly do in reading the
literature that as that LDL is high and
they they tend to like you to be at
under a hundred milligrams per deciliter
an LDL of 99 or less is what they target
some will say if you're high-risk you
should be under seventy almost say even
if you're not a high risk that it's just
better to be under seventy but I am I'm
at double that through most of my
ketogenic diet on average except for
certain experiments where I'm
intentionally manipulating it and given
that given that I'm at 200 or haider I
would certainly expect that my C IMT
would be thickening at a higher rate if
the literature is correct this also
applies to I know I kind of touched on
LDL particles those are the boats that
carry the LDL cholesterol with them and
that too tends to get looked at and
literature especially in the more
advanced literature where they say you
know you I'm sure you've talked about
the small dense versus the big fluffy
particles LDL particles well just the a
lot of lipid ologist today would say
it's just the total number and you want
that number below 1,000 so if you want
that below a thousand in order to reduce
your risk erotic risk certainly if
you're like me and running at 2,000 or
higher again well into the 90th
percentile if you were to grab you know
a million random people in the United
States you're going to find that you
have to be above the 90th percentile to
have that
particle count and to be sure I can't
say for sure and until I could see you
know post versus pre-medicated and so
forth but all that said without question
I feel that if I went to lipid ology
conference today I said hey what do you
suppose the odds are that somebody can
be running and an LDL cholesterol of
above 200 and I'll be a particle count
of about 2,000 and that their carotid
intima-media thickness intima-media
thickness would actually be thinning and
kind of tempted to go to lipid ology
conference and place bets to raise money
on my research so that's incredible
last time I talked to you you talked
about cholesterol and caring
triglycerides in that Seibel vitamins
and I think vitamin E touch in that in
very simple terms so people can just
understand that the LDL is not the bad
guy it's there to do a purpose I have a
job it has a function your body makes it
my goodness I hope you have a few hours
to spare because it's two minutes yeah
but the summit you I know you're gonna
cover everything at the summit in detail
and make it really clear so this is just
a little teaser guys just FYI
absolutely so without question for what
you talked about there's fat soluble
vitamins a d e and K that are carried by
LDL particles and these these are these
are vitamins your cells need and the
degree of accessibility to your tissues
matters so you find that a lot of people
have very low levels very low levels of
LDL particles the boats that carry these
vitamins they end up having deficiencies
lots of nutrient deficiencies associated
with this because your tissues do in
fact need them but there's another part
of the story that I find fascinating
it's rarely talked about allele
particles are a key part of your immune
defense you actually have they've
actually found that people who had a
genetic disease and many currently do
today called familial
hypercholesterolemia often abbreviated
to F H F H often ends up being an
advantage towards things like infection
the more LDL particles you have the more
they can help to fight the disease and
that makes sense because they have
antioxidants onboard vitamin E is in
fact an antioxidant and antioxidants
their job is to neutralize free radicals
which are reactive oxygen species so the
more of those you have in play sitting
on the shell of these LDL particles the
phospholipid shell the more capability
you have to neutralize these reactive
oxygen species and so it ends up
becoming a net advantage towards a lot
of this illness particularly in that
fashion so that's just to I'm just going
to fit in with a third one a third one
is is that you'll find a lot of people
have an easier time recovering when
they're on a low-carb high-fat diet and
there's hopefully gonna be more that I
can talk about with this a little bit
later but particularly for my own
research I find that there's a drop in
LDL cholesterol and LDL particle count
following extensive and rigorous
exercise on my part and I believe that's
because as it turns out virtually every
cell in your body has something known as
receptor mediated endocytosis I know
it's a technical word but basically it
just means it can engulf LDL particles
which makes sense because LDL particles
happen to have lots of phospholipids and
cholesterol which guess what every
membrane of every cell in your body has
as well so they can use those raw
materials for repair and growth and
that's very important yeah and making
hormones testosterone and so there's a
couple things that I want to just kind
of end off with so let me just kind of
let's see you basically there's a good
chance you'll be done with some research
that you'll be able to reveal at the
summit ok there's good there's like 80%
chance guys so we're crossing our
fingers on that one and
so you mentioned something some new data
about weight gain loss experience which
which is kind of covered just now that
yeah you're talking I all have some new
data on that but I I don't want to I
don't want to mention it until I have
the analysis done that's totally fine
this is top secret information guys
you're you got to come to summit to
hopefully get it have it be revealed
this is awesome so guys we're doing a
summer October 13th and 14th in Maryland
it's going to be at the Gaylord hotel
and you'll come in Friday night and stay
for the weekend we have about seven or
eight speakers if you include myself
which you will and we're excited so
Dave's gonna really cover this topic on
cholesterol which is he's like a human
guinea pig he does massive amounts of
tests on himself and he tracks
everything he's meticulous very
organized so he's gonna be able to
summarize this data which we really
appreciate you going through this so we
don't have to do do it ourselves
you could just tell us what are the
results yeah yes I'm very excited for
the conference I think it's gonna be a
lot of fun oh yeah we're planning it's
gonna be mind-blowing people are gonna
just it's going to be one of the biggest
events around so definitely stay tuned
for more information guys definitely
show up I'll put a link down below if
you haven't seen the website yet thanks
Dave for coming on and we'll be seeing
you at the event
thank you proud to me
