um my name is Tracy Morin I live um in
the area I live in Stafford I'm
relatively new to the east coast I've
been here just a couple of
years um Dr
bur uh I go to CPC 7th Adventist Church
and Dr Berg would come and do seminars
at our church and so I had been to a
couple of his seminars and decided that
I had a few questions and concerns that
you know he might be able to address or
help me with so um I decided to come
here my sister and I we came together
and um to you know address some of my
health concerns um some of the things
that I will um had concerns with or
wanted a little help with um I wanted to
lose some weight not a whole lot of
weight but about 20 lbs that I've been
struggling with back and
forth um
I was having a lot of trouble with sleep
I did not have good quality sleep at
all
um hot
flashes um I was taking some um an herb
for hot flashes and night sweat so that
was something that I um needed some help
with oh my goodness I sleep real good I
sleep like a baby now yeah I sleep good
because I was having trouble I never had
problem falling asleep but I would have
trouble staying asleep I would wake up
at approximately 4:00 in the morning and
he has um in his book um seven
principles of fat burning he has a a
picture of someone that with my um my
concerns the adrenal type he has a
picture of someone looking at the clock
at 4:00 in the morning and I thought oh
my God that's that's me right there and
so um no I can go to sleep and either
stay asleep or wake up go to the
bathroom and go back to sleep and that
was something that just I don't know I
don't even know how long but I'd been
having trouble with sleep for a long
time so that that was a big thing for me
um I I've lost weight I didn't lose the
number of pounds that I was looking to
lose however I think with his system it
it works different because even though I
haven't lost the number of pounds my
body is the size
that
I I'm I'm in the size clothes that I
could wear when I had lost that number
of pounds so I may have lost only half
of the pounds number-wise but my body
can fit into those clothes into all my
small clothes so I guess it's not about
the numbers because um I'm wearing my
small clothes so doesn't matter what the
scale says Dr Berg is a doctor that
believes in a lot of the things that I'm
somewhat familiar with and and a lot of
things that I knew nothing about so you
know I'm totally um um sold out to him
you know I believe in what he's saying
and what he's doing for sure this is
your health you have nothing to lose to
come and hear what he has to say you
know whether you believe it or not I
think a lot of times even if you don't
believe something fully you can't help
it just it's in there you've heard it
and it it um it just makes you um makes
you think about it and I think it makes
you more aware so even if you don't do
things 100% you know when you're doing
something that is not the best you're
you're fully aware of it and it it it
may make you do it less or you know only
do it for a moment you know you're not
going to just stay in that because you
know you know better you know it's not
good for you
