I'd like to discuss uh some really key
points about when to take probiotics or
even consuming Probiotic foods because
how those microbes going to survive
strong stomach acid in your stomach so
do they survive the stomach at all
that's the topic of today now there's a
couple things you need to know about
microbes microbes literally run the
world they convert carbon nitrogen
oxygen and sulfur to available forms
that plants and animals can use that all
life forms can use I mean even
photosynthesis right everyone thinks
that the plant is responsible for most
of the photosynthesis where they're
converting light and air and water into
these biochemicals and fuel but did you
know that the microbes contribute to
photosynthesis the most so you have
microbes in the soil you have microbes
in The Roots you have microbes in the
plants you have microbes and animals you
have microbes in and on our bodies in
fact there are 10x more microbes living
inside and on our bodies than our cells
and so our bodies are mostly composed of
microbes and all plants and animals have
a very close important relationship in
that they help make nutrients available
they provide immune protection they
protect against pathogens they help you
detoxify they help you digest food they
help make vitamins they help digest
things that you can't digest like fiber
some medications are also made from
microbes like antibiotics they're made
from microbes and as a side note anytime
you take an antibiotic always at the
same time take a probiotic just to
prevent a Candida infection because it's
some microbes that keep this candida in
check and when you take an antibiotic
it might kill off a good portion of
those microbes but the ones that don't
die become now resistant to the microbes
and they become stronger and harder to
kill
this is why it's not a good idea to take
a lot of antibiotics and then we have
fermented foods right all the foods that
you probably love you have breads
chocolate cheese Beer wine sourdough
bread a pizza crust anything that's
fermented
comes from microbes and a lot of
information that you read about
microbes being killed by the stomach
acids come from like one small study I
think it was in 2014 by the University
College of London they just measured
eight probiotics and then they measured
how these eight probiotics survived the
stomach acids and only one of them
survived that's an area that's really
understudied but you have hydrochloric
acid that can kill microbes if it's
strong enough but you also have the bile
salts can also affect the microbiome
because one purpose of bile is to help
keep the microbes from existing in the
small intestine preventing this thing
called small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth where you're getting bloated
no matter what you eat okay so the thing
you need to know the stomach normally
should be between one and three which as
far as the acidity of that hydrochloric
acid that's extremely acid and acid does
kill many microbes not all of them but a
good portion of them and certain
microbes can live in certain PHS they're
very very resilient some microbes can
live without oxygen so a normal healthy
stomach the young person the pH
should be between one and three right
but as we age we lose that pH and when I
was in practice I used to test the pH in
the stomach of a lot of patients and
very rarely would I ever find anyone
with a pH of one to three right it's
usually four or five sometimes six
sometimes even seven and three big
purposes of that stomach being very very
acidic is for you to digest protein uh
kill pathogens to prevent microbes from
going through the stomach and then the
third thing is to help you absorb
minerals so here are some things that
you can do to increase the survivability
of these microbes for a probiotic going
through the stomach you can dilute the
acid by taking the probiotic or
Probiotic foods and preferably after the
meal also the time of day can influence
the pH of your stomach
earlier in the day the pH is less acidic
like in the morning it's about a four
and then of course I don't recommend
doing breakfast but if you do breakfast
that would probably be the best time to
take it but maybe you take your
probiotics um at your first meal at
lunch or even at dinner because just the
fact that you're diluting this acid with
food is going to help the survivability
and so we're dealing with how acid
something is and how long those microbes
are exposed to that acid so let's say
for example uh you're fasting and you
want to take probiotics maybe you just
drink more water when you take them
diluting some of the acid allowing
limited exposure because the water is
going to kind of go through the stomach
pretty fast and so are the probiotics
now when we take the probiotics in
fermented vegetables like sauerkraut or
kimchi we're dealing with different
microbes like the lactic acid bacillus
and they're a whole family or community
of those they're not just one and those
microbes can survive a pH of two point
0.5 or 3 hours and the other thing you
need to know when you take a probiotic
is uh probably not the best thing to
take it when you're drinking apple cider
vinegar with the water or even when you
add the lemon water because both of
those are acidic take it at a different
time of the day and just as a side note
the probiotics that I recommend mostly
do survive the stomach pH even if it is
a stronger pH and another point about
like kefir or yogurt
I like taking a little kefir okay that's
a little bit better than yogurt unless
you find a really good source like
Bulgarian yogurt and I take a little bit
of that after the meal and maybe I'll
put some lilies sugar-free chocolate
chips in there but that way the microbes
have the best chance of surviving you
have to also realize that when you
consume raw plants grown on soil there's
actually microbes in those plants too
and so they can potentially act as a
probiotic but unfortunately a lot of the
vegetables that we eat at the grocery
store are not grown in soils especially
in the winter maybe they're grown
hydroponically or even aeroponically or
grown in some
spongy type material or medium that
doesn't give you the microbes that soil
based plants will give you now since I
did touch on this condition which is
becoming more popular sibo small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth
I did a really good video on that you
should check it out I put it up right
here
