hi guys Hey listen I wanted to do a
little video on ketogenic Nays okay so
there's some people out there that are
telling you not to do the ketogenic diet
so I want to cover some points that kind
of come up and comes up in the comments
a lot so I'm just going to explain my
viewpoint on this so this is an article
uh it says is ketogenic diet right for
you nutritious nutritionist weigh in of
course the nutritionist is actually
dieticians weigh in and I'll get to that
in a minute so let's take a look first
thing cutting out carbs is usually an
invitation to overeat them at another
Point okay well listen the whole point
of the ketogenic diet is to get rid of
the Cravings get rid of The Hunger so
you're not going to eat carbs your
cravings for carbs are going to go away
when you're actually in fat burning so
obviously whoever wrote this never have
been and they've never put anyone in
ketosis they haven't been in ketosis to
know for sure that's true okay so now uh
let's see here goes into
would someone lose weight this is
interesting check this out yes you can
lose weight on a ketogenic diet one
reason is that the body burns fat as
fuel another is that you can't eat many
of your favorite foods like the crusty
bread potato chips and sugar Laten
pastries plus all that fat keeps you
full so you can just skip your usual 300
p.m. snack because you're not hungry
that's true all this is great you're
absolutely right but the nutritionist
the dietitians we're Adit that if you
want to slim down this is not the way to
go really says generally whenever you do
something like this it's extreme well
first of all if you're not losing weight
that's why you're going to try something
different you're going to change
something so if you say cut out all the
junk food and carbs is Extreme then yes
it's extreme but I'm looking at it is
something that is actually a very
healthy uh
extreme um
most extreme things you lose weight but
that doesn't mean it's
good that doesn't mean it's healthy well
I'll tell you what's not healthy is the
amount of sugar that people eat 31
teaspoons a day that's not healthy all
we're doing is we're cutting it down all
the sugar sugar out of the diet and the
carbs down to about 50 gram but we're
including all the vegetables so it's
extremely healthy um here's another one
it's not sustainable nor is it good for
you in most cases you're just dying to
have that Cracker I'm sorry cracker uh
so the weight gain is usually pretty
quick as well well first of all no it's
not you're not going to die to consume a
cracker you're not going to want a
cracker you're not going to have any
desire for crackers anymore because your
cravings for crackers are completely
going away um and most of you that are
on a keto giant know that but they've
never put any anyone on it so I mean
that's the whole point is to when you
get your body burning fat you don't need
to run your body on cracks okay so
bottom line it says the ketogenic diet
is very restrictive plan that most
people can't stick with well first of
all it is um a diet that someone can
stick to especially if they're seeing
better results especially if they're not
hungry as much anymore uh especially if
they're doing in minute fasting and they
have energy and they're feeling great um
the diet that people can't stick to is
what their recom commanding which is the
blood sugar that comes up and down and
you're trying to lose weight with
Cravings you're not it's not going to
work says right here but nutritionists
say people with heart disease and
diabetes should especially stay away
well it's just the opposite if you have
heart disease you need to lower your
refined carbohydrates in your sugars you
need to lower the amount of uh glucose
that your body is running on in fact the
ketogenic diet and I'm going to put some
links down below are one of the best
things for your heart your brain um and
especially diabetes because it corrects
insulin resistance so they have this
serious
misunderstood with um the area of
insulin they do not understand what
insulin is because they just ignore it
all right says if you're eating more
well balanced meals like carbohydrates
that are high in
fiber fiber whole grains you'll feel
good too yeah but you're not going to
lose weight okay so I mean the the goal
is to lose weight so here's the thing
the ketogenic
diet I mean I'm going to put some
research down below but it is the
overall easiest thing to do maybe not
the first two weeks but after that when
you don't crave when you don't you're
not hungry anymore when you can go for
hours without eating and you see the
results that's motivating okay it's
healthiest for the brain the heart
there's been great uh studies on
improving Ms diabetes blood sugars
insulin resistance uh preventing high
cholesterol I mean you name it it's
incredible so um anyway when I see that
I laugh now one last point I want to
bring bring up is there basically said
the nutritionists but they're really
dietitians now here's the problem I have
with some dietitians they are so
connected with the fast food industry
you got cocacola craft Nestle Pepsi
colola
okay I mean the whole message is sugar
is okay to give kids you know it's like
it's amazing so that's really what's
going on um there's a lot of um Social
Media stuff put out by dietitians that
is just a front group for the fast food
industry I mean here's what they
recommend enjoy fast foods weekly okay
barbecue chicken sandwiches no barbecue
chicken sandwiches okay so you have the
bread there whole grain buns bean
burritos vegetarian pizza so you can do
that occasionally drink no more than one
diet soda a day well why are you going
to even drink it at all you know
aspartame Pizza KN night okay so whole
grain crust you can do pizza night uh
pump up the protein weigh soy and egg
whites keep it low fat though uh then it
says have alcohol only on weekends keep
it to one to two drinks well if you
allow the person to do all those things
you're never going to get in ketosis
like I said before when you go have that
cheat day it could knock you out for I'm
sorry to say about a week it could knock
you out a week because it takes a while
to get into ketosis so this is the
problem if you do it that way you're on
a roller coaster you're going to be
suffering and not losing any weight all
right anyway put your comments below
thanks for
watching hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you report
