so today we're going to discuss and
answer the question can a ketogenic diet
cause a fatty liver if you're not
consuming enough vegetables okay I've
done a video on this in the past but I
didn't really explain where I got this
data from so I'm gonna show you right
now it's the same cold Guyton's
physiology okay it says effect of
insulin lack on causing a fatty liver so
they're talking about when you have in
CELAC or not enough insulin or low
insulin in relationship to it causing a
fatty liver okay now that's weird
because Here I am reading this and
seeing people improve their fatty livers
with the ketogenic diet but then I see
Gaytan talking about it can cause a
fatty liver this is weird so I could
just ignore it or just try to understand
what he's talking about he has a lot of
great data in this book and some of his
other books and so I just didn't want to
dismiss it I wanted to kind of dig
further to see if there's actually any
connection because it's conflicting okay
so it says this strange isn't me seem
though insulin lack causes dissolution
of the fat stores which is talking about
dissolving of the fat stores in adipose
tissue it causes a great increase in the
amount of storage triglycerides in the
liver leading to a very fatty liver the
reason is the following the excess of
free fatty acids in the blood causes
rapid diffusion of fatty acids into the
liver cells so when you do research you
not only need to type in ketosis or the
ketogenic diet with fatty liver but
ketogenic diet with this term liver
stenosis which basically means fatty
liver and you're gonna find some
interesting studies that pull up you're
gonna see a combination of animal
studies and Studies on children with
epilepsy okay
now when you actually read the animal
studies you're gonna see a link between
the ketogenic diet and developing a
fatty liver but again with the animal
studies you have to question what diet
they put them on I've done other videos
on a high-fat diet which really with the
animal child that they fed them a
high-fat diet is really a high fat plus
the high sugar diet but they also have
a ketogenic diet for four mice okay and
I want to show you what they are giving
these mice ingredients lard butter corn
oil make mental note of that
casein cellulose mineral mix Vitamix and
dextrose which is synthetic sugar and
the vitamins are synthetic by the way so
I'm gonna put a link down below of some
interesting data on genetically modified
oils specifically corn oil and soy oil
and this is what they found
soy oil and corn oil can induce a fatty
liver even more than fructose okay
so I really think it's the corn oil in
this mice Chow that's creating the fatty
liver not the ketogenic diet because the
diet that you're on and the diet that I
recommend is not this version okay and
also the casein is probably it's a type
a1 which is inflammatory it's probably
not an a2 and corn oil is really omega-6
and it's going to create inflammatory
conditions to not just the fatty liver
so which can lead to all sorts of other
problems so you can pretty much just
ignore the animal studies about let's
switch gears to the children's studies
okay let's see what they say
here's one right here is ketogenic diet
treatment hepatotoxic for children with
epilepsy so this is what they found they
found an increase in alt that's a very
specific enzyme in the liver that
indicates liver damage and a fatty liver
and liver D ptosis which is a fatty
liver are the most frequent hepatic side
effects of a ketogenic diet now wait a
second how can that be so many people
get benefit and this study images it can
cause if I deliver in five point seven
percent of the children doing it and
then here's another study the influence
in the ketogenic diet and liver function
in children and adolescents with
epilepsy okay and this one did
significant effects on serum levels of
alt that's that liver enzyme I talked
about alright so let's dig further on
what these children
were put on ok as far as a diet is it
the same diet that you're on absolutely
and not so the foods that they put these
kids on which is called the traditional
ketogenic diet include you know
prepackaged can foods like keto kale
which is refined soy oils we talked
about that over here corn syrup solids
corn starch here's one called
RC F which is Ross carbohydrate formula
soy formula with iron genetically
modified oils like corn and soil can
induce a fatty liver even more than
fructose now the other foods that these
kids were consuming were things like
chicken and probably not organic with
mayonnaise again more soy oil usually so
they're kind of doing it what's called a
version of keto which is dirty keto
which I don't recommend okay and that
would be like doing Cheez Whiz for
example or a diet soda or fast food
without the bun they're still lowering
insulin so you've seen the benefits of
that but they're not using quality
ingredients so if you allow certain
things to slip in the diet like these
genetically modified soy oils or
dextrose or multi dextran that could
potentially be the reason why guy Tina
talks about it creating a fatty liver
now the next topic I want to talk about
is vegetables why would you want to
increase your vegetables on a ketogenic
diet first of all I think it enhances
the nutrient profile now can you get all
of your nutrients from a carnivore dabbe
absolutely if it's done healthily if
you're doing organ meats if you're doing
cod liver oil high quality fish and
seafood but if you're doing an unhealthy
version of the carnivore diet or even
the ketogenic diet you're going to set
yourself up for a lot of problems so how
do vegetables protect you against the
fetid liver number one they have the
highest concentration of nitrates now
when you think of nitrates you think of
like nitrates and bacon right like
sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate no
we're not talking about that nitrite
that's a chemical we're talking about
the natural form of nitrates in
vegetables that are beneficial to your
heart and they also have the
to protect against a fatty liver they've
been known to actually help you decrease
blood pressure support cardiovascular
function especially the inside the
artery I'll put some links down below
that's just one thing plus the fiber in
the vegetables can provide the microbes
the food it needs to then give you B
jerk acid which can lower insulin
because it improves insulin resistance
it helps your blood sugars that's one
thing right there also the the microbes
help you recycle bile 90% of the bile
salts that are made by the liver are
recycled through the gut microbes so if
you don't have all the microbes
potentially you can have a lower amount
of bile in the body and potentially you
can have a backup of cholesterol and fat
in the liver because bio helps to
extract the excess of cholesterol and
fat in the liver bile also helps prevent
gall stones by the way and then you have
phytonutrients ok phytonutrients are the
things and vegetables that actually help
protect the tissues from damage their
antioxidants they can help detoxify
chemicals they can help reduce
inflammatory conditions in the liver
then you have other nutrients as well
you have vitamin C vitamin E and then
you have the minerals which is magnesium
and potassium in the vegetables which
can help improve the high insulin state
which actually is the primary driver for
fatty liver so the question can a
ketogenic diet causes a fatty liver if
you're not consuming enough vegetables
potentially I think he can if you're
doing an unhealthy version of keto guys
thanks for watching I'll see you next
video so I want to thank you for being
here and watching my videos if you
haven't already subscribed go ahead and
do so so you can stay informed of future
videos
