hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I
want to share with you a really good
benefit of lemons and a lemon a day will
keep the kidney stones away let me tell
you why because so many people are
trying to get healthy nowadays so
they're adding more kale to the diet
more spinach more leafy greens and then
they may end up with a kidney stone why
because some of those foods are high in
oxalates and what's an oxalate an
oxalate is a certain chemical that can
combine with calcium in your body and
possibly develop kidney stones okay now
I had a kidney stone a long time ago and
it is the worst thing on the planet I
was you I just lost my sense of humor
really fast but the point is that what
what dissolves oxalate Stones is citric
acid in the lemon okay so I make sure I
have at least one lemon every single day
and I put it in my water or I'll take
the lemon juice I like the organ organic
I like the Italian lemon juice it's
volcano lemon juice if you can find it
in the healthy store or just get organic
lemon juice okay don't get the regular
stuff get the organic stuff and do maybe
like 2 ounces of lemon juice in the
water every day and you will not have to
worry about kidney stones it really
works and you can even put it in that
kale shake that you drink as well um the
other thing is that if you take a real
lemon make sure that you get the organic
lemons because there's a lot of
pesticides on them or if you you know if
you don't get an organic lemon and you
get a regular one just make sure you
wash it really really well before you
start cutting it because sometimes
people even at a restaurant they cut up
the lemon you don't you're just getting
pesticides you put it right in the water
you don't want to do that okay so it's a
real simple tip go ahead and start
adding at least one lemon to your diet
every single day I will see you in the
next video
