now you probably heard this a million
times we're whole grains are better than
refined grains and whole grains are
healthy grains right
well most whole grains have gluten in
them now gluten is a protein in certain
grains especially wheat now when you
think of gluten you may think of
condition called celiac which is an
autoimmune condition where your body is
developing antibodies against your own
small intestine and so you have this
constant inflammatory condition in your
small intestine and the little cilia
that help you absorb in the small
intestine are damaged
now people associate gluten with
digestive problems and there's another
condition related to gluten that's
destroying your brain way more than your
digestive system it's called gluten
ataxia ataxia is a lack of voluntary
coordination of muscle movement so your
gait is off you don't have good balance
you're having a problem with speech your
eyes your posture because there's damage
to a part of the brain the back part
called the cerebellum that controls this
so gluten ataxia is an autoimmune
disease triggered by gluten destroying
the cerebellum and only 10% the time do
you have gastrointestinal symptoms now
when they investigate further and do
certain deeper tests they do find 40% of
these cases have GI damage but only 10%
of them have this symptoms which is
interesting because you would think that
if it affected your brain it would
affect your gut but in this case it's
affecting your brain obviously more than
the digestive system and out of all the
categories of ataxia with an unknown
cause 40% of them aren't this right here
now a big problem is that once you get
the damage it's very difficult to
reverse damage to your cerebellum and
you just don't end up one day with
ataxia it starts slowly and it
progresses so you may notice that your
focus isn't quite right you're
developing attention and concentration
problems you get brain fog you start
getting anxiety depression you have a
cognitive decline where you're not
remembering things anymore these could
be the early signs of a problem with the
cerebellum now if you've been following
my channel you're not consuming grains
so you're completely safe but for those
of you that are new you might want to
consider not consuming grains for this
reason and the other big point I want to
bring up regarding gluten free is that
when you take gluten out of the grains
you still have grains and those grains
turn the sugar very very fast they're
gonna spike your insulin they're gonna
create a lot of other problems with
elevated blood sugar belly fat and the
list goes on
none and lastly if you're new to my
channel and you want to know what to eat
I put a link down below check it out so
if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
