hello Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about insulin resistance
and vitamin deficiencies okay this is
actually quite fascinating it's very
interesting because really if you look
at it what insulin is it's a key that
unlocks the door to open the cell to
allow the cell not just to have fuel not
just to regulate blood sugars but to
absorb amino acids if you take a
diabetic um they're they're they can't
absorb amino acids like a person without
with normal blood sugar so they're going
to have atrophy of the muscle weakness
in the muscle loss of collagen
throughout the entire body and even at
the cellular level so this key is very
very important in a lot of nutrients
essential nutrients okay essential amino
acids also potassium you probably
already know that uh from some of the
other videos and magnesium this key
allows the transportation of potassium
magnesium into the cell okay it's
involved in potassium going in and out
of the cell that's nerve conduction
that's muscle contraction relaxation
it's a lot of different things um
phosphates to go in and out of the cell
that's another mineral okay so that's
very interesting but there are a lot of
other vitamins that are also associated
with insulin resistance so when you have
insulin resistance okay which is a
condition where the body the key doesn't
work anymore you're also going to have
problems with vitamin A deficiencies
vitamin B deficiencies vitamin C
deficiencies vitamin D vitamin E and K
deficiencies because and I'm going to
put some links down below when you take
these vitamins in their natural form you
can improve insulin resistance okay so
vitamin A taking vitamin A will improve
insulin resistance it actually fixes
this it improves the key to work better
in the body uh vitamin B let's take
vitamin B uh deficiencies if you take a
diabetic um and you look at one of the
first sypt they get it's peripheral
neuropathies that's pain and burning on
the hands or the feet it could be
numbness but it's mainly like a burning
pain that is a vitamin B deficiency
because B vitamins are necessary for the
U formation of myelin around the nerves
one way to correct uh uh that condition
would be to take some B vitamins but you
want to get them in the uh fat sble form
because normally B vitamins are water
sble so you want to get them in fat
cable form I'll put a link down below if
you need to get that but the point is
that having too much insulin can create
a B vitamin deficiency and create all
sorts of problems with your metabolism
now I just created several videos on
vitamin C deficiencies with too much
insulin as well vascular um problems
with uh um broken damage uh arteries
which then cause clotting and uh spider
veins and bleeding gums and a whole
bunch of other issues fatigue vitamin D
deficiencies too by taking vitamin D
cival Oil um or sun you can improve
insulin resistance vitamin E
deficiencies that's the heart that's the
skin that's the hormones vitamin K
bruising calcium deficiencies are
involved as well with insulin omega-3
fatty acids you can take omega-3 fatty
acids flax oil fish oil and improve
insulin resistance okay chromium also so
is a great mineral to improve insulin
resistance so we got two situations okay
we have you can fix insulin resistance
by cutting out the sugar doing
intermittent fasting doing a ketogenic
diet which will automatically improve
the absorption of these
nutrients and at the same time you can
take the nutrients from food
concentrates or just actual food in the
right amounts and improve insulin
resistance so they both work hand in
hand you cannot fix diabetes or or
pre-diabetes which is insulin resistance
without consuming nutrient-dense foods
and I'm talking large salads high
quality Protein healthy fats okay thanks
for watching put your comments
below hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
