so I wanted to create this quick video
if you haven't already heard the
American Diabetes Association finally
acknowledges that the low-carb diet is
beneficial for type 2 diabetes so this
is great step in the right direction
this is what they said reducing overall
carbohydrate intake for individuals with
diabetes has demonstrated the most
evidence for improving glycaemia this is
blood sugars okay so that's great a
little problem and that they didn't
define what a low carb diet means okay
so kind of alluded to the fact that it's
you know from other things that they
said it was like 40% carbohydrates which
is still way too high okay because their
previous recommendations was something
like 45 to 65% so they're eluding to 40%
but they don't really define what a low
carbohydrate diet is in the ketogenic
world it's 5% okay
and they also mentioned this the most
important factor in weight loss is not a
specific diet okay well yes it is a very
specific diet but the ability to stick
to it okay many people find low carb
diets easier to stick to now I do
understand why they had to say this
because they have a group of people who
come together I don't know who makes up
the group but it's certain people on the
board and they had to find one point
that everyone agrees on and it's
definitely not going to be a specific
diet because there's too many different
viewpoints but they did at least
acknowledge the ability to stick to it
and you can read to the lines because
this is going to be a keto low-carb and
in a minute fasting so even though they
didn't mention keto keto is low carb and
that's fine too so for those of you that
have been waiting this whole time
waiting for the American Diabetes
Association to finally tell you it's
okay to do a low carb diet I put a link
down below so you can get started
immediately thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
