so I wanted to do this video on protein
because it's a common confusion with so
many people we're gonna answer the
question how much dietary protein do you
need to consume to prevent the loss of
muscle but let me just talk about one
piece of this problem at a time
okay the RDAs the recommended dietary
allowance for protein is 0.8 grams of
protein per kilogram in weight okay now
I'm from the US so we don't use kilogram
we don't use grams as much we use pounds
so if you're from other parts of the
world this would make sense to you but
if you're from the US this is gonna make
more sense this formula which is
basically 0.36 times your pounds okay so
I weigh 185 pounds so I would times 0.36
times one into five and that comes out
to sixty-seven grams of protein per day
that's how much I'm supposed to consume
ok there's many problems with this
recommendation which I'll get into but
that's the minimum amount that I would
need now if we just take a steak for
example okay a hundred grams of steak
which is a little over three ounces but
let's just say it's three ounces to make
it simple realize that this hundred gram
weight of steak only gives us 25 grams
of actual protein because most of it is
water now this might be shocking to you
you're only getting a small portion of
that being protein and a half we take it
one step further and I'm not gonna even
talk about the absorption of the protein
I'll talk about that next slide but I'm
talking about how much of this protein
actually turns into muscle or body
tissue this is number two turning into
body tissue well let's take a look at
the type of protein first we got breast
milk which actually 49 percent of breast
milk turns into body tissue eggs 48
percent that means 50
2% of those eggs do not turn in the body
tissue they're either used as fuel or is
just wasted okay through the urine and
eggs are at the top of list because we
really can't get access to breast milk
alright so now we have meat fish poultry
32 percent okay so that's even lower so
you could imagine how much waste is
occurring when you consume meat and fish
so if we take 25 grams okay and then we
take 32 percent of that which comes out
to roughly a little more than 7 grams
okay so now we're getting with the
actual amount of protein that's turning
in the body tissue 7 grams so the RDAs
are very confusing because are they
talking about actual absorption or are
they talking about turning in the body
tissue it's almost impossible to find
this information I have not found it ok
all I know is that out of the steak
you're only getting like 7 grams okay
which is a very small amount now you
might be thinking well I'll just eat
more protein yes okay you could do that
but realize with that extra protein
comes more waste and comes more product
as fuel okay so it can turn into sugar
so you have that aspect I'm not saying
it's gonna be a big problem for blood
sugars but I'm just saying that you're
not getting as much as you think turning
in the body tissue then when we get into
dairy like cheese or way you're only
getting 17 percent of that turning in
the body tissue it's even less egg
whites without the yolk look at that
that's actually 16% so just goes to show
you how important it is to consume
protein in its whole form with fat you
do not want to consume lean protein as
in way you want to do natural the whole
package the fat and the protein same
time look at soy 17% so the egg whites
and soy are very low on the list so you
could imagine if this was soy and you'd
take 17 percent of that so it's just a
fraction
spirulina is only 6% not very much
now in a recent video I did I talked
about actually taking essential amino
acids in addition to your own protein
and the reason I like that is that you
can give you a 99% effect I'm turning
into body tissue with only a 1% waist so
presently I'm doing that to enhance my
protein amounts ok so let's look at the
next slide and this has to do with the
other variables that influence your
proteins number one absorption this is
why it's very difficult to determine how
much protein an average person needs I'm
gonna give you some ideas in a bit but
let's first talk about some of the other
barriers you're gonna run into number
one insulin resistance most people have
a problem with this they're not able to
absorb the amino acids because they're
they have insulin resistance but as you
start getting in Quito and Amana fasting
that improves so you're absorbing more
amino acids now the other problem with
that is that you're not consuming as
much carbohydrates which means your
insulin is also going lower it's
becoming more effective but it's going
lower and insulin is an anabolic hormone
so it actually helps you make protein so
with some people especially if they're
exercising we may want to keep their
carbs at 50 grams instead of 20 ok which
will actually give them a little more
insulin to keep up with the activity but
people that are not exercising will do
much better at a smaller amount let's
say 20 grams because first of all
they're not going to need as much
protein if we keep the carbs low they'll
do fine with the small amount of insulin
so it really there's just a lot of
things going on here so we have insulin
resistance we have the amount of stomach
acid that person has most everyone over
the age of 50 especially when they get
the 60 70 and 80 they start losing your
stomach acid now they can't even break
down the protein at the stomach level so
they're gonna nearly always be
protein deficient and it shows up in a
loss of collagen poor joint function
fatigue and sagging skin now if the
person has a problem with their pancreas
let's say they're diabetic and their
pancreas is exhausted because the
pancreas makes insulin and other
hormones but it also makes enzymes so if
the pancreas is exhausted
you're not going to produce the enzymes
to break down protein as well so the
combination of the enzymes in the
stomach and the acid and then the
enzymes and the pancreas all help in the
breakdown of protein so this could be a
deficiency just with that this is why a
lot of people do better when they take
enzymes okay bacterias let's say your
friendly bacteria is not there because
you took antibiotics or you've eaten a
lot of GMO foods which destroy the
microbes that alone can interfere with
the absorption of protein right there
and by the way bacteria help you make
amino acids and proteins ok gut function
so if you had gastric bypass where we
have some surgery that's going to
greatly influence your ability to absorb
protein - if you had celiac where your
little absorptive villi are now gone
you're not going to absorb protein or
nutrients as much so the gut function is
very important if you have inflammation
your gut that's also going to stop the
absorption of protein okay so then we
have of course surgery I just mentioned
that with the gastric bypass or let's
say you had some surgery in your colon
that's going to influence your
absorption then we have the quality of
protein okay I'm talking about this
right here these the type of protein and
of course the grass-fed or the organic
so the quality of protein is very very
important and then the quantity of
protein like how much is too much and
then you get the exercise the more you
exercise the more protein you can in
need okay so you need a little bit more
if you if you're an athlete and then you
as you age you lose your stomach acid so
you do need a little more protein to
compensate for all the things that are
going on as you age and I think a lot of
people as they get older our protein
deficient and they would greatly benefit
from an amino acid product because these
amino acids are already broken down
they're not in the protein form so
they're very easy to absorb okay illness
all right if you have some type of
chronic degenerative disease or illness
you're gonna need more amino acids so
this could increase the requirement as
well also the liver function if you have
a fatty liver cirrhosis hepatitis all of
those conditions are going to inhibit
your ability to absorb protein so the
more damage you have delivered on the
kidney is going to increase the need the
problem is the more approaching you
consume the more waste you're gonna have
and if your kidneys or a liver are
damaged you're gonna overload the body
with too much waste so it's kind of a
catch-22 that would be a good example of
taking an amino acid product to
supplement with so now the question is
what quantity should you consume okay so
I recommend instead of 0.8 you do 0.9 or
1.0 or maybe even 1.1 grams of protein
per kilogram of weight that way at least
you're gonna cover some of these other
problems that might come up and also if
you keep the quality of protein high the
need of protein won't be as high all
right hope that didn't confuse you even
more stay tuned for some more videos on
this because there's a lot more to talk
about but thanks for watching oh one
last thing because someone's gonna ask
this what you can do if you're not sure
about kilograms is you take your weight
okay in pounds okay so I'm 185 and you
divide by 2 point 2 to get the kilograms
okay
so you take the kilograms and then you
times 1.0 this is the amount of protein
you're gonna need times 1.0 to get the
amount of protein that you need in grams
okay so just take your weight divided by
2.2 to get your kilograms so now you can
multiply it times the amount of protein
now this could be 0.9 or you know 1.1
but I would just to make it easy he can
start right here and then comes a
question how do you really know you're
getting the right amount of protein
you're gonna have to test it out you're
gonna have to eat a little bit more or a
little less and see how you feel
how do your joints feel how does your
energy feel that's probably gonna be the
best thing all right now we're
officially done with the video
