there are seven mistakes that most
people make when they start doing in
minute fasting the first thing is they
eat too much of a certain food when they
come off their fasting routine for
example they might start eating way too
much peanut butter they never ate that
much before but when they get on keto
they tend to eat a lot of peanut butter
and one of the challenges with peanut
butter is that high level of afot toxins
what is an apoxin well that's a mold and
there are higher levels of afot toxins
in peanut butter but it's also in cons
Ava as well because also sometimes
people do the keto um alternative chips
or potato chips which is cassava chips
and that also has higher levels of apot
toxins they say it's well tolerated in
adults uh more than children which is a
whole different topic but with adults uh
if you're eating a lot of it over a long
period of time it can accumulate it can
irritate the liver and the gallbladder
those are the two areas that this apoxin
seems to irritate most and if apot
toxins are very very high I mean it can
even create super oxidation of the liver
and even necrosis inflammation cancer uh
of the liver and the gallbladder so it's
just something to think about if you're
on the ketogenic diet and all of a
sudden you feel like you're liver is
swollen or you have right shoulder pain
or you feel more arthritic or there's
something going on with your gallbladder
it could be all that peanut butter
there's a couple things that you can do
to minimize that effect okay other than
just avoiding peanut butter one is
consuming organic Valencia peanut butter
that type has lower levels of this mold
as well as consuming celery with the
peanut butter okay because celery has a
certain chemical that counters some of
this uh afot toxin peanut butter it's
not very high in nutrients all right the
next thing is almond flour okay this is
a big one because with keto I mean like
almost every recipe includes almond
flour like the breads the muffins the
cookies all have almond flour almonds
are very high in oxalates and so that
can also irritate certain joints it can
irritate your digestive system so that's
another one to watch out for uh that can
potentially influence your results when
you start this fasting program and I'm
not telling you to avoid all nuts like
you could do walnuts peans uh pistachios
and also a small amount of Brazilian
nuts are fine and then the last thing
that people eat a lot of um on the keto
especially when they get started are all
these keto bars or keto desserts which
has certain ingredients that I think is
a problem all the functional fibers like
the cable corn fiber and uh tapioca
fiber and you might think oh it's a
fiber so it's not a sugar but it can
actually be a problem because there's no
long-term studies on that there's also a
lot of sugar alcohols that can disrupt
your digestive system and give you a lot
of gas and it can affect your mood so
again I would just eat focus on like
real food like high Quality Meats and
and eggs and fish and vegetables things
like that number two is not combining
keto with your inent fasting you're
doing inent fasting but you're not then
getting on the ketogenic diet your carbs
are just too high now that being said
something is better than nothing and I
think it's totally reasonable to go
ahead and start with one of these but
eventually you'd want to actually add
both of these powerful tools to get you
in a place where you're getting all the
benefits in fact going on low carb okay
the Keto Plan can greatly get you into
ketosis and make your fasting easier
because your appetite and Cravings are
going to completely go away so in other
words I think you're going to really
more than even double your benefits if
you can do both of these all right the
next thing I want to talk about is the
pattern of your inime fasting probably
the most common pattern is what's called
18 and six when you're fasting for 18
hours and then you have a 6our eating
window so let's say for example you your
first meal was at 12 and your second
meal was at 6 that would be a 18 to 6
ratio when we talk about the eating
window uh it is true that you can pretty
much eat during that window but I would
recommend not snacking between that
window having two meals one at your
12:00 noon right and then fast all the
way until 6 and have your second meal so
I wouldn't eat all the way in grze to
the entire fasting window if I were you
because you would have more benefits if
you just just didn't eat anything and
there are a lot of different patterns
and you can test the different patterns
and see what works for you but just by
observing uh tens of thousands of people
doing this over the years I would say um
if you're over the age of 50 you should
really consider doing one meal a day
it's called omad if you can do that and
just make sure it's includes all the
nutrients you need and I have a lot of
videos on that but I think for everyone
else they should do two meals okay and
I'm going to tell you what really is
successful at least for me and a lot of
others is to try to go as long as you
can with that first meal right around
lunchtime if you're not hungry just ride
the wave and go a little longer and if
you can go like 1:00 or 2 o' or even
3:00 that would be awesome so just
really pay attention to your hunger and
your appetite because if you're not
hungry ride the wave and go a little bit
longer and then that second meal okay
try to do an early dinner so a late
lunch and early dinner and where I'm
going with this is just to really
shorten that eating window down to maybe
two or three to four hours okay that
would be incredible because then you
would have more than 20 hours of fasting
okay that's huge that is going to create
some serious change with your brain
growing new brain cells growing a new
immune
system really helping your gut reset
because you're not eating and you're
going to give your digestive system a
chance to to reset you're going to
stimulate more of the What's called the
parasympathetic which is the recovery uh
you're going to definitely sleep better
you're going to have more energy you're
going to have more support with your
mitochondria you're going to develop
more antioxidants in your body your
insulin is going to be less resistant
okay so that's going to heal your blood
sugars are going to do much better and
your inflammatory uh conditions will go
way down if you could do that 20 hours
for me A lot of times I like to eat at
like 1:00 sometimes 2
and then maybe uh I'll eat a dinner at
400 and 5 now am I hungry at 4: or 5
usually not but uh personally if I do
one meal a day which I would like to do
I just lose too much weight so I tend to
spread those calories out in two meals
because if you're trying to maintain
your weight or even gain weight with one
meal a day it's so hard you'd have to
eat so much food and you're going to
feel really stuffed but the point is
just think about this principle go as
long as you can have a late lunch and
then try to do an earlier dinner okay as
early as you can you're going to find if
you do that okay you're going to sleep
better because the later you eat in the
evening towards where you go to bed the
more it's going to affect your digestion
and that can affect you're sleeping all
right so that was number three number
four relates to what I just said
stuffing yourself sometimes people think
that when they're fasting they're
starving no no you're not starving your
body is eating when it's not eating it's
eating your fat when you're not eating
so you're actually getting fuel and in
that stored fat you have fat salable
vitamins too that are being released as
well so you're getting some nutrients as
well so um it's not that you're not
eating you are eating you're just eating
your own fat I just have found through a
lot of trial and error if you especially
in the beginning like you because you're
fasting and you have this restriction on
eating a person tends to it's kind of a
scarcity so they'll tend to eat as much
as they can that meal because oh my gosh
am I going to make it to the next meal
you don't need to do that okay
experiment with it you're going to feel
a lot better if you don't stuff yourself
so this relates to the question how many
calories do I need I wouldn't go by that
I would just go by what do you feel
comfortable with eating with that meal
without overdoing it and you know what I
mean overdoing it I'm talking about you
know you feel so bloated you just
stuffed right you just don't want to do
that all right number five okay make
sure that when you're doing a minute
fasting you also
uh take B vitamins and electrolytes why
both of those categories of nutrients
are of an increased demand okay when you
do keto when you get your body into fat
burning and you're generating ketones
you do need certain uh minerals and
certain B vitamins I would make sure
your B vitamins are more natural and
even you can get it from uh nutritional
yeast and also make sure when you do the
electrolytes that you have something
that's high quality with high enough
amounts of potassium and of course when
you're doing with electrolytes make sure
it has um no hidden maltodextrin and it
has a good amount of potassium and the
other electrolytes as well number six
mistake is not doing the healthy version
of the ketogenic diet there's something
called Dirty keto which you're pretty
much you know just going to any
restaurant you know fast food restaurant
you're just like having the burger
without the bun but you're not focusing
on quality that's totally fine if you
need to do that okay and especially if
you're a college student and you can't
afford the higher quality but if you can
afford it it's worth it because think
about it when you're eating less meals
when you're doing in minute fasting
you're going to be spending a little
less money on food okay you probably
save several hundred dollars per month
reinvest that in higher quality of food
that has more nutrient-dense foods and
I'm talking about like the organic
pasture raised eggs I'm talking about
wild caught fish and seafood I'm talking
about grass-fed Meats things like that
and I'm talking about soil-based veget
vegetables too okay vegetables from the
farmers market things like that as
compared to like the vegetables you
would get at the grocery store like the
lettuce that are grown in either
hydroponic or it's not real soil but
it's something you can grow in and they
just add the nutrients in there that's
not as good is what the soil can deliver
to that plant and the last mistake I
think people make is stopping when they
Plateau thinking that it's not working
when it actually is I can't tell you how
many people that I've consulted that I
come to find out they think it's not
working because they're only losing one
pound a
week or they're not losing anything but
let's say you are just losing one pound
a week that's pretty good for the
average person that is older you have to
realize that uh the most you can lose
per week is 2 lb initially when you lose
like 5 lbs that's just water weight and
then you're going to have less and less
until the point where you're just
burning fat there's always something you
do to speed up the process you can fast
longer you can do periodic prolong
fasting you can cut your carbs lower you
can add exercise you can sleep longer
you can reduce your stress you can take
certain uh additional remedies like
berberine or cinnamon or things like
that to improve insulin resistance
because what can happen as you losing
weight you're going through the healing
process and when you're going through
the healing process your muscles tend to
uh grow more and the way that you know
that it's really working is that does
your appetite go away okay do you no
longer have cravings that means it's
working more than anything and how is
your energy and how is your mood focus
on those things because the whole
principle is that you have to get
healthy first then lose the weight
versus the other way around now because
of the censoring and the suppressing of
the algorithms on YouTube it's becoming
more difficult to find my content and
there's a lot of content that I cannot
put on YouTube unfortunately so to make
sure you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other side now to
give you the details on how to do
intermittent fasting you should watch
this video right
here
