hi guys in this video I want to talk
about Kido rash and a fatty liver okay
now there's a couple reasons why a
person would get a rash after doing keto
or in the fasting one would be if you're
doing keto without intimate fasting it's
going to be usually a B vitamin
deficiency okay number two if you're
doing in a minute fasting that could be
a side effect from a toffee G which
basically is a condition where your
body's cleaning up all the old damaged
parts and recycling proteins and
cleaning up microbes which could stir up
some issues and create skin reactions
but the more common issue would be this
your liver is fatty and you don't have
the capacity for full liver function
okay so it's limited in capacity to work
correctly so when you do keto and
intimate a fasting and the requirements
for B vitamins go straight up okay so
you're going to need more vitamins and
if you don't produce those B vitamins
you could then end up with certain side
effects
the main B vitamin I'm talking about is
choline choline works to prevent a fatty
liver and it's great to reverse a fatty
liver it works with bile which is a kind
of an emulsifier so it actually helps
break down fat so the combination of
choline and purified bile salts are
really important in fat digestion so if
you have a problem digesting fat it
could be that you not only need purified
bile salts but you need some choline to
help with that so choline is a super
liver cleaner it's great for hemorrhoids
certain types of constipation and
especially if you have difficulty
digesting fats and what's ironic cuz
guess where you get choline eggs egg
yolks and beef liver now you would think
consuming these fats would give you more
fat but that's not where this value
liver came from it came from either
alcohol or carbs sugar and the gut flora
the friendly bacteria in your gut is
essential in determining if you're going
to absorb the choline in the first place
so if you have a history of constipation
or taking antibiotics you want to make
sure that you start fortifying your gut
with
from the bacteria in fermented foods to
make sure you get your absorption of
choline so I know a lot of people are
gonna ask what brand of choline what
dosage well that's for you to research
and figure out all right thanks for
watching hey if you enjoyed this video
press subscribe and I will definitely
keep you updated
