hey guys today we're going to talk about
research studies and their dirty little
secrets okay now when people want to
find the truth of something they want to
find some science they want to see some
scientific study researched published
that will validate the claim that is
made about it right now what you need to
realize is there are several really big
problems in the area of research one
question that I had was why is it that
the industry sponsored studies always
seem to be positive like the studies
done by drug companies they always come
out to be really good why is that and
the answer is this they had the option
to publish what they wanted they could
cherry-pick what data that they wanted
to publish and omit certain studies that
didn't come out that good they can omit
certain studies that gave side effects
to make it look really good and this
would also explain why so many drugs in
the past were all of a sudden founded to
create all these problems in society and
then there was all sorts of class-action
suits that eventually caused that drug
to be taken off the market like let's
just take DES for example
diethylstilbestrol be used for 30 years
until they found it it actually caused
serious serious problems birth defects
infertility and the list goes on and on
but in 2005 the US Department of Health
established a new rule which increased
transparency so drug companies now are
forced to publish all of their data not
partial studies all of their data now
one of the problems is getting them to
comply with it because based on a survey
that I saw it was like 97% of them said
they would comply but when you look at
their policy records they say they will
consider it okay but whether they do or
whether they don't this is the website
that you can go to to supposedly see all
the data it's called clinical trials.gov
now in 2018 dr. dubrow compiled all the
data on statins before 2005 and after
2005 and he wanted to look at what was
the actual benefit of mortality
did it provide any benefit to help
people to live longer and he found
absolutely no not once
Ingle benefit of increasing your life in
any way shape or form so all this
powerful data this evidence that so many
doctors were relying on to show the
positive benefits of taking a statin
will improve cardiovascular function so
basically it did not show the benefits
that they were claiming and there's a
lot of other similar findings with
psychiatric drugs for depression as well
another little dirty secret that I want
to talk about is something called the
run-in period which basically allows the
study to extract delete the first six
weeks of data based on non-compliance
now I'm gonna put a link down below to
show you what that actually means what
why would someone non comply to study
right well you guessed it side effects
lots of side effects so they have the
option of taking that initial data for
six weeks out of the study and then like
starting a study after you eliminate
these side effects you think that might
taint the results of the research and
then there is just the structure of the
study itself over 1 million articles
that were published since 1946 regarding
diet and health used questionnaires
these are memory based methods ok
they're not reliable there's too many
variables you're gonna ask someone on a
question here about what they ate in the
last year and you're just gonna get all
sorts of random things not to mention
they're probably on a high carbohydrate
diet which affects their memory in the
first place so the next time you're
watching the news or reading something
online and they mention quoting a study
see if it's a questionnaire so nowadays
it's really hard and difficult to not
only find good studies that we're done
but to interpret them correctly because
it takes time you have to have a medical
dictionary sitting beside you and also
read the actual study not an
interpretation of the study secondhand
and one last point I want to bring up is
this if you're in doubt about for
example a diet or some nutritional
recommendation it's very easy to test it
out on yourself to see if it works for
you and that way you don't have to wait
for the next governmental study that
they're going to come out so they can
tell you exactly what to eat and what
not to eat
thanks for watching hey guys real quick
I have a new healthy keto eating plan
for you just go to dr. Berg comm it's
right on the front page I put a link
down below download it it's free check
it out
