imagine a world where we just had to
adjust your vitamin D levels and how
this could dramatically change your
autoimmune disease outcome dr core who's
developed the COMRE protocol he's uh
world famous he uses high doses of
vitamin D3 to put autoimmune disease
into remission i'm very happy to bring
you on doctor pleasure to meet you my
pleasure how did you first stumble on
the connection between vitamin D and
autoimmune i think it was MS back like
25 years ago I was working in a hospital
as a neurologist and I saw a patient who
had Parkinson's disease and I was aware
that vitamin D
induces neurotrphic factors in our
brains so I decided that I should try to
give him 10,000 units of vitamin D per
day and at the same time I could see
that he had vitiligo affecting his
forehead so I gave him vitamin D trying
to help him in respect of his
neurological disease trying to slow down
the progression of Parkinson's disease
it turns out that when the that patient
came back
uh those lesions were almost disappeared
i was asking him what kind of of
treatment he was under for vitiligo he
said not nothing i just took the vitamin
D that you gave me i was amazed to see
that and I was wondering what possible
mechanisms vitamin D could be involved
in preventing autoimmune diseases like
vitiligo
we started using 10,000 units of vitamin
D and then as we learned more we could
increase the doses
progressively while we were checking to
make sure that those patients would not
develop intoxication due to the the
doses of vitamin D then as time went by
I was uh getting more and more familiar
with the effects of vitamin D and I saw
that I could prevent calcium increase in
the urine when I asked them to decrease
dairy products in their diet so I was
amazed to see how diet could affect
possibility of intoxication using high
doses of vitamin D i think the main
toxic effect in certain situations would
be too much calcium in the blood yes
that's right vitamin D increases calcium
absorption from food that's when we
started using vitamin D just like 10
years later we were amazed to see that
like 90% of patients were having a
normal life explain why higher amounts
of vitamin D are needed in cases with
autoimmune why would you need to use
that much to create an effect people
with autoimmune disorders may have
polymorphisms affecting any combinations
of nine genes that vitamin D requires
for proper function and when we're
talking about a vitamin D polymorphism
we're talking about someone that doesn't
absorb vitamin D like they should most
people are vitamin D deficient due to
the lifestyle that we have we are not
exposed to sunlight anymore most
physicians are taught this one part of
vitamin D which is about bone and
calcium right and that's a lot of the
research is based on preventing
ricketetts since 1988 vitamin D receptor
was not found only in tissues related to
calcium metabolism it was found in
nearly all cells of our bodies this
finding triggered a lot of different
lines of research trying to figure out
what is vitamin D doing in the brain
what is vitamin D doing in the immune
system if you have any problems related
to vitamin D metabolism this means that
you will will be prone to develop a
large number of diseases so it's amazing
to see how this large amount of
publications research are not mentioned
in medical textbooks it's not mentioned
in medical meetings regular doctor does
not know about that publications that
would possibly decrease the consumption
of expensive medicine if you are in an
emergency situation you need to correct
your vitamin D immediately you can't
wait uh 3 months giving 10,000 units of
vitamin D in order to to reach that
level immediately you have to give
600,000 of vitamin D in a single dose i
was looking at the research on using
those high levels 300 600,000 uh before
surgeries for better outcomes in those
cases I I may give uh 600,000 of vitamin
D even two times in two different days
and then I would start giving vitamin D
like uh 1,000 units per kilogram but
this is an average let's say for example
myself if I had an autoimmune disease uh
and 1,000 IUs per kilogram that and I
weigh 185 pounds so we're looking at
roughly about 80,000 IUs of vitamin D3
to treat autoimmune diseases as an
average I give patients uh 1,000 units
per kilogram is is the daily dose so
that's uh the way to adjust the dose of
vitamin D according to individual
resistance of vitamin D this might be a
crazy thought but um would the idea of
maybe adding
magnesium help to kind of control the
calcium since it does help regulate
calcium definitely if you have low
levels of magnesium uh then you may have
resistance to vitamin D just because you
are uh magnesium deficient now I want to
go to an even more fascinating topic
vaccines and aluminum when you inject
aluminum in vaccines aluminum is not
eliminated by the kidneys it remains in
our organism it is within the immune
cells and it enters the brain carried by
the immune cells there is a lot of
research by Christopher Axling and he
has shown that in the brains of people
who died they had autism and they found
high levels of aluminum in the brain
tissue they went to the University of
Oxford in England and they got samples
from the brains of patients that had
autism when they died and they could see
in the microscope that there were lots
of nanop particles of aluminum it's
amazed to see the number of of vaccines
and how people just accept that
something being normal i've been
treating autism since 2014 i was in high
doses of vitamin D in a way uh autism is
an autoimmune disorder and in another
way is also a manifestation of toxicity
caused by uh this aluminum it causes a
lot of abnormal metabolic changes every
now and then I received
uh patients uh their children are
adolescents and I was amazed to see the
number of children and adolescents that
are depressed nowadays committing
suicide and this is increasing as the in
the same rate that autism is increasing
so at some point I received here a MS
patient and her daughter was 17 years
old the patient told me that uh when she
was only 4 years old she was so
depressed that child had to take
anti-depressant drugs and because that
girl was born in 2006 when she was
receiving lots of vaccines containing
aluminum I decided to give her silica
that substance binds to aluminum and
both silica and aluminum are eliminated
by the kidneys and she came back uh a
year later and she said that her
depression was almost gone she said that
she was uh
85% better and her
psychiatrist was decreasing the drugs
that she was taking the psychiatrist
thought that she maybe she was no longer
uh needing uh the all those medications
you see this is a a tip of an iceberg
this is amazing so you have trained a
lot of doctors and I think if I'm not
mistaken on your website there's a uh a
place to go where someone can find one
of these doctors is that correct but yes
you you can find doctors that we have
trained in countries like uh Germany USA
Italy France i'm going to put all that
information down below but I really
appreciate this interview this has been
very enlightening and I think this is
going to help a lot of people i really
appreciate you sharing this information
it's been extremely valuable thank you
thank you for the opportunity to pass
that information absolutely
