so I wanted to do this video based on a
question that someone had how long does
it take before a diabetic goes blind or
loses the limb so let's talk about that
and I'm not saying that that's gonna
happen to you if you're a diabetic but
you should know this data okay normally
it takes ten years of exposure to high
blood sugar before you see some pretty
serious complications to your nervous
system to the eyes you start developing
infections to the kidney to the even
even the brain with loss of memory so
some of the complications are numbness
in the fingertips in the toes
definitely infection you can get
infections anywhere because it lowers
your immune system your kidney starts
leaking protein because there's
destruction in the kidney and then the
nerves of the eyes get destroyed and the
way it works is this so high levels of
glucose combined with proteins in your
tissue and they create this situation
called glycated proteins which I'm not
going to get into that in this video it
just basically makes the the protein
sticky it starts clogging up the
vascular system especially to the
nervous system so the nerves in your eye
like the retina is fed through the
vascular system so if the if the blood
vessels to the nerve can't flow blood
anymore the nerves die and that's what
causes the diabetic to go blind
it's called diabetic retinopathy so
there's certain tissues in your body
that are influenced with this high sugar
more than others the eyes are at the top
the list the nerves are affected the
arteries the inside of the vascular
system is affected that's why it affects
the heart so when your blood sugars are
over 200 or your a1c is over eight
that's the type of exposure that I'm
talking about
normally a fasting blood glucose is
between 70 and 90 a pre-diabetic is
anywhere around 100 to 125 and then a
diabetic is over 125 all right guys so
here's the real big problem you go to
your doctor and the main focus is to
keep your blood Sugar's within normal
range okay using medication now my
question is if you're taking the sugar
out of the blood
where is it going is it just evaporating
is it disappearing no you're basically
shoving that sugar in to other places in
the body you're creating other problems
so you're switching one problem lower
blood sugar for another problem so that
sugar now is being crammed into other
places it's going into the liver it's
going around the organs as visceral fat
it's going inside the organs creating
damage and these are some of the
problems that are not addressed the
other thing that it's not addressed is
the high levels of insulin that you have
would type 2 diabetes okay type 1 is not
enough insulin but type 2 is a serious
problem with insulin resistance where
you have high levels of insulin but the
doctor never checks that they're
checking the blood glucose but here's
the other point I want to bring up high
levels of insulin is just as damaging if
not more than high levels of blood
glucose this is why your body develops
insulin resistance because it doesn't
want that much insulin and in your body
so it actually creates a situation where
the receptors don't absorb it into the
cell anymore as a protective mechanism
and it's gonna be really hard if not
impossible to ever correct this problem
unless you get the amount of
carbohydrates out of your diet all right
so now the question is if you already
have gangrene or you went blind can you
reverse it I have no idea I guess it's
possible but I have no idea it could be
too far but I would definitely try and
what would I do basically go on a
healthy keto plan and guess what in a
minute fasting I have a link down below
to show you how to do it for those of
you that are new to this so really
there's two things I want you to focus
on one is getting the carbohydrates out
of the diet okay that alone is very
therapeutic so we want to lower the
carbs that's gonna lower the risk of all
of this right here and number two we
want to increase the nutrients in your
food why because it's the nutrients in
the food that protect against the
complications of high sugar that way you
can kill two birds with one stone
and lastly start eating foods that are
nutrient dense
to minimize the complications from the
high sugar alright thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
