hey guys I'm beginning a lot of
questions on the carnivore diet and how
it conflicts with my recommendation of
seven to ten cups of vegetables so let's
just kind of talk about it
I think the carnivore diet has its place
I think a lot of people can benefit from
it and maybe even you should try it to
see if it makes you feel better but I
want to give you some additional data I
personally don't do it I just feel
really good on the combination of animal
products and vegetables but if you have
digestive problems if you get bloating
you've constipation you definitely don't
want to do a lot of vegetables and some
people do better on a smaller amount of
vegetables so they can start building up
their micro flora in here and if you
have the condition called SIBO small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth you
don't want to do a lot of vegetables
because that's going to feed the
microbes that are in your small
intestine but the benefit of this diet
is that you're dropping your insulin
considerably so most people have high
insulin so you're going to drop that
you're going to improve a lot of
conditions with the heart with the
arteries with inflammation because it's
a zero carbohydrate diet okay so that's
really good also if you have
constipation in your bowels are sluggish
but reducing fiber you're gonna
instantly feel better okay but now let's
just look at the flip side some people
say well animal products are more
nutrient dense not necessarily true
unless you're consuming organ meats so
if you're doing the carnivore diet but
you're not doing liver or brain or heart
or kidney or bone marrow and you're just
doing the meat the muscle okay only I
think you're making a big mistake
let's just take a look at one cup of
kale versus three ounces of chicken
versus three ounces of fish okay this is
salmon
potassium per cup is 375 milligrams okay
but of course if I was gonna do a kale
salad I would do at least five so at
times this times five okay chicken has
220 milligrams of potassium fish has 300
milligrams of potassium so you say well
I'm just going to eat a lot more fish
there's some people out there that are
consuming two or three or four pounds of
meat per
day okay so we're getting away from this
moderate protein and we're really doing
a high-protein diet how you gonna keep
your proteins moderate on this diet it's
gonna be very difficult okay
there is a lot of data on excessive
amounts of protein and decreasing your
longevity I'll put a link down below I
think I may have done a video on that
let's look at magnesium one cup of kale
will provide 7% of the requirements of
magnesium okay three ounces of chicken
will provide 6% and fish will provide 5%
okay all right b6 will provide 10% from
the kale chicken provides 25% and fish
provide 25% so it's gonna give you a lot
more b6 but only 25% okay then we have
iron 5% for kale 4% for chicken and 1%
for fish all right now let's look for
vitamin C one cup of kale will give you
a hundred and thirty four percent of
your requirements okay that's pretty
high that's just one cup chicken zero
fish five percent but it does give you
five percent okay
vitamin D 0 from kale one percent from
chicken zero from fish calcium 10% from
kale one percent from chicken zero from
fish vitamin A a hundred and thirty
three percent now this is not the active
form it's a beta carotene it's a pre
vitamin A but still there's a lot of
benefits in phytonutrients
so there's anti-cancer properties in
phytonutrients there's not a lot of
anti-cancer properties in meat that I
know about but maybe there's a study I
haven't seen one and then we have three
ounces of chicken give you zero of
vitamin A and four fish at zero carbs
six grams but zero per chicken and zero
for fish so vegetables give you the
phytonutrients which have a lot of
benefits health-wise that go beyond
vitamins and minerals they also have
vitamins and minerals so some vegetables
have anti-nutrient properties in which
they block certain thing
okay like minerals if you consume
fermented vegetables you will lessen
those amounts but I have not seen a big
problem with this right here as far as
people becoming depleted when they
consume vegetables but there is
something called phytic acid which is an
anti nutrient but phytic acid has very
powerful anti-cancer properties another
name for that is called ip6 a lot of
research on that because one of the
mechanisms it actually blocks iron which
combines with something called the
hydroxyl radical which is basically it's
a free radical that creates a lot of
damage but it needs iron or copper but
phytic acid can block that reducing the
damage from this radical right here so
it stabilizes that free radical it's one
of the only antioxidants that will do
that and the thing about iron is true
that animal products have a lot more
absorbable iron now here's the issue a
lot of people have too much iron okay
and too much iron is dangerous in the
body it's very reactive it creates a lot
of free radical issues and very
corrosive to your arteries and iron is
not eliminated easily throughout the
body so when we consume it it doesn't go
out through like a potassium dust so you
tend to retain iron so these vegetables
are gonna actually help balance this
especially the ones that have phytic
acid so we really don't need the amount
of iron
unless you're losing iron as a female
because you're menstruating each month
maybe then have some more but for men I
don't recommend it anyway I wanted to
give you my opinion on the carnivore
diet I'm not saying it's not a good
thing for some people so you might want
to try it on yourself to see if it
benefits you so you can see from this
chart there's a large amount of vitamin
C that kale has and other vegetables
have so if you're going to do the
carnivore diet you may not need as much
vitamin C and you're also going to
improve insulin sensitivity which is
going to increase the absorption of all
nutrients so that's a really good thing
but we don't know the long-term effects
of doing this yet time will tell
vitamin C deficiencies take at least
three months to show up even the first
sign of a vitamin C deficiency which is
fatigue so you might feel great
for a period of time and then start
feeling tired because you're developing
a vitamin C deficiency so these are just
some points I wanted to bring up and
talk about and if you're gonna do a
carnivore diet you might want to do more
organ meats you may want to add some
fermented vegetables like sauerkraut
because that will totally give you way
more about them and C than you need
alright thanks for watching if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
