so I want to talk about the
micronutrient deficiencies that are
created when you actually take a drug
this is one of those things that no
one's really talking about your doctors
not telling you about this it's not
listening to label but it's something
that's occurring and the problem is that
as you create these nutritional
deficiencies you create symptoms that
then are treated with a drug so it gets
really confusing you don't know what's
causing what okay so in the assets when
you take any assets
there's several type if you're taking
like an h2 antagonist it creates an iron
deficiency b12 vitamin D deficiency
calcium deficiency zinc deficiency and
the folic acid deficiency a lot of these
nutrients function to help repair DNA so
that's really important for longevity
and then we have proton pump inhibitors
you get a magnesium deficiency and a b12
deficiency if this goes on too long that
can create all sorts of severe
neurological problems and the acids in
general like Rolaids for example that
use calcium neutralize the stomach and
now you're gonna have all sorts of
mineral deficiencies could be zinc it
could be calcium potassium magnesium all
the minerals they just can't get
absorbed also b12 and protein
antibiotics not just destroy your good
bacteria but it creates a deficiency in
calcium magnesium iron k1 because the
microbes actually make k1 be one two
three five six nine that's folic acid
and b12 and a depressive medication you
become deficient in Co Q 10 which is
really important in repairing the heart
magnesium which is a cofactor in about
600 different enzymes b2 b6 b9 and b12
antipsychotic drugs create a b2
deficiency and in vitamin C deficiency
not to mention there's actually a lot
more - I just put the main
and a hypertensive drugs that reduce
blood pressure
so if ACE inhibitors which deplete zinc
magnesium and potassium which by the way
when you take potassium and magnesium it
helps you lower blood pressure
okay beta blockers coenzyme q10
depletion vitamin D deficiency calcium
channel blocker so it's not only going
to block calcium but folic acid and the
B complex then we have anti cholesterol
medication of mainly talking about
statins this is a big one it's going to
create two deficiencies with vitamin A D
e K Co Q 10 EPA DHA these are the
omega-3 fatty acids that make up the
brain structure and it's intimately
involved with the brain function because
with statins they're blocking the
production of cholesterol so you're
gonna have a problem with making cell
membranes hormones testosterone many
things okay cortical steroids you'll
have a deficiency of calcium and
magnesium and b1 by the way then we have
metformin which is for type 2 diabetes
it creates a deficiency in B 12 B 1 and
B 9 and the other problem with metformin
is that it has a black label that it can
produce lactic acidosis and guess what
the remedy for that is b1 but if you
don't have any b1 it can build up and
can create a problem diuretics it's a
big one because diuretics are used to
get rid of fluid and they're given for
people that have high blood pressure so
it starts to block magnesium potassium
zinc and if you take the diuretics that
our potassium sparrows in other ones
they don't deplete potassium you'll get
a buildup of calcium so it throws off
your electrolytes it'd be interesting to
see if you did take electrolytes
if you had flute retention that's
because potassium and magnesium help to
eliminate excess sodium and they help
balance your fluids but they don't
really look at that okay
hormone replacement therapy depletes B
nine which is folic acid magnesium b6
and b12 and this is just the tip of the
iceberg we're not even talking about
other side effects anyway if you're
taking in these medications you better
be taking these nutrients thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
