so I recently had someone comment that
ketosis is good for certain people but
not everyone ok so I wanted to do a
video just on that one single point
ketosis is hardwired into our genetics
ketones which is the byproduct of fat
burning ok is not an alternative fuel
source it's a primary fuel source
glucose or sugar is an alternative fuel
source not ketones mother nature never
designed the body to primarily run on
glucose and especially not on 30
teaspoons of sugar a day like an average
American our bodies were developed and
adapted to infrequent eating and
consuming low carbs and definitely not
on the frequency that people eat they
eat every hour and a half and this is
another point that I mentioned to this
person an average non overweight person
has about 77,000 calories of stored fat
and only 1700 calories of stored sugar
so if her bodies were meant for carbs
why do we have such a short storage
facility of glycogen 1700 calories and
not a larger capacity to store
carbohydrates so no our bodies were
meant to live off the fat and that's why
we have such a large capacity sitting
there to use so unless a person does
low-carb and in a minute fasting they
never have a chance to tap into all this
extra energy this potential energy and
they just keep depleting their glycogen
reserve filling it back up with carbs
deplete it filling it back up with carbs
and this is why so many health
conditions improve when you do healthy
ketosis and so many conditions worsen
when you're running your body and sugar
which is called glycolysis so ketosis
animu fasting is nothing new it's been
around for a very very long time it's a
natural thing to do it has huge
therapeutic benefits and ketones are the
primary fuel source thanks for watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last Edition
called the 7 principle
of fat-burning it has a hundred fifty
six images 378 pages full glossary I
talked about keyed out in a minute
fasting the body types in detail I have
a new stressed chapter I'm going to show
you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
