so today we're gonna talk about uric
acid kidney stones and Nikita genic diet
now if someone's going to get a stone on
the ketogenic diet chances are they're
gonna have more of a uric acid stone
versus an oxalate stone okay so let's
just first talk about uric acid there
are several reasons why your uric acid
can increase whether it's going to turn
into a stone or a gout number one it's
high protein diet okay too much protein
well you don't worry about that with the
ketogenic diet because we're going to do
moderate amounts of protein number two
fructose can greatly increase uric acid
don't have to worry about that on our
program so that can be eliminated or a
high sugar situation high carbohydrate
diets have a tendency to increase uric
acid again we don't have to worry about
that because we're doing low sugar and
this is why a lot of diabetics have
higher levels of uric acid because of
this connection but with the ketogenic
diets a little bit different you have
two things one the environment of the
body becomes slightly more acidic okay
and that's usually where the uric acid
crystals can come out of solution and
form but there's one little piece of the
puzzle that I want to bring up and it's
very very important when you do ketosis
you lose sodium okay you have lower
amounts of sodium and anytime the sodium
goes lower your uric acid can spike okay
this is why people on diuretics for
example thiazide one of the side effects
is gout because low sodium diets promote
uric acid okay so if you want to prevent
kidney stones one of the things you want
to do is make sure each day one teaspoon
of sea salt okay now this is for people
on the ketogenic diet if you're doing a
high carbohydrate diet I don't recommend
even that much you need lower amounts
but I'm talking about if you're doing a
healthy ketogenic program make sure you
consume one teaspoon of sea salt each
day because it not only will help
keep this in check but it does a lot of
other things as well
it can prevent muscle fatigue keto flu
and a lot of other symptoms alright
thanks for watching so I hope you're
coming to the keto health summit coming
up in October so I want to quickly
comment on what we're gonna do that's
different from other conventions ok the
problem with these other conventions is
they give you information over a load ok
it's so much data that you're basically
swimming in a sea of information we're
going to do things very differently
we're only going to cover the most
important things that make a huge
difference now there are three very
powerful strategies that we're going to
be talking about at the summit that you
will not find and any of my youtube
videos number one is on memory I'm going
to be showing you something very cool to
dramatically increase your memory and
concentration that's going to blow you
away and number two I'm going to show
you how to increase your stress
tolerance so you are completely calm all
the time alright and number three and
most importantly if you have a slow
metabolism
if you've died it for a long time and
everything is kind of just really slow
I'm going to show you how to get
complete control over your metabolism so
you can literally turn up the dial as
high as you want and control as much
weight as you want to lose and these
three things are just a tiny bit of what
you're going to learn in the summit so
click the link below get signed up and I
will see you in October
