what would happen if you were to stop
using your cell phone before bed for
just 14 days this is going to be very
interesting the majority of the
population uses their cell phone before
bed and there's two big reasons why they
should not do that but if they do use a
cell phone there are several things you
can do to minimize the problem with this
the first problem with your cell phone
and other mobile devices is this thing
called Blue Light in the spectrum of
visible light the first band of light is
the blue light blue light powerfully
suppresses melatonin melatonin is the
hormone that helps you go to sleep at
night if your melatonin is too low
you're going to have a hard time going
to sleep and the quality of sleep is not
going to be that great and this is going
to lead to a whole bunch of problems the
next day now you're probably asking
yourself like why out of all the
different uh types of color why is blue
the one that messes with your melatonin
now in order for our bodies to have
adapted to the awake and sleep cycles
certain triggers were necessary you have
light and darkness right and during the
day what is the color of the sky blue
blue is the most powerful color that
suppresses melatonin because during the
day you need to be alert and then when
it starts to become nighttime and the
Sun starts setting maybe the reddish
Sunset type colors those actually don't
suppress melatonin this is why you
should not be exposed to Blue Light
before you go to bed but in the LED
lighting system in your cell phone and
and the digital devices you have a more
intense version of this blue light then
even where the sun is at Peak at 12:00
noon only
1.5 minutes of exposure to this blue
light before bed can start to reduce
your melatonin especially since it's
more intense and it's closer to your
eyes now with the TV screen it's giving
up blue light but it's further away it's
not as intense but there's also a blue
light therapy to help people with
seasonal effect disorder during the
winter time now the first thing that
comes to mind is well why don't I just
use a blue light blockers okay and wear
that before I go to bed so I can keep
using the cell phone or a mobile device
well there's some fascinating
information about blue light blockers
and for that I'm going to give you a
little demonstration right now
sunglasses do not filter out blue light
and the problem with sunglasses is they
lower all of the spectral light to a
certain degree equally but they don't
filter the blue this is a very specific
laser that uh gives just the blue light
that we want to filter and I want to
show you something before we get into
the blue light blockers we're going to
show you what happens with just regular
sunglasses right so I'm just going to
put this right here and then show you we
go through the sunglasses Let's test
another pair of sunglasses right here
doesn't really do much does it here's
another pair of sunglasses does not
filter it with a darn I will say that
some some of these sunglasses do help
you against the UV so at least it does
something so here's the first one right
here this is a blue blocker I think it's
like 30
$32.95 so let's see what happens with
this
one does not work at all that would be a
waste of money let's look at this one
right here this is a blue light blocker
okay this one's better but not 100%
let's check this glasses so we just
bought a bunch of different blue
blockers and you can see this one does
not block the blue out waste of money
let's try this one right here this one
works great this one completely blocks
everything out all right now let's check
the one that costs I think
$2.95 it's this one right here the cool
looking
one wow that blocks it really nicely see
that for three bucks so I think this is
the winner right here and it looks cool
so I'm going to put this link down below
okay there's one more test we can do
with a spectroscope this is $10 this is
going to just show you what happens when
you look at your cell phone okay if you
want to just hold this right here so
when I look into this you're going to
see there's blue light coming off the
cell phone and this is the problem it's
very intense it's very close to your
face when you're scrolling along so if
you actually were to add something like
this if you wanted to use your cell
phone at night and put this in front and
look through there you could see the
blue light disappears
so in other words if you want to sleep
at night you want to wear some type of
blue blocking device that really works
so you cannot suppress melatonin blue
light also increases cortisol to a
certain degree and blue light can
actually damage the eye if you have too
much exposure to that Spectrum
especially if you're sitting in front of
a computer all day long and then
watching your cell phone at night then
we get into the topic of the next
problem with the cell phone and that is
something called called EMF
electromagnetic fields an invisible
radiation that affects our whole body it
creates damage within the communication
signals in the cell it also can increase
the risk of certain types of cancer in
tumor growth because it damages part of
the cell now of course I use a cell
phone a lot of people use a cell phone
it's just a matter of understanding what
you can do to reduce that exposure to
the EMF the one that I like is called
the trifield
because it's very simple to use and it
doesn't just measure the electrical
fields and the magnetic fields but also
the radio frequency as in you know cell
tower frequencies uh frequencies from
routers and so it's very very accurate
very very simple to use and I've been
using this for several years so I think
it'd be a smart thing to at some point
get one of these units and start
measuring the places in your environment
that you spend a lot of time whether
it's in front of the computer or it's
next to a cell phone and then you can
actually visualize this hidden radiation
that's coming off these devices and know
how much is being admitted like for
example when I first got this I went
through my entire house and I found uh
there is a tremendous amount of magnetic
fields around my bed I noticed that I
had heart palpitations when I slept and
I felt really really tired waking up
like more than usual and that's because
I was being bathed in this huge magnetic
field so it's going to fect the quality
of sleep how deep you sleep and it's
going to affect how you feel the next
day in fact every minute that you use
this before you go to bed there could be
a delayed sleep onset by 3.5 minutes the
other thing I want to talk about is uh
REM sleep so when you go to sleep you go
through deep sleep okay and then you go
to a superficial wave sleep which is
called REM sleep and so it kind of
Cycles through every 90 minutes up and
down up and down versus a deep Delta
wave sleep has a lot to do with
repairing the physical body body more
than the mental repair let's demo out
what happens when your cell phone is
close to your skull what we're trying to
do is we're trying to have you take this
cell phone and keep it as far away from
your head as possible under speaker mode
so you will not uh affect melatonin and
you can actually sleep like a baby now
there's a lot of other things that
affect melatonin alcohol caffeine
nicotine stress before bed and of course
we also have temperature if the
temperature is higher like 75° fah Your
Sleep Quality is going to be very poor
but there's a range between 60° and like
69° that you're going to find that
you're going to have much better sleep
because when you go to sleep your core
temperature does drop by one to two
points people that have insomnia have a
higher core temperature now what's the
problem with crappy sleep it's the next
day okay how you feel it's your energy
level it's your ability to be productive
your ability to have cognitive function
and have focus and concentration and
creativity I had a problem with sleep
for literally I'd say 12 to 15 years at
one time I had Restless like syndrome
the other portion of the time I just
would wake up at 2 o'clock in the
morning and it was my cortisol that was
just way too high of course I never
really looked at my diet but that was
really behind this whole thing I didn't
even use a cell phone before bed and I
used to then try to do a sugar coma by
cons assuming a pint of Ben and& Jerry's
before bed so I could sleep but that is
a very stupid uh solution because you
would wake up feeling groggy so what
happens when your sleep is crappy you're
going to feel like crap the next day but
also you have a higher risk of having
blood sugar problems the risk of type 2
diabetes goes up by 48% there's a risk
of Dementia by 33% and a 30% risk of
developing a depression probably because
you're just exhausted so there's many
simple things you can do to to reduce
this effect of blue light and EMF let's
say you have to use your cell phone uh
then just wear blue light blockers that
actually work when you use your cell
phone use the speaker phone don't hold
this thing close to your brain okay and
just by eliminating that certain blue
light that's going to make a huge
difference in your melatonin and also if
you're around uh a campfire or you have
candles or you have a fireplace all of
that gives off infrared which can also
increase melatonin so there are huge
benefits of not using that cell phone
before you go to bed and I gave you a
little introduction to the EMF there's
more to know about that and for that I
put up this video right here check it
out
