hey guys I want to talk about what to do
if you stub your toe how many of you
have ever done that before I've done it
many times in fact um you can use this
principle even if you you know Jam your
finger hit your thumb with a hammer
whatever um I mean I remember one time I
was um get up in the morning and I
wanted to uh pull the towel out it was
on the inside of the door the bathroom
door so I reached around the door to
pull the towel out to whip it out like
this right and as I whipped it the door
shut closed with my fingertip on the
inside of the door basically shut on my
finger tip now if you know about the end
of the fingertip there's a lot of nerve
endings I have never had that much pain
in my life so this is the technique that
I used on that and you can also use this
on the big toe and if you watch my other
videos you already know it you're going
to be working on the opposite toe or the
opposite finger that you jammed okay so
immed imately when you stub your toe you
had this like half of a second before
okay it doesn't hurt and now it's going
to hurt so you just sit down and you
start rubbing the opposite toe okay
wherever you jammed if it's the pinky
toe or the big toe you start massaging
that very invasively okay it'll knock
out the pain uh like that with the
finger what I did I I fractured this I
started working on the opposite finger
massaged it really really good the more
I did that the more this pain went away
and I know some people are saying well
of course if I Jam the step on your
other toe of course it stops the pain
but it's really more than that it has to
do with the electrical circuits that go
from one side of the body to the next if
you affect one part of the body you can
uh retarget where the brain's energy is
and you could relieve the pain and
increase the circulation and speed up
the healing as well so it's not just
about knocking out pain it'll just speed
it up so you have to just try it to
believe it but um that's what you need
to do for a stub
toe press it forget it forget it I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
