hey guys in this video I want to talk
about the relationship between b12 and
potassium if you're taking either one of
these this video would be important to
you for example if you take potassium
for a long period of time you could
potentially deplete your b12 especially
if you're not consuming enough b12 in
the diet
okay b12 comes from animal products it's
very high in liver and red meat and
things like that but if you're a vegan
you're not going to get it so if you're
a vegan taking potassium you better be
taking b12 as well or you can become
deficient here's some of the symptoms of
a b12 deficiency depression paranoia
delusions dementia pins and needles and
numbness any part of the body hands fee
anemia swollen tongue fatigue tremors
okay so you have these resting tremors
now the other point you need to know is
that if you increase b12 by taking it as
a supplement you can decrease your
potassium reserves so just be aware of
that and the symptoms of potassium
deficiency fatigue muscle cramp weak
abdominal pain bloating constipation
thirst and depression okay and one last
thing
b12 is stored in the body for a long
period of time up to you know several
years so the chances of you becoming
deficient take longer than the potassium
deficiency so if you're taking potassium
it could take a long time before you see
any deficiency in b12 because your body
stores that and also you may not even
see any problem if you're consuming
animal products on a regular basis but
if you're a vegan definitely need to
take b12 also on the flip side if you're
taking B 12 realize we don't store
potassium for a long time so you may run
out pretty quick and just realize that
some of these symptoms may turn on if
you're not consuming enough potassium in
the diet as in seven to ten cups of
vegetables or other foods with potassium
alright guys I'll see you in the next
video
hey before you go would you mind putting
a comment down below to tell me what you
think about this video
