hey guys today I want to talk about a
very interesting remedy called NATO
kinase okay this is a concentrated
enzyme extracted from NATO which is a
fermented soy product now make sure if
you're going to take this make sure it's
non-gmo okay
but this product has very potent blood
clotting dissolving properties okay it
dissolves fibrin which is a protein so
it actually decreases clots and plaque
in the arteries okay so it can improve
circulation it can decrease your risk
for heart disease decrease blood
pressure and it's really good at
dissolving mucus so it's good for sinus
infections mucus in your lungs and other
lung conditions if you add another
product called pycnogenol which also has
similar properties and it can act as a
natural aspirin by decreasing
inflammation so you really have a
complete remedy with very minimal side
effects alright and thanks for watching
so I hope you're coming to the keto
Health Summit coming up in October so I
want to quickly comment on what we're
gonna do that's different from other
conventions okay the problem with these
other conventions is they give you
information over a load okay it's so
much data that you're basically swimming
in a sea of information we're going to
do things very differently we're only
going to cover the most important things
that make a huge difference now there
are three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory and concentration
that's going to blow you away and number
two I'm going to show you how to
increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism
if you've died it for a long time and
everything is kind of just really slow
I'm going to show you how to get
complete control over your metabolism so
you can literally turn up the dial as
high as you want and control as much
weight as you want to
and these three things are just a tiny
bit of what you're going to learn in the
summit so click the link below get
signed up and I will see you in October
