hey guys it's dr. Berg here in this
video we're going to talk about the last
healthy lifestyle hack part 4 okay this
one's a very important one and it's
about focusing on the vital the
important and not the trivial too many
people focus on the trivial stuff the
little stuff that's not going to make a
change they focus on drinking more water
maybe they focus on their calories they
focus on counting calories or counting
fat grams okay that's drinking more
water they're focusing on the wrong
thing
what I did is I listed the most
important change that you should make
first second third and fourth okay so
number one no snacks this is a simple
change it's a vital thing why because we
want to lower insulin insulin is behind
so many problems so if you just cut out
the snacks especially at night and
during the day at least that's going to
drop insulin okay in a major way that's
like at a very very important change
okay and it allows you liver to
rejuvenate too because you're every time
you eat you stress the liver constantly
constantly have to work you know when
you see people they're just constantly
putting stuff in their mouth all the
time okay that's the most important
thing that I would recommend and yes in
my last book I told people to snack okay
I'm now I'm changing my recommendation
okay to no sugar again this is the
second most important thing if you can
then cut out the sugar but we're going
to drop the insulin way down but you can
use alternative foods as we talked about
in the other tips but cut the sugar out
just get it out of the house
don't keep it around you and it's going
to take a couple days for you to switch
over to fat-burning but you're going to
drop insulin and you're going to have to
prove to yourself that this is the best
thing you'll feel so much better the
next thing is to add fat why first of
all you can't do this on a low-fat diet
it's almost impossible I've had people
do low-fat diets and they come in with
hair loss and their teeth are falling
out and their skin looks really dry we
need some healthy fat okay fat is not
the villain it's the car
hydrate so fat will allow you to go
longer without eating it'll satisfy you
it makes it easy to do for you to crave
sugar and be starving while you're doing
something is never going to work you
have to get a state where you're eating
the right thing we have no cravings and
you're satisfied okay
so we need to do that next one add
vegetables oh by the way let me go back
to this one then there's something
called ketosis that's the that's
basically you're in fat burning okay so
did you realize that to get into ketosis
most the calories have to be fat you
can't you know you could do it with
protein and other things but you're
going to be you're going to create
problems for the body so in other words
to get into ketosis you have to eat more
fat you have to eat less protein and
definitely hardly any carbs okay because
if you don't eat any carbs and you don't
eat any protein and you don't need any
fat what do you need fiber and so we
need the fat as the majority of the
calories now you're going to get some
people disagree with me but I just want
you to temp this yourself and test it
out so you can see that it's true but
we're going to eat a lot of vegetables
that's going to be your carbohydrate but
I put a lot of people through this so in
practice every day for the last 26 years
I can tell you this principle really
works some other people that recommend
going low-fat typically they're not
really in practice maybe they're
practicing on themselves that's about it
now add vegetables we want to do that
because of the vitamins and the minerals
okay and especially the potassium you
need a lot of it you go through a lot of
potassium every single day you have to
get it from the vegetables so that would
be a very very important change you can
blend them if you want but that would be
the next change if you had to change
anything do this one this one this one
this one in this order next one protein
if you don't have any protein then
what's going to replace your body parts
your hair your nails your skin your
bones your muscles we need some protein
we don't need a lot we just need a
little bit okay maybe the size
three ounces to six ounces you know
maybe the size of the deck of the cards
with each meal if you do too much it
bloats you it doesn't digest it turns
into sugar so a little bit will go a
long way okay next one six hours of
sleep this is the next most important
thing if you're not sleeping you're not
going to lose weight if you're not
sleeping you have to focus on fixing
that I have a lot of videos on what to
do for sleeping you can watch that but
you want to focus on getting at least
most people need seven to eight hours I
put six hours as a very minimum and some
people can't get past 6:00 a lot of
people as we get older they only can get
six so try to get a nap later if you can
but get seven to maybe even eight
depending on the adrenals but there is a
good portion of the population that can
get by in six so I don't want to just
tell them to force themselves to get
more sleep than that but at the very
minimum get six to seven and then even
try to get eight that would be even
better okay that will help you get
healthy keep it consistent next one
exercise now most people put exercise
first but these exercise only really
works if you're sleeping if your diet is
good and you want to adjust the exercise
to your situation if you're tired not
sleeping go for long walks if you're
sleeping a lot of energy then you better
do higher-end
type exercise higher intensity you know
but I like a combination of both I do
high intense I get a lot of rest like on
my bike I will go really fast get my
pulse rate way way high I will stop the
bike let it come all the way down for
maybe four minutes boom I'll do it again
I'll do interval training I do not if I
go on my bike hardcore get my pulse rate
really high and I live in Virginia and I
travel up to DC on my bike through some
trails and I push that I will not sleep
that night because my pulse rate is too
high and it doesn't come down after
exercising 45 minutes at a high pulse
rate so that's not good so we want to
spike it and then have it come down so
you can sleep at night okay
the key is recovery
so I hope you enjoyed the healthy
lifestyle hacks now the next step is for
you to implement these hacks alright
I'll see in the next video
