warning sugar is actually destroying
your brain sugar creates very similar
effects to cocaine and heroin on certain
parts of the brain in one study if given
a choice a lab rat will go after the
sugar more than the cocaine sugar has
the ability to alter hormones that
literally put you into this anxiety
state when there's nothing around you to
be anxious about but what comes way
before that is a mild version of
dementia you start losing your memory
which you just start forgetting and
you're like "Okay where do I put my keys
you might have difficulty with names
you're not thinking clearly." The last
place that the sugar goes to is the
hippocampus this part of the brain
allows you to remember things and so
when you're eating a lot of sugar and
then eventually get pre-diabetes or
diabetes that all stems from sugar
people will tell you that the brain
needs sugar to survive and it is true
that the brain can run on glucose the
problem is when you do too much glucose
you start developing a blockage of the
absorption of glucose if we take a look
at how much glucose that's supposed to
be in your blood at any one time that's
one teaspoon here's the thing people eat
a lot more than one teaspoon of sugar so
where does it go insulin stores it but
then anything more is stored as fat a
lot of the cholesterol that people have
that's too high is coming from carbs or
sugar what happens when you're eating
excessive sugar anything more than one
teaspoon is you start developing higher
levels of insulin that has to do the
heavy lifting but the doctors never test
for this fasting insulin level because
if they did on an average person they
would find it to be very very high what
happens over time is that your pancreas
keeps working harder and harder and you
have more and more insulin and then the
brain and other tissues of the body
start to create this thing called
insulin resistance when you have more
than a teaspoon of sugar at any one time
the insulin is not working to pull that
sugar out then you start getting higher
blood glucose and that's called diabetes
you have so much insulin resistance you
can no longer pull in the glucose and
feed the brain cells so the brain cells
cannot get energy and it wasn't even
just the sugar it was all the hidden
sugar i'm talking about starch many
times worse than actual sugar and then
of course you're drinking all this juice
thinking "Oh yeah it's from oranges
right?" pure sugar the most important
thing that you could do with your diet
is keep your carbs lower the low carb
diet creates the most benefit and
reverses diabetes within 10 weeks that
should be in every newspaper but you
probably don't hear about it here you
have this sugar and starch highly
addictive they put all these chemicals
in it anytime you eat anything with low
protein it's really hard for you to be
satisfied when you lower your
carbohydrates you no longer are feeding
the brain cells glucose because you're
now forcing your body to mobilize
ketones which is a completely different
fuel from your own fat and that's going
to feed your brain it's going to bring
up your mood you're going to be able to
concentrate you're going to have more
attention you're going to learn better
you're going to have more capacity to
remember things and that fatigue in your
brain is going to go away now another
little side note to this i had my genes
tested apparently my genetics show kind
of a weakness in the area of being
satisfied if I don't consume enough fat
or protein I will literally never be
satisfied so the combination of all the
carbs and the frequent eating and the
snacks really bad until one day I
discovered that if I consume more
protein I could be more satisfied and
not have to snack protein is the
solution to this carb problem having
enough sufficient protein and fat will
get rid of your cravings and decrease
the need for snacking it's not
necessarily just about cutting your
carbs it's what you're going to replace
it with and I'm talking about replacing
with grass-fed meat you can do eggs you
can do fish but I'm telling you this
protein with the fat that normally comes
with it will quickly reverse and help
correct this insulin problem and that
brain fog will go away so fast this is
one of the most simple most amazing
things you can recommend to someone is
to make sure they have enough high
quality protein with the meal without
the carbs you do have people that are so
used to eating junk food it's really
hard to have them make the transition
but there's some really cool things that
you can eat that will be very close or
mimic what you have been eating let's
just take for example fat and sweet okay
at the end of the meal you can get some
Greek yogurt no sugar there's certain
brands of chocolate that don't have any
sugar there are a ton of recipes to do
alternative breads pasta cereal all of
the flour products can be replaced by a
healthier version this is not about uh
depriving yourself this is about just
replacing it with a upgrade there are
recipes that you can make like the
butter chicken the Indian dish that's so
delicious that you go to this Indian
restaurant and you have this butter
chicken and it's so amazing of course
they put tons of sugar in it there's
recipes and I'll put one down below that
virtually taste identical to that but
there's no sugar in it there's just
spices and it's delicious so you can
enjoy your food but without the sugar
and without the snacking yes the brain
can live on sugar but it doesn't need a
lot very similar to a plant it needs
water but what happens when you
overwater it it dies and that teaspoon
of sugar that's needed for your blood
can be created from your liver from
things that are not sugar so you really
don't need any sugar in summary the most
dramatic thing you could do to reverse
cognitive problems lowered emotional
mood issues brain fog is by cutting out
the sugar the hidden sugar starches and
replacing it with high quality protein
with the fat thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next
