hey guys Dr Burke here in this short
video we're going to talk about cod
liver oil so I'm sure your grandmother
always recommended it it was a really
good ancient remedy for so many things
but let's talk about why number one it
has a perfect balance of vitamin A and
vitamin D these are two very special
vitamins that support the immune system
and they're different in that they're
fat sble which means they can penetrate
the cell membrane which is all fat fats
go right into the center of the cell and
manipulate the DNA so they're they
almost act as a prehormone and they're
very powerful um so colive oil um is a
great source because most of the fat
Tyle vitamins are kind of like stored in
the liver so if you were to consume uh
food that had fat soluble vitamins you
would consume either grass-fed liver
codiva oil grass-fed butter wild CAU
fish salmon has it um egg yolks all the
fat hats and those will provide these
vitamins okay now in the winter months
you don't get as much sun so that's why
that's when you would take this and this
is really good to support your immune
system so you don't I mean if you notice
people during the fall they get the flu
right well if they took cive oil they
probably wouldn't get the flu and just
on a side note on flu almost every
single person and I know who gets the
flu shot ends up getting the flu so I
don't get those flu shots anymore I
think it creates more problems but
they're injecting with a certain virus
okay so you could take it if you have a
weak immune system take during the
winter months and then you can also take
it to give you uh some really good
powerful calcium
metabolizing um Vitamins because what
happens calcium and other minerals
mobilize with fat cyal vitamins now I
had uh two separate patients come into
my office and they went an extremely
lowfat diet where they got rid of all
the fat in their diet one person lost
her teeth one person lost her hair and
that is because you need these vitamins
to help uh mobilize protein and minerals
to keep your teeth intact so it's a
really good thing um the problem is when
you do these vitamins and plant Source
you're not going to get the quality or
the amount because all the plant sources
of vitamin A for example are actually a
previtamin a they have to be converted
and it only converts like 4% so you
really need the animal source of this
and uh now the problem with traditional
Cal liver oil um it's highly prostat
it's like heated over 400 degrees for 6
hours so they kill everything in it
because those those um essential fatty
acids are very delicate so they're going
to get destroyed with that heat so you
want a high quality CER oil you want to
spend a little bit more on that so I put
a link down below of an extra virgin
cival oil okay that is an unprocessed
raw Civ oil and that's the one that you
need to get and it's worth the extra
money because the way it's processed
it's like very very um unprocessed the
other thing that people want to know
about when they ask me is like what
about the blue ice it's a fermented cive
oil well it might be a good thing and
I'm I'm not against it the only thing is
that I have a disagreement is that you
can't ferment an oil fermentation occurs
with carbohydrates not fats so I have a
problem with that little point but it
might be a good thing I don't really
know I haven't really tested it okay so
now if you want to support your immune
system I would recommend through the
winter months going with this and take a
teaspoon a day all right thanks for
watching
