let's talk about the absolute best foods
to strengthen your liver whether you
have a fatty liver you have a liver that
has cirrhosis or inflammation or some
damage or your liver is fine you just
want to strengthen your liver and you
can also apply this to the rest of your
body now the big question is what is it
about food that actually makes you
healthy is it the absence of
carbohydrates like a keto diet does that
make you healthy well in some ways it
does because it shifts the fuel that
your body runs on
so you can see massive improvements with
your liver and other tissues but is that
all just doing a low carb diet is that
going to really make you truly healthy
long term well I think it can greatly
help this is why I kind of coined the
term healthy keto because
when you do keto it doesn't
differentiate if you're doing you know
foods with pesticides insecticides
herbicides GMO also when you do keto
you're not differentiating nutrient
dense foods versus
empty Foods again with keto you're just
talking about macros moderate protein
low carb higher fat so I believe it's
the combination of both going low carb
and having healthy foods at the same
time I mean the real question is what
actually is a healthy food there are so
many opinions about this topic and is it
just a matter of having a food that's
organic well organic doesn't necessarily
describe the nutrients it just tells you
it's without certain synthetic chemicals
and antibiotics which is good
what about nutrient density so yes the
absence of certain pesticides
insecticides and the chemicals that are
sprayed when you have GMO foods are very
very unhealthy so that's part of it but
there's another part that I want to
discuss and part of this topic is
something you've never heard before and
I think you're going to find it quite
interesting and this relates to nutrient
dense foods what makes a food nutrient
dense I mean you can look through the
database and let's just take for example
kale okay kale has a lot of nutrition
right it has a lot of vitamin C it has a
lot of beta-carotene you know if someone
took some test on Kale I don't know how
many years ago and said it was healthy
what about nowadays with the soil so
this is a big gray area I'm talking
about the specific nutrient amounts in
certain foods I mean it really depends
on a lot of factors a lot of variables
this is why it's difficult the soil how
it's processed you know what type of
farming methods that they use etc etc so
a really big factor in what determines
your health is that the animals and
plants that you eat I'm talking about
how nutrient dense those are now when we
were talking about an animal let's say a
cow
how does that cow become healthy well if
it's grazed naturally on grass that is
really healthy and nutrient dense right
I mean makes sense what about a cow
that's raised on grains or grain
finished okay like from a feed lot right
is that healthy well actually no because
of all the inflammatory conditions that
occur in the kind of stomach the large
amounts of acids and pH that are
developing because it's not normal for a
cow to consume grains for any period of
time so cows Were Meant to consume grass
but then the question comes how do you
make grass healthy well that comes from
the soil right you might think that it
comes from soil that is very very rich
in minerals right it's the minerals that
make the plants healthy well actually no
the plants have a hard time getting
minerals unless they get help from the
microbes okay so what I'm going to share
with you today is some fascinating new
discoveries in the area of how microbes
help the plant
as well as the animal become super
nutrient dense okay now what people
normally know is that
you know there's minerals that are
available to that plant the plant's
going to be more nutrient dense right
and they might also know that the
microbes in the soil both bacteria and
fungus help to mobilize these nutrients
and bring them to the surface of the
roots where then the root absorbs the
nutrients but what you might not know
is something very very interesting and
that is that the root itself has the
potential
to absorb that microbe right into itself
okay and also up through the stem into
the leaf so the plant has its own
microbiome and that plant extracts
nutrients directly from the microbe and
many times it doesn't kill the microbe
it lets the microbe exit to rebuild and
this whole cycle starts again so a very
significant amount of nutrition in that
plant is dependent on these microbes I'm
talking about
the diversity of microbes
as well as the quantities of microbes in
that soil that's what really builds
nutrient-dense plants and nutrient-dense
animal meat that we eat so I'm going to
do a very fascinating interview with the
gentleman that is an expert and has
researched this topic and the reason I'm
talking about it is that this is going
to change your entire Viewpoint of how
you look at food and what you're going
to look for to make sure it's nutrient
dense okay then after the short
interview I want to go right into the
best foods that you should be eating so
basically what you said Eric and that is
that this is something that people have
not appreciated and that is that plants
are
they're absorbing
microbes from the soil into their roots
and they are extracting nutrients from
those microbes and these are bacteria
and these are these are in some cases
fungi that get sucked into the to the
roots actually in the root cells detects
the microbes in the cells secrete
superoxide which is highly potent uh
form of reactive oxygen and then that
extracts nutrients from the microbes and
will degrade some of the microbes
completely
uh so this is this is all part of the
process called rhizophagy Rizo for root
Beijing means eating so root eating
process basically and uh this is this
you know it's not complicated I mean
basically uh plants are cultivating
microbes in the soil using their exudate
sugars and things that they ex secrete
from The Roots they cultivate those
microbes they attract the microbes to
the root they internalize them and they
degrade some of them and they force some
of them extract nutrients from others
they enforce them essentially to secrete
nutrients it's not a complicated process
it's not it's not like you have to
understand all this super amount of
biology these plants are basically are
internalizing microbes internalizing
microbes into their tissues and
degrading them and forcing them to
secrete nutrients that the plant can
acquire just as we have our own
microbiome our microbes inside of us and
on the surface of our skin plants
um do they just have microbes in the
roots or up into this stems in the
leaves and on the surface of the plant
that's a beautiful question Eric okay uh
that's a beautiful question yeah yeah
plants absorb these microbes and fill
their tissues with these microbes and
build their cells with these microbes
they're bacteria that they take out of
the soil
and they move them through the flow and
through those vascular tissues they move
them up into the plant and so they'll
colonize the leaves as well
understanding the relationship between
the microbe and the nutrients in the
food even I think I've read one of your
your papers
um manganese is increase up to in one
study of up to 700 percent more when
when you have um have this thing
happening versus not having it happening
because I you also mention on the seed
when the seed is grown uh the seed has
microbes not just on the surface but
inside that then acts as a kind of a
a germinator or some type of a colostrum
or something that will kind of start the
process going and if you don't have that
if you buy a seed that's sterile for
example or then you don't get this you
get this you get this um lessening
effect right of of different things and
we've talked about that a seed
is like a little noaa's Arc
it has the plant and it has uh it has a
little bit of food stuff in there and it
has the microbes that the plant needs
and the if those microbes are if you
sterilize the seed or those microbes are
lost in the seed that compromises
development of the plant the the
seedling just doesn't grow right you
won't get root hairs you'll have a
anomalous growth they'll be short Roots
you may not have much branching you'll
have short uh short a slightly shorter
uh shoots on the plant uh plants don't
grow properly they need these microbes
in them in order to grow appropriately
microbes are gone they don't grow they
won't grow well they'll be susceptible
to disease you can make them grow if you
squirt fertilizer on them right chemical
fertilizers that will make them grow but
they're not going to be as Hardy as they
would be if they had my microbes there
if they do their they have their
microbes they're getting nutrients from
those microbes they have to work for
that using uh using new well superoxide
reactive oxygen to secrete onto those
microbes and that causes the plant to
really become resistant to oxygen
reactive oxygen and that is reactive
oxygen uh is what causes stress okay and
you mentioned the stress hormone the
ethylene before you know because these
microbes are producing ethylene which
also causes stress and maturation you
know the ethylene will cause the plant
to mature but it also could cause a
little stress and that causes the plant
to upregulate its stress defense and
becomes uh more resistant to any kind of
oxidative stress which is any kind of
stress so plants are heartier and
tougher they can withstand doubt drought
drought dry periods they can withstand
some diseases they can withstand soil uh
heavy metals or high salt tolerance what
about that that story or just tell us a
summary of the story of the the Indians
that used to unknowingly have uh started
to take the seeds and do something with
them yeah well you know the Indians I
mean we know they were not they didn't
have microscopes so right but yet you
know I mean this goes back to you know
people even primitive cultures where are
extremely capable and they figured
things out and in this case they the
Iroquois Indians developed something for
corn
uh that that has come to be called the
the Iroquois corn medicine and uh
uh with the airport corn medicine what
what they what the Indians would do is
they would actually get biostimulant
microbes and they would put on their
corn and uh just to give a little
background corn typically the way corn
is cultivated by the indigenous
Americans indigenous peoples was they
would they would get the corn from the
fields and they would hang it to dry you
know when as soon as the corn was formed
they would hang for the seed corn uh
they would eat what they were gonna eat
but they would hang this seed around and
typically they would pick it a little
bit early just a little bit early and
then let the seed dry and this early
picking uh actually has an effect on the
microbiome of the plant and what happens
is the microbiomes don't develop fully
unless the plant unless the seed is left
out in nature for a long time and then
you have in the moisture and you have
lots of moisture there and you have
microbes then growing on the seeds so
the microbiome
uh takes time to develop and so people
tend to pick it early get the seed put
it in a dry as driest possible place
which suppresses that microbiome
development and then this the plants
don't grow quite as well but with the
Iroquois Indian corn medicine the corn
medicine what they would do get the wild
grasses from The Woodlands
bring the roots put it in water chop up
those roots so you get the microbes out
of it into the water then they would
take their corn
that they were about to plant in their
fields and then they would let it
germinate just slightly in that water to
get the bacteria to colonize those roots
then they would take that and they would
put that they would plant that like that
this is the corn medicine so they were
using biostimulant microbes before
uh we even knew there were microbes
there how the heck did they figure that
out that's just brilliant when I find a
good product I always like to mention it
I'm not getting any Kickbacks but I just
want to let
you just tell people briefly what this
is
sure yeah thank you thank you for having
me on uh microbiometer on every little
kit I don't
came back from a trade show
um it's a little kit sort of like a
little kids science experiment it's
totally safe you can do it your kids can
do it and and the objective is to give
people data and knowledge about what
microbes how diverse and large their
microbial population is in soil
um I think it was really neat what James
said that you know we used to think
about soil as chemical now we're
thinking as biological but I think
what's really cool is now we're thinking
about nutrition not as chemical but as
nutrition is biological right so I think
it's just very interesting to say you
know it's sort of like saying do you
think I could live just by eating
multivitamins right well no I need to
eat food well why because I am ingesting
microbes my gut needs microbes right to
digest food just like a plant does so
the microbiometer was was designed so
that people can start to Benchmark their
soil whether it's their lawn their
Garden their Farm it's it's an
Agricultural Product to say okay you
know here's a numerical reading of my
soil as I move away from glycophate and
NPK and chemical fertilizers and I try
to get
the biological processes of science to
release
um nutrients and create nutrients
frankly right we we think that like
Roots mine the soil and microbes mind
the soil but they actually are are
producing things
um to say here's As you move from
practices say I mean no-till maybe you
stop glycophate maybe you do cover crops
you can measure it yourself on our
little phone app wherever you are in the
world particularly small old farmers who
can't afford Chemical Testing can start
getting that massive information well I
really appreciate your time
um and this data this is fantastic and
I'll put the links down below for the
book as well as the microbiometer and
thank you for your insights uh this has
been awesome hey we're back
so let's go ahead and talk about the
best foods that you can eat based on
this information and applying it to your
own life so the question is what is the
healthiest foods well it's those foods
that are grown on soil with the most
microbes and the most biodiverse
microbes and the worst foods are foods
that are grown on dirt okay without
microbes and that's really what the
definition of dirt is soil is with
microbes dirt is without microbes so if
you're growing some plant commercially
on the typical you know nitrogen
phosphorus potassium mpk you're not
going to get all your nutrients yes
they'll look good but are they nutrient
dense so in other words the missing link
to this whole thing is the microbe okay
the microbes help us not only with our
own absorption in our bodies but also in
the soil to turn that food into
nutrient-dense Foods all right I'm going
to go through a few things okay so yes
we need to do organic food
um ideally organic means without
pesticides and as you know there there's
a very popular chemical or poison that
is put on a lot of our foods and our
soil around the world actually and
that's called glyphosate so the foods
that have glyphosate which are the
Roundup Ready type foods which are seeds
that grow into these plants that resist
this specific herbicide killing the
other things but not itself so corn soy
beets canola cotton but you also have
this chemical spread in other plants
that are not gml like wheat oats and
many other things like legumes and beans
and things like that but the other big
problem is 95 percent of the animals
that we eat are fed food that has
glyphosate but the point I want to bring
up is that glyphosate is also an
antibiotic that's right if you look up
the patents on glyphosate they applied
and I think they got approved the patent
of glyphosate being an antibiotic now
why is that so important to understand
because if you apply an antibiotic to
the soil you will greatly diminish the
nutrient absorption into that plant
because you're lessening the microbes
same thing happens with our body so this
is why organic is important now the
other point is grass-fed animals right
and grass-fed grass finished that's the
real key thing or it could be just a
hundred percent grass-fed beef for
example because when the cow eats the
grains the nutrition becomes less with
their own digestion and the cow gets
more microbes from eating that grass not
only from the feeding of fiber but also
from the microbes directly in that grass
okay and this this is why we also can
get uh friendly bacteria from raw
vegetables that we consume that are
actually in the right kind of soils all
right number two raw vegetables raw
vegetables that are grown on soil
Hydroponics don't have the quantity of
microbes and the diversity of microbes
unfortunately plants were not designed
to be grown hydroponically I'm not
saying not to consume them you're just
not going to get the level of nutrition
that you would get from actually growing
plants on soil of course there's all
sorts of plants and herbs and vegetables
that you can get as far as their
nutrient density ideally which is not
easy to do which I'm trying to find a
way to make it more available is to get
your food from the local farmer there's
a program called CSA where a local
farmer and someone in the local
community have this Arrangement where
the consumer will pay a fee and get
regular produce from that farmer and I
really think the way to do it is to do
it locally because of the problem with
transportation and food going bad in the
winter in America when you buy a tomato
you're getting your Tomatoes well 80 of
the time from
Florida where they pick them completely
unripened and they use certain gases to
ripen them but they're completely void
of any nutrition so the point is if you
can have an arrangement with a farmer
that's locally and that farmer can be
guaranteed that they will have a sale
and you'll be guaranteed you'll have
some food it's really the optimum
Arrangement because you can avoid the
cost and transportation you can possibly
even visit the farmer to check out their
soils to make sure that they're really
healthy and it's also important to eat
foods that are seasonal and again that
aligns with the local Farmer and the
produce that you'd be getting the next
best option would be to go to the
farmers market and of course the best
option would be to have your own garden
so you can control everything but not
everyone has the space all right the
next point I already mentioned this is
to try to get plants that are grown in
soil not necessarily majority grown in
hydroponic like a lot of the salad that
you get from the grocery store it's
hydroponic so it doesn't have the
microbes I mean I still consume salad
that's grown hydroponically but I try to
get it from actual soil So when you buy
these salads that are already clean for
you and they're all cut up and there's
any plastic containers chances are
they're hydroponic versus the other type
of vegetables that are in a slightly
different section of the grocery store
usually those are grown on soil and
they're more of a painful but because
you have to clean them and you have to
chop them up but they are more nutrient
dense another point about healthy foods
wild caught versus farm raised okay fish
and seafood very important and also if
you were to buy cheese from Europe
that's raw that's a lot better than the
pasteurized why because it has more
microbes okay the fermented products
from dairy like cheese kefir are the
ones that are actually pretty good for
your gut of course some people have
allergies to milk products but I will
say that unfortunately milk is
pasteurized it's hard to find it raw and
I've done videos on finding it raw and
then making your own kefir that would be
a really good thing to do but that takes
time but realize that when they
pasteurize milk they're killing
everything in it okay they're killing
all the pathogens as well as the good
bacteria so if you could find
um raw milk cheese from Europe which you
can now it's illegal if I'm not mistaken
to sell raw cheese in America but when
they ship it from Europe apparently it's
still illegal but they just pay the fine
so that's why it costs so much but I
consume raw cheese and it is a healthy
product and that would be a way to eat
something that is enhanced with microbes
and of course I even get butter from a
local farmer that is raw butter which is
way better than the pasteurized butter
now as far as the vegetables go to help
your liver out of all the vegetables
it's the cruciferous that help you the
most so we're talking about cabbage kale
broccoli brussels sprouts not even just
the nutrients but the phytonutrients
okay I didn't even cover that but those
are also greatly enhanced with microbes
as well so getting cruciferous
vegetables from a really great farmer
who uses great methods of growing these
vegetables is like so important then if
you were to ferment these vegetables as
in sauerkraut or kimchi you would take
it to the next level why because of the
addition of microbes I'm trying to hit
this really important point over and
over with a hammer so you really get it
it's the microbes that make our food
healthy and of course pasture-raised
organic eggs right so you have these
chickens that roam around and eat bugs
and they're eating microbes indirectly
because there's a lot of microbes in the
bug and that all helps that chicken
especially if they're fed grains where
the farmer actually ferments the grain
which I do you soak this organic grain
in water for three days and you feed it
to the chickens they love it and it's
extremely healthy because in the
fermentation process you get these added
microbes so there's a couple other
points that I want to just kind of end
with with number one avoid foods that
have glyphosate I've already covered
that okay avoid foods that are
irradiated yes they use radiation to
sterilize the foods and there's a little
symbol I'll put up right now that you
can now identify those foods that are
radiated and avoid them okay if you
don't buy them then the manufacturing
companies that make them will not use
them as much okay so you can contribute
with your dollar and just not buying
them now anything that's pasteurized
like milk like juice like even things in
cans like canned soup are void of good
bacteria so they're not going to
contribute to healthy liver function I
already mentioned hydroponic versus
growing in the soil if you have the
option
go with the ones in the soil and of
course there's three more things that
are really bad for your liver that you
may already know about but it's of
course refined sugars okay refined
carbohydrates grains of any kind seed
oils all of this is very high in omega-6
which is inflammatory to the liver and
other refined Foods especially the soy
protein isolates okay and even the whey
protein is harder on the liver so now
you know something new to help you
identify what foods are the healthy
version of the ketogenic diet now if
you're new to the ketogenic diet you
really need to watch this video right
here check it out
