hey guys today we're gonna talk about
the health benefits of cauliflower okay
it's one of the best foods if you're on
the keto plan number one it's a great
alternative to rice mashed potatoes you
can make pizza crust that tastes almost
identical to wheat if you don't know
about my pizza crust recipe I put a link
down below I've made that probably a
hundred different times it's delicious
mashed cauliflower mash which is like
potatoes you can make tortillas out of
cauliflower so they're really good to
wrap things in mac and cheese and the
really cool thing is that the carbs are
so low one cup is five grams of carbs
we're gonna - the fiber to get our net
carbs it's three grams net carbs I mean
that's like so super low so it's super
keto friendly it's an alternative to all
the comfort foods that people love to
eat very high in vitamin C one cup will
give you 85 percent of your RDA a
vitamin C which is good to prevent
bleeding gums improve college and
improve energy one of the first symptoms
of a vitamin C deficiency is fatigue and
then we have choline one cup will give
you 45 milligrams of choline good to
prevent fatty liver it's good for
neurotransmitters brain function focus
memory things like that and then we have
phytonutrients there are so many
different phytonutrients in cauliflower
because it's a cruciferous vegetable
sulphur fane it can kill cancer on
contact it helps with phase 1 phase 2
detoxification which is basically taking
a poison and turning it into a
water-soluble harmless particle it's
also good for the lymphatic system
there's many other phytonutrients that
are anti-inflammatory anti-cancer anti
tumor loaded with vitamin K b1 b2 b3 b5
folate magnesium manganese and potassium
so as far as keto foods cauliflower
ranks at the top of the food chain
alright thanks for watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
