hi guys in this video we're going to
discuss macular degeneration okay the
first thing we need to define is what
Immaculate is well first let's talk
about a retina the retina comes from the
Latin word which means net because it's
kind of a net of cells that are
photosensitive cells they're equivalent
to the film of the camera that picks up
the data and it's connected to something
called the optic nerve that's which is
basically an extension of the brain so
the retina is really part of your brain
tissue sticking out into the inside of
the eye and it's capturing light and
information and it's going in there and
it's being converted to different
pictures okay so that's the retina part
of the retina you have this little focal
spot called the macula so macula comes
from the Latin word which means spot so
the macula is responsible for the
central vision okay not the peripheral
just the central vision high-resolution
color during normal light okay not in
the dark
if you have macular degeneration you
cannot see centrally okay you start and
lose your vision
maybe not complete blindness but you
can't recognize people it just so
happens that the macula has high
concentrations of a phytonutrient called
zeaxanthin okay and the retina has
higher concentrations of lutein these
are both phytonutrients so take a while
guess where you'd get these two
nutrients from dark green vegetables
okay specifically kale now haven't I
mentioned consuming kale in the past a
couple times well this is another reason
why you need to start doing kale spinach
collard greens not overly cooked by the
way romaine lettuce okay it's also in
egg yolks the yellow is loaded with it
carrots bell peppers so when the green
plant creates these two compounds it's
basically converting sunlight into
chemical energy so we can use it as fuel
when we consume this but we also get
other benefits from it as well so it's
just an interesting coincidence that in
a plant we have this concentrated
sunlight energy that's involved with
light
and it's also neat in the eye where you
also have light going and now what if
there's a connection there so here's my
tip of the day start consuming these so
you can get more phytonutrients and
avoid macular degeneration okay I just
wanted to take a moment to thank you
personally there's so many of you that
have gotten this book and the feedback
that you're giving me is mind-blowing
thank you so much I really appreciate it
if you wouldn't mind I have one quick
favor to put your unbiased review on
Amazon I would really appreciate it
thank you so much
