the most common sign of a leaky gut is
bloating in your gut you have these
little tiny upside down Roots when you
start to develop a leaky gut you're
getting this crevice or hole between
these little hair-like projections where
all sorts of things can travel through
without getting the stamp of approval
from your immune system let's say for
example you ate something with egg and
some of that protein leaks down and gets
through the intestine your immune cells
are going to go crazy because they're
going to think this is a virus or a
bacteria or some type of pathogen and so
what it's going to do it's going to tag
it so the next time you eat peanuts all
of a sudden you have this immune
reaction and you're like wait a second I
didn't think I was allergic to peanuts
the same thing will happen with eggs
protein or anything so here you are all
of a sudden allergic to all these
different foods and you don't know why
and this generates a lot of inflammation
and joint pain it's going to also O show
up on a lot of different types of skin
reactions psoriasis dermatitis you may
even notice headaches because you have
this connection between the gut and your
brain but the most damaging thing that a
leaky gut will do it can set you up for
an autoimmune disease things like
Hashimoto which is a thyroid autoimmune
condition where your own immune system
is attacking your own tissues but now
the big question is what causes is a
leaky gut if we can dig down into that
then we can get rid of the bloating and
all the other symptoms associated with
it the seven most common causes of a
leaky gut I'm going to start with number
Seven gluten okay gluten is in grains
the only protein that we as humans
cannot digest and many people might have
an allergy to it or they might just have
an intolerance to it now the next thing
that can cause leaky gut is sugar
consuming a lot of sugar creates like a
rusting effect effect throughout the
entire body number five fiber fiber is
considered something that's beneficial
to our guts and it is because it feeds
our microbes but the problem is if you
have leaky gut now when you consume that
fiber you're going to have more bloating
because we have a disruption of all the
microbes in your gut and they can just
create a lot of gas for you all right
number four lectins in beans especially
it's also in Grain fed Dairy from cows
that were fed grains if it says
grass-fed you're good if it doesn't say
grass-fed assume it's grain fed number
three certain raw vegetables like
broccoli it could be cauliflower it
could be cabbage number two seed oils
I'm talking about corn oil canola oil
and these foods are highly inflammatory
and they definitely will create
leakiness in your gut number one a
vitamin D deficiency regardless of
whether you're getting rid of glut
gluten you know or going carnivore
because you can't handle the fiber for a
couple months you need to take good
amounts of vitamin D to fully heal your
gut now either get a lot of sun without
becoming burned or start taking at least
20,000 IUS of vitamin D3 every single
day now this will start you on the road
to Healing the gut but there's some
other things you need to be aware of as
well and that would be glutamine
glutamine is most important for the gut
and the food that's the high in
glutamine is red meat another food
that's high in glutamine is cabbage you
can get it in sour crra other food
that's high in glutamine is bone broth
eggs kefir another thing to think about
is zinc you know oysters have the most
sink but any type of shellfish or
seafood you can also do seelp as well
and the last most important thing you
can do is to give your digestive system
a chance to rest and repair
and this is called fasting that right
there will probably be the most
important thing to do to really turning
in the situation around and I wish
someone told me what I'm telling you
right now
