the question is can you actually get
enough vitamin D just from your diet
from the food that you're eating let's
talk about that now the RDAs the dietary
recommendation for vitamin D per day is
400 to 800 international units okay but
these figures are were designed to
prevent a disease okay like rickets
they're not designed to maintain a
healthy body so in actuality these
should be a lot higher well let's take a
look at the foods moistures three and a
half ounces give you six hundred and
forty IU's okay so that's not quite 800
but it's something Salmond fatty fish 4
ounces 410 IU's sardines 3 ounces 175 I
use tuna 4 ounces 92 I use so you can
see that the fish that's not as fatty
doesn't have the quantities of vitamin D
one egg is 42 I use and that's in the
yolk cod liver oil one teaspoon
I'm sorry one tablespoon thirteen
hundred and sixty I use so there you
have it right there that's really a good
source beef liver of three and half
ounces
30 is not too much mushrooms 1/2 a cup
is 20 I use but this is actually an
inactive version of vitamin D vitamin d2
so that's to convert into d3 and these
are all d3 and the conversion is not
that great so the answer is it's
extremely difficult if not impossible to
get your vitamin D from just the food ok
now son will give you or may give you a
thousand international units per 10
minutes of Sun if you're younger okay
because as you age the skin doesn't
absorb as much vitamin D in fact as you
age you need three times as much Sun to
get the same level of vitamin D
okay if you're thin overweight people
have a harder time absorbing vitamin D
if you're lighter skin the darker the
skin the more vitamin D you need okay
it's actually five times more so you
just need more vitamin D because of the
pigment and if you have any vitamin D
receptor mutations you're going to need
a lot more Sun or vitamin D and a lot of
people actually have a mutation in the
receptor for vitamin D preventing them
from absorbing it next one is if you
live in the south if you live in
somewhere in the north if you live in
Canada or Alaska your level of vitamin D
is going to be dramatically lower if
you're being exposed to the Sun midday
you'll get this amount of vitamin D from
ten minutes if you have a lot of skin
exposure so you have to have your shirt
off you have to have shorts on if you
get it in your face you know if you're
just having a shirt and maybe you're
just exposing your hands in your face
which I'll do a video just on that alone
you're really not going to get the
vitamin D levels and you have to make
sure there's no Sun screens you have to
make sure you have a healthy liver in
fact the fattier the liver the less
vitamin D you're going to absorb also if
you're not in medications right if you
have medications that will block your
vitamin D and also if you're not stress
because the higher the cortisol the less
vitamin D you're going to expose to so
Sun will help you if these conditions
are in place the reason I'm bringing
this up is that a lot of people are
deficient up to 57% of the population is
deficient in vitamin D and it might be a
good idea to either focus on getting
more Sun or even take vitamin D as a
supplement thanks for watching
you enjoying this content go ahead and
share it with someone that could really
benefit from it
