we're going to talk about the hidden
cause of a manganese deficiency now
first let me just give you some basics
on what manganese does in the body
there's a lot
it's a trace mineral which means it's a
mineral that you don't need in large
amounts you need it in small amounts and
if you're deficient and creates all
sorts of big problems most of the
manganese in your body is located in
your mitochondria the energy factory of
the body now why do we need it in there
because this trace mineral is involved
in many enzymes okay so it's kind of
like a essential helper element in these
enzymes or cellular machinery that do
certain work in the body so one of the
purposes of manganese is to act as an
antioxidant and the name of the enzyme
is called manganese superoxide dismutase
and the function of this enzyme is
simply to clean up the byproducts of the
energy that's produced in the
mitochondria ninety percent of the
oxygen in the cells are used by the mono
Kandra so we have a lot of oxygen
burning a lot of fuel and giving off
some byproducts and so this enzyme will
help to stabilize the oxidative free
radicals and it turns it into hydrogen
peroxide and water okay so basically
it's a antioxidant that actually handles
some of the free radical damage that
comes off the metabolism from the
mitochondria the next one would be
gluconeogenesis and this is basically
the production of glucose in the body
from non glucose sources whether it's
protein fat or ketones your body can
make glucose from other things and so if
you're deficient in manganese there's
some studies that show that it will
increase your risk of diabetes simply
because you're not able to make your own
source of glucose so it's involved with
this it's also involved in detoxifying
ammonia which is a toxic by-product from
protein so you have protein digestion
ammonia and then to urea which is a less
toxic by chronica protein which is in
the urine so in order for your body to
get rid of the excess ammonia you need
manganese also it's involved in the
brain in converting glutamate which is
amino acid to glutamine so glutamate is
excitatory so if you have too much of
this and not enough of that you're gonna
have problems with sleeping you're gonna
have a problem with focus you're gonna
be nervous all the time so there could
be a lot of problems with that manganese
is also involved in bone and cartilage
so if you're deficient you can have all
sorts of structural problems especially
if your mother was deficient and she
carried you you can end up with um I
don't know issues with flat feet
potentially scoliosis problems in bone
formation and then we have wound healing
with collagen so you can see it's
involved in so many things but now let's
talk about how you become deficient in
manganese well if your liver is damaged
that can do it now whole grains does
have manganese but it also has phytic
acid which actually will block the
absorption of manganese so in nature
sometimes the foods that will give you
the nutrient also has things to prevent
excessive amounts of it and that goes
with the herbal teas as well teas have
cannons and certain herbs that are high
in manganese also are on high in tannins
which counter the absorption of
manganese it's probably a
self-regulating mechanism to make sure
you don't overload and this goes with a
lot of different trace minerals leafy
greens now if you eat spinach
it's high in oxalates and that can
actually block your ability to absorb
manganese but this is the one right here
okay and that is a hidden source of
manganese glyphosate if you've never
heard of glyphosate it is the herbicide
in GMOs when you consume GMO foods which
is in a lot of foods soy corn canola oil
in fact the entire grocery store is
filled with GMO foods which has residues
of glyphosate this is what can block
manganese
when an animal like a cow for example
consumes their food of soy and corn
which is grown with Roundup Ready
glyphosate this herbicide the plant will
not pull in manganese properly so this
animal is consuming food without
manganese so if you consume the animal
that's manganese deficient or you
consume the plants that are manganese
deficient you're going to be deficient
in manganese and you could have a
potential problem with any of these
functions right here so what can you do
I think the most important thing is to
as much as possible do organic foods
thanks for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
