there are some big mistakes people are
making when they're taking magnesium and
this is very important because of
several reasons number one magnesium is
hands down the most important mineral of
the entire body it's involved in
hundreds of different biochemical
reactions everything from atrio
fibrillation high blood pressure
insomnia heart disease leg cramps and
especially fatigue and it's so important
but it's almost impossible to test
because the majority of magnesium is not
in your blood only 1% is in the blood
the rest is inside your cells so unless
you do a biopsy or a very specialized
test you're not going to know that
you're deficient in magnesium based on
what we eat in other factors most people
are deficient in magnesium and if they
don't know this information they might
stop taking it and go off into a
different direction and never solve the
magnesium deficiency problem magnesium
is a co-actor it's a helper nutrient in
so many different areas of the
biochemistry of your body I first want
to talk about why people are deficient
in the first place one big problem is a
genetic weakness with the absor
absorption of magnesium but honestly
that's actually very very rare the
likelihood of you having genetic problem
with magnesium is going to be low
magnesium is dependent on vitamin D and
the amount of people with genetic
problems with vitamin D is off the
charts what I think is happening is the
average person is so deficient in
vitamin D that puts him in a situation
where magnesium can't work because
magnesium is dependent on vitamin D and
realize this the amount of vitamin D you
actually need minimally is 10,000 IUS
and that's just as a maintenance if
you're on like 600 international units
or a thousand IUS you're not going to be
able to absorb much magnesium if you
have inflammation in the gut another
reason is low stomach acid you need that
acidic stomach to absorb minerals
especially magnesium how does one know
if they don't have enough stomach acid
indigestion bloating heartburn all of
those indicators mean that they need
more acid to help you absorb magnesium
if you're a pre-diabetic or a diabetic
or you've been eating a lot of carbs for
a period of time you have a problem with
insulin and that could be the reason why
you're not absorbing magnesium because a
lot of nutrients depend on normal
insulin working in the body the best
source of magnesium is magnesium
glycinate you get absorption like 80%
with that glycinate plus the glycinate
helps people sleep and it helps them
calm down helps them relax if you have
too much calcium in the body and not
enough magnesium you're going to get
cramping in your calves you're going to
get high blood pressure you're going to
get arrhythmias because because
magnesium
controls calcium too much calcium causes
contraction it raises blood pressure and
check out what happened to this person
with blood pressure problems when they
took magnesium I have to say that the
first time I've actually had any
meaningful relief from the pain is
taking this high dose of magnesium and
vitamin D so it's it's it's made a huge
difference and that wasn't even really
what it was intended it was intended for
for the blood pressure but I think when
your pain is alleviated then your blood
pressure will go down and now I've
reduced the the dose so I don't take 800
I take 600 of the magnesium and I take
20,000 of the vitamin D and the bonus to
the whole thing as the magnesium and
vitamin D has had this calming effect on
the inflammation of my body so it's
still there but nowhere near the levels
as uh what they were before I did this
test so I'm thrilled interesting isn't
it okay let's continue smoking alcohol
block magnesium in a significant way if
you're consuming too much sodas which
are loaded with phosphoric acid that can
cause the deficiency of magnesium all
the refined sugars and refined starches
and junk food deplete you of magnesium
and of course the real big Blocker of
magnesium is with medications another
big mistake that doctors make with
magnesium is the fact that you cannot
determine your magnesium levels from
your blood the best way is just to
understand what magnesium does and to
look at the various symptoms and just
start to eat more magnesium rich foods
leafy greens will give you magnesium
pumpkin seeds have magnesium chocolate
has magnesium make sure you get the kind
without sugar and also certain nuts
another mistake that people make with
magnesium is not taking magnesium long
enough to see the change they're going
to need to take magnes magesium at least
1 to 3 months before they even start
seeing a change because it takes time to
fix the biochemistry in the body the
same thing with arrhythmias that could
take four to six months before you start
to see changes does take time for this
magnesium to really create an effect on
the body if someone has leg cramps it
could be a little bit quicker like 3
days but they should keep taking the
Magnesium because just by getting rid of
a cramp or like a twitch called petney
on your skin can happen pretty quick but
to fully resolve it it could take weeks
insomnia could take 4 weeks before a
person starts seeing change if you don't
see immediate change with the Magnesium
don't think it's not working it's just
taking more time if you have any
digestive problems constipation diarrhea
that means you don't have the right
microbiome and that can greatly affect
your ability to absorb magnesium if you
go through a lot of chronic stress that
could be the reason why the need for
magnesium is very very high if you do a
lot of exercise and you're an athlete
you need a lot more magnesium than the
average person the normal rdas for
magnesium like 400 milligrams might not
be enough to create a therapeutic effect
you might need a lot more to penetrate
some of the barriers that are in your
body
800,00 or even 1,600 milligrams every
single day especially if you're dealing
with something that's affecting you like
right now and you want to see change
what you can do is take it in a powder
or a tablet and then spread it out
through the entire day don't just take
1,600 and one sitting because your body
can only absorb a certain amount take it
and spread it out through the day it'll
be much better absorbed and it wouldn't
hurt to at least one of the times when
you take it is to take it with a
tablespoon of alider vinegar and water
with a straw and then use that liquid to
acidify the stomach so you get better
absorption all right thanks for watching
and if you haven't seen this video on
magnesium check it out
