i want to give you an updated list of my
top tips to be super healthy a lot of
these tips I'm going to share with you
are based on my mistakes and if you
apply these tips you're going to solve a
lot of your health problems let's start
with tip number one you only want to eat
when you're hungry and you don't want to
eat if you're not hungry this sounds too
simple right for yours right at the end
of dinner I snacked constantly i never
really paid attention to my hunger i
just like food and I just kept eating
but if you were just to wait until
you're actually hungry and eat your body
would do so much better don't eat if
you're not hungry number two drink
liquid when you're thirsty and don't
drink if you're not thirsty this ideal
that we have to drink so much liquid is
based on false information you're
diluting electrolytes especially sodium
now we can end up with a situation where
you're creating more dehydration when
you're drinking more liquid the next tip
relates to that tip I just mentioned i
find that when I drink carbonated water
I feel more hydrated when I drink
regular water for some reason I'm not as
hydrated the other thing that I do to
hydrate myself is when I drink liquid
many times I'll put a tea bag in there
that's naturally decaffeinated for some
reason when I drink tea I get way more
hydrated i can drink more water it just
feels better and plus I'm getting the
phytonutrients from the tea i will take
a gallon glass jar and I'll fill up with
water i'll put a couple teabags in there
and I'll put it outside in the sun for 1
to two hours the sun gives it infrared
infrared actually makes structured water
which is really healthy i've been doing
that lately and my body loves it next
tip if you have a confusion of what diet
to do or what food to eat and you really
don't know what is true or not go ahead
and try one diet and see how you feel
try the other diet see how you feel then
you'll really know what works for you so
I'm not about forcing someone to do a
certain diet or certain food but I am
interested to get someone to try
something out to see if it actually
works for them the next tip intermittent
fasting the frequency of when you eat
might sound like an insignificant thing
but it's just as important as what you
eat because all sorts of amazing
positive things happen when you do
intermittent fasting our bodies were not
developed or designed to consume food
every hour and a half if we can match
what our bodies are used to eating as
far as the frequency we can actually
achieve a much greater level of health
it's taking these damaged proteins and
it's recycling them into new tissue it's
also cleaning up pathogens and getting
rid of bacteria viruses fungus mold and
that happens when you're not eating and
this also relates to the next tip out of
all the things that you can do that's
bad for you it's snacking eating between
meals why because again it spikes that
insulin especially if you're snacking on
junk food out of all the things that a
person could do to improve health if
they just got rid of their snacking that
would create a huge change even if they
don't change their diet the next tip too
much carb when you're reading a label
the most important thing to look at is
the carbohydrates not necessarily just
the sugar because a lot of these foods
don't have any sugar but at high carbs
because they're adding starch
malttodextrin flour that's basically
hidden sugar keep your carbs on the low
side in fact in a given day you don't
want to consume more than 30 g of carbs
per day and this rolls into the next tip
when you get your blood test I think
it's very important to request a fasting
insulin test for literally 10 to 15 to
20 years before you develop diabetes
your fasting insulin levels are high but
the doctors never test that so if you
were able to test your fasting insulin
you could literally prevent diabetes
because if it was high you could do
something about it and that leads us to
the next tip that's sort of related and
this is a blood test probably one of the
most important blood tests is for
vitamin D at least 10,000 to 20,000 IUs
of vitamin D every single day it affects
10% of all of your genetics and for some
people that have autoimmune disease and
chronic inflammation and other problems
that relate to a poor immune system
they're going to need much much higher
levels of vitamin D to create the effect
it's really important to test vitamin D
and you can even do a home test i'm
going to put that link down below then
the second most important nutrient to
focus on is your magnesium most people
don't consume enough magnesium in their
diet so usually they're deficient you
need magnesium to help vitamin D work
magnesium helps control calcium calcium
causes contraction of the muscles a
muscle cramp a spasm and when you get
those you have too much calcium but
magnesium can come in as a remedy and
get rid of that problem because it's the
controller of calcium now let's go to
the next tip that's potassium if you
look at all the nutrients you need in
amounts potassium is the one we need in
a very very large amount we need like
4700 milligrams of potassium every
single day potassium is a physiological
tranquilizer it calms the nervous system
down it helps lower blood pressure it
also helps increase your energy it's a
major electrolyte it's good for the
heart the next tip relates to vitamins
the multivitamins that make the most
money like I'm talking billions okay
okay and I'm not going to mention their
names have the worst ingredients in the
world nothing is from food it's all just
synthetics don't waste your money find
something quality but you have to
realize that even like the vitamin C
they make it from cornstarch and
sulfuric acid if you're going to take a
vitamin or give a vitamin to a child or
pregnant woman I would make sure it's
higher quality the other thing that's
missing in our food is trace minerals a
lot of the food that you eat doesn't
have the trace minerals it had long ago
the microbes are not in the soil because
we're growing stuff on sterilized soil
when you're eating food that's not grown
on something that has a lot of nutrients
so let's say it's grown with hydroponics
like in water with 15 added minerals
you're not getting all the trace
minerals that you need one additional
supplement that I would recommend is a
trace mineral supplement because a lot
of people are deficient the trace
minerals would be zinc iodine manganese
selenium things like that next tip out
of all of the proteins that you can
consume red meat is one of the most
nutrientdense if you want to feel really
good and you want to be more energetic
or you want to handle your low blood
sugar red meat will do the trick very
quick it's going to perk you right up
not necessarily for the iron it's
actually from the protein because our
bodies really need uh sufficient protein
and grass-fed red meat will give you the
highest quality next tip if you're like
me and you have a history of a lot of
antibiotics realize that a lot of your
problems now could be related to the
antibiotics we were told that when we
take an antibiotic that those microbes
will come back a lot of strains do come
back but not to the level where they
should be and one of the most powerful
things you can do is make your own
probiotic yogurt-like uh mixture which
creates some of the most amazing effects
in your body and when you watch the
video that I will put down below read
the comments it's going to be
mind-blowing people are noticing all
sorts of amazing cool effects from that
but all we're doing is we're replacing
the microbes that used to be in our gut
long ago before we took an antibiotic
next tip is overtraining kills your
testosterone if you overtrain and don't
let your body recover not only are your
hormones going to be messed up but you
will not achieve the gains and the
improvements that you could and you're
going to find your energy is going to go
down down down down and so many other
issues can occur especially with
inflammation next tip if you go off the
wagon and you eat too many carbs what
you should do is take vitamin B1 because
you just depleted B1 and that's going to
create more anxiety and stress which
could cause you to eat more of the wrong
foods take more B1 to repair some of the
damage and also get rid of some of the
side effects that are occurring because
you just ate that carb next tip be
careful of taking any iron supplements
out of all the nutrients iron is the one
that doesn't really leave your body
probably the only time I would recommend
taking an iron supplement is if you are
menrating and you lost blood but even
then the type of iron I would take would
be a food source either beef liver or
liver tablets but not the type of iron
in those supplements next tip if you're
over 50 years old and let's say you have
fatty arms or you have extra fat or
cellulite on your body chances are you
may have a bit of atrophy not
necessarily fat and if you don't
differentiate that you can go uh on a
diet for a long period of time and it
looks like you may be losing a little
weight but don't really ever see
anything significant because it's age
related atrophy of the muscle biggest
thing to prevent that is regular
consistent exercise weight training and
magnesium too next tip if you ever in
your life get any surgery for any reason
always take a good amount of vitamin D
right before i would take at least
50,000 IUs of vitamin D3 maybe up to
100,000 IUs 3 days before the surgery
because hands down the outcome of any
surgical procedure is going to be so
much better if you have enough vitamin D
another really important time to take
vitamin D is when you're pregnant and
you're lactating breastfeeding super
important for you and the baby because
if you're deficient in vitamin D you're
going to get postpartum depression the
child can end up with all sorts of
weaknesses lastly I think this is really
super important invest in a good water
filter when you drink city water there's
going to be some forever chemicals in
there i just tested my water and I have
two filters and it had a chemical that
was
78,000 times higher than normal the
point is you need to invest in some type
of filter don't drink the tap water a
lot of these tips were based on personal
experience so don't make the mistakes I
made apply this information and I will
see you in the next
