okay guys so i had another question
will seven to ten cups of salad or
vegetables give me
all of my potassium requirements okay
the answer is it depends on what type of
vegetables you're consuming because you
have salad and lettuce leaves and things
like that but then you have like
asparagus and you have cauliflower and
you have broccoli which give you all
sorts of different levels of potassium
but on average it's probably going to
give you between two and three thousand
milligrams of potassium but here's the
thing
mixed nuts one cup is 847 milligrams of
potassium so these other foods that you
consume are also going to contribute
animal protein gives you 300 milligrams
of potassium for a five ounce
portion and not one avocado is 800
milligrams
oh and salmon for six ounces it's 800
milligrams of potassium so you can see
you're going to achieve this if you
consume the foods that i recommend and
people want to know what about the
wheatgrass juice powder is that going to
give me all the potassium no it'll
actually contribute but no it's not
going to give you all the potassium
we want you to consume
vegetables and then use that wheatgrass
as an enhancement on top of everything
else that being said the electrolyte
powder does specifically have potassium
citrate a thousand milligrams per
serving size so that can actually
enhance the total amount so you can hit
this target right here all right thanks
for watching
hey you know what i just want to say
something only 30 of the people that
watching this video actually make it
this far and you did so i really
appreciate you thank you so much
