hey guys today we want to talk about
Splenda sucralose I had some questions
recently is it okay to consume it's an
artificial sweetener I'll let you decide
I'm gonna go through the points first of
all it's a chlorinated sugar which means
they add chlorine okay right there is a
red flag they also add something called
malted dextran which is very very high
on the glycemic index so I don't know
why you would want to add this when
you're trying to lower blood sugars with
this because this is gonna actually
raise it right here okay number two it
alters your intestinal bacteria there's
a huge link between gaining weight and
not having the correct amount of micro
flora in your gut now just the fact that
it alters your bacteria is enough reason
not to consume this and then you have
the worsening of the blood sugars and
increase your risk of insulin resistance
and increase a 1 C which is a test to
indicate blood sugar problems now this
probably occurs because of the altered
intestinal bacteria and there's some
studies that show that it plays a role
in certain cancers giving you a high
incidence of leukemia and on top of that
it may actually increase your thymus
gland which is right above the heart and
it's involved in immunity so Splenda
being a very popular alternative
sweetener and grossing over 1.5 billion
dollars a year may not be the best
option if you want to try to sweeten
things I would recommend non-gmo xylitol
or we throat roll or stevia or monk
fruit thanks for watching so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
