hey guys I'm back and today we're gonna
talk about hormones and the endocrine
system I'm gonna really try to make this
as simple as possible sometimes on my
youtube channel
I'll get feedback telling me that
oversimplifying a body system right I
should you know I shouldn't to make it
too simple because the body is very
complex and only certain people can
understand it so only if you graduate
from a certain university and you have a
certification can you talk about the
body
well in fact I disagree I think you
can't understand the body but the
endocrine system sometimes sounds very
mysterious but really it's a
communication system you have the
nervous system you have the endocrine
system they both allow communications to
occur in the body so let's just take a
look at the endocrine system so you have
the gland that makes hormones ok
hormones are communication particles and
they deliver messages through the blood
these hormones are then sent to certain
tissues ok that have receptors so very
specific hormones go to very specific
receptors to do very specific functions
ok that's the simplicity of it we have a
hormone communication it's sent it gets
received and it does it's certain
function ok there's three types of
receptors you have receptors on the
surface of the cells okay membranes
receptors you have receptors inside the
cell of certain places and then you have
receptors that also go into the center
and nucleus okay the DNA like the flower
and hormones for example can go to
really penetrate the cell go right to
the DNA so they can affect genetics so
what happens then once this hormone is
connected there's a little signal that
gets sent back to the gland
letting the gland know that that message
has been received and acknowledged so in
the endocrine system we call that
feedback loops so there are negative
feedback loops and there are positive
feedback loops I'm just going to talk
about the negative ones which basically
just tell the gland to turn off okay to
lower that hormone so that's really what
the negative feedback is
it's just a signal back to turn off the
gland because the function has been
complied with okay now in this
dictionary I'm just going to show you
the definition of the word
acknowledgement thing given or done in
recognition of the arrival or receipt of
something okay so if you order something
from my site I send you an email back
letting you know that it was shipped and
then in my side I get feedback from the
fulfillment center that that package was
delivered okay so that's my
acknowledgement and when you're talking
to someone they're gonna acknowledge
what you said so that way you can feel
that they heard you okay but if they
don't acknowledge you you might have the
tendency to keep talking okay to try to
get your point across that's why it's
very very dangerous to ignore your
spouse but the point is that the
acknowledgement tends to complete that
communication okay now why is that
important because when we deal with
hormones we're dealing with also
something called hormone resistance okay
I don't have you ever heard of insulin
resistance
well there's also leptin resistance
cortisol resistance estrogen resistance
testosterone resistance and even thyroid
resistance this receptor is the superior
thing in this entire communication
platform so we have the receptor over
here that's listening and then the
hormone and the gland is talking and
they connect and we have this this whole
normal function now this is a very
common problem especially when we get
into insulin resistance and even
cortisol resistance which I'm gonna do a
separate video on this now what this
receptor is doing it's actually
protecting the body against excessive
communication of that hormone okay
that's what this resistance is so we
have something that's triggering the
gland to make too much of this hormone
and then the cells going to protect you
because too much of a certain hormone
can be bad especially when you get into
cortisol and you get into insulin it can
be very destructive on the body so when
you have insulin resistance you no
longer have this feedback loop this
negative feedback
going back to the gland to turn it off
okay so if we don't have the feedback
then the gland never gets that
communication that this has been
connected to so it starts to increase
more in more communication to connect
now you've seen this in human
relationships right where someone just
keeps talking and talking and talking
and talking well the more you know that
person the more they're gonna keep
talking so you might as well just listen
to them acknowledge them so they will
stop talking okay the same thing happens
the body if you block that listening
mechanism that receptor then the gland
will keep pumping out more and more
hormone now in the case of insulin
resistance you have from 5 to 9 X the
amount of that insulin that's being
pumped out of the pancreas so you have
so much more insulin than you really
need and what's happening is that
hormones trying to connect but it won't
let it but really what's happening is
that the reason why that gland is
pumping it out is because something is
triggering the gland to produce that
hormone in the first place so we have
this simple communication system that
it's now very complex but if you
understand the basics you can see it
very simply what's happening for example
insulin resistance and we will look it
up online Wikipedia which we know
everything in Wikipedia is truthful so
we can read this right here insulin
resistance the very beginning part it
says avoiding carbohydrates and sugars a
no carbohydrate diet or fasting can
reverse insulin resistance and they give
two references okay you can look this up
yourself okay so that's very interesting
right so so one way to fix this
resistance problem is to stop
stimulating the gland with that trigger
that's causing the problem the first
place and the reason of bringing this up
is many times when you go to the doctor
that individual will measure your
hormones and say you have too much of a
hormone or you have a hormone deficiency
call it a hyper or hypo okay and then
they'll either give you a hormone or
they'll give you medication that blocks
the hormone instead of it really
understanding the big picture okay
especially when we get into even like
hyperglycemia high blood sugar or
hypoglycemia so
what I want you to do is understand the
simplicity of what's happening with this
communication system and realize that
there's something triggering the gland
in the case of coarse salt which I'm
going to do a separate video on not
stress
okay so that'll actually keep the body
pumping out excessive amounts of
cortisol and you'll find out when I do
the video you'll have high amounts of a
certain hormone
it's called Cushing's syndrome yet you
have all these symptoms of low cortisol
so it's extremely confusing but if you
understand this you can understand it
very simply now in the case of insulin
resistance you have symptoms that are
too much insulin and symptoms that are
actually insulin deficiency so now
you'll know why because it's the
receptor so the receptor is definitely
the superior factor and this entire
communication network and one less
saying since we're on the topic of
insulin resistance inflammation in
general can cause insulin resistance and
insulin resistance can cause
inflammation of course carbs will do it
frequent eating will do it and also if
you look up in certain resistance you'll
see obesity is one of the causes of
insulin resistance which I disagree
because obesity is really a symptom of
other things definitely high levels of
insulin and insulin resistance so this
is really a symptom I mean it is true
that visceral fat will actually make
insulin resistance worse that's true
okay but insulin resistance causes
elevated insulin which then causes
visceral fat so it can goes around and
around in a circle or sometimes you'll
see this Oh a high-fat diet causes
insulin resistance and it's gonna
ventually cause diabetes which is
totally a lie because the studies that
they do on high fat it's on mice and if
you look at the actual diet it's not
really just a high-fat diet it's a high
fat and high sugar diet okay and that
actually compounds that that's actually
worse than taking a diet that's just
just high carbs if you combine the two
that's even worse
okay guys so thanks for watching and I
hope that now you understand some of the
basics it makes more sense so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications damn
vacations that sounds weird well I'll
just remind you on a daily basis how
about that
