let's talk about adrenal fatigue and
answer the question will adrenal fatigue
actually cause you to gain weight or not
but you also have to understand why you
would get weight gain with adrenal
fatigue and how it all works so the
first thing you need to know is that the
medical profession does not acknowledge
adrenal fatigue as a medical problem
okay they don't recognize it I don't
know why not because there is a
condition of hyper cortisol ism okay
that's high cortisol so the adrenal
gland has an outside and an inside the
outside makes cortisol this is the
stress hormone so there's a condition
called Cushing's syndrome okay from this
book I'll show you right here the civic
collection of medical illustration
volume for endocrinology by Frank
knitter so as you can see right here
there's a condition called Cushing's
syndrome this is high cortisol hyper
cortisol ism okay too much cortisol but
here's the thing do you one day just
wake up with this condition no it starts
at a certain point and it gradually gets
worse and worse and worse and worse just
like you have instant resistance
pre-diabetic and then eventually a
diabetic so the cortisol being high
there's always a beginning point and it
could be subclinical where you start
developing symptoms yet it's not a
full-blown problem yet and that's the
way I look at adrenal fatigue because
you can have a series of stress events
over the years and start having more and
more problems with fatigue to the point
where it becomes magnified as a
full-blown Cushing's syndrome problem so
here are the symptoms with a full-blown
Cushing syndrome
case okay a lot of visceral fat so
you're gonna see more belly sagging fat
but not necessarily kind of like a
superficial love handles as much or
superficial fat all over its gonna be in
the midsection mainly and I think the
reason why is because cortisol is a
stress hormone and if you think about
during
dates your body would want to store fat
closest to the organs the vital organs
the liver the heart things like that
number two high blood pressure the three
round face red cheeks fatigue lowered
immune system susceptible to viruses
anxiety Buffalo Hump okay
fat on your collarbone also you have
thin skin because cortisol is a very
destructive hormone it's called
catabolic so it starts to break down
proteins and you're gonna see it in your
your skin the skin is just very very
thin decreased libido then we have low
potassium and you also have high sodium
so you're gonna retain fluid and low
vitamin D levels okay now there's a lot
of other symptoms involved but these are
the main ones also insomnia that's
another one as well other than that you
can be perfectly fine and a lot of
people have a lot of these symptoms so
they may not have a full-blown Cushing's
syndrome but they might have something
that's not quite as severe and that's
adrenal fatigue so if we come back to
the question can adrenal fatigue cause
weight gain it really depends on how
chronic it is okay now high cortisol can
come from many things stress it could
come from a tumor and your pituitary it
could come from a virus it could come
from major loss of a loved one so it can
come from many different things but if
you have chronic stress that can
definitely create adrenal fatigue so it
really depends how long you've had the
stress or if it was a short-term thing
and your diet there's one thing about
having high cortisol causing the fat but
then what about the diet are you eating
really good to maybe counter some of
that effect because the more stressor
you are the healthier the diet should be
but in theory people will tend to eat
what when they're stressed they eat
carbs right so that makes things worse
and then also what is causing this
stress what is triggering this thing
you locate the actual cause of the
stress and fix it and sometimes you
can't so you have to maybe improve it
slowly over time but there's always
something you can do to improve this
situation so really the weight gain
depends on several factors so here's
another question that I think it's
really important is why with someone
with adrenal fatigue or high cortisol
actually gain weight in the first place
well the cortisol is a survival hormone
and it needs to release quick energy
okay so what it does is it releases
stored sugar from your liver and your
muscles so it just dumps this sugar okay
so that's one thing that it will do and
then this sugar then gets converted into
fat later okay
especially if you don't need the sugar
because we're not being chased by a
tiger anymore we're sitting in a desk
we're not as mobile or stressed and so
all the sugar can easily then be
converted to fat around your gut so
cortisol gives you quick energy releases
sugar but it also does this other thing
it will make new sugar it's called gluco
neo Genesis now where does it make sure
you're from your own muscles so it
converts your muscles into sugar which
then turns into fat okay and what muscle
does it primarily go after your thigh
muscle and your gluttonous Maximus so
you start losing your thighs and your
butt
so all this turns into sugar then
converts into fat around the midsection
so that's why you would get weight gain
in the midsection but now how does this
actually work well high sugar stimulates
insulin okay and insulin will do two
things
insulin is a fat making hormone but it
also prevents the burning of fat so if
here you are in this chronic stress
states okay we're not even talking about
eating sugar just being in stress and
your body is not going to be able to get
you in the ketosis because of
highest cortisol and the high sugar in
the high insulin so it's gonna be really
hard for you to get in the state of
fat-burning if you have high cortisol
and we're not even talking about your
diet at all and they also mentioned that
the cortisol receptors a lot of them are
in the midsection right here so that's
where you're going to gain the way as
the kind of a protective mechanism to
feed organs during stress dates and
because the vitamin D is low your
cortisol can be even higher because
vitamin D helps to regulate cortisol it
helps to keep cortisol in check this and
this is why a low vitamin D state can
also gain weight because the chorus all
goes up also your potassium is going to
be lowered okay right here and you're
not going to be able to regulate that
insulin resistance when you take insulin
you make insulin more sensitive and it
can actually help to prevent it from
getting out of control so when you have
high cortisol there's always a low
potassium low vitamin D high sodium
situation alright so now that you have
all the different pieces to this puzzle
which i think is very important starting
out with increasing your awareness of
what's going on now the question is what
is the stress that's triggering the
whole thing you have to look into your
life and find out what stress that is
even if there is a tumor somewhere what
could trigger the tumor alright so now
that you're aware of everything now the
question is identifying the trigger what
is causing this high level of cortisol
it's usually going to be something
related to stress and you have to kind
of scan your environment find out where
it's coming from
and do what you can to improve it as
much as possible very important okay
next one is keto healthy keto this is
going to lower your stress because
ketones are a more efficient fuel
they'll increase oxygen less waste
they're a low stress fuel glucose is
very stressful and it creates the blood
sugar swings and it can really wear you
out
then intamin fasting it'll been fasting
increases your cells tolerance to
so it actually makes your cells tough so
these these two right here are very very
important taking vitamin D can actually
help lower cortisol so that's really
important I would take at least 20,000 I
use okay with that take vitamin k2
vitamin C is needed a lot of the vitamin
C in your body is stored in your green
or glands so you need about M and C to
support the adrenal and this can also
come from sauerkraut is a good source of
vitamin C and leafy greens and then
potassium from leafy leafy greens as
well as avocados because potassium can
help make insulin work better and help
minimize the insulin spike and also
almost forgot about it would be one very
very very important
all right so coming full circle will
adrenal fatigue cause weight gain it
really depends on your diet how long the
stress is been there alright have you
fixed the stress and use other factors
like nutrients and fasting and check out
this video on the adrenal body type if
you haven't seen it before you
definitely check it out
