so today I want to talk about the
difference between using baking soda
versus apple cider vinegar for
indigestion there's no doubt that you're
going to experience results if you take
either/or but the question is long-term
what can happen so what I want to first
talk about is this idea on pH of the
body there seems to be this push to
alkalize the body and I'm not sure
exactly where that came from it could be
I think there's a book called alkalizer
dye it could be that or it could be
other things but people tend to
associate health with being alkaline and
sickness with with being acid okay so I
just want to first mention that when
you're talking about alkaline or acid
you have to be specific on what part of
the body you're talking about because in
the stomach you need a pH between 1 & 3
this is super acidic but we're talking
about the blood we're talking about a
very narrow range between seven point
three five and seven point four five
seven being neutral so anything greater
than seven is more alkaline and anything
less than seven is more acidic so you
can see blood is slightly alkaline now
when we're talking about being too
acidic or too alkaline we're really
talking about two different conditions
one being too acid to be acidosis and
the other one too alkaline being
alkalosis now if you understand the
symptoms for each different condition
you can help to use the right remedy so
for the symptoms of acidosis your
nervous system is going to be irritated
you're gonna feel nervous you're gonna
sigh frequently like like that you might
have light or sound sensitivity you
might be dehydrated you might feel a
lump in the throat when you're
swallowing
you're gonna have a difficult time
breathing in high altitudes and there's
certain conditions that can make you
more acid like ketoacidosis which is a
huge confusion for many people they
think being in ketosis is the same as
ketoacidosis
ketoacidosis is a really rare but
dangerous condition where you would have
to be a diabetic type one and not
control your blood sugars in other words
your ignore taking insulin so your blood
sugars go really really really high over
300 and your pH starts going high
so that's cute acidosis if you're not a
diabetic type one you don't have to
worry about it okay it's not gonna get
that high but if you have ketoacidosis
you have acidosis and of course you'd
want to alkalize the body there's
another condition called lactic acidosis
and lactic acidosis is another serious
condition that can cause even a coma and
this could come from the side effect of
taking certain medications even that
Foreman has a black label and it says
that it could lead to lactic acidosis
the remedy the nutrient that prevents
this is vitamin b1 and b12 and then you
have alkalosis okay now Colossus you're
gonna have muscle twitching tetany which
is that little twitching may be
underneath your left eye or the arm or
the leg muscle spasm cramps in your calf
muscle weakness dehydration which is the
same over here because you're not able
to transport the minerals properly
allergies and calcium deposits so of
course with alkalosis you wouldn't want
to alkalize the body even more it's too
alkaline
does that make sense now I'm going to
talk about another condition called hypo
chloride reom what that means is that
your stomach doesn't have either the
quantity of acid or the strength of acid
the pH actually is between like four
maybe five maybe even six so you have a
higher pH in your stomach the purpose of
this acid is to break down protein
absorb minerals and kill pathogens if
you don't have the strength of acid in
your stomach you can have incomplete
digestion in the protein you can have
pathogens that could go into the system
and you're also going to have a
difficulty absorbing minerals and one of
the big symptoms of that is anemia and
this is a very common problem by the way
with a lot of people especially as you
get older so the symptoms of
hypochloride ria are GERD okay
GERD is basically where the valve and
the top of the stomach doesn't close and
we get acid coming up here so it's acid
reflux okay next one is indigestion so
think about it people are taking
antacids for GERD acid reflux and
digestion which is a symptom of low
stomach acid which is going to
neutralize the acid which is going to
then cause the need for more medication
which is going to cause more of the
symptoms anemia because you're not able
to absorb the iron constipation because
you're getting incomplete digestion of
your protein malabsorption of nutrients
carcinoma of the stomach that's cancer
of the stomach and if you have low
stomach acid is that going to cause
acidosis or alkalosis it's going to be
over here right here so would you want
to take an something that alkalizes the
body or acidifies the body well I think
it makes common sense to take apple
cider vinegar for this condition and
this condition but take baking soda for
this condition so you might want to try
this if you have an adduction try
outside vinegar because in the long run
you can actually correct it this might
temporarily make you feel better but
then the next time you eat you're back
to square one the other thing you need
to know about baking soda is that one
teaspoon will give you like 1200
milligrams of sodium so if you're
already high in sodium and low in
potassium
your blood pressure might increase you
might have other complications and also
as far as the sodium and potassium
ratios go the more sodium you take less
potassium you have and this can create a
whole series of other complications down
the road most people by the way are very
heavy on the sodium but they don't have
enough potassium and our bodies require
about twice as much potassium to sodium
so anytime you're going to take baking
soda make sure that you also are
consuming a lot of potassium foods or
take a potassium supplement so you can
keep these ratios in check if you
haven't seen my video on apple cider
vinegar I have over 10 million views
check it out on this page
