hey Dr Berg in this short video I want
to cover a very important point that
keeps coming up over and over and over
again oh Dr Berg I don't want to take
cruciferous because someone told me on
the internet that if I take cruciferous
that my thyroid will become a problem
and I'll get a big huge goer well the
chances of that happening are much less
than winning the Virginia Lottery it's
just very very very rare and it would
take tremendous amounts of cruciferous
vegetables over many years without
eating anything else to create that
situation so yes it is true that some
cruciferous vegetables will have a
tendency to lock up or deplete your
iodine and the thyroid needs iodine to
work but um you would have to consume a
lot so a little bit is going to be fine
and the reason why I always recommend
this is because one of the real root
causes of a slow thyroid
is too much estrogen in the that's
locked up in the thyroid either from
having a pregnancy or from the
environment or from an overactive ovary
ore from a fibroid and so all that
estrogen is what's really causing a
destruction of the thyroid yet we need
to balance that so we need to consume
the cruciferous to balance the source of
that
because it's not real it's not true that
the thyroid problems out there nowadays
are coming from a lack of
and that's why you can take all the
iodine you want in the world and you
probably won't see any change it'll
probably be very expensive urine because
it's going to go right through you um so
we need that um understanding of what's
causing this problem in some of the
other videos I talk about the cause but
in this video we're just going to touch
on you don't have to be too scared about
this and also if you take a little bit
of iodine let's say you took cruciferous
I have it in a concentrate this is
called whole cruciferous food
I have broccoli cabbage asparagus kale
in here uh radish and then I put calp in
here to add as a anti or um anti-g goer
basically just to supply some iodine to
prevent any loss from the cruciferous
food so you can also eat those
vegetables and create the same effect
but cruciferous is actually totally fine
including that kale shake that we
recommend as well thanks for watching
I'll I'll see you in the next
video
