hi guys I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know is it okay
for someone with an eating disorder or
had an eating disorder to do in a minute
fasting in keto let's talk about that my
opinion is it is a healthy thing to do
I'm going to tell you why a lot of
people who have had eating disorders or
still do are consuming a tremendous
amount of carbohydrate okay and they
have some serious blood sugar problems
that are underneath it anytime the blood
sugars are involved it's low blood sugar
it comes with a package there's all
sorts of cognitive issues mental
derangement that can happen when those
blood sugars go down highly irritable
pushes you out of present time you're
not yourself anxiety depression and when
you have anxiety depression or sadness
you're not going to ever ever make the
right decisions you're gonna have
impulses and do things you don't
normally you know do later your regret
bottom line is anytime you have these
emotions you're not going to be in the
present you're not going to be in the
present okay so what happens when you
dookied oh and them in the fasting at
the same time you do it correctly it
actually run your brain and your other
parts of your body on ketones no longer
the blood sugar thing okay so you pretty
much handle this low blood sugar issue
and what happens when you run your body
your brain on ketones
your mood comes way way up you don't
have the anxiety anymore you don't have
the depression anymore you feel really
more yourself you feel good and less of
those impulses to do destructive things
to your body so I believe for the fact
that you're going to increase your mood
elevation and pull people out of these
lower emotional states it's a very good
thing and a healthy thing and I think
they'll have more self-control and
they'll definitely be more in the
present which will then help them make
better decisions okay so I do recommend
it but I do recommend doing it healthily
and not to restrict
and I don't recommend maybe once one
meal a day maybe two meals a day no
snacks but make sure that they're you
know you're eating fats healthy fats to
do this because it'll help someone
become more lean but healthy in the
process okay that's my viewpoint thanks
for watching
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know hey that runs
