every one I have a very special guest
Krista is with us and she has an amazing
success story and she's one of my health
coaches so I'm very interested in
talking with you hi Krista how you doing
nice to meet you nice meeting you so um
can you tell me a little bit about your
journey where you were when you first
started I know that you're struggling
with losing weight can you tell us a
little bit about what happened how you
got yourself in that situation oh I have
been heavy almost as far back as I can
remember
so most of my adult life even it's a
little kid oh you know elementary school
and stuff like that but even through
middle school and high school and just
wait
was there any a point was there ever a
point like let's say when you first had
your first mental cycle or a certain
point in your life where else and you
started gaining weight was any distinct
well I can remember the first time that
my mom and I did Weight Watchers and it
was right around twelve thirteen years
old
so okay enough at that point to need to
drop something interesting did you have
any issue with dimensional cycle at that
time like they've never been good so
it's kind of been a just a lifelong
issue nothing where did you tend to hold
the weight was it all over or anyplace
initially well all over but more
concentrated and probably hips as I area
I remember taking measurements and and
at one point I was sixty plus inches
around so like okay lose my mind now
it's like wow yeah that sounds like an
ovary body type so you're going along
and did you try to diet for many years
or tell me like what happened over and
over
/ and you know you lose that 3040 pounds
and then it just starts creeping back on
and it's like well if if I'm gonna gain
it may as well be eating the junk and so
I just gave up every time and of course
the older you get the harder and harder
and harder if not even loose at 30 40 50
pounds
absolutely well when was there a turning
point when you found was it when you
found keto or what tell me like what
happened when you you know just in
passing one of my husband's co-workers
had they were talking about it at work
and he had mentioned it to me and I was
just looking through Pinterest and
popped it in the search bar and one of
your videos was right there though Wow
which is kind of weird because I'm
typically not a video watcher but for
some reason I clicked on it and I think
it was one of the intro intro to Kido in
a minute fasting and I watched it and I
remember just thinking that makes a
whole lot of sense then I went to your
library and watched as many as I could
find about Kido and I have and probably
shortly thereafter I ordered your book
and that's kind of what really sealed
the deal for me and I don't know if it
was just a book had everything all in
one place but after I was done reading
it I kinda remember thinking just you
know my feeling was like I've been
poisoning myself it's like I mean this
association with sugar s poison that you
know I've just been kind of killing
myself slowly right here right here yeah
oh my gosh it just uh I don't know it
just made sense
Wow was there anything in the book more
than others that was like a sudden
realization that you didn't know like
related
I don't know insulin or carbohydrates or
anything like that well you know yes I
think one of my big takeaways from the
book was food quality know that kind of
really clicked with me that just by
eating the non organics and all that
that I was making everything worse the
sugar you know that was a big takeaway
from him but yeah it just the insulin
became the enemy now I know well and
then you you got obviously got started
and kind of tell us how it went when you
in how old were you when you started 49
Wow and you got started and then tell us
how went from that hold on we started
kind of slow and simple
lots of eggs trying to think of what
else you know cheese you keeping it
basic and I did track at the beginning I
think I used my fitness pal because I
didn't know what 20 carbs or less look
like I can't even imagine fryer what we
[Music]
need to do that 21st first month but I'm
trying to with a loss but you know it
was it was fairly significant that's
pretty good because people have to
realize that you really could only lose
two pounds that's not a good metabolism
per week so people are like oh my
husband lost 20 pounds the first week
well that was water weight great and
I remember that from the video and would
kind of know tell myself that it
probably not even nine weeks where you
know you didn't lose it's like but for
us it was real kind of slow slow and
steady great and then what was your most
you weighed and then what do you weigh
now 315 was starting and I'm 5/8 so and
then yesterday as 138 that's incredible
yeah it's pretty cool that is amazing in
those years that that's um we're at
almost two years
exactly wow that is like that's an
entire person I mean that's like it's
yeah more than an entire person yeah
depending on the person right exactly
Wow average sized American male right
that's incredible so do people like look
at you and go what the heck have I mean
cuz they probably remember you so
completely different shape of your face
and your body and you're like what doc
yeah that's a great before-and-after
mm-hmm yeah it's it's it's amazing
friends and family have jumped up or two
it's been successful so you're like a
walking billboard I mean who's gonna
like say anything like okay whatever you
doing I want to do it for sure for sure
well both myself and my husband are
evidence that it works he plus 160
pounds I need to see his picture before
an opportunity if then your success
story somewhere ease during the reviews
are in the success to town okay I'll
look come on what about your how do you
feel oh like night and day
Wow yeah this is just and I didn't
realize how bad I felt until you don't
feel so bad anymore right it's just your
normal and I would say probably I had
chronic swelling in my hands and feet
and then I probably went away at about
the two months point so and I had dealt
with that for years so to me that was
just like okay this this is working
that's remarkable and so how many times
do you eat per day now now I'm back to
two meals a day I'm trying to figure out
maintenance so trying to find that sweet
spot because I lost like eight pounds
accidentally but I remember you're
talking about that in one of the the
maintenance videos that you know it's a
little trying trial and error to figure
out how much fat to be eating so yeah
yeah everyone's different and then how
about give me an example of when you eat
your timing like your first meal you're
sucking milk well we started three meals
a day no snacks and we probably
eliminated breakfast around that
two-month point we just weren't hungry
so we just stopped eating breakfast and
we have our first meal about one second
meal about 6:00 somewhere in there so
it's kind of what I'm doing here right
now that's great and then you meet
example of what you would eat in a meal
I made a lot of casseroles just because
we could eat for three days on a you
know nine by thirteen casserole so we've
quite a few casserole recipes that I
would make soup breakfast food we tried
to vary it but we just eat what we like
well so can you tell people as far as
the difficulty is it hard doing this
lifestyle now
in fact it's hard when people compliment
me and say oh all your hard work and I
really feel like saying this was the
easiest weight loss I have ever
experienced it really and I don't know
if I was just like a setup for it
perfectly or something but I mean I
didn't have any of the any of the you
know no keto flu none of the things that
you hear but I also tried to do exactly
what you said in the book so the only
thing I was concerned about might be a
challenge for me as I don't like
vegetables okay no it's like I knew I
was going to have to come up with a
shape compaction to get my vegetables in
which I did I was spinach shake every
day sometimes two depending on the day
and we started nutritionally straight
from the beginning so other than we had
a few issues with leg cramps that went
away well you're just like you're like
the perfect example of the result of
just doing it correctly because a lot of
times people they try to they don't
realize it's kind of a technology of
just is a formula do it like this and
you're gonna avoid this you know you
just works because it's based on so many
people like we've tested in tens of
thousands of people so just do it and
you'll see it will work yeah and really
the that poison Association is what did
it for me I've never had a desire to
cheat I can walk back and forth in the
candy aisle I know just you know reading
about what goes on that food I think I
made an association like roundup or
something it's like what I ingest
roundup no right why would I eat a
cupcake right it really is poisonous it
is yeah
it's interesting you mentioned something
in ition we're talking about insulin
being the problem and for those of you
watching they're new to what we're
talking about we're talking about
healthy keto and in a minute fasting and
even 10 to 15 years before someone gets
diabetes type 2
they usually have problems with the eye
problems at the kidney problems with the
heart blood pressure inflammation and
all that happens with excessive amount
of insulin but no one ever test for
insulin so it go along for 10 to 20
years you develop insulin resistance
because too much insulin is very very
toxic and then the then they start to
get high blood sugar because they fail
to have insulin to regulate properly so
now we get the icing on the cake
literally is the added glucose high
sugar that destroys the body in addition
to high insulin so I always tell people
if you're new to list when you go to the
doc literally force them to test your
fasting insulin and if it's above 5 then
you know you have a big problem and
sometimes it's like 15 20 and that
insulin is just like destroying the the
retina doing the kidney and dementia but
the blood sugars are normal so you gotta
look at the whole picture and understand
the mechanism how about how about loose
skin do you do have a lot of it a little
bit a little bit not a lot I mean for
what I've lost you know I know people
who've had gastric bypass and literally
end up having to have pounds of skin
removed and it just continues to improve
so that's why I don't want to go back to
three meals a day you still want to keep
as much of the benefits as I can because
it just keeps improving well yeah that's
right so people whether you do it on if
you do it healthily the skin should come
back just like because it's an organ
it's healing just like everything else
and also you you got training as a
trained as the health coach Aikido
health coach you're one of my coaches
did you complete just okay okay great
well I'm excited to have you do that
just because someone like you that has
the reality of being there and how many
people would just love to pick your
brain and say okay what do I do next
because I want to look like you I mean
that's incredible what what age are you
know 51 that's incredible incredible
when I started so I bet you know what I
thought was gonna be a challenge but wow
it seemed to be I mean just like in the
before pictures you just look so much
older it's just amazing if you said that
the interesting thing when you were
talking about the eye issues those
pictures were taken in 2005 I avoided
cameras so there's not a lot of before
pictures floating around but it's kind
of ironic that I used those because I
would we took those because I was trying
to lose weight counting calories or some
traditional method because I had like
out of nowhere an episode of optic
neuritis where my eyes were not tracking
right and so of course everyone went
right - that's probably a mess it's
probably a mess
Wow so all this testing and whatnot but
I didn't have a lot of the other
indicators of MS I didn't you know no
lesions showed up on the MRIs and spinal
tap was good so but everyone was still
is probably a mess
trauma sure I highly suspect that it was
probably sugar that I was so sugar and
so toxic yes that
you know I've been fun Wow Wow yeah time
will tell on that you can't say anything
100% certainty but yeah we'll see yeah
yeah well high sugar high insulin
targets the blood vessel from the eye
which affects the nerves in the eye and
so you start having all sorts of
inflammatory eye conditions macular
degeneration retinopathy same with the
kidneys anything with the hard seeing
with the brain so sounds sounds like
that's what probably happened wow this
is this an amazing you get so well and I
really just want to get you on to get
your story I appreciate you just
following through and not cheating along
the way like everyone else no desire
still don't just everything people need
to realize that if they do what you say
everything you said is is how it was at
least for me you know your hunger do
this correctly in your hunger will go
away it did your cravings will go away
it did Wow Richard seven to ten cups of
veggies or as close as you can I you
know I'll be honest I probably don't get
quite that much but I've never had any
issues like I said other than you know a
little bout with leg cramps it's a very
beginning one has been it and what you
said would happen has happened and I
mean I never thought to this level you
know I was like oh if I could if I could
just get out of Plus Sizes oh yeah yeah
right
well this is so great
yeah it's really been awesome and thanks
to you you know you're welcome just
amazing well that's it just definitely
my reward just for doing is just to get
your results I mean that's what I do
this for I just love to hear that and
you know I got the email from you in my
plan I hate to do the whole interview
I'm just your story because it's
it's amazing so I think it's gonna have
a lot of people that they're watching
now there's currently inspire them to do
this so thank you
I appreciate that thank you you're
welcome
