so I want to answer the question can
dairy actually affect your hormones or
not well let's just take a look at what
milk is milk is a product that is
designed to feed a calf a growing calf
it's loaded with a lot of different
hormones primarily estrogen okay
and also IGF different types of
estrogens IGF is a growth hormone and so
as estrogen now the hormones in milk can
target the prostate okay the breast the
uterus the ovary when I was in practice
I found a high correlation between women
coming in having fibroids and them
consuming a lot of dairy so you have
milk cream half-and-half sour cream
cream cheese cheese itself yogurt butter
the fattier the dairy the more hormones
okay now I'm not against dairy but some
people are already estrogen dominant
they have hormonal imbalances they may
have a prostate enlargement they may
have cysts in the breast as fibrocystic
breast or they might have a problem in
uterus or endometriosis which is extra
growth tissue around the uterus or they
might have cysts in the ovaries or even
polycystic ovarian syndrome as well
that's basically the condition where
your androgens are too high because
there are various cysts in the ovary
stimulating that specific hormone so if
you have any of those you definitely
need to put dairy to the side for a
while but everyone else needs to realize
that these hormones in the dairy can
create an effect on your body to
minimize the damage definitely go for
organic dairy and grass-fed dairy if
possible at least with organic you're
not getting GMO type feet you're getting
non-gmo soy beans and corn but if you're
doing commercial milk you're definitely
getting the GMO as well now I personally
do a small amount of cheese every day I
make sure that it is both organic and
grass-fed and I also consume a lot of
cruciferous food if you consume
cruciferous vegetables it will actually
give you the anti-estrogen ik effect and
I'll help clean up the excess
amount of estrogen that's in your body
and lastly I would always tell my
patients to try this experiment just for
one week completely give up all of your
dairy and just see how you feel and a
certain percentage of them would do very
very well and other people would feel no
difference and that may give you a few
clues to determine if you are sensitive
to dairy or not thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
