oh hey how you doing
so today we're gonna talk about damage
control from your cheat day on keto I
know this might be extremely hard to
believe but there are some people that
cheat on keto so today we're gonna talk
about damage control and what actually
is the damage when you do a cheat day
now if you read my books or watch my
videos I never recommend a cheat day let
alone a cheat meal okay because it does
set you back but there are gonna be
people that do go off the program and
let's just talk about what you can do to
minimize the damage so the damage is
basically a spike in insulin insulin is
behind the fatty liver insulin is behind
the oxidation damage in your arteries
and your kidney in your eye in your
brain it is directly linked to causing
so many problems we bring it to a normal
range all sorts of miracles happened you
have foods that have nutrients and you
have foods that do not have nutrients
they're called refined foods or refined
carbohydrates refined sugar for example
has no vitamins or minerals they take
the vitamins and minerals from sugar and
they concentrate them as molasses okay
so if you were going to use a sweetener
in some recipe and you wanted to go off
the program obviously use molasses why
because it has more nutrients what is
the advantage to consuming more
nutrient-dense foods well when you
actually have nutrients despite having
high carbohydrates you decrease the
complications in the side effects from
the damage that that high sugar causes
okay so you'll have like a diabetic for
example if they have high sugar and
they're taking nutrients they have a lot
less side effects when they consume
refined foods without the nutrients
there's more damage in the eye for
example in the kidney and the heart so
it's these nutrients that protect you
against the damage of high insulin to a
certain degree so let's just look at
juice for example that's passed
versus the actual whole fruit okay well
the fruit has the vitamins and minerals
the enzymes and the fiber that can
buffer the effects of that fructose
sugar juice is this concentrated sugar
and is pasteurized they kill the
nutrients to the heat and moves very
little enzymes left but it will sit on
the shelf for a long period of time so
of course fruit is a lot better than
juice let's say for example you're doing
a potato versus a yam or sweet potato
there's more nutrients in a yam or a
sweet potato then there is in a potato
wild rice versus white rice there's a
lot more nutrients in the wild rice and
then if you had a choice between the
actual fruit like an apple vs. berries
berries are lower in sugar and they have
a good amount of fiber and they're much
better than fruit on the glycemic index
all right the next one is the type of
sugar that you're going to consume you
have glucose you have fructose there's
other sugars as well but table sugar for
example is a combination a 50/50 split
of glucose and fructose so when we talk
about high fructose corn syrup we have
like 50 I think it's 58% fructose and
then the rest leuco so there's different
percentages of these two sugars and then
we have a GABA nectar which is at least
70% fructose and the rest glucose and
then we have beet sugar which is the
same as table sugar but beet sugar is
GMO cane sugars not so the type of sugar
is important too because if it's GMO it
has residues of glyphosate which is a
chemical we're just talking about
relative differences in what's worse
okay the sugar with the glyphosate or
the sugar without the glyphosate now I'm
going to do a separate video on fructose
but what you have to realize about
fructose which is confusing for a lot of
people because they are told that
fructose is low on the glycemic index
okay and it is it's like 19
so just knowing that information you're
like oh wow I can do fructose that's
totally fine and I can do a Godman
nectar because that is so called kita
friendly because it's low on the
glycemic index right wrong the problem
if the sugar has too much fructose what
happens is that the liver is forced to
metabolize all of it so when you have
regular glucose all the cells can
metabolize that sugar okay so it kind of
spreads out all over the place but
fructose is forces the liver to deal
with it so we have a situation where the
liver is overloaded especially if
there's too much fructose and that's why
I like you know people like drinking all
this high fructose corn syrup crap and
they're just really messing up their
liver it's twice as damaging than
glucose it's it causes instant
resistance it causes a fatty liver way
more than glucose so it just creates
more damage in the liver it's it's
similar to consuming alcohol so if you
have a choice
avoid fructose okay now you say well
what about fruit well in the fruit you
have a certain amount of fructose but
you have the fiber you have the
nutrients that buffer the effects and
then we have alcohol right so if you
have a choice between drinking alcohol
versus alcohol with sugar and all the
sugary drinks do the straight alcohol
because that's going to have a less
effect on the liver unless you do a lot
of straight alcohol then that's going to
have more of damaging effects all right
next one we talked about this already
fiber fiber reduces insulin even no
fiber is considered a carbohydrate in
fruits and vegetables it does not spike
insulin so if you're doing a cheat meal
make sure you increase your fiber to
reduce the insulin effect all right next
one Organic versus commercial well if
it's commercial is going to be GMO
usually okay Organic means without
pesticides and insecticides and
antibiotics so let's say for example
you're forced to do a cheat day and you
have to do some carbohydrates in the
form of corn
okay corn chip
popcorn do organic at least it'll be
without the glyphosate okay that's a
step up soy for example let's say you're
at the grocery store for example and you
you need to buy a dressing or mayonnaise
or something like that and all you see
is SOI SOI SOI so you can't buy any
alternative and there's one that's
organic soy well that's a step up
same thing with canola oil organic step
up because it has glyphosate in there
now MSG monosodium glutamate will
increase and spike your insulin by 300%
it's hidden as modified food starch this
is why you need to read the ingredients
in foods but it's in them a lot of
restaurants that are fast-food and other
restaurants too so you really have to be
aware of if you're in a like a Chinese
restaurant in America you're probably
going to get msg and that's gonna be a
problem because it's going to spike your
insulin because it's usually
carbohydrates or sugar and msg insulin
is going to push it down you're gonna
end up with low blood sugars and you're
gonna be hungry an hour later which is
gonna cause you to eat more okay but of
course while you're eating it's like wow
this tastes so good it's amazing just
because if the chemical mate makes it
taste better than it really is okay to
minimize the damage you can also consume
apple cider vinegar with that meal and
that will help you of course dilute it
like one tablespoon and some water that
will help your blood Sugar's also by
taking potassium magnesium an
electrolyte mix or in some powder b1 and
nutritional yeast and vitamin D these
nutrients actually help stabilize your
blood sugars they improve insulin
resistance they will to a certain degree
buffer the effect of the high sugar okay
that's why the nutrient-dense foods are
recommended but you can just take those
nutrients individually to kind of
minimize the damage now when you
exercise you can burn off the excess
sugar that you just consumed that would
be a smart thing and then of course get
right on a fasting program
longer to make up the damage from the
cheat meal okay you notice I didn't say
cheat day
so we fast and we can basically just
bring our insulin down to where it needs
to be over a long period of time and
then your body will start burning up the
excess sugar and then tap into fat again
now just realize when you do a cheat
meal it can knock you out of ketosis for
a good amount of time so I would
recommend having an agreement with
yourself if you go off the program then
you automatically have to make up the
damage by fasting a lot longer than you
normally would I think that would be a
very good thing to do when you go off
the keto plan don't spread it out for a
long period of time just do it for a
shorter period of time and then get
right back on the plan and you see this
a lot with holidays people between
Thanksgiving and New Year's they go off
the program the longer you do that the
more damage it creates why don't you
just go off on Thanksgiving okay or
maybe even a Thanksgiving meal and have
it one meal a huge meal go off the
program and get right back on it so
let's say for example it's a weekend a
lot of times people have the entire
weekend of one big alcohol experience
well just like make it a Friday night or
a Saturday night and then get right back
on it so you don't spread it out over a
long period of time all right there you
have it damage control on your cheat
meal all right thanks for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
