today we're going to talk about the best
backyard weed that can greatly help
reverse a liver that is inflamed and
potentially even help a liver that has
curosis let me just show you first of
all the liver you have the normal liver
right here you got a fatty liver right
here the fat gets inflamed it turns into
Scar Tissue that's called fibrosis
fibrosis if they're long enough turns
into curosis and this is where you get
Advanced liver disease where you can get
cancer and you got to get on the waiting
list for a new liver so wherever you are
in the stage of liver
disease this weed can greatly help you
and it's basically free now it's been
used for thousands of years it was used
in China Egypt Rome it's a super
powerful weed now just so you know weeds
are really herbs so this particular herb
I'm going to discuss today has a lot of
properties for the liver but it also has
other properties in fact the English
folk name for this herb is called Piss
AED which is basically because it's a
powerful diuretic so it can help
decrease the accumulation of fat on your
liver in a significant way it suppresses
lipid accumulation and I'm talking about
triglycerides talking about cholesterol
properties to decrease glucose levels as
well as decreasing insulin and improving
insulin
resistance as well as improving the test
that they use used for insulin
resistance which is called H ir and so
if you have like liver damage which is
kind of like oxidative stress that turns
into inflammation the whole goal is to
catch it from going into this stage and
bring it to this stage right here this
weed also increases the flow of bile
okay from your liver your liver makes
bile and so therefore it's going to help
reduce the risk for gall stones and if
you have more bile you're going to have
less digestive problems like bloating
sibo which is small intestinal bacteria
overgrowth also you're going to be able
to absorb the fat cable vitamins better
too like vitamin A d e k so can you take
a guess what this weed is the answer is
dandelion okay those darn dandelion that
keep getting in your garden and that
keep growing on the Cracks of your
sidewalk that people pour poison on you
can buy them at the grocery store
dandelion grains and put them in your
salad l a little bit rough to chew so
what I do from experience is I just put
a little bit of my salad I do not make
an entire salad with like seven cups of
danelon grains you'll get the benefits
you can even eat the flowers as well but
of course it's a bit bitter so sometimes
people saut√© it to make it a little bit
more tender but if you're going to do
that just don't overcook it slightly
steam it put it in your salad and I
think it's going to really help you so
sometimes people get it roasted and it's
kind of of an alternative coffee but I
just want to put this herb on your radar
especially if you have any liver
problems or want to prevent liver
problems it's one of the best natural
remedies for everything to do with liver
but many other issues as well kidney
problems inflammation blood sugar issues
now if you haven't seen this video which
is a backyard weed for arthitis you
might want to check that one out I put
it up right
here
