big pharma is terrified of vitamin D3
they have great influence over
universities especially Harvard
University harvard will not publish
anything positive about vitamin D the
question is why because it competes
directly with big pharma many many many
conditions that big pharma treats can be
inexpensively corrected with vitamin D
let's just start with the precursor for
vitamin D cholesterol the precursor to
make vitamin D has also been attacked
this is seed oils right heart healthy
why because it doesn't have any
cholesterol it's cholesterol free what
about the sun has anyone ever told you
to stay out of the sun you're going to
get skin cancer i want to share some
interesting data with you there's two
main big pharma companies leoarma and
another one that's called Elmroll both
of these pharmaceutical companies
specialize in dermatology skin related
issues both of these companies have
developed products in the past that had
the ingredients of synthetic vitamin D
one drug they combined vitamin D with
corticosteroid cream another drug was
just vitamin D and what were these for
skin problems these are the two
companies that started this sun phobia
stay out of the sun campaign while they
sell you their vitamin D products out of
all the remedies that you can do for
eczema and psoriasis the sun is one of
the best remedies and it causes the
cholesterol in your skin to turn into
vitamin D the most dangerous skin cancer
really stemming from a vitamin D
deficiency it usually originates in
areas that are not exposed to the sun
you really need at least 10,000 IUs
every single day to maintain a healthy
vitamin D level every aspect of your
immune system has receptors for vitamin
D back in the early 1900s we had
sanitariums all over the world to get
sunbathing sun treatment they would
basically lay out the sun to prevent TB
and to handle various health conditions
until we developed something called
antibiotics and then you saw those
sanitariums go away the amount of
corruption and influence of big pharma
has been widespread ever since that
period of time i want you to hear a very
short clip by Dr william Grant who has
done extensive research in the area of
vitamin D it's interesting to look at
the number of papers published on
vitamin D to give you an idea of how
important vitamin D uh is according to
pubmed.gov there have been
84,532 papers published with vitamin D
in the title and or abstract as of
February 18th
2024 including 4668 in 2024 the rate of
publication been greater than 4,000
papers per year starting in 2014 thus it
is the most studied bioactive molecule
despite this record there's still
controversy regarding its health
benefits why the controversy well big
pharma and the the medical system are
not happy with vitamin D because it
reduces their income and profits i
listened to a presentation about the
disinformation playbook by a
representative of the union concerned
scientists and learned about the five
pillars of the playbook uh these pl uh
pillars include the fake where
counterfeit science is conducted and
it's trying to p be passed off as
legitimate research the main example of
this for vitamin D is all the government
sponsored vitamin D randomized control
trials which are designed based on
guidelines for pharmaceutical drugs not
nutrients and as a result they don't
show any benefit of vitamin D then
there's the blitz harassing scientists
who speak out with results or views
inven inconvenient for industry back in
2018 there was a big hit piece on
Michael Holic in the New York Times
saying "Well you can't be trusted
because he took money from indoor
tanning industry and the supplement
industry come on give me a break." The
diversion manufacturer uncertainty about
science where little or none exists
again using uh the results from their
clinical trials to counter the results
from observational studies uh fourth the
screen they buy credibility through
alliances with academia or professional
societies well big pharma funds all the
un medical universities to fund clinical
trials gives them lots of money and
encourages them to ignore vitamin D and
all your uh disease organizations
uh take money from big pharma and of
course represent their interests and and
um are more interested in maintaining a
a membership base of people with with
disease rather than curing them finally
there's the fix manipulating government
officials or processes to influence
policy inappropriately as is well known
the Centers for Disease Control in the
United States the Food and Drug
Administration and the National
Institutes of Health have had major
influence from big pharma that has
changed in
2024 and this should result in changes
regarding the acceptance of vitamin D
there's tens of thousands of research
studies on what vitamin D can do for
cancer i mean it's not a trickle of
research it's a flood of research and
that's just cancer vitamin D doesn't
just help cancer one way it's many
different ways a lot of the research
that shows that vitamin D doesn't help
are on purpose in other words I think
big pharma has influenced a lot of the
research on these topics all you have to
do to sort that out is to look at the
studies that don't show a favorable
outcome and almost in every one of those
studies the amount of vitamin D that
they use is so tiny and when you use
just small amounts of vitamin D you're
not going to be able to create the
effects dr combbere from Brazil who
developed the COMBRE protocol for
autoimmune diseases the results of using
high doses of vitamin D3 it's in the 90
percentile as far as effectiveness and
in a recent interview which I will post
he told me this that there's something
called vitamin D resistance and this has
to do with a genetic issue with vitamin
D if your genes have some type of
problem you are vulnerable to having a
vitamin D deficiency because there
really is no test that you can know for
sure if the vitamin D in your blood is
going deep into the tissues into the
cells you may be seriously deficient or
vulnerable to having an immune problem
like some autoimmune disease this is
also why it's so important to make sure
that your vitamin D is at least 50
nanogs per milliliter i'll put the link
down below where you can order a kit and
you do a little blood spot on a piece of
paper send it in and you can find out
your vitamin D levels i think a lot of
people have a problem with vitamin D
just because their genetics are not
allowing them to absorb vitamin D even
from the standpoint of what vitamin D
does for inflammation it can greatly
reduce inflammation it's one of the most
potent anti-inflammatories to protect
you from getting cancer as well as you
know viruses and things like that cod
liver oil also has a good amount of
vitamin D one tablespoon of cod liver
oil can give you 10,000 IUs of vitamin
D3 that's 20 minutes in the sun if you
haven't had your vitamin D tested it'd
probably be a good idea to get it tested
and if you want more information about
doing a home test I will put that link
down below but ideally I would recommend
to make sure your levels are above 50
nanograms per milliliter
