so what do the tonsils do and do we
really need them people have been told
that you don't really need your tonsils
okay they're an extra organ from birth
and you can do fine just without them
well the people that are telling you
that usually are in the business of
removing them you don't have any extra
organs that you don't need okay you need
all of your organs they have a purpose
they wouldn't be there unless there was
a reason for that the tonsils are
primarily involved with protecting the
microbes from getting down into the lung
and creating a respiratory infection in
fact removing the tonsils increases the
person's risk of getting a respiratory
infection so there's an activation of
t-cells and they start creating
antibodies and they start to start this
through immune response to protect you
you also have lymphatic tissue in your
armpits as well to protect microbes from
going down into different extremities
and when we're talking about the tonsils
we're not just talking about one there's
four different tonsils or you can look
at them is like this tissue lymph tissue
that's located in the back of the the
throat area a little higher up a little
lower and they're basically there to
kind of protect microbes from going
deeper into the body now the two
remedies that support the lymph system
to make sure that they can do their job
a lot better zinc and vitamin D okay now
the other thing that I have observed
with people that have chronic tonsil
infections or swollen tonsils they're
almost always on a diet that's very high
in sugar or high in dairy products okay
like milk and lastly you want to add in
fasting you may even find that your time
your appetite goes away and your body's
naturally trying to get you to fast the
fasting is really important in
strengthening the immune system thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
