hey guys today we're gonna talk about
GMO chemicals specifically glyphosate
which is chemical and Roundup Ready and
how to get it out of your body the first
thing you need to know as a fact is this
worldwide since 1974 there has been nine
point four million tons of this chemical
put into the environment okay nine point
four million tons one ton is 2,000
pounds okay that would equate to 2,300
pools Olympic size pools filled of
glyphosate into our environment
that's a tremendous amount of chemical
the World Health Organization stated
that it's a probable carcinogen it
causes cancer there's only one long-term
study that was done on this and that
study was redacted it was totally
political I'll put a link down below if
you want to see it but it's kind of
depressing on the effects that it can
create so you have this chemical in your
body what are you gonna do okay number
one you have to make sure you don't keep
putting it back in okay so you're gonna
have to start consuming
organic food and this concludes the
meats the dairy the bacon you have to do
either non GMO or GMO free because the
feeds that are fed to these animals are
soaked in glyphosate
alright so now how do we detoxify it out
of our body there's something called
phase 1 phase 2 detoxification enzymes
in the liver and your body has the
enzymes to do it but you can also get
them through certain foods like the
cruciferous family of vegetables
cruciferous vegetables have enzymes to
help enhance the detoxification where
you're taking these chemicals and
turning them into harmless particles
through the liver so step one is to
start consuming more cruciferous
vegetables you can even steam them that
would be totally fine it's not a bad
idea also there's something called fall
vaq and humic acid you can get into the
supplement or a powder and this also has
the capacity through the gut to detoxify
a lot of these chemicals that are
building up so put some more attention
and going
ganic not just with the vegetables but
with the meats and the dairy alright
guys I'll see you later so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
