I wanted to talk about atrial fib and
give you some tips that you can try now
just so you know I'm not telling you to
get off your medication okay that's
between you and your doctor that's my
disclaimer but the point is I want to
give you other solutions that you can
try to help your situation okay number
one atrial fib is an electrical problem
of the heart now the question is why
what controls that what controls the
electricity of the heart is
electrolytes what are electrolytes those
are minerals that have electrical
properties properties primarily the real
issue with atrial fib is is magnesium
okay so magnesium is a electrically
charged mineral in the heart that allows
it to stay in Rhythm and if you have
atrial fib the problem is it increases
your risk for Stroke by five to seven
times okay but let's just talk about
magnesium for a second now let's say you
had a blood test right and it comes out
normal and you're saying well I'm fine
because I'm I have enough minerals and
things like that first of all they never
check magnesium they rarely check
potassium those are two main
electrolytes because most of the
Magnesium even if they did check the the
mineral minerals most of magnesium is in
the bone it's inside the cell it's not
in the extracellular fluid like the
blood so that's why it's hard to detect
so magnesium is also present in
vegetables okay so an average person
consumes about 27 Mig of magnesium they
need double that like
480 that's what they need okay and
probably if they're deficient they need
a lot more so it comes down to a couple
different root causes one is they're not
having enough vegetable in the diet okay
and also
potassium you need about seven to 10
cups of vegetables just to get your
potassium okay but you if you eat
vegetables you'll get both of these
minerals okay so it's a diet deficiency
issue it could also be coming because
your digestive system is not right
either you have maybe some Cron's
problem maybe you had a gastric bypass
maybe your stomach is not acid enough do
you know you need a really acid stomach
to absorb magnesium yeah in fact the
symptoms of a of low stomach acid is
heartburn
indigestion so if you have heartburn
indigestion that means you don't have
enough acid if you want more information
on that check out my video I'll actually
put a link below but that's interesting
so if you have a stomach problem that
could be why you have atrii because
you're not pulling the magnesium in from
the diet okay another cause could be too
much calcium if you're taking calcium
what that will do that will shut down
the absorption of magnesium because they
both work together so if you have this
condition I don't recommend taking any
calcium okay even even like certain
medications for high blood pressure they
give you a calcium channnel blocker I
wonder why right the other thing is you
could also have a low vitamin D level
low vitamin D um will prevent the
absorption of not just calcium but
magnesium as well so that could be your
real reason why you have the problem
okay so there's a great book it's called
beat your apib by step Ryan PhD I'll
give you a link below I think it's a
great great book if you have this just
to get more information it's backed up
by a lot of um credible scientific
studies that you can check it out and uh
use that to get more knowledge about
this issue but if you're going to get a
magnesium get something called angstrum
magnesium this is a type of magnesium
that's a million times smaller than
regular magnesium supplements out there
and so it goes in like a rocket chip I
don't necessarily recommend taking a
pottassium supplement because they only
come in 90 uh 99 milligrams and you need
4700 milligrams you have to have the
whole bottle which I don't recommend so
the best thing to do is increase your
salads start having huge salads more
vegetables through the day you have to
bite the bowl and start increasing your
vegetables and you'll see that the
cardiovascular system will start to come
around if you have atrial fib and you
want to replenish these minerals it
doesn't happen overnight okay because by
the time you have atrial fib you really
depleted a lot of your reserve in your
heart so it takes a while to get that
back it could take easily two three four
plus months to get that back all right
but this will speed it up and start
eating better and then write your
comments below I'll see you in the next
video
