okay so add another question from
someone that wanted to know why is their
LDL cholesterol high on the ketogenic
diet let's talk about that so what
happens is the fat cell is composed of
triglycerides and cholesterol okay
that's that's what makes up the fat cell
now the triglycerides as they come out
of the fat cell as you do keto and
intermittent fasting can be used as fuel
so your body's gonna burn these okay now
if you still have high triglycerides
when you do the ketogenic diet which is
rare all that means is the liver might
be damaged and you might need some
purified bile salts to help that process
and help the liver heal it could also
mean your gallbladder is congested as
well in which case you would do a
gallbladder support but that's rare
because as soon as you bring your carbs
down usually this drops considerably
okay so your body will actually hold on
to the cholesterol it'll actually use
this as the fat cell shrinks first and
there's going to be a point where the
cholesterol will then release get
released from the cell it might happen
on the second third fourth week it could
be the second month but then the
cholesterol will start to be released
which is interesting so the thing is we
can't use cholesterol as fuel so we're
not going to burn that we're not going
to even turn that into ketones the
cholesterol has to be dealt with the old
cholesterol in the cell from before from
all the carbs at eight that converted
into cholesterol has to come out through
the liver and through the gallbladder
with the help of bile to help break down
the cholesterol if you don't have enough
bile you can develop cholesterol stones
okay
but if you're eating healthily with all
the vegetables like I'm recommending
that's very unlikely if you're
susceptible to getting gallbladder
stones you'd want to take something
called purified bile salts to help
dissolve them because
the stones are a lack of bile but that's
again that's rare but if there's damage
in the litter or in the gallbladder and
you don't have enough file this
cholesterol just doesn't always come out
as fast as you would like it and it can
back up and you can have high LDL is it
dangerous no because you're doing this
healthily it's not there to repair
something and the artery or anything
like that it's a type of cholesterol
that is very fluffy and buoyant so it's
going through it's not getting it's not
sticky there's some other videos on the
different types of cholesterol put a
link down below but eventually when the
fat cell comes down to where it should
be normally then the cholesterol the LDL
will go to a normal range okay it's not
something to be worried about it's just
something that has to happen we have to
pull the cholesterol out of the fat cell
all right hope that clarified this
confusion and thanks for watching
hey guys I want to talk about these two
books right here okay I want to explain
it this book right here is a very short
book it explains why to do keto and how
to do it it's filled with pictures you
can get through this in 45 minutes
real quick just very important to know
the details the basics of how to do it
now this book the new body type guide
should have been called be on keto
because I rarely find someone that has
just a weight problem they usually have
a lot of other body problems and in this
book I cover all the reasons why keto
and intermittent fasting might not work
for you we go into the body types we go
into inflammation we go into stress our
core and what to do about it so if you
want to maximize your results you
definitely want to get this one right
here okay so my goal is to get you to do
keto correctly and what I mean by that
is do it healthily
it's called healthy ketosis so we can
avoid all the issues that happen with
transitioning the fat burning keto flu
keto fatigue keto rash
kidney stones gout etc and right now on
my website if you get this you get this
at no extra cost I've put
Ling down below check it out
