hi guys dr. Burke here another question
someone wanted to know will many small
meals throughout the day enhance my
metabolism I mean they hear from some
people that you know what you know the
reason why you're not losing weight is
because you're not eating enough okay so
let's just talk about the truth of that
the answer to this is no consuming more
small meals will not increase your
metabolism but it will increase your
hunger let's just take a look at what
happens when you eat you trigger insulin
okay so you just ate get your blood
Sugar's that went up insulin just went
up
okay what's gonna happen his insulin is
taking all the sugar out and it's gonna
bring the blood sugars down to end up
with a low blood sugar okay so insulin
brings the sugar out of the blood it
brings it down and what happens when
it's low that's when you get hungry
that's when you crave for example if you
eat pure sugar or let's see you go to a
Chinese restaurant and you have rice and
that's G meat you know sugary sauce all
together and you eat it you're gonna be
hungry about a half hour to an hour
later right about it real thirsty and
really hungry go to a fast food place
msg all sugar all refined carbs you
spike insulin it comes down now you're
hungry hungry does not mean your
metabolism is working more that's the
false information okay it means that
you're just hungry and your blood
Sugar's are low what's really happening
is the insulin spike is going to
prevents you from burning fat it's going
to eventually lead to insulin resistance
and that is going to create a what's
called a plateau or a set point that you
will not be able to go past when you try
to lose weight all the fat will be
converted to the belly okay
so frequent meals is not good so what
I'm saying is not to consume consume
less food or less calories I'm just
saying
consume less meals okay we want to keep
the calories the same two big meals or
three meals that are separated without
snacks the best thing to do is do
intermittent fasting where you're
consuming three meals no snacks or two
meals eventually
now snack so you need one meal no snacks
in between you drop insulin that's when
you're gonna start losing weight lose
your belly eat again and then you're
good so that way you won't have that
spike you'll improve insulin resistance
you'll correct any type of pre-diabetes
and your metabolism will increase
insulin is one of the hormones that is a
counter hormone it makes you fat okay
hope that clarified some things thanks
for watching hi guys hey listen I
created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause
so take the quiz now and we'll send you
a report
