so today we're going to talk about dairy
and your menstrual cycle so this doesn't
pertain to men unless you want to share
it with your wife or your girlfriend
but just not both at the same time so
that was my drive sense of humor that
was a joke so what is relationship
between dairy and your menstrual cycle
well it comes down to this one hormone
estrogen
okay many people already have too much
estrogen and we are swimming in a sea of
estrogen a lot of pesticides
insecticides actually mimic estrogen
they're called endocrine disruptors or
estrogen disruptors so if we have too
much estrogen and then we're consuming a
product that is meant for a growing calf
which has additional hormones it can
send times create some issues okay not
just with your menstrual cycle but with
the breast tissue uterus and the ovaries
and the prostate so if you're noticing
that you're having problems with
hormones you may want to avoid dairy for
a while just to see if that's the
culprit dairy has some other issues many
people are lactose intolerant they don't
have the enzyme to break down the milk
sugar so they get a lot of digestive
issues they may have a casein allergy
and that can also create digestive
issues a lot of people have a problem
with the protein encasing is called a1
in certain cows unless you find the one
that's an a2 but that's more difficult
you may want to try cheese from either a
goat or a sheep and you'll get less in
this a1 protein and then you also have
the what they feed cows okay grains
unless it's grass-fed 100% the grains as
in soy and corn are usually GMO unless
it's organic so if you're consuming milk
products from a cow that's not organic
chances are that has glyphosate residues
a lot more omega-6 fatty acids it's more
inflammatory now another interesting
point is the source of where you get the
milk so if you go into farmers market
you want to find out how they treat that
cow let me just give you an example with
the country Mongolia an average amount
of milk that they get from the cow per
day is only one point three gallons in
the US it's 9 gallons now in Mongolia
they milk the cow for five to six months
and in the u.s. they milk the cow for
ten months and they use artificial
insemination as compared to Mongolia
they naturally get pregnant and the
amount of estrogen in milk from Mongolia
is a fraction of that in the milk and
from the US and realize this my goal
with these videos is not to keep telling
you what you can't eat it's just to
bring up your awareness on certain areas
that you may need to look at if you're
having a problem with the menstrual
cycle or the ovary or the breast tissue
or the uterus tissue so if you're gonna
go for cheese go for the goat cheese or
the sheep cheese or better yet the best
option would be to move to Mongolia
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
