in this video we're going to talk about
the reason why you are tired on the
ketogenic diet now I've done other
videos on this and one of the reasons
why you might be tired is that you're
not sleeping okay or you're stressed or
you have nutritional deficiencies or
you're in the middle of the adaptation
face when you're adapting from burning
sugar fuel and then going into fat feel
okay in that transition phase which
usually takes between three days four
days and maybe up to a week you can have
something called keto fatigue okay and
that could be why you're tired in which
case you just take B vitamins BAM should
handle it or maybe some potassium but I
wanted I wanted to create a video that
goes beyond that what produces energy in
your body is something called them
mitochondria okay the mitochondria are
little energy factories these are the
powerhouses in your cells they generate
all the energy they take the food that
you eat and turn it into something
called ATP which is kind of the energy
currency of your body now here's what's
interesting
many many illnesses including cancer
diabetes autoimmune diseases all start
with a breakdown of the mitochondria
okay so that's the first thing that
happens and then a whole bunch of other
things happen after that and a lot of
times doctors will treat this thing over
here but they don't fix the mitochondria
it's amazing doctors go through massive
amounts of schooling training medical
school learning biochemistry but there's
not this connection between the body
chemistry and the food that you eat or
the nutrition that you eat because these
mitochondria run on certain vitamins and
even minerals so that's a real missing
piece of the puzzle
so the mitochondria is under constant
assault from metals like iron and copper
have other heavy metals smoking
pollution chemicals toxins even a lot of
exercise will create free radicals that
will damage the mitochondria free
radicals are things that make the cell
membrane unstable okay
radiation GMO foods viruses and other
microbes high levels of sugar as in
diabetes or prediabetes high levels of
insulin can all damage the mitochondria
stress can damage the mitochondria so
all of this collectively could be called
oxidative stress because it involves
oxygen which is I'm going to do another
seminar on that so you have this
oxidation this rusting out this damaging
effect on the different parts of the
mitochondria the cell membrane the genes
the DNA etc okay so you have all this so
then on the flip side your body has
antioxidants okay that kind of
neutralize the oxidation so it's a
constant balance of these two things
going back and forth your body makes
antioxidants and you get them from the
food now there are other elements and
plants called phytonutrients fight to a
meaning plant nutrients or
phytochemicals okay that are present in
vegetables and a lot of other foods nuts
and seeds and they're considered the
super foods right like cruciferous
vegetables are real high in
phytonutrients and there are other
nutrients like omega-3 fatty acids which
are on fish oil grass-fed beef dairy
that also act as antioxidants certain
trace minerals like selenium zinc
manganese all act as Co helpers or
cofactors to help this process occur you
have the B vitamins that also help this
process occur now the problem is when
you search antioxidants online you're
gonna see a lot of bad stuff like it
actually increasing risk for cancer and
illnesses and all sorts of things but of
course they don't tell you the quality
of that antioxidant if it's synthetic or
natural or if it's from food or or it's
made artificially but if you actually
read the study you're gonna find that
those antioxidants that cause damage are
all synthetic they're not natural okay
beta-carotene vitamin E vitamin C and so
you wanted to stay away from now so you
want to get most of your antiox
it's from food or food concentrates okay
like a green powder wheatgrass juice
powder or actual just food itself
because if you're doing keto
intermittent fasting without the
quantity of vegetable and I'm talking
about high quality vegetables you're not
going to be able to repair this right
here so recently I had a couple of
people send in their food log to see
what they were eating and find out why
they were tired okay really it was just
the quality of food I mean one person
had some side salad of Caesar salad with
some peanut butter a piece of meat and
some cheese now the other person was
consuming chicken I think it was coconut
oil and some spinach but the spinach was
creamed spinach it was completely cooked
there was no nutrition left so when you
heat these vegetables you kill the key
enzymes in the phytonutrients in there
so you really have to look at the
quality so for those people I had them
do an experiment okay I wanted them to
consume a real high quality plant-based
shake for one week and see if it would
spike their energy so this is what they
did they had kale so I had them buy some
kale chop it up keeping the freezer well
actually it was the kale it was parsley
in beet tops okay with a little bit of
berries it was either blackberries
raspberries so they made this shake with
water they blended it they had one
shaking a day okay it was a nice big
shake in one week all three people that
told me they were exhausted had massive
amounts of energy just by adding that
one little drink so it's really really
important to put some attention and
focus on repairing this mitochondria and
enhancing your phytonutrients if you
want to start building up your energy
because this is what makes your energy
you got to take care of it and also I'm
not to mention you're going to prevent
and avoid a lot of illnesses down the
road as well now keto in general
enhances mitochondrial function so keto
can actually act as a protective thing
but intermittent fasting also will help
you I'm going to introduce you to know
word called my toffee G ok my toffee G
what is my toffee G well it's basically
a toffee G cleaning up the dysfunctional
mitochondrion okay if you haven't heard
about a toffee G that's basically your
body is recycling damaged cells and
damaged mitochondria so your body has a
capacity to take the damaged ones or the
damaged parts and recycle them and make
new mitochondria okay so when a toff of
G or your body goes into that mode and
starts cleaning up the damaged
mitochondria it's called my toffee G and
guess what triggers my toffee G in a
minute fasting you want to work up to
about 18 hours of fasting okay
minimally then you can have an eating
window of six hours and then if you can
gradually shrink your eating window to
four hours giving your body 20 hours and
fasting you can enhance this even more
so the combination of keto with all
these phytonutrients called healthy
ketosis and intimate fasting can greatly
improve and fix your mitochondria I'm
giving you a ton of energy and the
reason I know there's a problem with
this is simply because when you go to a
grocery store
it's everything's lined with the 5-hour
energy drinks right what does it mean
everyone's tired or if you look at
Starbucks they have a line of cars
around there even like all day long
people are exhausted it's because
they're not consuming enough of the
phytonutrients okay on that note go
ahead and start eating more greens and
get some more energy so we've been
getting a lot of success stories but I
don't have your success story yet so
click the link down below and upload you
before and after I want to actually hear
about your success story I want to see
your before-and-afters and every week we
do featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
