hi guys in this video we're gonna show
you how to use in a minute fasting to
spike growth hormone okay if you do in a
minute fast incorrectly you can spike
growth hormone by 2,000 percent growth
hormone is an anabolic hormone that
means it builds up things it builds
muscle tissue it builds protein also it
protects proteins from breaking down so
you would think that if you're not
eating your body would be wasting away
but that's not so growth home is very
very protective against the loss of
proteins it's one of the main fat
burning hormones and it is the main
anti-aging hormone that keeps you useful
your skin your joints your muscles
here's all the ways that growth hormone
can be influenced in a bit of fasting
exercise get increased growth from them
by 450 percent but it has to be
high-intensity full body you can't be
jogging in the treadmill for 45 minutes
high quality sleep will trigger it the
Sun or vitamin D low stress low carbs
alcohol will also block it so you have
to avoid alcohol moderate amount of
protein 3 to 6 ounces not excessive
amounts and vitamin d3 however out of
all these things right here it's in a
bit of fasting that it's the most
powerful stimulator of growth hormone I
put some links down below so you can get
the full scoop of that thanks for
watching hey if you're interested in
finding out the underlying cause of your
body issues click the link below and
take the evaluation quiz
