hi guys in this video we're going to
give you my best tip for autoimmune
conditions okay now let's talk about
what an autoimmune condition really is
it's a situation where your body is
making antibodies against
itself it's part of the it's like the
immune system is making a huge mistake
it's attacking the wrong thing so
instead of attacking the microbes
because that's the purpose of the immune
system to protect you against microbial
infections it decided to attack
itself so you can have autoimmune
conditions to pretty much anything
hormones receptors of hormones glands
body tissue there's over a hundred
autoimmune diseases like for example
Addison is a adrenal it's a very low
adrenal condition where you're you have
antibodies against your own adrenal Ms
that's of the brain anking spinal litis
that's antibi against your ligaments
lupus against connective tissue Hashim
mots against the thyroid rheumato
arthritis antibodies that are attacking
your own joints and destroying that
Celiac it's a antibodies against your
intestine so you have this constant
inflammatory condition going on in your
body where the organ or tissue can't
heal it's usually triggered by a stress
event in fact not usually it's it's
always triggered by a stress event if
you talk to someone with autoimmune and
you ask them when did it start and what
happened just before there will always
be either a physical stress or mainly an
emotional stress like a loss bam they
just start getting this condition so
it's the immune system that has gone bad
now what the treatment usually is uh
steroids like prazone what is a steroid
it's an adrenal hormone so the actual
cause of autoimmune has to be some
dysfunction of the adrenal gland
itself um and um so what what can you do
about this um Dr Roy
back in the 30s and 40s and 50s uh
discovered a very unique strategy for
autoimmune conditions um and that is
this he found if you
took uh let's say for example you had
Addison and uh you you had antibodies
against your own adrenal if you took
glandular adrenals from another species
let's say a cow or a goat or something
and you took this glandular into your
stomach and it went into your stomach
your antibodies that were attacking the
adrenal gland would go what's this and
start
attacking the uh fake or the decoy in
the stomach leaving the adrenal glands
alone for a little while so it gives the
adrenals a break to stop the
inflammation so it's a great strategy to
uh redirect these antibodies to a decoy
to allow the organ to heal because
there's going to be less inflammation
and then over time if you you kept doing
this so over time you can deplete these
antibodies to the point where the
inflammation will go away and you no
longer have any antibodies that are
attacking itself okay there's two main
points I want to bring up if you take
too much of a similar substance you can
create an immune reaction and sometimes
people think that's a detox reaction
when really it's just causing high
levels of
histamines histamines create
inflammation they're like fatigue
poisons so if you take too much you
might wake up feeling a little swollen a
little groggy a little tired like you
have the flu that's because it's just
creating more of a reaction so my
recommendation is to take very small
amounts of the substance over a long
period of time and take it before to go
to sleep so that way when you go to
sleep you if it makes you a little bit
more tired you won't notice because
you're sleeping okay so now where are
you going to get adrenal extract brain
ligament connective tissue
Etc well standard process is a good uh
company I don't sell Standard Process
you can find a practitioner or probably
go online and find a Santa process
product if you look at all their
products they have um certain products
that have certain glandulars in them uh
and they're very clean you can also you
know buy organ meats you like uh you can
buy liver if you have autoimmune to your
own liver you can buy some liver you can
um get thyroid extract in certain
supplements
you can get adrenal extract in certain
supplements you can get what about joint
in a in a previous video that I did on
um knee pain I talked about uh chicken
carage right well what do you think
you're doing you're taking that the body
is being distracted you're depleting
your antibodies and all of a sudden your
knees feel better well so it's really
not the cartilage it's just that you're
throwing uh actual chicken carage into
the stomach and it's re being redirected
over here so let's take IC for example
of your intestines where you going to
get that well um when you buy sausage a
lot of times the lining is intestines
chitlins if you have a little bit of
that they sell sell that at the store
what'll happen you can deplete your
antibodies from that as well so number
one you want to get an antibody test to
find out what tissue is involved in
autoimmune then take a small amount of
that tissue either in a pill form or an
actual food small amount over a long
period of time and see if it can help
you all right thanks for watching hi
guys Hey listen I created a pretty
amazing evaluation quiz down below that
actually analyzes your symptoms to find
the cause the root cause of all of your
symptoms the most likely cause so take
the quiz now and we'll send you a report
