let's talk about the five reasons why
people may need more salt
number one low adrenals your adrenal
glands make hormones that control the
amount of salt in your body
now if the adrenal glands are low let's
say you're not producing sufficient
quantity of adrenal hormones as in
Addison's disease you're going to be
losing a lot of salt it's like your body
has a hole in the bucket and the salts
going right through and this is very
dangerous because if you run out of salt
your heart can't work correctly your
fluids are not balanced correctly your
blood pressure drops too low there's all
these serious side effects that can
happen everyone's focused on too much
salt but not a salt deficiency then we
have blood pressure being too low we
mentioned that because the salt actually
holds the fluid to maintain the volume
of blood in your body so if you don't
have enough salt there's not the volume
to maintain the blood pressure low back
pain would be another symptom of low
adrenals and by the way as a side note
seventy seven percent of people with
Addison's have serious low vitamin D
deficiencies and one of the top causes
worldwide for Addison's which is an
autoimmune disease as TB and the
interesting thing about this microbe is
that it has the ability to block the
vitamin D receptor and it's a strategy
that certain microbes used to survive
because vitamin D gives you the immune
system protection against certain
microbes especially the epstein-barr
virus and even the HIV virus and another
symptom of low adrenals should be
excessive amounts of calcium the blood
which could lead to kidney stones and
then we have high potassium anytime we
have low salt we're usually going to
have high potassium because salt
potassium work together weight loss so a
person with Addison's loses weight and
they have acidosis on the flip side
there's another condition called
Cushing's syndrome which has a high
output of adrenal hormones where the
person has too much salts the retaining
salt they have a low potassium they're
stressed
these guys are stressed - they have
belly fat they can't lose weight they
can't sleep and they have alkalosis
their blood is excessively too alkaline
so these are a bit opposite the point is
that if you have low adrenals you're
gonna need more salt okay because your
body is not retaining it so that would
be indication number one low adrenals
need more salt reason number two
excessive water intake there's a lot of
people that drink a ton of water like
I'm talking on a gallon or more of water
per day and they're not really sweating
or they're not taking electrolytes or
they're not consuming salt if you
consume too much water without the
minerals and mainly I'm talking about
salt that could be dangerous to the
heartbeat because you're diluting the
minerals and the electrolytes which
creates all sorts of problems just look
up the condition called hyponatremia
which is very dangerous I put a link
down below and that comes from consuming
too much water or water intoxication
you wouldn't think of water being toxic
but - too much of it can be next one
sweating excessively if you're an
athlete and let's say you're wearing
gear like a football player for example
head gear shoulder pads the whole thing
and it's a warm day you can lose up to
six grams of salt per hour okay and that
can be very dangerous so if you do a lot
of sweating you need more salt of course
I'm always gonna recommend sea salt and
the best sea salt to consume would be
Himalayan salt that's very pure salt on
a mountaintop now you also have Celtic
salt and always consume sea salt which
has 84 minerals as compared to table
salt which only has two all right number
four key tell the ketogenic diet can act
as a diuretic and push fluid out of your
body and also with the fluid comes the
minerals and the soul this is why if
you're on keto you need to consume more
electrolytes and you need to consume
more salt because you might have some of
the symptoms that come along with the
keto adaptation if you're deficient in
sodium that would be weakness or weak
muscles
people that are a high carbohydrate diet
just hold a ton of fluid
okay so wherever the glucose or sugar
goes the water goes so you have a lot of
glucose in the body you hold a lot of
fluid in the body
you're on keto it's the opposite you're
basically gonna release a lot of fluid
so you're gonna need more salt a minimum
of one teaspoon of sea salt per day and
this includes doing in a minute fasting
just make sure that if you're not
consuming for one or two days and you're
consuming when level teaspoon dissolve
it in some water and then spread it out
for the day don't just drink it all at
once
the next point I want to bring up is
very very important if you're consuming
the recommended amount of vegetables
that I recommend which is 710 cups
you're going to be getting a lot of
potassium foods if you don't consume
enough salt you can have an imbalance
with a bit too much potassium so if
you're consuming a lot of veggies you
must also consume enough salt one
teaspoon a day and the other point is my
electrolyte powder one scoop is a
thousand milligrams of potassium there's
very little sodium in that electrolyte
powder so it's not necessarily meant for
the athlete that sweats a lot it's meant
for the average person that's very low
in potassium so if you're consuming my
electrolyte powder also add the sea
salts because eventually you're gonna
have a bit too much potassium and you
may get weak muscles okay
all right so there are other reasons why
you might need salt but these are the
five most common reasons
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
