so I'm back today to talk about shoulder
pain specifically if you have pain on
the top of your shoulder what could be
happening what could you do
okay so a couple things I want to
explain okay so we have our little model
right here and this is like the back of
the scapula and you have these muscles
here you have four muscles that kind of
attached to the arm those are called
rotator cuff muscles okay there's four
of them and they keep the arm attached
to the shoulder and then you have three
bones you have the humerus the scapula
and the clavicle okay and then you have
a lot of tendons and ligaments that keep
this thing nice and tight but there's
one muscle on the top here called the
supraspinatus that is right on the top
goes underneath this part right here and
goes on the top of the humerus right
here and it attaches to the top of the
humerus ended it does this motion right
here so it raises the arm up it's called
a deduction okay so if you have an
injury to the shoulder or severe pain
and you can't do this there's a chance
it could be tore completely severed in
which case you're going to need surgery
but it could be a partial tear it could
be just trauma
it could be arthritis whatever and but
if you can't do this if you're like this
then go get it checked okay but what I
want to do is I'm going to talk about a
situation that you can do this but you
just have pain in the top of the
shoulder and you're trying to get some
relief so for this demonstration we're
going to have our volunteer which Jared
you'd like to volunteer right here okay
so let's just say Jared you have pain in
the top of the shoulder right and you're
like going what is going on I need some
relief and then you do this and you can
raise it up but there's pain right here
so there's a couple things you can do
really quick to actually get rid of the
pain if you have someone that's around
to do this on you that's the best thing
but if you're by yourself I'll show you
what to do in that situation but what
you want to do is you want to trigger or
do acupressure or a massage to the
opposing muscle to this
so right here that raises arm up okay
you basically want to stimulate the
muscle that opposes the supraspinatus
you didn't really need to know that but
I just want to tell you and that would
be the latissimus dorsi the muscle
underneath here your latch okay it's a
little muscle down here that brings the
arm down this way okay so hold your arm
really tight to your side okay don't let
me pull it out so if I were to pull this
out okay I would be testing the
latissimus dorsi muscle okay if he's
really weak on that and there's a
problem with the lat
but what we're gonna do is we're gonna
stimulate the lat muscle okay so I'm
gonna show you right here the latissimus
muscle is this muscle that attaches to
the humerus and it comes right through
here it's a really big muscle so you
want to get up underneath right through
and here right up underneath the armpit
so you want to massage that if you
actually can have someone massage this
we want to come up underneath the arm
right through in here okay you're gonna
massage up and down and really work out
that attachment to the back of the arm
right through in here and you're
basically stimulating the lat muscle and
you do this for like one minute now it's
gonna be very very painful so definitely
when when someone's doing this to you
make sure they apologize and clinic I
would always go I'm pressed in there to
get they would be like wow wow and I
would go I'm really sorry about that
I'm so sorry as I kept going in there
they appreciated that because I was
apologizing for hurting them but when I
was done they were like wow I feel so
much better because what you're doing is
you're working on the opposite muscle to
relieve this muscle tension right
through in here and it really does work
you have to try it that's step one if
you have someone that could work on you
you can just have someone take their
thumb and just press up into the armpit
and just work that out okay that will
just take the pain right out of this
areas but let's say for example you're
by yourself you're on a desert island
and you have no one to do this
to you to put you in pain what you do is
you actually stretch the latissimus
dorsi so you just find it like a chin-up
bar or a bar oh you can hang on you grab
your arm and you basically stretch this
way okay
so you'd want to just kind of hang on it
and just really stretch it out you can
also put your hand on a door and this
lean down and stretch that but you want
to do this motion right here that muscle
right there so very simply to get rid of
pain on top of your shoulder okay and
we're assuming it's not tore or there's
not a major tear is to stretch the
opposite muscle the latissimus dorsi or
you can have someone massage it and
press in there as far as nutrition goes
you want to do keto you want to do in a
minute fasting that's going to reduce
inflammation but there's also something
called silica that you can take that
will support the connective tissue so
you might want to add that into the mix
alright guys thanks for watching so if
you want to get notified with all my
content click the notification bell next
to subscribed
