all right today we're going to answer
the question is keto really a diet okay
alright well I use this dictionary right
here Macmillan dictionary I'm not making
these definitions up number one food or
drink usually eaten by a person number
two a regular course of food and drink
prescribed for reasons of health or
weight loss number three food considered
as a nutrient for its effect on the body
all right next one to eat according to
prescribed rules and of course I'll tell
them absolutely you can go back to your
regular way of eating so you can gain
the way back get the diseases back in
your body and then we'll start the cycle
over again
but if you look at it keto is a diet so
whether you're on the keto plan or
you're on some unrestricted plan you're
still on a diet according to this
definition food and drink usually eaten
by a person and of course number two
you're eating for health reasons or
weight-loss reasons what's wrong with
that
it's totally okay to be in a diet the
rest of your life okay based on these
definitions and look at this to eat
according to prescribed rules why
shouldn't there be rules that actually
help you survive okay moderate protein
keep your carbs low eat a higher fat
diet have plenty of vegetables and salad
I mean what's wrong with that these
rules were designed to increase your
survival so that actual derivation of
the word diet comes from mode of living
or way of living it's a way of life so
based on all the diets out there
Chito will give you the most health
benefits the most weight loss but a
healthy weight loss but yes it does have
certain rules you need to follow and
there's absolutely nothing wrong with
being in a diet if you're not depriving
nutrients you're actually creating
health you're losing weight and you're
feeling great thanks for watching
so if you've personally benefited from
the information that I put on my videos
I would love to actually see your
success story - I put a link down below
so you can upload your before and after
pictures with your story
