so in this video I want to introduce you
to something called remnant cholesterol
you may have never heard of this before
so I'm just gonna give you a brief
simple introduction to it you can get
more data from Dave Feldman he has a lot
of videos on this I'll put some links
down below but remnant cholesterol vs.
LDL cholesterol there's so much emphasis
on LDL being the bad cholesterol and
creating all this damage Remnick
cholesterol is way more important to
focus on because it is one of the best
indicators of mortality it's very a
thorough genic which means it creates
plaquing it creates problems with your
arteries damage in the arteries and what
it is it's basically the plasma
cholesterol the cholesterol in your
blood that is not HDL or LDL okay so you
may have thought that total cholesterol
is just basically the combination of HDL
and LDL actually it is not the way that
you would find remnant cholesterol is
basically you take your total
cholesterol and you- your HDL and the
LDL and you get this figure okay and
there's a rating system right here if
it's 17 or less milligrams per deciliter
its optimum if it's 18 to 23 it's okay
if it's between 24 and 29 it's
concerning if it's 30 or greater it's
very concerning okay now why would you
have higher numbers versus lower numbers
it really has to do with a complex
subject which I'm going to let Dave
explain in a video down below the
simplicity of it is that when you have
too much sugar or carbohydrates or too
much insulin you're going to create a
lot more of this extra cholesterol right
here so it's really too much
concentrated stored energy and throwing
things out of balance so it's basically
spilling over into this extra remnant
cholesterol and that's what's creating
the damage so I'm gonna put a link down
below to Dave's site so you can do the
calculations he has a little remnant
cholesterol calculator that you can plug
in the figures and also get some more
data but I just wanted to introduce you
to this Khan
because it's very very important when
you get your numbers to do the
calculation and not just focus on one of
the numbers you want to see the big
picture and understand what's happening
thanks for watching hey guys so there's
a whole bunch of people that really need
this information so press the share
button and let's get it way out there
