so many women are having their ovaries
removed and they don't realize that it
can increase the risk of all-cause
mortality including coronary heart
disease and lung cancer and increasing
significant risk from a stroke
increasing risk from dimension even if
you take out one ovary and you keep the
other one now I can see in situations
where you have cancer or breast cancer
to take it out but I'm talking about the
cases where you don't okay
let's say you have fibroids or excessive
bleeding and you're going right through
menopause okay and let's say they take
out the uterus keep your ovaries as long
as you can why because 50% of all the
circulating antigens postmenopausal come
from your ovaries so when you actually
have the situation where you don't
produce these hormones it creates a lot
of problems so then the question is
let's say you have a fibroid what do you
do for that
well fibroids are tumors what makes a
tumor grow is anabolic hormones okay
antigens insulin cortisol estrogen this
comes from stress this can come from
your own fat so if you have excessive
amounts of fat your body can turn your
antigens into estrogen what triggers
insulin refined carbohydrates what will
increase antigens insulin coming from
refined carbohydrates so if you did a
healthy keto diet which is low carb I
put the link down below I also recommend
you avoid dairy because there's anabolic
factors in dairy and you do a lot of
cruciferous to kind of balance this out
that would be the best approach to help
you with the fibroids so the point of
this video is to acknowledge yes
removing the ovaries does reduce the
risk of certain types of cancer but it
gives you a bigger problem increasing
the risk of all-cause mortality so
unless you absolutely need to do this
save your ovaries thanks for watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
