you know I think people do recognize
that they need to exercise more exercise
can prevent certain health problems but
today we're going to go way beyond that
and talk about
the level of importance that this
exercise has over our health through
looking at what would happen if you
didn't exercise inactivity call that
sedentary syndrome or couch sitting I
want to look at and slice up this this
topic of physical activity from the
Viewpoint of motion and how much motion
someone has injected into their life or
lack of motion and how that relates to
your health and disease I found an
interesting research paper that talks
about
inactivity as the primary cause for over
35 chronic illnesses we have sarcopenia
which is loss of muscle when we age we
have of course the metabolic syndrome
which includes the raising of blood
sugars cholesterol as well as
hypertension and of course the obvious
thing is obesity but also insulin
resistance diabetes fatty liver cancer
so there's a huge impact on how exercise
can enhance your immune system
decreasing your risk for upper
respiratory infections heart disease
arrhythmias and coronary artery
dysfunction then we have a stroke
dementia mood disorders and then we have
bone disorders osteoporosis increasing
your risk of getting a fracture
arthritis and immune deficiency problems
and then we have digestion and even
erectile dysfunction and so at the end
of this video
I think the next time you think twice
about exercising or maybe you want to
put it off this might motivate you to
jump in and start moving and start
exercising let's take it right from the
top your mitochondria what does exercise
do for your mitochondria it increases
something called mitochondrial
biogenesis what is that that is a
condition where you're generating more
mitochondria bigger mitochondria more
mitochondrial efficiency stronger
mitochondria and if you know anything
about the mitochondria it's essential
for the production of energy and also
it's highly associated with a lot of
diseases as well even cancer and so by
exercising you're getting more oxygen
through your mitochondria you're
generating more oxygen and you're
reducing more oxidative stress even
though exercise creates oxidative stress
and free radicals and things like that
the strength of the mitochondria then in
turn through the increase uh production
of antioxidants it's called endogenous
antioxidants in other words when you
exercise your body starts building up an
army of antioxidants to handle more
oxidative stress and just stress in
general so even though exercise creates
stress the extra strength that you get
from more mitochondria you can then
counter more more stress encounter other
types of stress not just oxidative
stress but pollution mental stress
physical stress and if we just take this
one thing your mitochondria become a lot
stronger in quantity and strength just
from exercise that's probably one of the
best reasons to exercise there's a
direct correlation between improving the
innate and acquired immune system
increasing more antibodies more strength
in your white blood cells to overcome
immune problems and even if you have an
infection you have a much greater strain
think that getting through the infection
and this also relates to the strength of
your immune system fighting cancer and
avoiding cancer I just did a brief scan
on this topic and there's at least 13
major cancers that you can decrease your
risk from just from exercise and even
when people go through chemo they can
get through chemo a lot better if they
exercise on a regular basis now let's
talk about
neurogenesis what is that that is the
regrowing of your neurons okay and your
brain and in the rest of the nervous
system so it does it through more blood
flow through another thing called
epigenetics which is you're stressing
out the body to cause it to adapt but
very specifically you can start
regrowing nerves in the hippocampus
which is directly related to your memory
and decreasing dementia you also can
indirectly affect your mood bringing a
person out of depression or anxiety or
some type of post-traumatic stress
syndrome in fact there's a direct
correlation with how much you move or
how fast you move and your mood if you
notice people who are depressed just
take a look are they moving much no
they're inactive people that are way up
on the mood scale are moving all the
time they're moving fast and then we
just have what exercise does with oxygen
throughout all of your organs there's a
huge problem with the lack of oxygen
it's called hypoxia
or ischemia and by flooding more oxygen
or circulation through the organs you're
getting more communication through your
body and that can definitely decrease
the risk of all sorts of chronic
illnesses I mean when you think about
when you're exercising you're really
exercising not just your muscles you're
exercising your organs too and your
lymphatic system another thing that
exercise can do is help your blood
sugars a very potent effect on insulin
it makes insulin more sensitive it
reduces insulin resistance which is
behind a lot of other issues as well and
then you have also what exercise can do
to elasticity of your skin making you
look younger elasticity to the inside of
your arteries that can allow the
arteries to expand and adapt to certain
pressures and to help postpone this
rigid hardening of the arteries and of
course we have the elasticity of your
joints your tendons your ligaments and
then also the muscles themselves I mean
if we just take atrophy for example
loss of muscle
there's really only one stimulus of
muscle growth okay just one and that is
exercise or physical activity all the
other factors like nutrition amino acids
they have to be there as a foundation
but those in themselves do not trigger
the growth of muscle exercise or tension
on the muscle
is the only factor that will help you
grow your muscles and then if we kind of
take a deep dive right into your cells
you have DNA what does exercise do for
your DNA well our bodies have evolved
with a lots of motion and movement and
exercise and running away from tigers
and running after animals to catch them
and eat them when we exercise we survive
better our DNA starts to repair it
starts to turn on Survival mechanisms
and it turns off
anti-survival mechanisms those of us
that exercise and become fit have a much
greater capacity to repair at the DNA or
cellular level and so exercise is a
physical stress that can indirectly
greatly help mental stress as well and
of course most people focus on exercise
to lose weight which is about us 15
benefit which is I mean it's not nothing
but it's it's something 15 is not bad so
it can help you lose weight of course
the diet is way more important but if
that's your primary motivation to
exercise to lose weight then great I
mean I think exercise can really help
work on the muscle to get more toning
and help you get rid of this atrophy and
it can also help you release a lot of
fat off your liver as in shrinking a
fatty liver another thing that exercise
can do is help counter some of the bad
habits that people have so if you take a
look at a smoker or a person who eats
junk food or a person who takes a lot of
medications or a person who needs a lot
of sugar if they're exercising or doing
more physical activity like physical
work which is sometimes even better than
actual exercise what they're doing is
they're strengthening the mitochondria
and the mitochondria being stronger in
numbers in size and strength can now
metabolize the extra sugar deal with the
extra stress because of its larger
antioxidant Network it can now help
counter some of the bad habits that
people have so I hope you're getting the
idea yeah that exercise is not a trivial
thing it is a necessity now what about
for the endocrine system talking about
like the pituitary gland well you're
going to increase growth hormone which
is the anti-aging hormone it's the
greatest fat burning hormone occurs
mostly at night and intense exercise is
probably the most potent stimulus of
growth hormone exercise increases
testosterone and it also decreases
insulin so exercise is very very
important with the endocrine system
exercise also can lower cortisol when
you do aerobic exercise like hiking or
walking things like that now when you do
intense exercise you're going to
stimulate cortisol especially if you're
doing it of any duration but then it's
going to come down as you recover and
that is the key thing with exercise you
must Focus also on recovery to get all
of these benefits because
if you don't you're going to over train
and you're not going to get these
benefits and I might have already
touched on this but exercise in general
increases your capacity to handle more
life stress and that alone is probably
one of the most important benefits
because of what stress does to the body
and how it relates to chronic illness so
I want you to comment Down Below on your
current level of motion how much motion
are you really doing like let's say on a
scale from one to ten ten being regular
consistent
exercise okay zero being completely
sedentary give me a number down below in
the comment section of how much motion
you're injecting into your life and just
maybe this might motivate you to
implement this new epigenetic action
that can greatly increase your lifespan
and your quality of life so now that we
talked about exercise if you have not
seen my video on
stress okay and how stress can cause
illness you should probably check that
out I put it up right here
