okay so I have this confusion that keeps
coming up over and over and over again
so I'm just gonna create this one video
and I'll probably just send it out to
people that ask this question what
specific food will knock them out of
ketosis so I just wanted to do a video
on the background so then you can answer
this question yourself there's really
three scenarios that I want to kind of
cover just to kind of clear up things
because sometimes this question is mixed
in with breaking a fast because you're
doing the ketogenic diet plus the fast
at the same time so you want to know
will this specific food break a fast
okay well anything other than water is
going to break a fast anything okay now
will vitamins break a fast well maybe
just a tiny little bit but it's only for
a millisecond okay so I wouldn't worry
about vitamins I wouldn't worry about
sea salt but it true fast is just not
eating and you're just drinking water
okay that's it
so let's see will a small amount of food
break a fast yes if it's a very small
amount of salad it might break a fast
for a little tiny bit but you can get
right back on it so the point is that
you just want to think with a true fast
being nothing but water okay but
anything will break the fast but I do
recommend people consume vitamins and
minerals electrolytes for sure when
they're doing a fast and definitely sea
salt the second scenario is will a
specific food knock me out of ketosis
well what controls whether you're in
ketosis or Adi ketosis is the
carbohydrates okay you want to typically
keep your carbs 20 to 50 grams the worse
the metabolism the lower the carbs so
some people need to go 10 some people
need to go zero carbs okay a very good
testing kit would be the keto mojo I
like this because it measures ketones
and blood sugars okay but you can get
both to get a whole picture on what's
going on because when you increase your
blood sugars your ketones go down if you
decrease your blood sugars your ketones
will go up so you can just kind of get a
bird's-eye view of what's happening
especially we are
after foods eating certain foods okay so
if you consume too much protein that can
knock you out of ketosis so but mainly
it's the carbs okay number three this
scenario will this specific food knock
me out of fat-burning now realize that
when you do a ketogenic plan only 40
percent of your fuel is ketones the
majority of fuel the rest of fuel - a
very small amount of glucose is fatty
acids so you're burning fatty acids in
addition to ketones but there's really
no test that will determine that okay
and there is a test but it's very
expensive but there's not going to be
any tests like this you're gonna measure
fatty acids so if you're doing ketosis
for a long period of time and your
system is very efficient at burning
ketones you may do a urine test and find
that there's very few ketones going on
doesn't mean that you're not in ketosis
it just means that you're not wasting
into the urine you want to use these
tests with kind of judgment but what we
really want to know is will this
specific food stop me from burning my
own fat okay because the goal is to burn
your own fat because if you're in
ketosis okay you see the ketones coming
out those ketones could be coming from
your dietary fat not necessarily your
own body fat and so you want to keep
your carbs low not continuous protein
and also not can consume too much fat so
this would really play out when you have
a very slow metabolism or you're
plateaued let's say you're going through
menopause and you just you just kind of
hit this stall point well then you can
start reducing your fat and force your
body to burn its own fat another mistake
that people make is they they think in
their mind I could take exogenous
ketones these ketones you can buy as a
supplement and that's going to help me
get get into ketosis but then they don't
lose anyway well because you're using
this as a substitute for burning your
own fat the more you take this the less
your body will have to burn its own fat
so it's not just all about ketones it's
about you actually burning your own fat
it's about burning fatty acids and
really under
all these little pieces to this complex
puzzle anyway put your comments down
below and and tell me if this clears up
the confusion or if now you're even more
confused than you were before I explain
this so I want to know about what you
think about this video so please comment
below and tell me what you think
