in this video I'm going to talk about my
theory of dementia blood pressure and
stroke now this is just for information
for you to go do more research I'm not
telling you that this is accepted in
traditional medicine I'm not telling you
that um this is the cure I'm just giving
you information so you can do your own
research with your doctor's help okay so
this is my theory um there's a lot of
unknowns about dementia but there's an
interesting associating factor and that
is the buildup of calcium in the
arteries of the brain also it is a known
fact that if your arteries are filled
with calcium plaing the arteries get
hard and the blood pressure goes up so
that's a big cause because if you look
at one of the medications for blood
pressure it's uh calcium channel
blockers what are calcium channel
blockers they're medications that lower
and block calcium interesting even
magnesium is known to help blood
pressure why because it lowers
calcium Strokes vascular blood flow to
the brain If you clog up the arteries of
the brain with calcium plaing which a
lot of times uh they find Associated
calcium but they're not associated in
the calcium is the thing that's keeping
the arteries from being elastic in the
brain and clogging up the blood filter
to the brain and craning aneurysms so
you can also have injuries and other
things but the point is that I believe
that the calcium is the is a primary
cause of a lot of these problems just my
theory on that but very little attention
is is put on lowering calcium in the
body isn't it it's like what do people
tell you to do take calcium there in a
recent trial of many many women
postmenopausal they found that women
that take calcium for bone loss increase
their chance of heart attacks by two
times so again it's because the calcium
plugs up the arteries makes them hard
and there's no elastic I it so the
pressure goes
up so all this attention is is put on
one thing to lower your fats right lower
your fats lower your
cholesterol but guess what there are two
vitamins um there's more but there's
primarily two vitamins that control the
transportation of calcium through the
body one is vitamin D3 and one is
vitamin
K2 vitamin D3 will increase the
absorption of calcium in the small
intestines by
22x so that pulls the calcium into the
intestine but vitamin K2 takes that
calcium from the soft tissues and pulls
it into the bone so K2 is the is the
main vitamin that cleans up the arteries
of calcium the soft tissues including
the joints the eyes the kidneys the
prostate the liver I mean think about
how many conditions occur with calcium
first of all when you get older older
you become stiff that's in the joints um
you can have it on the eyes is cataracts
and the joints is arthritis btis
tendinitis kidneys a kidney stone
gallbladder is gall stone and there's a
lot of other uh calcification in the
breast so one of the new tests that
they're doing as probably a better
predictor for heart attacks would be a
calcium scan of the body in the arteries
in the coronary arteries in your heart
so again there's a lot of attention
being um now shifted to calcium but not
a lot of attention putting on the fat
cable vitamins that transport calcium um
lots of people when they take K2 they
start cleaning up the calcium they feel
the bottom of their teeth start becoming
really like pearly whites because of it
cleans all that calcium which is
basically the
tartar so in deficiencies of uh K2 you
get tarar of teeth heart attacks Strokes
kidney problems stiffness that's just
because the calcium is not
transported so where do you get by
vitamin K2 that's a big question it's a
fat sble vitamin and you get it from
grass-fed beef grass-fed butter
grass-fed whole milk yogurt it's in the
fat the exact thing that everyone's
telling you to avoid for these three
conditions it's the thing that people
need it's in the saturated fats it's not
in the unsaturated fats grass-fed beef
butter eggs and beef and in cheese um if
you if you take um I mean what do people
tell you to do they tell you to avoid
red meat if you are going to have red
meat have lean red meat if you go to the
grocery store and look at all the
yogurts it's hard to find a whole milk
yogurt it's all lowfat or no fat
well that's exactly what you need to
start consuming if you want vitamin K2
um so I believe that this is the reason
why the calcium is not transported uh
through the body and it makes sense
because it's date coincidence with the
complete fear of consuming fats all
right so I will put down below some
ideas on what you can play around with
with dosages of vitamin K2 and d and
some eating principles but you no longer
have to be afraid of saturated fats
especially if you are consuming the
right ones from grass-fed you know
butter and cheese and eggs and things
like that the only other thing that you
want to look at is the amount of um
digestive juices that help digest these
fat iyo vitamins and that comes through
the gallbladder and there's something
called bile b i l e that helps absorb it
so I'm not saying to go crazy and start
eating all this fat I'm just saying that
you want to consume some of it and if
you have a hard time digesting it it
could be because either you don't have
enough bileo because you're not used to
digesting the fats or you're missing a
gallbladder in which case you need to
take some bio salts to put that back in
to emulsify and break down and absorb
these fat Cy vitamins so again I believe
this is the link that's been missing and
if someone's taking this it doesn't work
you have to look at the ability to
digest fat and that would be the
gallbladder um and I create a lot of
videos on that but I just want to kind
of give you that connection as a root
cause and play around with it talk to
your doctor see if it can help
you all right so that's the summary of
my theory on demension blood pressure
and stroke and I will see you in the
next video
