so what dudes nail polish remover and
fat burning have in common well let's
talk about that there are three types of
ketones ketones are created out of the
fat burning process they're used as fuel
there's three of them
you have beta-hydroxybutyrate you have
acetoacetate and you have acetone this
is the one that is the nail polish
remover of course when your body is
making it it's non-toxic okay when you
purchase it and use it as nail polish
remover it's very toxic but recently I
was reading some comments on one of my
youtube videos and someone asked the
question if I consume nail polish
remover would that be the same as going
into ketosis and no it's not going to be
the same that is very very toxic and
this is very very safe okay so no don't
consume your nail polish remover what
happens when you start ketosis is that
you start to generate more and more
ketones and when you're burning up fat
it's not very efficient you're wasting a
lot of fat fuel which is a good thing
because you want to lose fat so when you
initially get into ketosis you are
actually peeing out ketones and you're
breathing out ketones and that's what
this is all about right here so you're
actually breathing out and peeing out
actual fat particles how cool is that
if you have this nail polish breath or a
fruity breath realize it's only
transitional it will go away as you do
this more and more and more and as your
body becomes more more efficient it's
gonna burn up these ketones a hundred
percent so there will be absolutely no
nail polish breath or fruity breath
anymore but realize if you do have this
occur you are in ketosis and the
benefits of ketosis are huge weight loss
decrease inflammation decrease hunger
stabilizing your blood sugars now if you
wanted to speed up the process all you
have to do is drop your carbs lower and
fast longer and you'll transition a lot
faster and more completely to a full 100
percent ketones date
alright thanks for watching hey if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
