so today we're going to talk about how
to increase attention span and focus
okay then I'm not just talking about if
someone's diagnosed with ADHD or a DD
but just in general how to improve your
attention span your focus your
concentration on a physical level okay
there's a part of the brain called the
limbic system and part of the limbic
system you have this structure called
the hippocampus you have another
structure in the limbic system called
the amygdala so the limbic system and
they don't know exactly what it's what
it does but they do know it as something
to do with emotions behavior and memory
okay okay po campus has to do with
memory focus and concentration so the
amygdala is similar to your adrenal
glands but in the brain so it deals with
stress and specifically fear and then we
have a connecting structure between the
hippocampus and the amygdala called the
mammillary bodies and as a side note in
one study that I saw with children with
ADHD there was an enlarged hippocampus
in a higher percentage of the children
so probably what's happening is there's
a compensation and that that structure
is having to work harder so this is what
you need to know the limbic system is
very sensitive to vitamin b1
deficiencies and there's even a
condition called wernicki Korsakoff
syndrome involving low amounts of B one
in the mammillary bodies this is usually
caused by alcohol because alcohol
depletes your b1 so take a while guess
what died I'm gonna recommend for
increasing your attention span the focus
it's something that you've probably
never heard of before
it's called healthy keto and intimate of
fasting surprise now why would you want
to do healthy keto well number one it's
low carbohydrate it's low refined
carbohydrate it's no sugar
okay so right there you're gonna stop
the depletion of b1 you're also going to
increase oxygen why because high
carbohydrate diets especially sugar and
definitely alcohol will deplete your
oxygen
and guess what the limbic system has the
heaviest demand for oxygen so basically
you're creating this hypoxic or oxygen
starved environment where you create all
sorts of damage within this structure
now when you have this syndrome you have
a hard time creating new memories now
why is it a minute fasting recommended
if you have a problem with your limbic
system well because in a minute fasting
is like dumping miracle-gro on the brain
it actually causes regrowing of your
nerve cells but not of the entire brain
only specific parts of the brain and it
just so happens the limbic system is one
of those systems that can actually
regenerate within a minute fasting so
that's exciting so if you're starting to
have memory problems and focus problems
potentially this can be reversed but
it's not just about taking vitamin b1
it's about getting your diet straight
now
I don't even recommend taking b1 unless
you're willing to change your diet get
off the sugar do in a minute fasting
then with that you take the b1 I
recommend nutritional yeast as one of
the best sources I don't recommend
taking a synthetic version find a
natural version and then you're going to
start seeing gradual improvements in
your cognitive function alright thanks
for watching so I want to thank you for
being here and watching my videos if you
haven't already subscribed go ahead and
do so so you can stay informed of future
videos
