hey guys we're back we're gonna talk
about an excellent in very inexpensive
way to test for adrenal function it's
actually free and all you have to do is
hold your breath and we're going to do
this test and I want you to do this in a
bit but let me explain something when
you have adrenal fatigue and the
adrenals are in very poor shape and
that's the stress gland you will not be
able to hold your breath very long so
your ability to hold your breath for a
long period of time will really indicate
if you have an adrenal problem at all
because people that have adrenal fatigue
cannot go for a very long time maybe 10
seconds and they just really need to
bring so here's what you want to do you
want to do this during the fasting
period you want to totally relax for a
few minutes and you want to breathe out
on an exhalation pinch your nose and
hold your breath okay well you have a
little timer there and just just watch
the seconds until the first desire to
breathe okay you don't want to do this
while you're really straining and going
through a stressful state you want to go
as long as you can until you're like
well I need to breathe and then record
how many seconds that would be on a
little chart you want to do this over a
period of time and it's kind of like an
exercise to strengthen your adrenals but
if you can go 40 to 50 seconds you're in
pretty good shape I would recommend
doing it several times a day to
strengthen the adrenal system you're
going to find it's going to lower stress
it's gonna improve your energy it'll
improve your oxygen carrying capacity
it'll improve something called the
parasympathetic nervous system that's
the opposite of the flutter fight that's
a system that helps you rest and digest
it's going to help you sleep but this is
the recovery system so overall it will
enhance your ability to your capacity to
carry oxygen a lot of athletes do this
and I think you should try it out as
well so go ahead and do this test and
record your seconds down below thanks
hey if you're interested in finding out
the underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quiz
