hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about the best nutritional remedies
for psoriasis okay what is psoriasis
psoriasis is an autoimmune condition
where you're own body has antibodies
attacking itself shows up on the skin as
abnormal tissue patches of red inflamed
itchy peely skin okay but in reality
psoriasis is not a skin problem it's a
gut problem it originates from your gut
usually from leaky gut where there's
certain food that goes through there and
your body develops antibodies and it
creates autoimmune okay among a lot of
other autoimmune conditions that you can
get steming from the gut so that's what
it is that's what it's caused by now
let's talk about what to do about it um
L glutamine is an natural amino acid
it's a a type of protein that is the
best remedy to heal the
gut this amino acid will strengthen the
little holes of the pores or the lining
of your gut uh so it strengthens the gut
lining it feeds the colon cells okay
that's pretty cool it increases the
mucus lining which is the immune system
putting the immune system back into the
uh the gut but there's really two things
you have to know number
one the amount of el glutamine
recommended is way way way too small uh
the mount recommended is mainly good for
athletes or bodybuilders that are trying
to build muscle but when you're trying
to fix
leaky gut you need a lot more you're
going to have to take 10 gam three times
a day okay some people take more 10
grams three times a day but I want you
to start off with 10 grams once a day
all right get it in a powder because
sometimes the pills come in uh 1,000
milligrams which is basically um one
gram so you have to take 10 of those
that's a lot of pills so get it in the
powder it's easier start off with uh 10
grams once a day for a couple days and
then go take it twice a day and then
take it three times a day you want to
get used to taking it all right that's
number one number two it must be taken
on empty stomach why because these
proteins have receptors that can
interfere with other proteins blocking
those receptors so if you take it on
empty stomach it's just going to work
better all right so those are the two
things take it between meals right
before bed number two tamanu oil what is
that that is an oil that's grown in the
tropical southeast part of the world in
Asia and this oil has unique properties
of regrowing skin healing skin and it's
wonderful for psoriasis in fact some
people even have taken it for leprosy so
with good success it has antibacterial
properties it's like a natural
antibiotic it has something called
lactone in it so it's really good for
the skin so you can put it topically all
right third thing vitamin D psoriasis
clients or patients are always deficient
in vitamin D so you want to take that
because vitamin D is very important for
the skin you can get the Sun but if you
take it I would get about 10,000 IUS of
that but you need to take vitamin K2
with it because vitamin K2 and D3 work
together so um both of those are a great
combination so take the mk7 version I'll
put some data down below 100 microgr and
then a 10,000 I use of D3 all right
this combination will greatly improve
your psoriasis put your comments
below hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you report
