hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about caffeine okay what is
caffeine caffeine is a central nervous
system stimulant okay it's involved in
making you feel very awake in your head
increasing your reaction time increasing
concentration increasing your
focus but the question is how does it do
it well it does it by number one
blocking adenosine which is a chemical
in your brain that inhibits the central
nervous system so basically it's the
breaks of your nervous system so if we
get rid of the brakes we have all
accelerator so that's one thing that it
does two it increases dopamine if you're
deficient in dopamine you're going to be
depressed inability to handle stress
fatigued mood swing attention problems
so caffeine will increase temporarily
dopamine okay it's like a pleasure
neurotransmitter number three it will
increase glutamate now glutamate
deficiency causes mental fatigue weak
motivation atten ition problems in mood
swings so this is why people drink
coffee to bring their mood up okay but
this is what it's doing internally um it
can act as a diuretic so it can actually
make you pee out more fluid it can
increase your blood pressure and if you
have too much increase artery stiffness
down the road if you drink coffee
chronically now I don't think there's
any problem with drinking uh some
caffeinated beverages either tea or
coffee as long as you have a small
amount okay maybe one in the morning but
I'm talking about the over consumption
like me in college I used to drink pots
of coffee and that's what brought my
health down and the last thing caffeine
will do it depletes your vitamin
B1 calcium and potassium these are the
three common nutrients that you need
more of when you're doing a ketogenic
diet but if you're low in potassium
you're going to get constipation skip
heartbeat atrial fibrillation you're
going to have problems with sugar
cravings and muscle weakness so you can
see there's a big problem with too much
so if you're going to do caffeine do
very small amounts of it thanks for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press this little button down
below okay thanks
