hi guys Duckburg here in this video
we're going to talk about black seed oil
now the cons is it's very nasty tasting
okay terrible tasting make sure you get
a little pearls but the pros are pretty
high it's called cumin get it
cold-pressed in little pearls there's
over 600 peer review studies on this oil
incredible it was found in King Tut's
tomb so you know must be good because
it's been around for a long time it has
a lot of trace minerals it has a lot of
B vitamins and it has a lot of healthy
fatty acids that do incredible things
like antibacterial antiviral antifungal
anti-inflammation great for pain and
inflammation
okay anywhere in the body you can put it
topically or take it orally it also is
great for any problems with insulin
whether you're pre-diabetic or an actual
diabetic because it supports the beta
cells that make insulin it's also good
for digestion or indigestion or ulcers
so put your comments below and tell me
if you've ever tried this before thanks
for watching hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
