so recently I had a question from
someone that wanted to know how to get
rid of the cravings during the menstrual
cycle now they're on keto too during in
a minute fasting so they have no
cravings whatsoever until that time of
the month and they have terrible
cravings what could that be
now for those of you that are watching
that are not on the key to a plan or
intermittent fasting click the link
below watch that because chances are
that should handle the cravings for good
but if you still have cravings despite
being on keto and in a minute fasting it
usually has to do with low serotonin
okay serotonin is a neurotransmitter
it's made in the gut but it's also made
in the brain the location of where it's
made in the brain is in the brainstem
the specific location is called the ref
I Nikolai and this is involved in the
sleep centers as well now it just so
happens that in this little location
where serotonin is made you also have a
lot of estrogen receptors what a
coincidence and the estrogen receptors
in this location are controlling the
amount of tryptophan coming in which is
the precursor or the raw material to
make serotonin now the most likely
reason why you have low serotonin is
that you have a low estrogen and there's
not enough estrogen to activate this
tryptophan now some of the symptoms with
low estrogen are mood swings as in PMS
but PMS can also happen when you have
high estrogen also headaches also
depression decreased libido there's many
more as well now given the assumption
that you're not on a high carb diet
chances are you probably don't have a
low blood sugar situation or high
insulin but if you are doing carbs then
you need to fix this blood sugar
situation so if you have this situation
low serotonin okay there's two things
you can do you can take l-tryptophan you
can get it from the health of store or
online and make sure that you take L
tryptophan
which is the precursor to serotonin make
sure you take it on an empty stomach
because this molecule is very large and
if you take other protein you won't feel
any change because this is not being
absorbed so this should always be taken
on an empty stomach alright number two
you can raise Astra Jim now it typically
causes low estrogen in the first place
is something else is pushing it down
okay it's going to be either cortisol
from stress as an adrenal fatigue or it
can be high levels of testosterone or
androgens okay and that comes from
insulin so we want to lower insulin but
if you're on the keto plan and you're
doing it rid of fasting this should not
be a problem so the last thing you can
do to increase estrogen is to take
flaxseed oil make sure it's high-quality
but this can elevate estrogen to a
certain degree alright so I hope that
answer the question and I will see you
in the next video if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
