I wanted to create this video on my
favorite natural painkillers now I've
done a lot of videos on pain but this
videos on the natural remedies that you
can find anywhere I don't know if you
knew this but over six hundred and
thirty five billion dollars a year is
spent on pain pain medication and loss
of production problem is that people are
using prescription drugs and are
becoming addicted and they're getting
into the whole opiate thing and there's
side effects and you never actually get
to the point where you actually correct
the problem so you're just patching the
thing up over and over and over now
there's actually three different types
of categories of pain you have the
category where you have tissue damage
okay you slipped and you fell you
sprained something you're involved in
some type of trauma and you have pain
because of that there's also nerve
damage type pain and that could come
from something like peripheral
neuropathy because you're a diabetic
because the nerves are actually breaking
down from the high levels of sugar so
that's a type of source of pain but then
we also have a referral pain this as
many times ignored and not understood
and so many people have pain that's
being referred from some other location
in their body primarily from their
digestive system if you have pain in the
right shoulder or the right side of the
neck or between the shoulder blades or
right up through here and you're right
trap chances are that's coming from your
gallbladder or your liver if it's on
this side it could be the pancreas
because you just ate something that you
probably shouldn't have eaten if you
have pain in your upper low back that
could come from a kidney stone if you
have pain in the lower right quadrant
that could be from your appendix so
there's a lot of different pain
syndromes that are actually coming from
a completely different source a lot of
headaches come from the digestive system
and if you are treating the symptom and
you don't make the connection you'll
never really get rid of the pain I'll
give you a quick example a lady came in
to see me a long time ago when I was in
my clinic and she had angina chest pain
and she went to the doctor she spent
$40,000 now I don't know if that was all
insurance or out-of-pocket but she spent
$40,000 with all the testing that was
done at the emergency room and they
found nothing wrong with her heart she
showed up in my office and wanted some
help so I asked her when did this happen
she said and I can't remember I think it
was last week I said try to remember
what day last week she says oh yeah I
was in a Tuesday I said good what time
and she looked and she looked and she
said five o'clock I said what happened
just before that did you eat anything
did you do anything and she looked and
she looked and then she just started
smiling and she said yes I stopped off
at some ice cream place and I had a
banana split and I never do that
I said thank you laid on the table I
know when you eat a banana split you're
gonna have a lot of bloating in the
digestive system and maybe even the
gallbladder so I started just to massage
the gallbladder area and it was like a
rock so I worked on that and guess what
all of her chest pain the heart pain
completely went away so it was related
to what she ate so there's a connection
there that a lot of times people are not
aware of but you can have chronic back
pain pain from cancer pain from
fibromyalgia which by the way a lot of
times people have fibromyalgia on one
side usually the right side and if
that's the case you might want to check
the gall butter okay
headaches again digestion especially if
it's related to what you eat as well
arthritis could be systemic or localized
post-surgery you get a surgery and now
you have pain after that you're healing
rheumatoid arthritis a lot of
inflammation going on the body and then
you have pain from trauma so these are
the my six favorite remedies the first
one is DMS oh you can get this in a
cream it penetrates the skin very very
easily and even penetrates the the the
membranes of your cells without damaging
your cells so this would be great to use
on a joint or some inflammation in
certain part of your body whether it's
the muscle or joy
this is very available and there's very
minimal side effects from that the next
one is something called then vote to
mean okay this is something you can also
get from the health food store or online
then photo mean is a fat-soluble be one
specifically created originally to help
penetrate fat because it's fat soluble
it can penetrate the myelin sheath it
can even penetrate into the brain and
help things like peripheral neuropathy
from diabetes so if you have tingling in
the feet or pain in the feet or burning
feet or in the hands you want
benfotiamine benfotiamine is really good
to minimize the complications and the
side effects from diabetes so it's quite
amazing I've done a lot of videos on
that okay number three stinging nettle
root is one of my favorite
anti-inflammatory herbs you can take
higher doses and you will see a nice
effect
with inflammation coming down in your
body and there's minimal side effects it
just works vitamin D roughly about
20,000 30,000 or 40,000 international
units that's what I would recommend
taking it's great for low back pain it's
good for inflammation it acts as a
natural course salt which is an
anti-inflammatory in your body so
vitamin E is great for pain and then we
get to willow bark willow bark has a
certain chemical that turns into solace
Orlick acid which basically is aspirin
it's like a natural version of aspirin
and that's if I'm not mistaken where
they originated aspirin from from willow
bark because you can't put a patent on
it and of course aspirin is more
concentrated but willow bark has some
real interesting properties to get rid
of pain and number six fish oil you can
do krill oil or my favorite combinable
is really good for pain not only does
cod liver oil have vitamin D in vitamin
A it has the EPA and DHA which are
omega-3 fatty acids which are
anti-inflammatory so these are the six
best pain killers that are
and if you haven't seen my video on
referral pain I put it right here on
this page
