all right so today we're going to talk
about what happens if you get your blood
test back and your cholesterol is high
or your LDL is high should you be
concerned or not let's discuss this
topic and listen I do understand the
concern because you have all this data
out there telling you to stop consuming
cholesterol and here you are on a
ketogenic diet eating a ton of fat and
all of a sudden your cholesterol is high
and your doctor wants to put you on
statins and maybe your family is like oh
my gosh are you sure you should be doing
that puts a lot of doubt in your mind so
let me just cover some key facts about
this so you are not concerned most
people that do keto get a lower
cholesterol level in a lower LDL other
people are hyper responders to a higher
fat diet so basically they're gonna have
a spike in cholesterol and a spike of
LDL but realize that is temporary it's
not a long-term thing so there's two
things happening when you do keto number
one you're increasing more dietary fat
that fat has to be digested it has to go
through your body and that's one reason
why cholesterol will increase number two
you're getting more fat burning more fat
released because your insulin is down
because your carbs are lower now think
about it your fat cell are made up of
triglycerides and cholesterol that's
what's in the fat cell well guess what
when we burn this both of these have to
be released right so you because you're
no longer running on glucose as much
you're running primarily on fat fuel
well guess what these two are going to
be released and they have to come out
through the body okay so now let's talk
about total cholesterol not sure if you
know this maybe you do maybe you don't
but cholesterol is made by your body
your body makes 3,000 milligrams per day
your liver produces most of it okay so
if your body makes it is it really that
bad so the reason why your body makes so
much is this is a necessary
substance that you need to make the
membranes or outer coating or walls of
your cells so the the cellular walls of
your cells are made out of cholesterol
cholesterol is needed to make hormones
cholesterol is needed to make bile to
help you digest cholesterol is needed to
make vitamin D cholesterol is needed to
repair the body so cholesterol is not
just this thing that clogs up the
arteries and causes a heart attack okay
so that's the purpose of cholesterol but
then what is LDL okay low-density
lipoprotein okay so LDL is not
cholesterol it's a protein LDL is a boat
a cargo ship that carries cholesterol
okay and triglycerides that's what it is
now LDL has a primary function I don't
know if you ever thought about it like
why do we have LDL what's the purpose of
LDL it'd be a really good question to
ask your doctor to see what he or she
says because a lot of people don't even
know it LDL all they know is that LDL is
bad okay bad cholesterol
it's not even cholesterol it's a boat
that carries cholesterol and
triglycerides in vitamin E okay so LDL
has a primary function of caring energy
what's the energy it's the triglycerides
because now your body is running off of
fat this is the fuel source you're no
longer using glucose you're using fat
triglyceride is the main fuel source so
LDL has to carry that energy now if your
body is now running on fat fuel is it
possible that you might need more boats
to carry more of this around to the
cells that's what happens so LDL has a
primary function of carrying energy and
nutrients to the cell and it provides
the triglycerides for energy now the
cholesterol that is being carried with
it on this little boat is there to
repair anything that's damaged in along
for the ride so here we have this little
boat that
delivering the triglycerides to the cell
cholesterol to the cells that need it
and other functions too like destroying
pathogens acting as an antioxidant
supplying raw material for the cell
membranes and the hormones and the bile
and the vitamin D so it's doing all
those actions and then once it unloads
all this cargo HDL comes from the
vascular system and brings it back into
the liver to recycle it so we have this
great exchange of this LDL boat bringing
things to the cell and then HDL taking
what's left and bringing it back to the
liver to recycle that's the simplicity
of it
so as LDL really bad and HDL really good
now you they're both good they both are
necessary for this thing to happen now
there's another term I want to define
it's called remnant cholesterol what is
that well most people think that when
they get their cholesterol values back
that their total cholesterol really is
just LDL plus HDL that would give the
total cholesterol but that's not
entirely true there's something called
remnant cholesterol which is basically
taking the total cholesterol and -
seeing the LDL and the HDL and then you
get an amount that's the extra
cholesterol that doesn't make up LDL and
HDL and remnant cholesterol is one of
the best predictors of heart disease way
more important than LDL or HDL and it's
very easy to figure this out all you do
is you take your total cholesterol
- LDL and HDL and you get this number if
the number is less than 17 that's
optimal if the number is between 18 to
23 it's okay
the number is between 23 to 29 that's
concerning if the number is over 30
there is a problem but you're gonna have
higher amounts of remnant cholesterol
when your insulin is too high so you're
really only going to see higher numbers
of remnant cholesterol when you're
consuming the wrong foods and your
insulin is too high
you're doing keto your insulin is gonna
go down and you're gonna see remnant
cholesterol very low so that's one point
the next point I want to talk about is
that there are two different types of
LDL called particles okay now if you're
concerned you can go to your doctor and
get an advanced test
it's called n/m our lipid profile okay
and what that will measure is the
particle size of the LDL and there's two
patterns pattern a and pattern B pattern
a is the buoyant big fluffy LDL
particles okay that's the large ones
those are non concerning they're
floating around and they're not going to
create damage okay then you have the
pattern B which are small dense type
particles and those are the ones that
are more likely to create plaquing and a
clogged artery okay and of course you're
gonna see this when you have high
insulin and you're at a high refined
carbohydrate diet when you keto you'll
see more of this so I just wanted to
cover several points on why your
cholesterol and LDL may spike
temporarily when you do keto and it's
not just a simple answer you have to
really understand the whole picture of
what's happening and really understand
what cholesterol is and what LDL is in
what it's doing and I highly recommend
that you watch all the videos that I
have on cholesterol as well as the
videos from a guy by the name of Dave
Feldman which I put a link down below
and he'll give you additional data on
the topic and also include a few links
down below of some keto friendly
cardiologists all right guys thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
