I want to talk about the ultimate cure
for cataracts cataracts are the leading
cause of blindness the main treatment
for it is surgery so if there's things
that we can do to prevent it and even if
we get it possibly reverse it uh we need
to know about this first I want to just
share what is a cataract it's a
cloudiness opak andess of the lens of
the eye okay and apparently what causes
it is too much oxidative stress now what
does oxidative stress mean think about
oxidation is kind of rusting out
something I was raised in Wisconsin we
have a lot of salt and we have a lot of
rain and we have snow and our cars
rusted out so when you think about
oxidation think about rusting we have a
lot of oxidation and not enough
antioxidants okay so that's a protective
thing against this oxidation so if we
have this situation going on in the eye
chances are you're more likely to get a
catac so where does this oxidation come
from it comes mainly from sugar right if
you have high levels of sugar in your
blood there are four main tissues that
are affected kidney nerves arteries and
the eye so in other words this high
sugar in your blood ends up with high
sugar in your eye and about onethird of
it converts to something called sorbitol
and sorbitol tends to accumulate in the
lens of the eye Sorbitol is a sugar
alcohol and it's not a good thing if it
ends up in the lens of the eye because
when it accumulates it creates
inflammation it creates what's called
glycation so just think of it like the
the proteins are binding to the sugar
Like Glue in your lens and that creates
the cloudiness now what I didn't know
about the lens which I just learned
about which is actually quite
fascinating early on when we were very
young the lens of their eye does have
certain things in it like mitochondria
but as we get older they tend to go away
and so the oxygen and the nutrients in
The Lens comes from the fluid in the eye
but the front part of the eye okay it's
called the anterior part has a single
layer of cells that do have mitochondria
which means this they're very
susceptible to having damage if there's
high levels of sugar and when the
mitochondria the energy factories of the
cell get damaged they can really put out
a lot of um oxidation which creates free
radicals which create an instability it
creates inflammation in the lens and
it's creating a situation where it's
going to become very opaque now the
sorbitol doesn't just end up in the lens
it also ends up in the retina of the eye
it also ends up in the cells that make
myelin in your nerves and it also pulls
in a lot of fluid into the eye
increasing pressure as in glycom so when
people get cataracts a lot of times they
also have glycom they also have like
macular degeneration uh they have all
sorts of issues so right off the B if
you're starting to get cataracts you
need to change your diet and you need to
get rid of sugar immediately but now I
want to talk about how to undo this
process right if you have it and uh
let's take a look at a couple things
first I want to just kind of tell you
what this word carnosine means let me
move my head carnosine what is carnosine
carnosine comes from the word K which
means flesh which actually implies meat
and the carine molecule actually works
within the mitochondria and that's
what's very interesting because ALC
carnosine in the
mitochondria act as a pH buffer okay so
if something's more acid for various
reasons it can help buffer the pH
because that acidity can create damage
also ELC carnosine works as a very
powerful antioxidant remember over here
we want more antioxidants it also gives
a
anti-glycation effect that glycation is
like glue that kind of keeps the protein
and the sugar together and makes them
unusable so
carnosine is
anti-glycation it's also anti-aging so
this molecule is very good for
preventing in the reversal of catx but
the problem is it can't really penetrate
the eye so that's why you have to add
something called n acetal to this
carnosine
compound because this and acetal part
allows it to penetrate to go right
through the eye with drops and deliver
this antioxidant anti-glycation type
thing this something to actually reduce
the acidity going on because of the high
level of sugar so this is really
important in kind of repairing also the
mitochondria which came from eating too
much sugar usually I found some
interesting research and I'm going to
put it down below uh one paper uh
involved 50,000 people with significant
results not with just with cataract but
with also glaucoma Immaculate
degeneration another research paper
talked about a reversal after five
months with a 1% solution but then when
you go on uh Amazon to try to find a
product like this you can't really find
it all you see is NAC for pets like dogs
or horses so there's a lot of products
used for dogs or horses that are getting
uh cataracts but why not humans that's
really interesting so you're going to
have to get this off of Amazon and
search for a good product that has good
reviews make sure it's the N acetal
carnosine and you want to take one to
two drops of this in each eye two to
three times per day now I'd also
recommend taking some zinc okay because
zinc is also something that can help
prevent cataracts it's a powerful
antioxidant plus NAC depends on on it
you need enough zinc for it to exist in
the body so zinc and NAC is going to be
what I recommend of course the zinc
won't be used topically on the eye you
take it orally now you may see results
uh pretty quick depending on how severe
it is but it could take weeks to months
before it completely goes away however
I'm going to mention that there's a
limitation of matter and of course it
may not work for you but it's pretty
safe and the investment that it would
cost to buy some is pretty low and
potentially if you could do something
that was pretty safe that could reverse
this without surgery it's definitely an
option so anyway I put some links down
below to talk about some of the research
that I just mentioned and if you have
not visited drberg.com to sign up for my
newsletter to get some unfiltered
content that you're not going to find on
YouTube I put a link down below check it
out
