you know I've done a lot of videos on
testosterone and I've emphasized a lot
of things that can lower your
testosterone but in some recent research
that I've been diving into sleep is a
huge
underemphasized factor in your
testosterone levels I want to talk about
that today now before I get into the
subject of sleep I want to just touch on
some of the other things that can
dramatically lower your testosterone as
well because you need to know all of
them because what may affect one person
may not affect everyone okay so the
first thing you need to know is that as
you age testosterone does go down
however it's not the major reason why
someone has low testosterone so let's
first talk about obesity if you are
overweight that can affect your
testosterone why because your fat cells
make this enzyme called aromatase and
aromatase turns your testosterone into
to estrogen so the more fat you have on
your body the more estrogen you're going
to have and there's this relationship
between testosterone and estrogen in
that when one goes up like estrogen the
other one goes down all right so the
more fat you have in your body the more
estrogen you're going to have now
there's a couple other things that will
increase your estrogen too consuming a
lot of soy products okay that's one
thing also Plastics I've done a video on
this and an average person consumes
about a credit card amount of plastic
every single week that's a lot of
plastic to be put in our body so you
know we get plastic from drinking out of
plastic bottles uh cooking in plastic
plastic is this all over the place and
that can increase our estrogen as well
now the other big killer of testosterone
is having high insulin levels now you
might think that you have to be a
diabetic to have high insulin levels but
that's not true um you could be a
pre-diabetic or you can have insulin
resistance which I think the majority of
the population has and that could be the
reason why you have low testosterone
because you have high levels of insulin
see insulin is rarely tested normally
they check blood sugars but they don't
look at insulin there's a really good
test to measure something called insulin
resistance that's called hir that'll
give you a lot of good information on
whether you have insulin resistance and
at the same time high insulin so high
insulin low testosterone now that
relates to the next thing I'm going to
talk about which is your liver the liver
makes something called
shbg sex hormone binding globulin now
that's an interesting word that is a
compound that binds to
testosterone and prevents it from being
a free testosterone that can go through
the body so it's something your body
makes to buffer and hold testosterone in
an inactive form in fact the great
majority like
99% of your testosterone is locked up to
this protein and other proteins so
really you only have like 1% of all your
testosterone in a free state that's
available for you to use 99% of it is in
a bound or locked up state so the more
that you have of this binding protein
the less testosterone you're going to
have and so if there's any problem with
the liver as in a fatty liver or it's
inflamed or it's toxic it can affect
this part of this puzzle now the next
thing I want to talk about is your
adrenals okay the more adrenal stress
you have the more cortisol you have the
less testosterone you're going to have
because stress or cortisol inhibits
testosterone and as you age your
adrenals kind of go downhill where you
don't produce enough of the raw material
to make these adrenal hormones because
testosterone is also one of the hormones
that your adrenals make and one of the
precursor hormones that help you make
testosterone is called DHEA so if you're
deficient in that that raw material that
could be one reason why you don't have
enough testosterone and this probably
mainly relates to the aging process so
that is just one little side note
something maybe you could take as a
supplement if you've tried all these
other factors and it's still not working
and this can relate to both men and
women if women take too much of it they
can get too much testosterone if they
take just a small amount of it they can
increase the um estrogen and
progesterone so I just wanted to make
that side note the other um raw material
that is needed to make testosterone is
cholesterol so if you're on a lowfat
diet or you are on statin drugs that
could be the reason that your
testosterone is low another fact is iron
if you have a condition where you have
too much iron in the body that can
negatively affect your testosterone how
do you know if you have too much iron
well you can get a blood test um also if
you consume red meat and feel worse or
you take an iron supplement and you feel
worse that could be another clue the
other factor in testosterone is
something called
hypogonadism where the testicles are
atrophying or shrinking okay and one of
the causes for that is aging another
cause for that is a zinc deficiency out
of all the nutrients for testosterone uh
zinc is probably the most important one
and so you'd want to start eating foods
high in zinc and that would be shellfish
like oysters or even take a zinc
supplement and if you wanted a good zinc
supplement in a blend of trace minerals
I put that link down below all right
another Factor testosterone is alcohol
the more alcohol you have the more
estrogen you're going to have the less
testosterone you're going to have
especially when you drink beer but all
alcohol will create this effect all
right now the topic of sleep sleep is
vitally vitally important in fact um the
research that I'm I went through which
I'm going to put the link down below uh
demonstrates that the less sleep that
you have the less testosterone you're
going to have because the way that your
body controls and manages testosterone
are through circadian waves and this
means there's a crossover between your
sleep especially the REM sleep okay
that's the second half of sleep and the
generation of testosterone in fact you
generate more testosterone the more REM
sleep you have so if you're only getting
five hours of sleep or less or even six
hours or less uh that could be big
reason why your testosterone is low so
all the supplements all the zinc all the
things that you do including
testosterone replacement are for nothing
if your sleep isn't good so your
testosterone correlates with your sleep
um in one study it shows that if you can
get eight hours or more you're going to
have very good testosterone levels also
a lack of sleep increases cortisol okay
okay that's a stress hormone cortisol
directly will decrease testosterone and
cortisol also increases insulin which
will lower testosterone so a lack of
sleep or a crappy sleep can just destroy
testosterone from so many different
angles so here's what I recommend you do
number one to help your sleep more
exercise or better yet physical work it
can also directly stimulate testosterone
and improve your sleep at the same time
and exercise improves insulin resistance
and exercise can help make you thinner
less fat in your body and exercise can
help improve your liver all right number
two get off the carbs carbs increase the
insulin carbs put you in a sympathetic
dominant mode okay which can decrease
testosterone because testosterone Works
in a parasympathetic mode that doesn't
work that well when you're under stress
and so a low carb diet will help pull
you out of this sympathetic dominance
mode as well as handle the insulin part
of this puzzle and also a low carb diet
will greatly improve your liver and help
uh liver function and decrease the fat
on your liver as well number three
improve your sleep with improving the
gut microbiome I recently did a video on
drinking kefir um before bed or at the
last meal of the day okay a really good
kefir gives you good strains of both
friendly bacteria and friendly yeast so
fixing the gut biome is a very very
important action for sleep okay which
will then improve your testosterone and
you can even take a probiotic but the
gut is a very important factor in
sleeping better and then this as far as
sleep nutrients go um vitamin B1 from
nutritional yeast that's vital potassium
and magnesium are two
physiological uh relaxers that are in
vegetables salads uh or you can get an
electrolyte powder to help you sleep you
don't want to take the electrolyte
powerder before you go to bed but during
the day can help calm you down and keep
you in a relaxed mode and then vitamin D
before bed is a really good action
because vitamin D greatly affects the
circadian rhythms of the body and of
course I'm going to also recommend my
own sleep aid before bed I would take
two and then if you wake up in the
middle of the night okay take one to
help you get back to sleep to extend
your sleep for that eight hours to
maximize or optimize your sleep to
improve testosterone now I have some
additional information on sleep that's a
must I put that video up right here
check it out
