hey it's me again in this video we're
going to talk about an amazing herb
called basil most people use this to
flavor their food which is a great idea
but it has some amazing health benefits
that I want to cover uh number one it's
loaded with vitamin K what is Vitamin K
Vitamin K uh helps um clotting like for
example if you bruise easy you would
want to take something high in vitamin K
number two it has manganese manganese is
a trace mineral that's really good for
ligaments and tendons if you're low in m
anes you can have very loose joints then
we have something called beta carotene
which is a previtamin a so only a little
bit converts to the active form but it
has other benefits as an
anti-inflammatory for example for your
arteries the lining of skin in the
arteries it's good for that then we have
flavonoids which are certain type of
phytonutrients those are plant-based
chemicals that have health properties
that go beyond just vitamins and
minerals so basil also has this amazing
ability to decrease the pathogenic
bacteria so if you're resistant
antibiotics for example basil will be
something that would help you and lastly
it's a great anti-inflammatory good for
rheumato arthritis and IBS so I
personally grow basil which is extremely
easy task thanks for watching you I just
wanted to take a moment out to thank you
for your amazing feedback that you guys
are giving me it's just mind-blowing the
success is the wins I created a link
down below so you can actually type out
your full success story and if you have
a before and after with weight loss that
would be awesome and if you don't have a
success with weight but other things
just put an image of yourself and your
personal success story and I would love
to read it and also share it with others
so I want to just thank you in advance
for doing that but there's a link down
below fill it out and I can't wait to
read it
