the American Heart Association the
organization that is supposed to prevent
heart disease the number one killer
worldwide and they showed up at a
committee in Texas where they're trying
to pass a bill this bill would restrict
people from using food stamps for things
like sugary drinks candy and other
unhealthy foods for the American Heart
Association to be against this bill that
might be the surprise of the session and
out of all the groups that would oppose
that bill would shock me the American
Heart association's director for
governmental relationships who came in
and opposed it I certainly understand
why that might be surprising now I think
most people know uh that the American
Heart Association gets a lot of funding
from the junk food industry but from a
Public Relation standpoint you don't
want the American Heart Association
opposing something like that well they
did they were embarrassed the Heart
Association is concerned about potential
impacts of this bill on participation
and population health I just was
astonished uh that the American Heart
Association
uh was against our snap Reform Bill that
would just say you can't have sugary
drinks you can't chips cookies limiting
that and and pushing people more to
protein density rich foods they now say
that they're no longer opposing that
bill I certainly understand why that
might be surprising did you realize that
of all the foods soda is the single most
frequent item bought under the snap
program there's a lot at stake for the
soda industry because the subsidies
dollars from taxpayers pay for the snap
program in the amount of $1 billion not
million dollar $10 billion a year for
that soda which then lead to obesity
type 2 diabetes then feeds big Pharma
because they're treating the side
effects from the junk food industry and
on top of that you have the American
Heart Association that's supporting the
funding of this thing the soda lobbyists
are just going haywire their latest uh
meme or modotto or campaign was saying
that this is an issue of Liberty right
freedom to choose what you want to eat
the American Heart Association has so
many conflicts of interest and what do I
mean conflicts of interest I mean money
from actual industry big Pharma big food
they have a whole section of the
American Heart Association called the
industry nutrition Forum where they have
Pepsi General meals etc etc and of
course on various cereals they have this
little American Heart Association
certified okay because they have the
health grains of this whole grains you
can pay to get this certification of
course they have the Frosted version
right here which also says can help you
low the cholesterol but I don't see the
little seal right here even though both
of these have virtually the same amount
of carbohydrates both of these have
whole grain oats corn starch sugar corn
syrup and of course the soda industry is
also hitting social media big time
they're actually paying influencers a
lot of money to help them object to this
bill in fact certain influencers were
paid over $1,000 a post for objecting to
this the other campaigns that they're
doing is um they're pushing this food
insecurity we need to provide cheap food
the entire uh idea of subsidy came after
the Depression when the farmers needed
help and this has evolved into a very
corrupt operation where now we're making
the junk food industry richer by paying
for the raw material did you realize
that one metric ton of that dent corn
with the subsidies is
$195 do you many boxes of corn flakes
you can make with one metric ton of Dent
corn basically we're paying the junk
food industry to make this junk food
then we're subsidizing the government
SNAP program food stamps to make it very
easy for people to consume this food now
realize we already paid for a lot of the
raw material for these junk foods to be
made now we as taxpayers pay a second
time for certain people that have food
stamps to consume that junk food which
we know 90% of chronic disease comes
from junk food and the majority of big
Pharma treats the side effect from junk
food so as you can see the system is not
broken it's working perfectly it's just
not working for you do the people that
subsidize the snap program benefit no
who benefits big food and big Pharma
Here's my thought on this whole thing I
think they should continue the snap
program for nutrient-dense foods not
alra processed foods because that would
not not only reduce chronic disease it
would also save a tremendous amount of
money with all the prescription
medication we're really in a PR War
right now where the junk food industry
is trying everything it can to maintain
these profits because there's a
tremendous amount of money at stake just
the soda industry subsidies alone $10
billion a lot of the sweetener in the
soda is high fructose corn syrup it goes
to the liver it creates the fatty liver
creates high blood pressure it creates
diabetes it inflames the inside of the
arteries it starts heart disease but
it's mind-blowing to me that out of all
the organizations the American Heart
Association was the one that stood up
and opposed this bill you have to
realize that the junk food industry
never is the one that's subjecting to it
they use other organizations or front
groups to do that type of work anyway I
am just really curious what you think
about this topic please let me know in
the comments down below
