so today I want to discuss why nuts
irritate gall bladder now some of the
symptoms that people get when they
consume not certain types of nuts right
shoulder pain okay
pain in the upper trap area right here
pain in the right rhomboid headaches to
the right side why because the gall
bladders look at it on the right side
and the gall bladder being underneath
the right ribcage sometimes can swell up
and react to certain nuts I'm going to
explain why in a second and that can
irritate a nerve that goes on the right
side called the phrenic nerve that goes
all the way up to the third cervical
vertebra right here so if you actually
are distended and create a pressure on
the nerve down here you can affect on
the right side to the point where it can
literally even cause your neck bones to
rotate out of place and create a pinched
nerve that goes right down the right
side the way I know that for a fact is
because I've worked on so many people
that come in my office with the right
shoulder pain we change your diet we do
a little work on the gallbladder
instantly the pain goes away and it
doesn't come back so if you have
right-sided problems it could be than
nuts that you're consuming but it's not
necessarily the nuts it's what's in the
nuts mainly something called lectins
lectins
are considered an anti nutrient it's
like a natural insecticide certain seeds
and nuts and vegetables have a
protective mechanism against pests and
insects and lectins is one of them some
people are not even fazed by it but you
have a certain percentage of population
that are highly irritated by lectins
this video I just want to kind of narrow
in on the nuts but in other videos I'll
expand on that and talk about other
foods that this would be involved with
so if you wanted to reduce the levels of
lectin of course you can avoid the food
you can use a pressure cooker to cook
the food you can soak the nuts overnight
and it's called germination I'll put a
link down below for more information on
that you can sprout or ferment so there
are different ways of reducing lectins
the symptom of lectins is basically
inflammation bloating nausea
ass okay all right so now let's talk
about the foods that have the highest
amounts of lectins versus the lowest
amount okay starting with the peanut now
a peanut is not an actual nut it's a
legume but I'm putting in this category
because most people think peanuts as a
nut
okay peanuts are have high amounts of
lectins okay so if you consume them you
may find more irritation in the
gallbladder area cashews are high
abundance and really I'm doing this
video on those people that are
supporting the gallbladder and doing
whatever you can to improve your
digestion but you still have problems
now what's interesting is the bile duct
okay which is connected your gallbladder
has receptors for lectins so lectins
have the capacity to target the bile
duct and irritate that area if you
trigger it with any of these foods right
here okay so almonds unfortunately are
higher in lectins now but realize you
may not be sensitive to these so you
have to test the waters okay
pine nuts hazelnuts and also seeds like
sunflower seeds pumpkin seeds yeah
interesting okay these are relatively
low in lectins pecans walnuts macadamia
nuts pistachios flax seed hemp seed
olives coconut avocado and Brazil nuts
these are just suggestions so if you
find that you just switch over to these
and you stop consuming these and you get
better chances are it's because of the
lectins alright guys thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
