not that you would ever in a million
years do this but let's just say you
drank some liquid candy I'm sorry soda
for two weeks what are the effects did
you realize that the average American
consumes 45 gallons that's 170 L of soda
every single year and they only drank 58
gallons of water you know in the 50s in
the' 60s the quantity with soft drinks
was a lot less I think on average it was
like 6 and2 oz right that's less than 8
oz now it's like 20 oz a liter the big
gulp we're drinking way too much of this
I mean even in like a 10 oz soda you're
talking up to 10 teaspoons of sugar and
a lot of times they don't even use cane
sugar like they did way back when I was
growing up I remember growing up we
would go to these different stores and
Buy cases of soda boy we would just down
all the soda I I didn't even think twice
and I drank a lot of soda growing up but
I pretty much destroyed every single
tooth in my skull like I had cavities in
every tooth a lot of issues that caught
up with me as I got into my early 20s
but nowadays we use what's called high
fructose corn syrup and the percentage
of fructose uh in that corn syrup is
higher than cane sugar and if we just
look at the difference between H
fructose corn syrup and cane sugar it's
not the same even though if you do your
own research on this you'll find the
first several pages of Google will say
oh there's no difference it's the same
just realize that's all recycled
information there is a big difference
when you're making um sugar out of corn
starch versus sugar cane when they make
it out of corn as in high fructose corn
syrup the fructose molecule is more
freed up it's Unbound and it doesn't
have to go through necessarily all the
steps like sugar cane does so just right
there it's it's faster absorbing it can
create more problems especially to the
liver what you need to know about
fructose in general is that the liver
has to deal with the fructose whereas
glucose all of your cells can metabolize
it but fructose it can't this is why
fructose acts very similar to alcohol as
far as the liver it uses very similar
Pathways and so fructose is more
designed to create fat whereas glucose
can be supplied more for energy and the
thing about high fructose corn syrup
with all that fructose is it doesn't
satisfy you very much so we can consume
a tremendous amount of product without
feeling satisfied which is kind of
dangerous especially if a child is
drinking this I mean if you just compare
High frose corn syrup to like fruit how
much fruit would you have to consume to
get the same amount as one soda I mean
you'd have to eat a lot of fruit um we
don't do that with sodas we just drink
it very quickly and that is a huge
danger because we get no fiber not to
mention the corn is probably genetically
modified which we're not going to get
into in this video so fructose is all
about creating fat especially on your
liver this is why um a non-alcoholic
fatty liver usually comes from a lot of
um fructose ingestion also combined with
the caffeine in that soda it's going to
potentially do something to your blood
pressure your heart your brain not just
the cognitive part but your overall mood
as well and then when we add the
phosphoric acid that's going affect your
bone and your calcium levels the kidneys
do not like this super concentrated
sugar as well as the phosphoric acid and
the caffeine all at once and then if we
compound that at a fast food restaurant
where someone is consuming a burger with
the bun fries and a Big Gulp of some
type of soda wow what a deadly com
mination because that's going to create
what's called glycation it's going to
create a lot of problems with your your
blood proteins and your brain your
kidneys and your eyes not to mention
increasing inflammation as well as
increasing the risk for diabetes even
Harvard University stated in one of
their articles these soft drinks
worldwide are associated with over
180,000 deaths and even the World Health
Organization mentioned that uh this soda
is a key contributor to childhood
obesity I think it was Margaret Chan who
mentioned that from the World Health
Organization and of course the trade
group for beverage companies didn't like
that so apparently they have a good
friend at the CDC and through the
Freedom of Information Act there is
certain documents that were acquired
showing this interesting cozy
relationship between American Beverage
Association and the CDC they expressed
their upset and concern about about
statement from the World Health
Organization and they said right in the
emails something must be done about this
and apparently they wanted to have
dinner with someone from the World
Health Organization to discuss this
matter so my question is what is going
on with this uh relationship between
government and big food I will put a
link down below to show you more
information about this um there's a
great organization that kind of studies
this and they have a lot of documents
with this conflict of interest I mean
it's pretty wild that Coca-Cola uh does
anti-obesity campaigns like why is
Coca-Cola in the business of
anti-obesity when they sell the exact
product that creates the problem in fact
when you look at the outcome of some of
these studies that are beverage industry
funded you're going to find like between
four and eight times more favorable
outcomes which is not very surprising
but between 2009 and 20
the beverage industry spent $30 million
in lobbying fees which is just a crazy
amount of money but let me just kind of
get On Track because I got a little
distracted when you consume sodas you're
getting a lot of liquid sugar in a short
period of time and this sugar uh is a
perfect food for microbes yeast bacteria
candida fungus in fact many people have
an overgrowth of candida
um are just consuming way too much sugar
this amount of sugar can suppress your
immune system making you more
susceptible to getting infections and
there's one study that shows that it can
do it within 30 minutes of consuming a
sugary beverage and when you have less
defenses you can have other issues as
well you can have increased tumor growth
and just think about what cancer eats
right it loves sugar and so cancer cells
are sugar Hogs so we don't want to feed
them more sugar sugary beverages uh
deplete you of vitamin C actually they
block vitamin C because the chemistry of
vitamin C is similar to Sugar so if
you're consuming sugar you're not going
to be able to absorb vitamin C also your
B1 will be depleted when you consume a
lot of sugar as well as vitamin d and
vitamin D has also a side important
function of helping you regulate iron
and so if there's unregulated iron that
iron can actually make infections grow
because the microbes or the pathogens
also live on this iron and they can
actually grow and be supported as well
as cancer as well so I hope this video
will discourage you from consuming soda
now because of the censoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other side but if you haven't
seen my video what would happen if you
gave up sugar for 2 weeks you should
probably check it out I put it up right
here
