hey guys Dr Burg here in this video
we're going to discuss the truth about
red meat now before we start I do know
that this is very controversial subject
and a lot of people are very passionate
about you know animals being killed and
that but I want to talk about just about
the health benefits uh about actual red
meat and really kind of dig deep in what
the studies say there's first of all you
have to realize that uh there are
multiple studies that disagree with red
meat
being the source of cancer okay how ever
the study called the nurse health study
and I'll put the link down below if you
actually read it states that it
increases your um risk by 133% of of
dying of all illnesses or diseases okay
so it does increase your risk so uh and
they said you need to switch to chicken
and whole grains okay but let's take a
look at what kind of study they actually
did to confirm that first of all it
wasn't an experimental study it was an
OBS
observational study based B on a
questionnaire that was given out every
two years from 1980 to
2006 now I will guarantee there's when
you do a questioner for a study it's not
a controlled study there are so many
variables you can't isolate uh these
variables like other things that people
ate if they're a smoker or whatnot so it
leaves uh the things up to a lot of
biases and it's very very weak but
here's the interesting thing they always
use the word risk
okay what does risk mean why don't they
just say rate of getting cancer or dying
well because risk has a different term
legally it actually is more open um it
doesn't necessarily mean you have a
133% uh rate of getting of dying so it's
kind of a a big variable there now the
other thing is they did not identify if
it was grass-fed beef was it processed
beef was it organic was it at Donald's
they didn't measure that data okay so
the question is what are the real
statistics from studies on processed
meat okay process red meat you know it's
classified as a class one carcinogen at
the same level of smoking right so of
course people are freaking out about it
um but take a look at like bowel cancer
they found that three more incidents of
bowel cancer occur per 100,000 people
okay 100,000 cases that's 133
th000 cases so they have three more
incidents of bowel cancer well cancer I
mean smoking increases your Chance by
20x 20 times more so that's like you
can't compare those two it's not really
a class one carcinogen it's um now what
I want to talk about is I do not believe
that there's any risk or any studies
that show that consuming grass-fed
quality
beef will increase your risk of dying at
all or any diseases okay um now the
benefit of red meat and by the way I
consume a lot of red meat I don't do a
lot per sitting I'll do a small amount
maybe three or four ounces but I do my
body feels great on really good red meat
the kind of red meat that I buy I don't
buy the 90%
lean I buy the 85% because that lean
stuff I just it's harder to digest than
when it has fat in it so so that's just
a side note but red meat has more
absorbable vitamin D than milk okay it
has more B12 B1 B2 B3 B6 B5 it has tons
of absorbable iron it has healthy
collagen it has a good amount of
potassium believe it or not it has zinc
magnesium copper phosphates and it's
loaded with
omega-3 in fact it has five times more
omega-3 grass fed beef has five times
more omega-3 than grain-fed beef and the
problem with grain fed is not only
sometimes you involve hormones but you
involve
um um the genetically modified GMO soy
and corn in the feed so that's another
big problem that they would I would love
for them to do a study on that so when
you do research uh I think the problem
with doing research is that you're going
to actually try to first have a theory
and then you're going to come find
research to back it up and that's how
people approach it they have this thing
this fixed idea in mind and now I'm
going to find research to back up my
theory and then so I can prove my theory
rather than do an evaluation on the data
and see where it ends up it's a better
Viewpoint okay so that's my two cents on
meet and uh thanks for watching put your
comments
below hey guys thank you so much for
watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
