let's talk about how to salvage your
muscles as you get older both men and
women when women hit the age of 50 they
go through this process this change
called menopause and when they go
through menopause they have all sorts of
changes in their hormones which I'm
going to cover uh Men start developing
more hormonal changes more when they're
60 now what I'm primarily going to
focusing on with these hormones is the
relationship between what happens to
one's muscles okay the term for this is
called sarcopenia the Latin word for
sarcopenia means basically Poverty of
the flesh you're deficient in skeletal
muscle and this relates to just getting
older as we all are aging including
myself I'm going to be 59 which is very
weird because I don't feel 59 so of
course I'm doing a deep dive in this to
preserve my muscles as long as possible
why is this important because as we age
and we lose our muscles we lose a lot of
our metabolism now this is not just
related to your metabolic rate the speed
of which your ability to burn fat or
Your Capacity to burn fat but also all
the other things that are connected with
metabolism as well you have a lot of
mitochondria in your muscles right so if
you're losing your muscles you're going
to lose a lot of your mitochondria the
energy factors of the body and roughly
as we get older we lose between 1 and 2%
of our muscles each year as far as the
percentage of our metabolism related to
muscle it's roughly about 40% so it's
pretty significant let's start with
females and estrogen estrogen does
decrease as you get older um it goes
down a certain curve but this other
hormone progesterone tanks even lower
almost to the point where it's almost
zero so if we don't have any
progesterone we get a lot of problems
with estrogen and estrogen relating to
this topic affects your bone affects
your muscle your connective tissue your
collagen your cartilage and so you start
losing this connective tissue underneath
the skin and things start sagging and
hanging and you start getting wrinkles
not to mention estrogen has a function
of helping you regenerate and rejuvenate
repair muscle a lot of women lose their
muscle because of this darn estrogen now
typically men develop ALS ametropic
lateral sclerosis it's a severe neurod
degeneration Within your spinal column
and other nerves so men develop this
condition ALS four times more than
females
until
menopause then the ratio is 1: one and
what's interesting about progesterone
it's an extremely potent
neuroprotector interesting especially if
someone has ALS is there any
relationship between increasing your
cholesterol or decreasing your
cholesterol and muscle yes there is take
a look at statin drugs what's the
biggest side effect of statin drugs
muscle damage muscle diseases why
because you need cholesterol to make
these steroid hormones including
testosterone and so cholesterol is very
important as a raw material to help you
build muscle so if you're trying to
salvage your muscles be careful about
going on a low fat diet and also a low
cholesterol diet and of course
statins check with your doctor before
wanting to come off of that I'm not
telling you to come off of it and then
cholesterol then turns into pregnanolone
and DHEA and pregnanolone as it
decreases causes an increase I think
it's a compensatory thing for cortisol
so we get this decrease in DHEA decrease
in pregnanolone decrease in estrogen
decrease in progesterone decrease in
testosterone which we all know affects
um libido as well as muscle physiology
and growth hormone also goes down and
there's another hormone involved that I
want to talk about and that is
melatonin now when we think about
melatonin we think about the sleep
hormone right well there's two types of
melatonin one is to help induce you
going to sleep the other one it's a very
important protector of the mitochondria
which is again in the muscles right and
as far as how much that melatonin
decreases as we age it decreases by like
10 times so when we're young it's very
high when we get older it gets less and
less and less which could explain why we
have a hard time sleeping in the
pituitary there's two hormones that
control the testicle as well as the
ovaries so there's a pathway there and
that would be called lutenizing hormone
and the other one is follicule
stimulating hormone and they're
basically a communication from the
pituitary down to the gonads to tell the
gonads to release its hormones with a
man as we get older okay both of those
hormones
Skyrocket up to like a
th% now what you should know about this
gluing hormone and folus stiming hormone
is that you can suppress it by
increasing
melatonin so melatonin keeps those other
two hormones in check which is a really
good solution but the problem is our
melatonin is crashed by 10 times so how
do we increase it is infrared light just
being outside you're going to be exposed
to infrared over half of the sun's Rays
is infrared and also infrared penetrates
your skull like 2 Ines into the body so
it can help recharge your cells of
melatonin you can also get infared from
sitting in front of your fireplace or to
have uh candles or even um a campfire
what diminishes infrared is artificial
lights LED lights um blue light from all
the cell phone the computer all that
stuff so now let's talk about how to
salvage our muscles as long as possible
okay this is the formula you ready for
this number two resistance exercise okay
regular consistent exercise to take your
muscles and put them against resistance
whether it's weight training or bands or
any type of exercise um you want to
start doing that and keep it implemented
the rest of your life because exercise
is the most potent stimulator of
building muscle muscle synthesis number
three animal protein 8 to
1.2 gram of protein per kilogram of
weight so I weigh 185 pounds uh that
comes out to about 84 kilg okay so I
should be consuming roughly between 67
to 100 g of protein now it can be a
little bit less it could be a little bit
more but you definitely need more
protein because if you're starving
yourself of protein um you're not going
to be able to salvage your muscles a lot
of people are on this OIC medication and
one of the main side effects of that is
severe muscle loss so here you are
losing all this body fat but you're also
losing a lot of muscle protein I'm not
um recommending that as a solution for
losing weight number four make sure you
have enough cholesterol you can get that
from Meats Dairy butter things like that
number five I would recommend taking uh
pregnet alone okay you can get this as a
supplement I would recommend um starting
out with like 30 milligrams uh if you're
male maybe you start off with a 100
there's not many side effects from
taking this but this is like a precursor
that can give give you the raw material
to build these other hormones because
taking these other hormones is a very
complex thing and so you have to know
how much to take and then when you take
these other hormones like testosterone
or estrogen or progesterone that tends
to shut off um your ability to produce
them even more so if you take the
precursor it's a much safer way and I
would also recommend uh taking DHEA if
you're female take 25 milligram if
you're male you can take 100 milligram d
uh also helps you build muscle and it's
a precursor now as far as taking
pregnant alone and taking
DHEA you know I'm not telling you to
take this I mean you can do these other
things but if you notice you have a loss
of muscles okay and you want to do
something to increase them then maybe
take them but I'm not recommending
everyone just get on these these
supplements I think adding the exercise
making sure you have enough cholesterol
making sure you have enough Sun for the
infrared I think that would be
sufficient for most people but as you
get a little bit older and you start
noticing the muscle loss then you might
want to take these other two things now
if you have not seen a very popular
video on this
infrared stimulation of the Melatonin I
put this video up right here check that
out
