so in this video I'm going to answer a
question that someone wanted to know can
Quito actually reverse kidney disease
out of all the things that destroy the
kidney insulin and high sugar is at the
top of the list this is why so many
diabetics are getting kidney disease
high levels of glucose and insulin
create oxidative damage to four tissues
the brain and nerve tissue I'm
considering it as one the heart and
vessels the eye and the kidney the
kidney is very susceptible to oxidative
damage from high blood sugar and high
insulin now there was a very interesting
study that I put a link down below you
can check it out it was done for eight
weeks it was unwise but it showed a
complete reversal of the elbe Yuman
creatine ratio okay
using the ketogenic diet because beta
hydroxy butyrate which is at a ketone
not only can provide an alternative fuel
but it has some real interesting
benefits to the kidney including the big
one which is decreasing oxidative stress
so Kido basically can counter the damage
and destruction from a high carb diet
and in just eight weeks there was a
partial recovery of kidney damage so I'd
be curious to see if they did it longer
what would happen
ketones by itself go beyond just
providing an alternative fuel they
actually have therapeutic benefits as
well there's different levels of damage
to the kidney different stages okay
stage 1 2 3 4 5 which is end-stage renal
failure and in this stage the kidney
which is a filter just could no longer a
filter anymore can't filter the blood so
you're gonna have excessive amounts of
certain nutrients and deficiencies of
other nutrients so if you're at this
stage you need to check with your doctor
because you can't just supplement too
much potassium for example but what I
want to talk about is before you get to
this stage okay I hear this all the time
oh I can't take potassium because it's
dangerous to the kidney
the true data is that potassium can
actually protect the kidney against
damage I'll put some links down below
you can check that out so it's totally
okay to take potassium in we need 4700
milligrams every single day now if
you're doing in a minute fasting okay
you'll need less the requirements go
down because you're recycling and you're
you're becoming more efficient with your
minerals and other nutrients but
potassium is very very beneficial for
the kidney the other problem that people
run into when the kidney becomes damaged
is protein in the body you have a
protein deficiency and you actually end
up filling up with fluid you're getting
edema and taking certain oral amino
acids can slow down the progression of
kidney damage okay so check with your
doctor on that I've put some links down
below for just the research that you can
give your doctor if you need to so if
you really look at what's happening to
the kidney you have all this glucose
this refined carb the sugar the insulin
it's destroying the kidney function but
those complications from that oxidation
occur more when there's not enough
nutrients so it's very very important to
prevent this problem by consuming
nutrient-dense foods
it's the nutrients in the food that
protect against the side effects and the
complications of the oxidation and you
definitely want to be on a low-carb diet
for sure this is very very beneficial
for the kidney itself so ultimately the
goal is to prevent this problem if
you're already at stage 5 work with your
doctor to see what you can eat what you
can't eat but I would try to follow a
healthy keto plan and in a minute
fasting as closely as possible but there
are certain types of foods that you're
gonna have to avoid and realize that you
do not have to avoid potassium if you're
in these earlier stages alright thanks
for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
