so I have a question why are there no
overweight people in Colorado this video
is going to solve that mystery and this
is based on a very interesting book that
presently it's not released yet but I
got an advanced copy by the time you're
watching this it's probably being
released right now so I will put a link
down below but today we're going to
dissect this mystery of why there's no
fat people in Colorado so is it that
they're out exercising all day long
could it be the food they're eating or
maybe they have more money for health
foods and so this question puzzled the
author for
quite some time and so the first thing
he did is he looked at the states where
you had the most obesity and he isolated
those and he found an interesting
correlation between higher
concentrations of black Americans
Latinos and he also looked at the
American Indian reservations and that's
all interesting but it gets even more
interesting when you look at what is
unique about that and there's one thing
that's unique and that has to do with
the pigment on someone's skin it's
called melanin and melanin happens to be
a natural sunblocker in other words the
darker your skin the more protection you
have against UV radiation now what does
UV radiation have to do with obesity
well UV radiation interacts with your
skin and it makes vitamin D and it is
true that if you look at the levels of
vitamin D vitamin D levels are low in
certain populations and so that's very
interesting but is there any other data
that aligns with this connection between
vitamin D
deficiency and obesity there's a direct
relationship in fact and I'm going to
put the paper down below and I don't
know if this is a recent discovery or
it's been out for a long time and no one
really saw it but vitamin D directly
regulates the oxidation of the fat
burning process in your adapost tissue
and so vitamin D increases the
expression of the release of fat from
your fat cells vitamin D is also
intimately involved in insulin in other
words a vitamin D deficiency can be
something that causes insulin resistance
and if you have enough vitamin D it can
greatly help you um in your sensitivity
with insulin because insulin has a main
function of fat storage and this also
kind of correlates to in the winter
months right when we don't get enough
Sun we don't get enough vitamin D we
have more fat storage and then in the
spring and the summer uh people tend to
lose more weight they come out of
hibernation right could that be related
to vitamin D well I think so women that
are pregnant that are low in vitamin D
these children later on in life when
they become adults tend to be more
overweight and on the obese side and
then being overweight in general tends
to dilute vitamin D in other words the
more weight that you gain
the more vitamin D you're going to need
because a lot of this vitamin D is
absorbed in the fat cells and so there's
a very strong link between vitamin D and
your fat cell that I didn't even realize
until reading this book I mean even look
at the risk factor for metabolic
syndrome okay there's always a vitamin D
deficiency what is metabolic syndrome
It's a combination of high glucose then
you have high cholesterol you have high
blood pressure you have abdominal fat
every single one of those symptoms
including insulin resistance relates to
low vitamin D levels and this also could
explain that when someone has high blood
pressure and they take vitamin D their
blood pressure tends to go lower all
right getting back to the geography of
United States if you take a look at uh
the states that have more elderly people
they are more overweight and we do know
that the age of your skin has a lot to
do with the absorption of vitamin D as
well and so that's another little piece
of the puzzle that aligns to this idea
if you look at the trends of obesity
there's also this big spike of obesity
in the United States that goes up
roughly around
1980 and the author points out another
interesting observation in the early 80s
this is when the experts or science
started to tell people to stay out of
the sun to start using sunblock both of
these actions will block your vitamin D
I was born in 1965 through the 70s I was
a kid and uh I did not observe a lot of
overweight people in my school growing
up and we were outside all day long we
were not afraid of the sun yet we were
consuming a massive amount of sugar and
carbohydrates but I do know like in the
' 80s and the '90s you started seeing
more and more people that were
overweight could it be this vitamin D
connection well it just so happens that
Colorado has the highest elevation of
any state in United States so so this
means you're going to get a lot more
ultraviolet radiation and you're going
to get a lot more vitamin D you're going
to get way more exposure like three to
five times more if you're higher up
closer to the Sun than if even if you're
laying on the beach at sea level and so
if you're born in Colorado and you're
living in Colorado and you have this
chronic exposure to more sun and more
vitamin D it's going to greatly affect
your expression of how you burn fat and
I think the key word is chronic exposure
right it's the it's how long someone's
exposed to the Sun or uh getting vitamin
D and in relationship to uh what happens
to the metabolism I mean just as another
side note I had a patient in practice
who had this huge belly and every time
he went down to Florida and got a lot of
sun he came back I swear it it was like
it was flat and he didn't change his
diet by the way and he came back and I'm
like wow that's amazing but you also
have the latitude the the further your
way from the equator the less UV you're
going to get as well now what about in
the Appalachian Mountains you have white
people who don't have a lot of melanin
but they're obese they have a much
higher um rate of obesity and they're in
the mountains now what's interesting
about these people living in the
Appalachian Mountains is they're not
necessarily living on the peak they're
living in The Valleys it's definitely
not as high and there's a lot of
shadowing of these mountains so they're
living in the shadows of the mountains
which would not give them more vitamin D
like even vitamin D and how it affects
your sleep cycles if you're deficient in
vitamin D you don't get enough vitamin D
your sleep cycles are not going to be as
great in fact if you have jet leg for
example and you take vitamin D it's one
of the best remedies it'll just kind of
reset that circadian rhythm and then you
have sleep apnea which is usually always
a vitamin D the deficiency when you give
people with sleep apnea vitamin D they
they tend to not snore as much they tend
to sleep better and then you have this
connection between vitamin D and stress
and cortisol cortisol stress in general
lowers vitamin D but when you take
vitamin D you can also help lower
cortisol which is a stress hormone which
can also make you gain weight and this
cortisol stress hormone can also create
insulin resistance right and so if
someone is vitamin D deficient and they
get more
inflammation inflammation can directly
cause insulin resistance as well which
is behind obesity and then when you dive
into the data of how Vitamin D affects
your mitochondria if you don't have
enough vitamin D you get a lot of
oxidative stress the mitochondria
doesn't work as well and the
mitochondria is the energy Factory that
is behind your metabolism so this is
just one of many of the Mysteries that
this author talks about so I'm going to
put the link down below for the book if
you wanted to check it out thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
video
