how to tighten and flatten your stomach
with just one move and we're not talking
about sit-ups everyone knows this as a
fact you must absolutely make sure that
the calories you're putting in your body
do not exceed what you're expending or
using and that way if we create a
deficit then this is naturally going to
ride right into a loss of weight let's
just take a look at this and that's
fundamentally how you lose body fat by
creating a calorie deficit the only true
requirement is that you maintain a
calorie deficit this puts you in an
overall calorie deficit if you're having
a hard time reaching a caloric deficit
but how to stay in a calorie deficit
every time I would ask an older
individual who was overweight that
wanted to lose weight when did your
stubborn metabolism start it was usually
in their late 20s or early 30s after a
series of calorie restrictive diets and
it is a theory it's not a fact I mean
we've tried this for decades and it just
has not worked here's the missing piece
of the puzzle that you really need to
understand our bodies are not as simple
as a car where you have inputs and
outputs we have What's called the
endocrine system and this system causes
our body to adapt within its environment
and so what the body is going to do when
you lower your calories is it's going to
adjust it's going to become more
efficient which you may feel that it's a
bit slow it can run further on the same
amount of fuel as before the other
problem with lowering your calories is
that now we increase the Battle of
hunger cravings and now it's going to be
even harder because you're going to have
to increase your willpower to stick to
it so is this whole calorie deficit
model sustainable no it's not I want to
bring up one book right here it's called
gens physiology and I want to show you
two quotes out of the book page
927 right here let's take a look at this
all aspects of fat metabolism are
greatly enhanced in the absence of
insulin then we have page
822 says right here when carbohydrates
are not utilized for energy almost all
of the energy of the body must come from
the metabolism of fats I really think
people who are stuck in this outdated
model of calorie deficit just don't
understand insulin and unfortunately you
know when you're taking classes whether
you're studying guidance physiology
maybe in school they're not going to
really emphasize that point to really
understand this you're going to have to
really dive into it and and study it
after you graduate because it's not
really taught insulin is the hormone
that controls whether you burn fat or
not if you reduce insulin your body can
then tap into your own fat for energy
and the thing that triggers insulin is
carbohydrates if we look at the three
parts of food we have
carbohydrates protein and fat it's the
car carbohydrates that stimulate insulin
in the mouse fat actually is neutral
protein has a moderate effect on insulin
but it doesn't even compare to
carbohydrates this right there tells us
you cannot treat all three of these
equally all calories are not the same it
is important to talk about the quality
or the type of calorie we're talking
about and if we really want to lose
weight we must lower insulin to do that
we must lower our carbohydrate calorie
what's interesting about lowering our
carbo hydrate calorie and lowering
insulin our body needs to get fuel where
is it going to get the fuel when you are
eating you're getting your energy from
your food when you're not eating where
are you getting your energy from are you
getting it from fat if you're living on
a higher carbohydrate diet it's very
unlikely you're going to be able to tap
in too much fat if you can lower your
carbs your body can then finally tap
into your own fat let's say for example
you're living on 1,500 calories with the
low carb diet
you're also in addition to those 1500
calories using a good amount of fat
calories it could be I don't know 500 or
more maybe 700 800 additional calories
that we can put in the pool for energy
part of it diet part of it's your own
fat and so guess what's so cool about
that your hunger goes away you're no
longer craving carbs between meals why
your body is eating your own fat between
the meal if you don't lower insulin your
body's not not going to eat your own fat
but if you do lower insulin with a low
carb then the body will eat your own fat
as fuel we can make it easy in yourself
not have any Cravings or hunger while
you're doing your weight loss program or
you can cut your calories and the cool
thing about the ketogenic diet which is
the low carb diet is that a lot of the
energy that your body is running off of
is not from the diet it's from your own
body fat and I think one argument that
some people bring up
is yes doing low carb it's going to help
you but then also when you do fasting
you're naturally lowering your calories
and some people will say the reason why
the ketogenic diet helps you lose weight
is you're eating less calories because
it's all about calories if that's true
then how do you explain that when you go
on a ketogenic diet and you do
intermittent fasting and yes you might
be eating less calories you don't crave
anything we compare that to you just
cutting your calories and not your
carbohydrates you're going to be craving
all day long if your body is getting
enough fuel there's no reason to slow
down the metabolism because your body's
getting all the energy it needs this is
the purpose of fat to be able to survive
between meals you want to think about
your fat is a biological Pantry that
you're tapping into so you don't have to
tap into your actual Pantry this does
work and I have 8,000 people to prove it
check this out on my website the other
little point on this is that fat
provides more than double the energy
than glucose provides it's very
important to tap into fat to use that as
a nice sustainable amount of energy for
your body the key to this whole thing is
turning insulin way down I am almost to
the exercise I'm going to show you to
tighten and tone the midsection but I
wanted just to kind of mention just one
thing it takes about two to three days
to get into the state of ketosis so it's
not that long but it does take 2 to
three weeks to fully get into hardcore
fat adaptation and I want to explain the
difference fat adaptation is when your
body is burning the most fat possible
and your body can burn ketones but it
can also burn fat that's actually two
different sources of fuel if we look at
carbohydrates proteins and fats
carbohydrates should be about 5% of the
diet the protein should be about 20 %
and the rest should be the fat inside
your abdomen you may have what's called
visceral fat and that is going to come
off with the diet that I just mentioned
you also have the superficial layer of
fat which is also like a spillover from
the other fat that is being backed up
into the organs deeper in there you have
a layer of fascia this fascia is like a
gel-like connective tissue and it can
atrophy if you don't use it and that
atrophy can look like a a flabby stomach
what I'm going to show you is one of the
best exercises that is not a situp that
is going to tone and tighten this area
around your abdomen to get rid of that
flabby stomach and almost act like a
girdle that's keeping everything nice
and tight and toned all we're going to
do is this one exercise called it's a
funny name the dead bug and it's called
a dead bug because it looks like a dead
bug upside down trying to flip over and
I'm going to recommend you do this
alternating your leg and your arm when
you reach back you see this will give
the optimum tension in the middle
section to stimulate the fascia and the
muscles to get really nice and tone
versus if you did situps or crunches the
problem with that is you're going to
activate the deeper muscles called the
soas which are the hip flexors and that
is going to event cause your back to be
out of balance but here's how you do it
right here today's exercise tutorial is
the dead bug dead bugs are great for
helping to control front to back pelvic
tilting and it's also a good abdominal
exercise that improves coordination and
it generally makes you long and straight
um one of the the secondary functions is
to help you control rotation in the hips
so to get started you're going to lay
down on your
back we lay down on our back with our
knees over our hips our hips knees and
ankles are bent at 90Â° angles our back
our lower back is flat on the ground so
that I cannot slide my hand underneath
my back right so it's by controlling
this pelvic tilting we control the arch
in our lower back use your abdominals
your arms are straight up pointing at
the ceiling from this position fully
extend your left leg your toes remain
pointing at the ceiling your lower back
remains in contact with the ground reset
to the start position and then you can
switch sides or finish your set on the
same side to vary this exercise we can
move our arms and legs at the same time
we can go same
side or we can go opposite
side again the key is to keep your lower
back in contact with the ground and to
only move those Limbs and those parts of
our body that we want to move the lower
back stays in contact with the ground do
this exercise every single day and
within one or two weeks you're going to
start to see some amazing results if you
want details on how to do the diet I put
that video up right here check it out
