hey guys in this video I want to bring
up a question what is worse having high
insulin or having high glucose type down
below what you think is worse okay let's
just talk about it so the first thing to
occur in the chain of events is high
insulin okay then a person develops
insulin resistance which is pre-diabetes
then eventually they'll develop
hyperglycemia which is high sugar hyper
glycaemia is high amounts of sugar which
is now diagnosed as diabetes but in this
process right here if their adrenals are
weak okay they can actually develop
hypoglycemia because the high amounts of
insulin is driving down the sugar and
the body doesn't have the kind of the
buffering the neutralization of the low
blood sugar like the adrenals supposed
to release sugar and the liver to kind
of stabilize the blood sugar so if
there's problems with the adrenal the
person will first have hypoglycemic low
blood sugar symptoms before they get
hyperglycemia a high sugar so high
amounts of insulin has direct side
effects which we're going to talk about
an indirect side effects depending
what's happening with hypoglycemia or
hyperglycemia okay so the direct side
effects from having high amounts of
insulin be cardiac hypertrophy where the
cells of the heart actually get bigger
like in cardiomegaly where the heart
doesn't fit into the chest cabin anymore
that creates a lot of problems with the
with the vessels and the valves and the
the actual work of the heart and the
function of the heart thrombus which is
a clot so when you have too much insulin
it really targets the large arteries to
the heart especially the wall of the
heart and it makes it stiff it actually
creates lesions it creates problems with
plaquing creates obstruction and
eventually will develop a clot it can
actually turn to a stroke or just have a
heart attack so high insulin is behind
most all inflammatory conditions turns
into diabetes causing the fatty liver
makes you fat and obesity causes the
cancer I'm going to put some links down
below
Alzheimer's because it affects the
dimension and plaquing of the brain
amyloid plaque II metabolic syndrome
which is a combination of some of these
we just talked about the ret now that's
the I nerve damage and kidney damage
other than that it's totally fine now
when you have diabetes type 1 which you
don't produce insulin anymore so
diabetics type 1 still have high insulin
because they're being given insulin
through an injection the ultimate goal
would be to decrease the amount of
insulin that your body uses so if you're
diabetic and you're on medication the
goal would be to take the least amount
possible if you're not a diabetic
is to eliminate the foods that are
triggering insulin so I put a link down
below exactly how to do that thanks for
watching
press the subscribe button forgot the
last part and I'm going to see you next
time am I gonna I will press up and yeah
you'll get future updates that's right
updates I knew there was a word what's
the last part what should I say how
about I'm not sure press the subscribe
button and I will keep you updated on
the future events
