hey Dr Berg here today we're going to
talk about how to increase your exercise
by
450% the best exercise to do that is
called interval training so I'm going to
show you how to do it it increases a
hormone called growth hormone that's the
anti-aging so if you want to be younger
um I'm 25 actually no I'm not um I'm
four years away from 50 you should do
this cuz this is what I do we're going
to start off very very small on a little
baby gradi and work our way up but
something is better than nothing the
only time you wouldn't want to do this
is if you had knee pain or severe back
pain but you might want to just start
and the way it works it's high intensity
short little things with lots of rest
okay so if you could see if you want to
go back there and see me we got a little
stair step if you have a stairs you can
put your hands on the stair and you're
going to go on your
toes and you're going to hop up like
this and hop down okay I mean this is
very stable hop up and hop down it's
very very um light so we're just going
to go up down up down up down and you're
going to do that until you're a bit a
little bit tired it might be 20 times it
might be 30 but you want to practice
with your hands on a rail and just hop
up and hop down getting you used to
doing the exercise so I don't even care
if you do it for 15 seconds as long as
you rest in between maybe a minute or 2
minutes that's what I want you to start
out on okay so as you can hear it's
thundering out so we have to hurry up
and do this video but we're going to
take it up for those of you that already
are a little bit more in shape I'm going
to show you how to do it to a higher
level intensity so let's go ahead and
come with me I'm going to show you
something so if you're actually uh in
shape and you're doing this you could
actually get a platform about this big
or a little bit bigger than the stairs
um and it's real simple you're just
going to hop on the sink hop down and
what I want you to do is when I have you
hop relax relax your body explode relax
come
down all right now we have the bigger
jump stump right here it's right here
and uh you're going to work up to this
don't do this right off the bat but
you're going to basically do
this
[Music]
expad
land come
down okay so you're going to do
that probably about 20 times rest and
back and forth okay so those of you that
are even higher we're going to go to the
next level let's go over this way okay
so then you can start increasing the
size
up to here increase the
gradient so we can do it like
[Music]
this trying to get explosive
[Music]
movements until you can't walk that's
vable training short explosive High
intense work workouts increase growth
hormone burn fat get
younger and that's
it when you get more daring you can kind
of go a little bit higher and this is
how you do
[Music]
it okay so when you get even more daring
you can actually do the house okay so
let me show you how to do
that
[Music]
oh
