so today we're gonna talk about why you
may have cold feet okay so the first one
is a hypothyroid condition because the
thyroid controls metabolism so with
metabolism everything is slowed down
even the temperature slow down and
you'll notice it in your feet in your
hands and your whole whole body will be
cold not even necessarily the feet but
it could definitely be the feet so if
this is the case you have to find the
cause of it because if you have an
autoimmune condition for the thyroid
that it's a different handling and I'm
gonna put a link down below of the
different types of thyroid issues and
what you would do for each one but this
is one of the causes all right number
two low blood pressure why because
there's less blood flowing through your
body and there's less oxygen and less
nutrients so if this is the case you may
just need some salt okay especially if
you notice you just started the keto
program and you're noticing wow my feet
are cold well check your blood pressure
if it's low it could be the reason so
you just add some salt that increases
more volume because you have to also
drink more water with that so you have
more volume the fluid because when you
do a keto diet you release a lot of
fluid because all that carbohydrate
retains fluid and sometimes you could
end up with low blood pressure which is
not a bad thing but you just need to add
some salt and some fluids so you can
then increase the volume of fluid going
through your body and you'll notice that
a none improvement in the cold feet
there's other reasons for this too but
it's if it's date coincidence with you
doing keto then we know you just need
more salt
very simple number 3 diabetes poor
circulation high levels of sugar start
destroying your proteins and create all
sorts of sticky proteins that block
blood flow into the feet and the hands
and that can start creating this symptom
of course if you're on keto and then
fasting this should improve okay all
right number four keto transition when
you're doing the keto and especially in
a minute fasting you may have some cold
feet for a short period of time
why because you're getting a metabolic
shift and actually the thyroid is still
trying to adapt to that so it may take a
little bit of time for the thyroid to
adapt to in a minute fasting and to the
point where this cold goes away
all right number five you're anemic well
there's many different types of anemia
two types one would be b12 deficiency
and an iron deficiency but I never
recommend just taking iron as a
supplement you want to get it from food
grass-fed liver would be a good thing to
take to handle both the iron and b12 and
but the point is you want to find out
why you're anemic in the first place
because is it just that you're not
eating these foods or could you have a
problem with your digestive system let's
say for example you don't have enough
stomach acid well that right there could
be the reason why you can't absorb iron
or you have a problem with b12 or let's
say you're menstruating and you're
losing blood well in that case you just
need to have some you know grass-fed
liver and that should handle it right
there if you don't like liver you can
actually do rare meat that would
actually handle it as well anyways I
wanted to create a video of the five
reasons why you may have cold feet
thanks for watching so I want to thank
you for being here and watching my
videos if you haven't already subscribed
go ahead and do so so you can stay
informed of future videos
