today we're going to talk about the
number one vitamin that controls your
mental health thinking is a good thing
right I mean that's a very positive
thing but overthinking especially too
long especially when you're trying to go
to bed at night can prevent you from
sleeping when your thoughts dominate
your mind and you can't turn it off
because you're solving the problems of
the world it becomes a problem which
will also then trigger cortisol which is
more stress thinking about stress will
activate your physical hormones that
will put your body into a stress state
so the question is are the hormones
causing you to do that or is it your
mind causing the hormones to be
activated well I think both can affect
each other but a lot of times people are
stuck in this Loop thinking and thinking
they're very very focused on a certain
problem or a certain thought that they
can't seem to unfix their attention off
that one thing and they end up uh you
know looking at different scenarios uh
different ways of solving something
speculating sometimes creating stress
that's not even there which in itself is
like the definition of a problem it's an
unresolved thing and then you get into
this uh paralysis of analysis another
name for that is you're just stuck in
your head the reason I'm bringing this
up is that that would be the definition
of anxiety worry feeling nervous and I
want to talk about the nutritional
imbalance involved in this there's a
major deficiency of a certain nutrient
that can cause you to obsessively think
and kind of be too stuck in your head
and unfortunately the one of the ways
people address this is they're put on
usually in SSRI that's a fancy name for
a drug that blocks the reabsorption of
Serotonin so it basically kind of keeps
the serotonin you have in your body so
it doesn't go away but it comes with a
big package and the package is a lot of
side effects as well as the downgrade of
the receptor for serotonin so now you're
extremely deficient in serotonin where
before you were deficient but now it's
like extremely low and one of the big
symptoms of low serotonin is this
obsessive solving problems and thinking
all the time with the inability to unfix
your mind about a certain problem of
course with this medication oh wow it
affects your other neurotransmitters too
like dopamine one of the big side
effects from ssris it's called SSRI
Zombie Syndrome because you lose your
emotions you feel numb to the world you
start to lose Lo your ability to get any
pleasure from sex now if you've been on
this medication and you have that side
effect I do have a solution I'm going to
talk about but I just wanted to mention
if you're thinking about taking this
medication you have to be very aware of
the terrible side effects that come
along with it so that particular symptom
is a very severe deficiency of Serotonin
and dopamine and so what big farm has
done is theyve had a whole bunch of
other medications that manipulate other
neurotransmitters in certain ways so
there's several things things that
decrease serotonin drugs chronic stress
junk food the lack of sun can also
create lowered amounts of dopamine but
the big thing that will deplete your
dopamine is not having enough vitamin D
of course vitamin D comes from the sun
this is why during the winter months so
many people get the blues because of a
lack of vitamin D but now you know why
because vitamin D helps serotonin to
work and so if you're really defici
vitamin D you're not only going to get
anxiety it's going to drop down to
depression as well in fact there's an
interesting study that shows that
vitamin D will create the exact same
effects as a medication for depression
but of course without the side effects
and what's missing in this mysterious
puzzle is having all the microbiome
because if you take an antibiotic and
all of a sudden you get depressed now
you know why because there are certain
microbes that help increase serotonin
way more than others and those microbes
are very sensitive to do broad spectrum
antibiotics and a lot of times they'll
kill them off and they never come back
and now this person is stuck in the
state of stress and they don't even
realize they don't connect the dots
instead they go for the medication and
that makes it worse so there's two
things I'm going to highly recommend you
need to get on vitamin D immediately and
I'm not talking about a small amount I'm
talking about at least 10,000 or more of
vitamin D3 every single day but there's
something else that's equally as
important making sure that you have the
right microbiome especially the ones
that are involved in serotonin and the
microb that affects serotonin the most
out of all the other ones that's
virtually non-existent in 96% of the
population because of an antibiotic they
had long ago is called el rudai before
you take El rudai I'm going to recommend
that you not take it as a probiotic I
recommend instead you take that microbe
from a supplement and you make your own
probiotic that will allow you to get the
concentrations you're going to need to
really fix this problem because this
microb not only helps you with anxiety
but it will also increase oxytocin that
will greatly help reduce cortisol and
this is the antidote to what we talked
about before if you were on an SSRI and
now you're pretty much flatlined you
don't experience pleasure anymore you
can reestablish those feelings consuming
it in a a yogurt like form over a period
of time and I have this information in
other videos because it's so important
and if you haven't seen this video it'll
show you how to make that culture with
that micro and I'll put it up right here
and I will also put it down in the
description
