all right what are the seven signs that
you're not drinking enough water now
I've done other videos on the dangers of
drinking too much water but there is
such a thing as dehydration as well so
yes you need to drink when you're
thirsty but there are other indications
that tell you that you need to drink a
little bit more okay if you are a stone
former or you're the history of kidney
stones you need to drink a little more
water because it's the concentration
it's a super concentration of that urine
with the Ox let's okay and the calcium
all together that form the stone if you
have more fluid in there that would
decrease the risk of getting this Jones
number to low blood pressure especially
on keto because with keto you lower your
carbs you get rid of all the excess
fluid and sometimes people don't consume
enough salt and the volume the fluid
goes down so they might end up with low
blood pressure and get number seven
lightheadedness okay so you always want
to if you get lightheadedness just check
your blood pressure and then just drink
more water and more salt very simple I
see this too with people that consume
too much potassium without the sodium
that can deplete the water as a diuretic
and then if you don't have enough sodium
sodium is a thing that helps you retain
the fluid so you do need about a
thousand milligrams of sodium per day as
a requirement if your urine is really
dark you see this on keto as well you
don't want your urine completely clear
you want it like a straw color but you
don't want it super dark so this is a
really good a good way to know if you're
drinking enough water number four the
skin pinch test I did a video on this
I'll put it down below it's real simple
you just basically pinch your skin and
see how fast it comes back okay the
elasticity someone who's dehydrated you
print pinch it and it just stays there
for a period of time so you wanted to
come back within seconds okay all right
dry sticky mouth it could mean you're
dehydrated number six you're constipated
after you consume vegetables what's
interesting what I can
assume I salad I get really thirsty why
is that it is simply that these
vegetables have fibers that retain fluid
okay
and if you don't consume enough water
potentially it could be constipating
because you might not have the same
ability for that fiber to form into the
gel that's supposed to form into and I
already mentioned this which is
connected to low blood pressure alright
guys so in summary you do want to pay
attention to your thirst but these are
some other indicators that may mean that
you need a little bit more water thanks
for watching hey guys real quick I have
a new healthy keto eating plan for you
just go to dr. Berg comm it's right on
the front page I put a link down below
download it it's free check it out
