so in this video we're going to discuss
unresolved low back pain so I have two
videos down below that show you how to
get rid of low back pain if it's coming
from your lower back but in other
situations it's being referred by
something else and that's what this
video is about but if you haven't seen
my other videos then you need to watch
those first because it could be a matter
of doing those techniques and you might
not need to look at other other causes
of your blow back pain but let's just
kind of go through this number one
kidney stones usually will occur on one
side like a quadrant on your lower back
on the right side or the left a little
bit higher up and that potentially could
be the kidney stone that can happen if
you're consuming a lot of spinach and
nuts and not enough lemon juice so one
of the great remedies for a kidney stone
whether it's oxalate stones or uric acid
stones it's something called
hydroxycitric you can look this up I
don't have a brand that I recommend but
this is a very powerful compound that
helps dissolve stones from a completely
different angle I believe it's more
effective than potassium citrate and
also to prevent stones lemon juice is
really really important apple cider
vinegar in your water is another good
remedy that you can consume on a regular
basis
number two endometriosis which is an
extra tissue that's growing in the
abdomen and there's higher levels of
estrogen involved or fibroids which is a
higher estrogen situation estrogen
dominance ovarian cysts which again it's
higher levels of estrogen or polycystic
ovarian syndrome and this is higher
levels of androgens but if you have any
of these conditions it can definitely
refer pain to the lower back in which
case you want to can up your cruciferous
vegetables because this will help
balance your estrogen no dairy that
includes yogurt kefir cheese milk cream
half-and-half increase seek help that
helps regulate estrogen and definitely
start learning and applying intermittent
fasting very important and on top of
that I'm going to put up a video down
below for PCOS but you want to do low
carb
higher levels of carb will increase more
insulin which will increase more antigen
so balls on - you got it healthy keto
okay number three enlarged prostate
gland of course do you the usual things
that I'm recommending if you're new to
my channel click the link below to learn
about my basic eating plan but this one
you just want to make sure you avoid
dairy okay very very important okay
number four repetitive exercises so if
you're doing repeated motions over and
over and over again so let's say you're
a golfer and you're just doing this one
motion over time that's gonna throw your
back off and you're probably your
shoulders but probably more your back so
you're gonna have to reverse that motion
over and over until you can balance it
out but if you're a biker for example
that's a very specific action over and
over and over so you're gonna build up
your so ass your quads and your glutes
and those muscles built up are going to
throw off the lower back muscles create
an imbalance and cause low back pain and
I'll do a separate video on this very
soon because I think that's an important
one I think there's a lot of bikers out
there and they have low back pain and
they don't realize that they're throwing
their body into an imbalance state
alright number five sitting if you're
sitting behind the computer all day long
watching YouTube videos which is very
addictive you're gonna need to get a
foam roller and put it in your back to
start creating that arch because when
you're sitting you're losing that lower
back arch I will put a video down below
to reestablish the curve in your lower
back if you do a lot of sitting and that
will save your lower back alright there
you have it these are all the other
reasons why your low back pain might not
be going away
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
