now there are several really interesting
facts about sugar that you probably
never heard about before and so I want
to Dive Right In and explain these to
you now the make or break amount of
carbohydrate to get into ketosis is
roughly around 50 grams per car per day
now that's a rough estimate it could be
a little bit more could be a little bit
less depending on your metabolism but
what does this mean 50 grams of
carbohydrate is it 50 grams of sugar is
it 50 grams of net carbs which is
basically the total carbs minus fiber or
is it just 50 grams of total
carbohydrates it's a bit confusing for
people so from my viewpoint it should be
50 grams of net carbs so you'd minus the
fiber but there's a huge difference
between consuming 50 grams of sugar okay
carb or just 50 grams of just net carbs
in general but of course you might have
this question like if it's not sugar and
it's not fiber what type of carb is it
and the answer for that is a starch and
a starch is just a series of sugar
molecules connected together but if we
look at 50 grams of carbohydrates from
sugar
that would be equivalent to a 12
ounce soda specifically the orange soda
that has like roughly about 49 to 50
grams of pure sugar right that's the
carbohydrate that's in that now if we
compare that to 50 grams of net carbs
from vegetables Like Salad carbohydrates
it's a little bit more than 12 ounces
it's actually 42 cups of salad which is
3125 grams so when you're going on keto
when someone says 50 grams of carbs and
you're going to get this from Orange
Soda it's going to go in there very very
fast and Spike your blood sugars and
it's going to definitely create a dent
into your ability to get results versus
if you have this other thing which has
so much fiber it goes into your body
very slowly breaks down
you're going to get into ketosis much
better so it's not just 50 grams of net
carb it is the quality of carb and this
is why I don't even recommend counting
vegetables as your carb especially
salads the next thing I want to talk
about is when you consume sugar okay
it's going to elevate your blood sugars
but when you check your blood sugars
what type of sugar are they measuring
because most sugars really come at kind
of a ratio of a 50 50 split from glucose
and fructose
so that would be table sugar beet sugar
honey that would be coconut sugar the
sugar and fruit but it's roughly like a
50 50 split between glucose and fructose
now when you get your blood sugars
checked they're going to look just at
the glucose right because fructose
doesn't really increase the blood sugars
by that much maybe a small percentage
it's mainly the glucose so when you
consume like a hundred grams of table
sugar
only half of that is going to end up as
raising your blood sugars the other half
goes right to your liver and we're
talking about fructose and on the
glycemic index which is an index of how
fast glucose kind of raises your blood
sugars fructose is very very low okay
and glucose is 100 it's very very high
and when you combine these two as table
sugar or even honey or other sugars even
high fructose corn syrup that fructose
is going to bring it down on the
glycemic index simply because it's not
going to end up in your blood sugars you
might think wow fructose is not going to
end up in my blood sugars that's a good
thing I should consume more fructose
but here's what you might not realize
the only organ that can really deal with
this fructose is the liver
and the liver considers fructose almost
identical as alcohol in several aspects
number one in turning the liver into fat
in producing triglycerides and
bad cholesterol and I'm talking about
the small dense LDL particle size and
the consequences of fructose as far as
free radical damage and inflammation to
the liver and when that occurs you start
developing insulin resistance and that
can even turn into diabetes way more
than glucose okay so that's interesting
so even though fructose doesn't raise
your blood sugars it creates other
issues now there's also an additional
sugar
called the Gava nectar which is not a 50
50 split of fructose and glucose it's
like an 80 20 split eighty percent of it
being fructose and 20 being glucose so
agave nectar has the most fructose of
anything out there more than high
fructose corn syrup and so what does
that mean it means that it creates more
liver problems than other types of sugar
even though they'll claim that it's good
on your blood sugars well now you know
why now if you look at the sugar
association website okay
they talk about the benefits of sugar
they talk about sugar is not that bad
they talk about the sugar molecule in
fruits and Natural Foods being identical
to sweets and refined sugar it
Etc so most of the sugar that's used in
the U.S is from beets I think it's like
90 percent of course it's genetically
modified unfortunately so there's
traces of glyphosate but the way that
they turn beets to sugar is not as
simple as they might say on their
website like a three-step simple process
where they're just like oh yeah we're
just processing these sugar in a few
simple steps right it goes through some
major steps the production of B trigger
starts with washing and slicing the
sugar beets into little pieces and then
it passes through a diffusion Tower it's
separated by extraction with an addition
of hot water into the juice and the Beet
pulp the pulp which is rich in nutrients
is dewatered and filtered so they
basically take all the nutrients out and
then that beet pulp is commonly fed to
cattle and then it goes through a liming
process where they're adding lime and it
goes through a demineralization process
to remove minerals proteins pectins
salts in the coloring agents and then it
goes through several other steps to form
these crystals so as you can see it's a
huge refining process and the end
product of that sugar glucose is not the
same as the sugar that you would get
from vegetables and fruits because it's
refined it's been processed you're
taking all these things out of this
natural product and you're refining it
and you have to realize that it's all
these other things like the nutrients
and the phytonutrients
that are going to protect you from that
sugar and that fructose sugar on your
liver and your cells the antioxidants
protect you against all this free
radical damage in your cells so it might
sound like it's the same thing but it's
not it's not the same thing because
you're consuming this isolated molecule
from a complex food and in large amounts
our bodies uh were not designed to
consume the quantities of sweets long
ago maybe we got some honey occasionally
if we're lucky and then also we were
able to get some fruit off the tree but
not near
of the sweetness that fruits are grown
now and in the past they would always be
seasonal it wouldn't be all year round
so it's very very unnatural for our
bodies to consume fruit and honey and
sweeteners every day of the year but it
was a survival mechanism because sugar
converts into fats fairly quickly if you
eat a large amount of it and that fat is
a survival mechanism due to the extra
fat that we would gain on our
midsections now people don't look at
people that are overweight as them
surviving better but in the past the
people that had extra weight survived
longer than the skinny people so that
was a really positive survival thing
that doesn't really correlate to
nowadays this is why our bodies love
sweet Foods because there's pleasure
involved because of the survival aspect
the problem is now it's not a survival
thing it's an anti-survival thing and so
a little bit of Honey a little a little
bit of fruit might be okay but not at
the amounts that we're doing nowadays
the other interesting thing about
glucose is that the chemistry is very
similar to vitamin C you might have not
known that before either
which means that they're competitive to
a certain degree if you're consuming
sugar
your body will not absorb the vitamin C
at the same time so if given the choice
the body will take the sugar over the
vitamin C and one really good way to
know if you're deficient in vitamin C is
that if you have like spongy gums or
gums around your teeth are bleeding when
you brush your teeth that's like a a
mild version of scurvy because we need
Vitamin C for the capillary strength
because the the collagen in the
capillaries and you have these gums that
are just rich in these capillary beds
now if you want some really good ideas
for alternatives to Sugar you should
probably watch this video right here
