hey guys I wanted to create a short
video uh do a product review on a very
interesting product called the
gallbladder formula product if you can
see that there gallbladder formula it's
interesting because of how common people
have problems with a gallbladder and
they don't even know it uh first of all
if they start a ketogenic diet Which is
higher in fat they need this to absorb a
lot of the fats because if you notice as
you get older the vision gets worse the
skin gets bad the liver gets bad that's
mainly to do with the lack absorption of
the fat cable vitamins like vitamin A is
necessary for the vision well a lot of
times when the liver gets all messed up
and gunked up you can't start Ping in
these fat cyal vitamins Vitamin E for
the heart for the skin vitamin A for the
eyes so this product has something
called purified bile salts okay bile is
something made by the liver and it works
with the gallbladder and if you don't
have a gallbladder you you're not going
to have enough bile so you're going to
need some of this as well but bile helps
emulsify and break down fats it helps
you absorb fatty acids omega-3 fatty
acids all the cells have fatty acids
around them the brain has fatty acids uh
it helps you absorb fat Cy vitamins
vitamin A d e and K and K1 k too which
actually removes a lot of the calcium
tissue soft tissue calcium that builds
up in the different parts of the body
making people stiff so it's really good
for a lot of different things um even
fibrosis of the liver that scar tissue
that's even therosis it bile helps break
that down now I'm not going to say that
this is going to cure any of that but
with the proper eating I think it can
help support a healthy liver and a
healthy Gall butter but so purified bile
salts are essential for U breaking down
fats and helping you get the benefit of
those fats helps lubricate the colon to
prevent constipation it helps detoxify
the gallbladder um it also has Stone
Root Stone root prevents and helps you
break down gall stones so that's a cool
benefit also I put in there ban Hyder
chloride now what is that that is an
acidifier it's in another product I have
called obsid of vinegar
plus which has combination of Alid of
vinegar powder and Bane hydrocloride but
this also has some in there as well so
that actually helps stimulate the
stomach to digest protein it helps
stimulate the liver to make more bile
helps break down proteins it helps you
absorb minerals so that does a lot and
then we put pancreatin in there that's a
bunch of enzymes for the pancreas
because what happens is bio helps break
down fats to a certain level but then
the pancreas has to do the rest of the
work with its uh enzymes like lipase to
break it down to the smallest particle
so your body can really assimilate it so
some people might have a good Gall blood
but they don't have a good pancreas so
if you have a history of blood sugar
blood sugar issues or diabetes chances
are you probably don't have the full
capacity of that pancreas to digest so I
wanted to create something that handles
the gallbladder the liver the stomach
and the pancreas all at one but with
emphasis on the gallbladder so a lot of
people feel better when they take it not
just from bloating but from a lot of
other health benefits even skin so banic
chloride is in there also um pancreatin
in there that's enzyme slippery elm bark
is a it's a cool um little bark that
helps lubricate the colon and the bile
ducts so if you eat and you get like
pain underneath your right rib cage or
pain up here um slippery elmark is a
good remedy to help get the bile flowing
through that area so it's not so
stagnant so it's not so jammed up and so
that's one of the reasons why I put that
in there I also put pepsin in there and
that's a very powerful protein enzyme so
that helps the stomach and in order to
stimulate your own body's production of
that enzyme you need Bane hydroc
chloride you need an acid so those work
together but I also put Spanos black
radish which is another um remedy for
the liver to help it's high in Sulfur so
it helps lubricate the liver and the BCT
keeps things flowing so you don't have a
backup of this bile sludge and uh it
really supports a healthy gallbladder so
highly recommend you try it I put a link
down below for you to get a little
discount to check it out so if you're
interested get it and then put your
comments below thanks for watching
