so what snacks can I eat during my
eating window when I'm doing in a minute
fasting
okay so let's first talk about what is
an eating window it's a time period
between your meals okay so let's say for
example you ate at one o'clock in the
afternoon and you ate at five you have a
four hour eating window everything else
is fasting okay 20 hours of fasting now
the ideal scene would be to have just
two meals with nothing in that window
okay
now is it gonna mess you up if you have
a snack in the middle of that window
well it really depends on what you eat
you have carbohydrates which are going
to spike insulin you have protein which
can also spike insulin and guess what
fat has the least effect of insulin on
the body eating anything can potentially
increase insulin so if you were going to
snack in this window I would recommend
either consuming just fat okay that
would be coconut butter butter or maybe
some MCT oil or fiber now even though
that a fiber is a carbohydrate it will
not negatively affect insulin in fact it
will can feed your microbes which then
make a certain chemical that actually
lowers insulin down the road and what
type of fiber would be best leafy greens
and then you can actually put the fat
like an olive oil on your leafy greens
and put some outside a vinegar maybe
some spices and herbs because episode
the vinegar has zero carbohydrates and
there you have your combination of fiber
which is very low in carbohydrate and
fat so just make sure that you don't
consume the snacks that everyone else is
doing they're doing protein snacks
they're doing nuts they're doing nut
butters in between the meals so joint
cheese if you go to the helpless store
now you're gonna actually even see
little sections of keto snacks and
people are consuming way too many of
those and some of them are okay if
they're low in carb but if you're gonna
consume a snack make sure it's low carb
and have it right at the meal but not
between the meals all right guys
make sense all right see you later
so if you've personally benefited from
the information that I put on my videos
I would love to actually see your
success story - I put a link down below
so you can upload your before and after
pictures with your story
