hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about the absolute best acupressure
technique you can do after you get your
surgery okay and so I'm gonna bring my
person my volunteer thank you for
volunteering
he loves volunteer okay so I've had
quite a few surgeries unfortunately I
had my left shoulder completely
fractured I had to get that handled my
left elbow so what happens whether you
get a hip surgery or a broken bone or
some type of surgical procedure it's
almost like a trauma because they have
to go in there and manipulate stuff of
course if you the actually original
injury is a trauma but then it's kind of
a double trauma to the adrenal glands
because the adrenal glands they never go
to sleep so they have to constantly work
that's why sometimes they have to give
you a potassium IV when they do surgery
because you dumped a lot of potassium
because the Drina 'ls have to they
actually are working behind the scenes a
little bit okay okay but here's the
point whether you injure yourself or
have a surgery to a joint for example to
a certain degree you lose communication
lines neurological blood flow lymphatic
etc okay and a lot of times after the
surgery you get rehab and it's months
and months and months and it takes a
long time this technique that I'm going
to show you will speed things up
dramatically and I did it to my you can
do it to yourself okay well it's a
little difficult on the shoulder but let
me just explain it what you do is you
don't work on the same shoulder this has
been traumatized it's kind of like
taking a your thumb with a hammer and
smacking it and then massaging your
thumb that wouldn't be smart now because
the body is on a circuit which means a
circle the neural nerves come down from
the brain and actually come to this side
cross over to the spinal column go over
this side so you have the nerves on this
side are connected to this side the hip
bones connected to the thigh bone the
thigh bone is connected to that but
here's the point and the reason for that
is that helps you coordinate between
left and right and front back so when
you're walking this arm is in
coordination with this to swing the arms
back and forth so you
can run so you have these on/off
switches that constantly are helping you
coordinate and relax and contract
relaxing contract and because you have
these circuits from this side this
second you can actually affect this side
by working on the opposite side you
won't believe me until you do it but I
want you to try this so let's say for
example he had surgery on this bicipital
tendon right on the front right here
this is the little tendon that goes
through his bicep that allows this arm
to go up like this let's say they they
reattached it right here okay now you
have to kind of know your Anatomy and
know where exactly they did the surgery
so you put a little staple right there
into the certain part of the bone and
then that's where the trauma was okay
what you want to do is press on the
exact mirror image side on the left side
okay now here's the thing when you press
on the opposite side which by the way is
the good side it's gonna hurt like hell
okay I don't want to get into why it's
gonna hurt like hell but you're gonna
find the good side will hurt more than
the recently traumatized side yeah okay
all you need to know is you can use that
to make sure that you're on the exact
rights the correct spot so in other
words what you should know is the
opposite mirror image point mirroring
where you had the trauma and the surgery
is going to be very very sensitive okay
so you're looking for that spot as soon
as you find you're like oh my gosh there
it is and then you just massage that you
don't have to do it really hard but just
massage it for like a minute okay what
you're gonna find
you're gonna regain more circulation on
the bad side neurologically and blood
flow and if you don't believe me go
ahead and try it and see for yourself
you're gonna see you're gonna speed up
the time recovery you're going to see
more circulation you're gonna see less
inflammation and you're gonna see less
pain so if it's in the elbow you know
wherever they you know put a screw in
you work on the opposite elbow let's say
it's the collarbone let's say you broke
his collarbone right here
well guess what you work on the opposite
collarbone mirror-image side same thing
with the foot the toe a finger a hip
work on the good side no
does this but it's so powerful after a
surgery when you're trying to heal that
it'll really speed things up and give
you a lot of relief okay it'll just cut
down the time of healing I'm not saying
don't continue the other therapy but
this will just this is the icing on the
cake now the other thing is that lets
say the surgery was in the lower back
okay right in the center what do you do
you work on the front right at the level
of exactly where that surgery is so the
belly button if you look on the back is
that the third lumbar vertebra so if it
was at l5 we go down a couple inches
below the belly button but you know how
to find the mirror image point because
it's going to be a very tender so you
work on the point in the front and you
just work that out and you're gonna get
a lot of relief if you had surgery for
example I don't know on the head right
here you you can work on the mossad the
opposite side and when I say what I mean
by work on it is an acupressure massage
you can just it doesn't even have to be
of a certain pattern you just need to
massage it in any which way you want for
like a minute and do that each day and
the more you do that the more it's gonna
speed things up okay so just try and put
your comments down below I want to hear
them and then then everyone can see if
it really does work which it does
because I've tried it out about ten
thousand times before alright thanks for
watching hey guys I want to personally
invite you to a new Facebook group that
I just started called dr. Berg's Kido
and intimate at fasting lab okay so I
created this so we can share our
successful actions what worked what
didn't work your results so I put a link
down below so go ahead and sign up and
I'll see you inside
