hi guys we're here with five questions
from all of you and we're gonna answer
these questions in fact you're gonna ask
them I'll give you the answers and
correct me if I'm if I need to clarify
them I'll tell you when you're wrong
okay thank you okay good all right
so question number one is is it a
problem if I eat my biggest meal right
before I go to bed okay
well that's a very good question let me
just see if I could find the answer and
I look here okay so here's this whole
concept about eating before bed you know
people say oh it's bad you're gonna gain
weight it really has to do with when
you're starting your intimate of fasting
for example if you're like a lot of
people have a hard time not eating at
night so what I suggested was you start
your first meal later in the day like a
three o'clock
under your second meal at 7:00 or 8:00
so that way you are eating close to bed
and that's totally fine it really is not
going to help you or hurt you if you eat
at night if that's one of your meals and
if you actually have your window about 6
to 4 hours now talk about the window
yeah the window is the time of eating so
let's say you're eating at 12 and 6
that's a six hour window of your meals
what do we what window do we want well
you actually get into the most fat
burning' between 18 and 24 hours so
that's like a six hour window to like a
zero hour window where you're basically
it's probably that 24 hours is like 23
and a half depending on if you spend an
hour to eat or half out eat but the
ideal scene I tell people is to go for
6:00 and then start going to four-hour
window because that would give you some
really good fat burning but if you have
a very slow metabolism and you have a
really bad blood sugar problem you
probably need to shoot for one meal a
day eventually but do it gradually
because you're gonna actually if you do
it one mill day you'll heal the body and
you have a lot of chance to recycle the
cells and and clean out all the damaged
parts and improve aging it'll help your
parts it'll help the parts of your cells
that need to be replacing now if
somebody's gonna eat one time a day dr.
Burke
or twice a day how much food are they
gonna eat can they just like chow down
can they eat huge meals or what that's a
really good question let me get my book
chance for that when we say that was our
page okay here's the thing the
difference between a low calorie diet
Karen and in a minute fasting it has to
do with the nutrients are you getting
most of your nutrients in that one meal
or are you going low calorie and
depriving yourself of nutrients because
the definition of the word food comes
from the derivation nourish which means
nutrients so that we eat to supply
nutrients most people eat for a
sensation which is good or bad depending
on you know what kind of food you're
eating so as long as you're compensating
by adding more of the nutrient-dense
foods at one time of day and maybe you
might enhance it with supplements or
like electrolytes and B vitamins you're
gonna be fine but yeah you're gonna have
to eat more but not to the point where
you're like stuffing yourself like crazy
just like a really good meal right well
you you sort of opened a window we're
using the window a lot okay okay you
sort of you said if you eat for pleasure
you have to eat more nutrient-dense food
but that's fine as long as you're eating
in the window so it sounded to me like
you're saying it's okay if you're eating
other things mmm for pleasure
so let's clarify that what I meant is
that they're they're like for example I
get pleasure from eating a salad okay
I'll get pleasure from eating litter
worst eggs I enjoy them I love avocado
like my the pizza recipe right with the
cauliflower I dig that right so that's
what I'm talking about you can get
pleasure from eating low carb foods I
mean that that pie that you made that
pecan pie that was pleasurable the ice
cream is pleasurable without sugar right
versus a something low load low nutrient
yeah it's like it's not you're not going
to get any long-lasting pleasure from
right so it's a shift from that old
phrase you know eating living to eat or
eating to live you eat to live I do but
you enjoy you're eating right so but the
first purpose should be how am I going
to survive better on that food we've
gotten way off track people are just
going insane with the stuff that they're
putting in their bodies they're not even
thinking about is that going to improve
my blood Sugar's and you see this at
holiday events or social events where
they pig out they know they're gonna be
hurting an hour later they know the next
morning Linda feel like crap but they do
it anyway
it's a holiday I might deserve it
true what are some other ones my body
deserves it right I was gone a week I
work hard did you get everybody else is
doing it if your body on radish my
father used to say if everyone was
jumping off a bridge would you jump off
a bridge did your dad ever say that no
you never said that you never said that
no concept it's a good one it is it's
the same concept so but anyway that our
recipes sort of kill that concept
because you there's so much food that's
nutrient dense and not gonna kill you I
don't really need a doughnut you don't
need a note of it okay what's narrative
okay second question this idea of
drinking a protein drink after you
workout to help you lose weight
yeah so about that so you have pre and
post meals or snacks with a workout
right and people have this idea that oh
I need that so I'm gonna burn more fat
or I'm gonna recover better I need this
protein powder or whatever actually it's
kind of funny when you think about it
but do you think that protein powder is
gonna go into the body that fast and
replace any muscle loss no it's gonna
take a long period of time what's
happening is you're just basically
putting food into the stomach which is
not going to be digested four hours
later you know that's going to take a
while and then what do you mean well it
takes a while for it to digest
so it's it's not necessarily going to
fix anything when you're working out
that makes sense so here you are you're
working out people are thinking I'm
depleting my nutrients I better put it
back in there to enhance their
performance whatever
well that food is not going to digest
for the next several hours so I think
the question is really about a protein
powder drink like these protein drinks
before or after is is there any
difference drinking it after a workout
versus just drinking it anytime during
the day what's happening is again every
time you put something in your stomach
there's a change it happens in the
stomach where you actually spike insulin
so now we just worked out we spiked
insulin insulin blocks of fat-burning if
you have insulin resistance it'll
actually won't allow you to even absorb
those amino acids as well so even a
sugar-free protein drink it's not a good
idea especially if you want to see
results what you should do is do in a
minute fasting and work out
ideally in your fasting window if you
can do it if you can't then eat close to
your meal but what'll how close to your
meal sorry work out close to your meal
close to your meal to your mealtime yeah
and then exercise yeah exactly
so I'm glad you're here that's what we
have Karen to correct some of these
mistakes I think we need to help me in
the video the other videos as well
sometimes I'm like right so things like
when you work out you're creating a kind
of a vacuum you're pulling fat from your
fat cells okay you're pulling energy
from the fat cells okay you want to do
yes yeah so why would you want to spike
insulin it's gonna stop the whole
process let your body pull the fat wait
until your first meal and then wait -
your second meal or whatever and now you
got some really good benefits of that
workout so now on the flip side people
say well I need to consume an energy
drink because I get fatigued if I work
out we're just placing the stored sugar
that you lost and that if you're doing
that you're just like
depleting your sugar reserves and you're
putting them back I I got lost okay your
body actually when you workout runs on
stored sugar it's called glycogen okay
okay that's not the ideal scene we don't
want it to do that we want it to burn
fat right okay so what we want to do is
mobilize as much as fat as possible when
you eat sugar
it's just sell in the process when you
workout your body is mobilizing fat it's
using fat as energy out it has to
deplete some of the stored sugar but
then it goes down after fat okay so so
that's one aspect and also when you
workout you trigger hormones like growth
hormone growth hormone is like something
that's very beneficial to not just burn
fat but it actually helps you preserve
muscle protein so in other words it
protects you from the loss of muscle so
you by doing it fasting people are
concerned oh my god I'm not eating
someone and waste away all my muscles
are gonna go away no no no no the
intermittent fasting protects the
muscles mm-hmm so you won't yeah and one
last point your your body even if doing
one meal a day your body will go into a
state where it won't need as much
protein why because there's something
that kicks in called the tofu G a tofu G
is the recycling of the of the protein
or the cell structure which is all
proteins it's recycling that more
efficiently so now we get into a
situation that is we don't need as much
dietary protein because your body's
recycling Lin it's exactly this would be
a good solution for vegetarians or
vegans who are like not getting a lot of
hurt enough protein yeah so they should
do keto and intermittent fasting then
they're not gonna have to worry as much
about their their protein needs I'm
thinking that's your thinking Karen
because some people are concerned I'm
doing three meals a day then I'm going
to one do I have to keep the exact same
calories not the exact same calories
because your system is more efficient
okay because you could imagine that's
like you can't even fit that in your
stomach plus you want to be using your
own fuel your your snack that you're
eating between meals is your own fat is
hips so in fact I'm gonna create a video
how do the best connect the best snack
is your own fat I think it's good that
has a ring its mobile its immobilized
you don't have to heat it you carry the
wrong with you you don't have to always
with you as your serving size I like it
let's look how can we point out let's
coin that we can coin it yeah okay
coined it coined it ready for the next
question
ready I've been born ready for that it's
lowering ready okay um how do I know if
I need to support my adrenals mm-hmm you
can tell me about that question it was a
throw-in you it was a that one how do I
know you know that I need to support my
favor you know actually just exactly
what I said okay so it's real simple
okay
all right do you have any adrenal
symptoms okay number one are you
stressed out
how is your tolerance to stress can you
tolerate crazy people can you tolerate
incompetent people can you tolerate slow
drivers how is your tolerance to stress
that's the big one
okay number two how is your sleep
do you sleep comfortably do you sleep
long enough I was a quality safe it's a
boom boom and then also belly fat that's
another symptom of adrenal and then it
goes down the list let's just I'll give
you like inflammation allergies
autoimmune blood sugar issues can be
caused by adrenal excessive thinking all
the time 24/7 can't turn it off
dementia I have blood pressure low
vitamin D levels should I go on yeah
that enough I think that's a good start
I have one more okay you get up too fast
and you get dizzy you go up inclines and
your legs feel heavy mm-hmm
those are real big adrenal symptoms but
I got one more ankle swelling that's
another one cankles right
that's right all right so there you go
support your adrenal today I'm gonna
make a t-shirt well we'll have a new
t-shirt line and what'll be the fad the
best snack is your fat mm-hmm and then
what was it
support your adrenals support the cost
yeah okay good I have another question
go for it
okay muscle cramps and twitching what
can handle that
all right so muscle cramps usually is an
electrolyte deficiency and what about
those are minerals like potassium
calcium magnesium and even sodium okay
the most common one believe it or not is
the calcium deficiency so let's say for
example Karen yeah you're in bed and you
point your toes down and you get that
right right what that means is you need
calcium now the best source of calcium
would be high quality grass bed sheets
okay the second best would be calcium
lactate and then you can do citrate I
don't recommend carbonate okay but so
calcium is one thing potassium is
another common reason why people get
muscle cramps magnesium but if we look
at the diet the most commonly deficient
nutrient would be potassium ii magnesium
an electrolyte powder we we have all
those minerals and the right ratios but
the only one that's very low is sodium
because most people get enough of that
but I also put the electrolytes is that
sodium salt
yeah sodium that makes sodium chloride
we we put both sodium and chloride
together and sea salt to be able to give
you some of it but you know it's not
much and then there's the trace minerals
in there as well so that kind of covers
all bases now as far as a twitching
especially in the left eyelid right here
to right here that is that means that
your pH is too alkaline in your body and
now you're back I know people are gonna
go wait a second I thought your body is
supposed to be alkaline well only
certain parts of it like the blood which
should be alkaline so if the blood is
should be a certain alkaline level and
it's a little
to alkalyn it's like more Auckland then
you'll start having this twitch so what
do I do if my blood is to Auckland you I
don't know my blood is Auckland all I
know is that my eyelid is well what's
happening use calcium building up on
that nerve and if you look outside on
your spicket where the water hose comes
out ya never see that little those white
specks that accumulate yeah that's
calcium that's coming out of the water
because the pH is alkaline so when we
acidify the water it gets all dissolved
so apple cider vinegar a tablespoon and
water with the straw take some of that
BAM the twitching goes away that's why
with meals outside a vinegar with water
is a really good thing to consume on
keto and just in general all meals are
once a day I would do it all meals all
six
I don't like apple cider fingers it's
very hard for me to get it counted it in
a tablet form okay yeah wasn't that
isn't in their digest it's an ax digest
it's in the digest formula okay okay
good question five this was my favorite
question today are you ready fried foods
okay so was like air so fried foods good
bad it really depends on what you're
frying and in like especially what's
it's coated with too like if you're
doing fried onion rings or a shrimp they
have all this breading if you could do
almond flour breading or even the pork
run breading we have recipes for that by
the way it's actually in this book so
you can actually then deep-fry it in
coconut oil you can also do olive oil
but I don't recommend any of the other
vegetables like you know Crisco or what
about avocado oil I mean you could do
that that's totally fine I don't know if
that one will actually handle the high
heat it does I just read it last night
that goes for it
then go for it so there's not a problem
with the fried foods as long as you're
doing a healthy oil and you're not doing
the carb with that thing you're frying
with right so you have to find it
the big thing is like the what your
breading it with that's the big thing
what about we just got to try or I saw a
package and I bought it didn't try it
yet this I think it's a chickpea based
breadcrumbs I like that a lot better
than wheat I think I would like to try
that chickpeas they make hummus with is
usually it's a bit of a carbohydrate but
it's it's hardly any type of sugar and
there's a lot of fiber in there as well
so like for example I want to just
clarify this people like oh my gosh
carrots
well carrots are about they're not high
glycemic they're like medium glycemic on
the index scale but they have so much
fiber they will not affect blood Sugar's
too much so you really have to think
with the whole picture here but you
knows whole carrot yeah me and carrot
juice a whole carrot with the fiber is
not going to be an issue okay hummus is
not an issue because it has the fiber
and it has very low sugar levels okay
that's really the key as compared to
apples which have 19 grams of sugar per
Apple it's like on the fiber true but
they do so much sugar in there it kind
of offsets that I'm sorry care I like
apples I'm sorry I haven't I know it's
sad it's very sad sad thing yep okay
what if you're not trying to lose weight
well again kedo in an Amana fasting is
not just for weight loss it's for health
it's to improve your health it's for
anti-aging it keeps all sorts of issues
at bay infant I mean yeah I got
something to say okay it's always gonna
say it's all in effect okay until
another two seconds until you ask the
next question okay good um okay so here
is a situation that I have run into okay
okay now I am not naturally thin I'm not
naturally athletic I have to work at
everything
and I can progress and
and like pull at oh okay and it's
frustrating because I can be really
really good and then nothing nothing
changes in terms of my weight loss okay
so let's just kind of give you a a mini
answer to that because that's really
this whole book this book is about every
single possible way that it wouldn't
work with a solution but there's a
little checklist that I kind of go
through so it's not working number one I
want to look at I always ask like when
people say oh yeah I did it and then
also know it's not working well well
okay what did you do so I list what they
did I thought wow you're not even doing
what you're supposed to be doing so
that's number one are they doing it
correctly okay number two are they doing
in a minute fasting I think if they have
a slow metabolism they should be really
squeezing in that window of eating okay
and not cheating just keep it in there
consistently the other thing is that
sometimes they that because the fast not
going away they think it's all fat but
it could be atrophied muscle so the
muscle is so wasting it's not bad it's
just destroyed muscle that you're gonna
have to rebuild right over time it's
gonna take a long time especially if
it's been there for a long time an acorn
- nope tree takes time
rome wasn't built in a day right okay I
listed up right the next thing I look at
what are the other factors what health
problems like your the sleep problem
yeah a thyroid issue
do you have an ovary issue a cycle issue
is there inflammation in the body
there's other missing organs missing
organs you have a gall but if you don't
you need some some help with that and
then also there's some other things that
can speed things up like if you have
insulin resistance like most people have
which I'm in it I'm not going to kind of
go into that because I've talked so much
about it but potassium B vitamins
hands-down those are the two that most
people need to make it just kick in a
lot better
okay so episode of vinegar will improve
that the quality of food let's say
you're doing your fats are
soyal what that alone could keep the
problem there it's the hidden things
that I'm looking at and usually when you
cover all those things and you clear
those up then I go to more exercise like
are you doing exercise no I'm not okay
well plug that in there and let's take
it to the next level and at that point
the person is going to lose weight or
it's going to be slow and they're gonna
gradually get better over time so
there's always a way you can improve
things what I did is I just put every
single possible barrier that you can run
into and things you'd even think of
because I've done this for a few years
like 29 years
so I ran into every single problem
you're gonna possibly imagine that you
know may not be a problem but it may
okay so you touched on something else
I never up until recently ever had a
belly
I had hips but never belly hit a certain
age
well belly going on a little bit belly
got a little bit of that we going on but
um but also you say okay that could be
adrenal or that is adrenal but I'm
exercising how much exercise is too much
exercise when you have adrenal when do I
exercise how do I know if the exercise
is too much not enough it's very
confusing there's things that are really
really important and things that are not
very important okay or maybe they're
less important the most important thing
is driving insulin down okay keeping
insulin down so that would be the eating
eating correct eating will give you 85%
of results exercise will give you 15% so
people that work out and think oh I can
eat what I want because I make sure it's
the burning of calories good luck on
that one Wow so that's one thing the
other thing is that the adrenal hormones
especially cortisol tend to turn your
own muscle into sugar raising it turns
your muscle into sugar yeah because it's
in a state of flight-or-fight or stress
so it's just going to mobilize that
muscle and convert that into sugar
and that's going to end up with a high
insulin so now we're dealing with we're
trying to lower insulin so so in reality
the problem with the adrenal is it turns
you into insulin insulin problem and you
become a diabetic eventually so it boils
down to that insulin so we have all
these things that can do it
eating sugar eating too frequently and
stress so in that case you know you have
to support the adrenal take nutrition
for that belly fat okay so say I have
very stressful life but I'm not eating
any sugar right but I have a really
stressful life I'm not really sleeping
working working working or we hear we
heard this all the time right in the
practice we live in the DC area and
people come in all kinds of jobs I sleep
two hours a night I sleep three hours a
night I have an incredibly stressful job
say I had that lifestyle and I ate no
sugar are you telling me that cortisol
that comes from the stress is going to
turn my protein my body protein into
sugar yes yes that's what I'm telling
you I just don't make sure I udders do
that I never really understood that
before witnessed and understanding well
that's fascinating it is so I mean that
could be frustrating of people saying
I'm doing everything right in a diet and
I'm just not losing anyway you take take
any person that has gained weight on
their life and find out what age what
point of time they start gaining weight
and then just ask them what happened
just before you start gaining weight and
you're gonna find a lot of people are
gonna mention a stressful situation so
that's gonna be spiking the cortisol BAM
I mean oh I got I got pregnant Wow
that's transfer I had a divorce I had a
loss of a loved one BAM
so what happens it happens it happens a
lot actually
so so all that can be supported by what
the adrenal but take care of your
adrenals making sure that you're doing
things to de-stress if I write you you
have to remove the thing that's
stressing you out
okay so that's the neighbors have to
move get a new job or or and no and I'm
sorry and and actually support and build
back up the adrenal by acts there's
acupressure techniques I recommend they
do really work I used the techniques and
then nutrition and supplements and
things like that while you remove the
actual source of that stress that it's
still there right even if it's your job
like some people just can't end their
jobs
yeah some people hate this some people
hate their job you know maybe they love
their job but it's still incredibly
stressful
maybe it's it's yeah a good job and it's
financially a good job but it's
incredibly stressful there are still
things they need to do they absolutely
need to do to to balance the stress like
I said that's the walking or the yeah
relaxation time or whatever you're just
gonna have to improve it somehow you're
gonna have to improve it you just can't
get in a situation where you're stuck
between a rock and a hard place
it's not a good place to be in so you
got to do something to improve it at
least to make it less of a problem
that's staying away from negative people
that's the big one are critical critical
people over the critical for so if you
have a youtube channel you may have some
haters an example P haters Tube channel
yeah you have haters down there that
basically will make chopped liver out of
you thank goodness we can delete those
guys right yeah you can delete those
guys to the goddesses really have to
regardless of who you are you're gonna
get haters I mean it just happens it's
just a nutritional deficiency probably
and that and insulin resistance I mean
Here I am I'm creating this video on how
to help a child you know lose weight
right and it's just like great advice
then I get a thumbs down from someone
right I'm like really
why so yeah you have to remove this
stress from your life so changing the
food adding walks removing the negative
people from your environment strangles
Nason therapy
Dilli that but sometimes you feel like
that yeah right but it's just you have
to get that stuff out of your life as
best you can
troll Alt Delete Control Alt Delete yeah
Control Alt Delete right here okay
that's the therapy that's good okay so
you have one last question even though
we're doing five actuaries I know we're
at seven that was a just-in-case
and I think that that's a wrap okay
great thank you though for coming out
yes thanks for watching stay tuned for
Malta we'll get to as many questions as
we can
that's right yeah see ya yeah
