let's talk about rhomboid pain on the
scapula on the right side also you have
one on the left side we're primarily
going to be talking about the one on the
right side either if there's pain or
tightness or soreness you may think that
you just need to lay on a tennis ball or
get it massaged or do some type of
stretching exercise but you may find
that if you do that it comes right back
about an hour later I used to have
rhomboid pain for literally years and I
had no idea what it was being a
chiropractor I thought everything was
basically a bone out of place and you
just adjust it and the problem's gone I
wish I would have known what I know now
back then because the actual cause was
referred from something else like when
you step in a dog's tail he barks
through his mouth right are you gonna
mess with the mouth no you're going to
take the pressure off the tail so a lot
of people with muscular problems in one
part of their body don't realize that it
can be referred from a completely
different area and so there's this one
nerve called the dorsal scapular nerve
it comes out of the fifth cervical
vertebra and it connects to the rhomboid
as well as another muscle called the
levator scapula muscle which is right
here just beneath your trap so that one
nerve coming from C5 connects to this
muscle
and your rhomboid and if there's any
pressure on that nerve you can have
discomfort in those areas where it's
just it's always irritating it's always
tight it's always in a spasm but what I
didn't know at the time I had this
problem was there's another connection
to those group of nerves in this lower
part of the neck called the phrenic
nerve so the phrenic nerve goes from the
diaphragm from your neck all the way
down to the diaphragm the front part
here on both sides and when it connects
to the neck it connects to several
nerves and so if there's a
problem
in the diaphragm area
that can send signals back up to your
neck and cause a little tension causing
a little bit of a rotation an irritation
to the nerve and keep you with tightness
in those two muscles on the right side
and any amount of massager or trigger
point therapy is never going to fully
resolve it well today I'm going to show
you exactly how to resolve it I will say
there maybe five percent of the time
there's an actual problem in those
muscles that you need to do some
stretching and I'm going to show you a
really good way to handle that but the
great majority of the time the problem
is at the bottom part of the phrenic
nerve underneath your diaphragm in an
area involving
three things one is the gallbladder
two is the little tubes that connect the
gallbladder with the liver those are
called bile ducts and three your liver
you could have any number of problems
you can have gallstones you can have an
irritation with the gallbladder you can
have bile sludge that is causing
distension in your tubes the bile ducts
that's called choleostasis and that
really comes from a lacobile or you can
actually have an enlargement in the
liver that's called a padomegaly and
that can actually even come from having
a fatty liver if you've ever heard of
foie gras which is a French word what
they basically do is force feed like
corn or other grains into these geese or
a duck to fatten up the liver and that
liver can enlarge by 10 times okay so
when we eat corn or carbs or sugars our
livers also get fatty and they can
enlarge to the point where they can
press on that nerve as well and cause
that same problem on the right side and
of course some people watching this
video might have the problem on the left
side well this same thing applies
because if you have this sludge blocking
the bowel ducts
uh right by your gallbladder they do
cross over to the pancreatic tubes and
ducts and it can cause a backup in the
pancreas as well causing the pain on the
left side and the back part the same
thing I'm going to talk about applies to
whether you have it on the right side or
the left side so the real problem with
this pain back here is either a problem
with the gallbladder the baldex or your
liver you can do a real simple
experiment to figure this out you can
massage or press underneath your right
rib cage right where your gallbladder is
about an inch down and an inch off the
midline okay to the right and just start
massaging this area it'll be a little
bit sore but if you massage it for like
10 seconds it should give you relief on
your right shoulder area into the
rhomboid now the pain and discomfort
will come right back but just the fact
that it produces from really it tells
you there's something going on in the
right lower area whether it could be the
gallbladder or bile deck liver we don't
know yet but my suggestion is just to
start eating to improve that whole area
avoiding certain things and eating
certain things to improve it to the
point where that problem completely goes
away and I can tell you from first-hand
experience I no longer have that problem
because I changed my diet so what are
the top foods that irritate the liver
the bile ducts and the gallbladder
grains then you also have sugars and you
have omega-6 oils and they're very
irritating to your your gallbladder and
your liver and they're inflammatory so
if you were to go out to a restaurant
and order something deep fried they're
going to use some of these oils in the
process and when you eat them you're
going to feel bloated underneath the
right rib cage and you're going to feel
tension in those muscles eventually and
then you also have other things that are
deep fried like chips just take a look
at what the ingredients are it's going
to be some type of oil they fry the corn
or the potato in and that would also
aggravate it other foods that are high
in omega-6 would be the nut Butters
almond butter peanut butter but any of
the nuts could irritate this area as
well then you have alcohol that can
irritate it junk Foods processed foods
heavy meals eating frequently keeping
your whole digestive tract filled with
food all the time is going to be very
irritating to this area it's going to
cause the liver to have to work
constantly creating more problems so
those are all the big culprits now what
I recommend is to have
moderate amount of protein with your
meals okay not necessarily eat high fat
but don't avoid saturated fats but eat
high quality protein like from eggs fish
grass-fed Meats things like that as well
as consuming a good amount of vegetables
or salad at the same time you're eating
these proteins and fats so have your big
salad okay first and then have your
protein or fat with each meal the
vegetables or the fiber and the
vegetables will help you to increase the
flow of cholesterol through the liver
and through the bile ducts and the
vegetables are really really good for
the liver in general eating just meat or
fat without vegetables is a bit hard on
the liver and of course when you cook
the heck out of the vegetables and don't
eat them raw you don't get to have the
enzymes in those raw vegetables to help
you and then the other thing that's
really important is not to eat soap
frequent do intermittent fasting there's
a couple things I'm going to recommend
to help
um
thin the bile to allow things to kind of
flow through there's a product that you
can just look online and get it Amazon
is called tadka
t-u-d-c-a so tatka is a type of bile
salt that helps to thin the bile you
would take two of those in the morning
on an empty stomach and two in the
afternoon on an empty stomach in
addition to that find a good bile salt
supplement that you can take with a meal
and you would take two of those after
the meal so now this extra bile will
just help to take the relief off the
liver the gallbladder and the bowel
ducts and allow bile to flow through
this area nicely and you're going to
find over the course of a week or two
weeks there's going to be a lot of
relief in this back part so that
solution is pretty much going to handle
like 95 percent of all cases let's say
there's problems in that actual area
because of your posture the way you're
sitting with the computer or an injury
for that I would recommend getting the
mobility sticks these are really cool
exercise I don't know if you call them
tools or exercise equipment there's
these sticks that you can do
these amazing stretching exercises I
recently got them and I love them I'm
not affiliated with the company but I'm
going to put a link down below to check
them out because the exercises you can
do with these are amazing for not just
for your rhomboid and the muscles up
through in the shoulder but for the
entire body I'm always investigating
different pieces of equipment and
different exercises and I really like
this one a lot now since we're on the
topic of referred pain okay there's a
really interesting video that talks
about other parts of your body that are
painful that are the cause is not coming
from where you think it is and if you
haven't seen this video I put it up
right here check it out
