so I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know what does
organic mean well let me just explain
what organic means there's there's three
basic definitions one is when you see a
product that says made with organic
ingredients okay you really understand
what that means it means that 70% of
that product has to be organic and 30%
does not have to be organic
so that 30% could be GMO it could be
pesticides insecticides herbicides and
fungicides okay so that's this one next
one is organic when something says it's
organic that means that 95 percent of it
has to be organic 5 percent could be GML
pesticides insecticides herbicides
fungicides then we have a hundred
percent organic okay if it's 100%
certified organic that means a hundred
percent of it has to be organic so and
this is a confusion because people say
well am eating organic yeah well okay
you're allowing some pesticides but this
is way better than this and this is way
better than commercial food because
you're getting at least less pesticide
so recently I wanted to get certified as
a hundred percent organic for several of
my products because they are 100 percent
organic but you can't make the claim
until you go through a tremendous amount
of paperwork and applications go through
the testing and you get inspected and
it's a whole chain of things that you
have to do so within weeks I'm gonna be
changing the label on the wheatgrass
juice powder both lemon and regular
because it's a hundred percent organic
the organic seek help and the
cruciferous product because all three of
these products are a hundred percent
certified so I think it's really
important to start reading labels but
even more important than buying food
that's organic is buying food from the
farmers market because a lot of these
farmers might not have the certification
of organic but they don't use pesticides
and their soils are so much better
hey if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
