hey guys here's the video on another
question on what causes the feeling of
doom and gloom okay like you're
anticipating something bad that's going
to happen this is a pure nutritional
deficiency in most cases okay so it's
mainly a vitamin b1 deficiency it's low
b1 so you need to take this I recommend
taking it from nutritional yeast because
that way you get all the B vitamins okay
it can also be from b2 deficiency and a
b3 deficiency so if you take the whole
complex from nutritional yeast you're
covered but these B vitamins are going
to uplift your overall mode it's going
to bring you up the other vitamin
deficiency that this could create would
be a deficiency of vitamin d3 so getting
out there get some Sun because during
the winter months if you don't get any
Sun and you don't take vitamin D you can
be kind of sad and feel kind of down but
the combination of vitamin D and the B
vitamins should pull you out of this
state all right
see you later hey I appreciate your
attention and if you're enjoying these
videos go ahead and subscribe and I will
definitely keep you updated on future
events live events and webinars that
we're going to do very soon
