hi guys I'm here to answer another
question on what is the best way to
check your ketones when you're first
starting out doing ketosis okay as a
beginner there are three different
methods you can check the urine through
the blood or through the breath and
there's actually three different types
of ketones and by the way ketones are
the byproduct of fat fuel and your body
likes ketones better than glucose it's a
more efficient fuel so it just so
happens that each different ketone will
show up in different methods of
assessment for example when you're
checking for the urine you're gonna find
this ketone body it's called if you're
checking the blood you're mainly gonna
find this specific ketone and the breath
is going to reveal this ketone alright
so let me just cover the pros and cons
of the urine the pro is that it's very
inexpensive compared to actually
checking the blood or even the breath
this is actually tested with a device
that cost might be like a hundred
dollars or might be less depending on
what the quality of unit that you get
but it's a one-time purchase this could
cost anywhere between seven to ten
dollars for a hundred strips this could
be seventy-five to a hundred dollars for
the unit and then you have to buy the
testing strips so it's a little more
expensive but I do like this starting
out at least just to get your feet wet
because you have the ability to test
yourself through the day and determine
what bumps you out of ketosis with foods
and then you can tell if you're in very
light ketosis or deep ketosis base and
the color now the problem is when you do
ketosis over a period of time you're
gonna be utilizing these ketones I mean
think about it for the ketones to be
showing up in the urine those are wasted
fuel particles okay so you're not
actually using them so as you become
more efficient and you adapt and your
body is using more ketones you're gonna
see less and less ketones showing up in
urine so it's good in the beginning but
it's not good as you get into it okay
the other thing is if you drink too much
water it'll dilute the urine and it will
affect your results so you wouldn't
necessarily want to drink a lot of water
and then test yourself okay you want to
probably test yourself maybe an hour
after you drink water that would
be a better measurement okay so this is
a little less accurate but it gives you
a good ballpark figure all right now
let's talk about the blood this is the
most accurate way to check ketones it's
a little more expensive because you have
to have the unit and then the testing
strips but you're testing the type of
ketone that is the most abundant ketone
in the body and I recommend doing this
maybe after you've used the testing
strips for the urine for a while let's
say for example you use this for three
weeks and then you graduate to a device
that you can check with using your blood
the best device that I recommend is
called Keita mojo I'll put a link down
below I don't get any Commission's or
anything from that I'm just I just
recommend it cuz it's a good company
alright and the last way to check your
ketones is through breath the pro is
that once you buy the device you can
check it over and over and over and you
want to buy any strips urine strips or
blood strips so that's a really good
benefit the con is that it's expensive
to buy the device okay and over time
when you do this you'll see less of this
specific ketones just simply because
your body is utilizing this fuel source
more and more and when this point I just
find interesting is that you know people
have this concept they have to burn off
all these calories of fat to lose weight
but when you get into ketosis
there are ketones coming out of your
breath basically pieces of fat coming
out of your breath and you're peeing it
out without being burned and you're
basically doing that by lowering your
carbs so you're losing weight not
necessarily by burning every single
calorie you're actually eliminating them
through the breath and the urine which
is another benefit of doing ketosis for
losing weight all right guys that's my
quick summary I will see in the next
video so if you want more knowledge on
how to create a healthy body subscribe
now and get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
