hey Dr bur here in this short video I'm
going to talk about upper arm fat um I
wrote a book on body types we talked I
created uh the body type system of
weight loss and but I have not mentioned
people that gain weight in the upper
part of the body so I'm going to touch
on that now just to quickly review
there's two types of belly fat one is a
pot belly where the person has a
protruding internal pushing out force
that would be more liver because there's
fluid that is in there there uh and then
there's the sagging belly that's the
high adrenal cortisol stress hormone
situation that's the belly fat and then
you have the person with fa uh weight in
the hip the thighs and the butt that's
the lower part of the body that's an
estrogen dominant
situation and then the other one is the
thyroid body type which would be the
person that gains weight all over now by
talking to a lot of people um that have
upper arm fat I always ask them when did
it start okay because there's an
association between upper arm fat and
increased breast tissue as well and so
every single person that I've ever
talked to that has upper arm has hip
thighs and butto Ock as well so they
kind of mimic a thyroid body type but
it's really not because they don't
really have any thyroid symptoms so the
real reason why people have upper arm
fat is the estrogen dominant that's what
it is so if the person tends to get
their cycle more balanced that would
help that so anything that supports the
menstrual cycle to help balance estrogen
get on that kale shake that I recommend
kale and frozen fruit start blending it
up in the morning avoid soy um and also
anything related to um estrogen like in
the food supply buy more hormone free
Meats uh especially Dairy and also
butter those have to be organic and even
the eggs um if we want to help reduce
estrogen and that will improve the
situation so that's what it is it's
estrogen dominance
