today I want to discuss the real common
mistakes that people make that end up
keeping them very unhealthy this
information becomes very important as
you age especially over 50 but if you're
younger take notes and you're definitely
not going to find this information if
you just ask your average doctor they're
not expert in nutrition they just don't
get the training whatever they recommend
go in the opposite direction it's about
giving you a label for a certain
condition that's very descriptive and
then matching that with a medication I'm
a lot more interested in getting to the
root cause so number one you want to
really make sure that the source of your
information that you get is based on
someone who has a lot of experience in
results in the problem you're trying to
solve number two be very careful about
accepting a diagnosis that just doesn't
seem right number three make sure that
the solution or the treatment that you
get doesn't create more problems than
your current symptoms AKA side effects
and that relates to this next point if
you expose yourself to too much stress
it kind of gets stuck into your mind and
you're trying to go to bed and can't
sleep and you're worrying and you're in
this constant state of fear
unfortunately nowadays it's almost
impossible to avoid it because it's
everywhere the next thing I want to talk
about before I get into nutrition is
your environment I didn't realize at
first how important your environment was
until I had this great opportunity to
move out of the city into the farm I'm
going to tell you having that space is
such a therapy it's going into nature is
so important to do this on a regular
basis and the next thing is regular
consistent EX exercise and what exercise
does is it kind of flushes out the
cortisol and the adrenaline that builds
up just from being on this planet if you
exercise more on a wave versus a
sustained High puls rate exercise it's
healthier next Point what are the most
important nutrients that you should be
getting on a regular basis the most
important one is vitamin D think about
your genetics you have like 20,000 to 25
5,000 different genes did you know that
vitamin D influences 10% of those genes
to create a therapeutic effect for
vitamin D you need to use 10,000 20,000
30,000 50,000 or more of vitamin D3 to
really create an effect there's a
medical doctor who specializes in
autoimmune diseases this medical doctor
gets results he has over
900 videos on testimonials before and
after that you can see just using high
doses of vitamin D3 there's certain
doctors that are using high doses of
vitamin D3 to remodel certain parts of
the eye and repair really difficult
things like glucoma there's other
doctors using high doses of vitamin D3
to shrink fibroids so vitamin D is super
super important for your health and of
course getting more sun too and we just
don't go outside enough the second most
important nutrient is magnesium it's
very rare that anyone gets enough
magnesium magnesium magesium is involved
in thousands of different things in the
body every different type of heart
disease usually has a magnesium
deficiency but magnesium goes Way Beyond
the heart if you don't have enough
magnesium you can't make energy so
vitamin D magnesium and number three is
zinc zinc is a trace mineral zinc is
very very important and a lot of people
are deficient in zinc and they all
really depend on each other in other
words you could be taking a lot of
vitamin D3 and be very deficient in
magnesium and zinc and vitamin D won't
work so you kind of need all three of
those and the flip side what are the two
nutrients that you have to be careful of
taking because they become very toxic
number one calcium as we age calcium
tends to plug everything up and guess
what magnesium is the regulator of that
and so if you don't take magnesium
enough on a regular basis you're going
to put yourself at risk for heart
disease why because you don't have the
controlling factor of calcium and it
gets into the soft tissues and then the
other nutrient that's even more deadly
than too much calcium is too much iron
we have a ex extreme difficulty in
getting rid of iron at the very most per
day we only get rid of .5 to one
milligram of iron yet the RDA for iron
is 8 milligrams and if you're women of
childbearing age it's like 18 mgram
we're taking in way too much iron if you
have too much iron you're going to rust
out your organs you want to start
looking at labels start avoiding certain
things to make sure you don't overload
yourself with iron even if you have a
genetic problem with iron which is the
person really is not deficient in Iron
they just have an accumulation of iron
in the wrong place iron is very very
toxic and I never recommend taking it in
a supplement next mistake is to avoid
salt there's a difference between sea
salt and table salt always recommend sea
salt because sea salt has 84 minerals if
someone is salt sensitive in reality
they're just deficient in potassium
because potassium and sodium work
together and we need a considerable
amount of sod and you get that from sea
salt and when you're deficient in salt
your cortisol goes up this can affect
your sleeping this can make you stressed
it's a very important electrolyte the
rdas for potassium you need
4700 migr that's also really important
for generating energy for your nerves
and your muscles every single day I
don't think anyone gets that next point
someone recently asked a question what
should I be doing as I go through
menopause and I said well make sure
you're consuming enough cholesterol
foods you like what are you kidding
doctor's trying to lower my cholesterol
well what happens when we age is we
start having a decrease in hormones
testosterone progesterone estrogen
things like that and all of those
hormones are built out of cholesterol
when you start to cut down your
cholesterol or you take certain
medications that cut down your
cholesterol you really cut down those
hormones that are already tanked and
very very low so having sufficient
amounts of the raw material cholesterol
in your diet is very very important
especially as you age we need
cholesterol for our brain bio salts to
help digest fats most importantly we
need cholesterol to make hormones where
do we get cholesterol butter eggs dairy
shellfish and just as a side note just
think about this diabetes is too much
sugar in your blood wouldn't it make
logical sense to start cutting down
sugar and carbohydrates in fact what
they focus more on is making sure you
have some glucose tablets in your pocket
or Cann in your pocket if your blood
sugars become too low because the
medication is pushing it too low why not
just take less medication if you come
off the carbs this whole thing is insane
but it's not just about cutting down the
sugar carbohydrates it's cutting down
this other carbohydrate called starch
most of the starch that people are
eating is not really listed as starch on
the labels it's listed as these other
words modified food starch but then you
get into the wheat flour all of that is
starch next point in your diet you have
proteins carbohydrates and fats which
one would be the most important to focus
on as far as to create Health proteins
are the most important why because most
of your body is protein not just muscle
connective tissue but your immune system
antibodies white blood cells and a
person an insect an animal will continue
to eat until their protein requirements
are satisfied so just take a look at
junk food right there's not a lot of
protein in junk food you know the cereal
boxes the crackers the cookies look look
at the protein it's just like missing
what food would give you the most
healing right off the bat grass-fed beef
grass-fed lamb that's the most
nutrient-dense food to heal the gut to
give you trace minerals to give you B
vitamins but also to give you the
highest quality protein I mean think
about it as we age especially over 50 we
start losing our muscle you need to keep
your protein at a higher level with each
meal you can also get a super
concentrated amount of these nutrients
from organ Meats I wish I like liver I
don't like it I'm not going to eat it
however there's another liver that I
love in fact sometimes I crave it and
it's really delicious it's cod liver and
the reason I'm bringing up this cod
liver is because is one of the best
sources I consume it probably twice a
week all right next point is very very
important the frequency of eating let's
say you're consuming 2500 calories per
day and you were to consume them just
twice a day versus six times a day all
those extra meals creates more of a
problem for you because every time you
eat you stimulate insulin producing too
much insulin is probably the single
biggest problem right now behind so many
chronic illnesses not just diabetes but
a fatty liver high blood pressure we
talked about reducing the carbohydrates
now we're talking about reducing
snacking grazing at night it's just not
good if you could just take your snacks
if it's nuts or whatever and just push
them to the meal and just had two meals
a day I think that would be awesome
because then you can actually do in a
minute fasting and you can create a lot
of improvements with that because it's
going to reduce your insulin next point
you should know about autoimmune
diseases where your immune system is
attacking itself it's the number one
problem out there I think it's a
combination of a couple things number
one the person has low vitamin D but I
don't think it's the only cause and it
has to do with microbes viruses and
other pathogens that are constantly
trying to invade our body and create all
these problems and one of the strategies
that they do is they downgrade your
vitamin D receptor now normal amounts of
vitamin D don't do anything for you
because the microbe is really smart
there's something else that
occurs just before this infection
because in practice I ran into this
these people almost always had a stress
event right before they developed this
autoimmune disease loss of a loved one
loss of a job loss of something what
happens when a person goes through a
severe shock what happens to the immune
system system it becomes suppressed with
high levels of cortisol things can
happen to the immune system and if
you're already low in vitamin D3 you can
have this shift in the immune system
where this immune system starts
inappropriately attacking its own tissue
and develops an autoimmune disease not
only that prazone which is a synthetic
type of cortisol will shut down the
immune system too this is why they use
it for autoimmune diseases anything like
rashes on the skin the greatest single
thing you can do for stress is exercise
and do things to change the environment
that you're in it's not exposing
yourself to so much Insanity now the
last thing and I think one of the most
important things you need to know about
in relationship to your health is the
recognition that your microbiome in your
gut actually is an organ people think
it's like some extra thing that's really
not part of us it is part of us it's way
more than our own cell and it's called
the gut microbiome and the significance
or impact that those microbes create on
your health
is huge why the heck would we ever want
to even take an antibiotic and kill them
off it's beyond me what you have to
realize is when you take an antibiotic
you will never have the same microbes
ever again a lot of these microbes never
grow back it's a lie that they told you
that oh yeah you're just going to
actually decrease the number of microbes
and they're just going to come back to
normal just like before no that's a lie
the importance of supporting the gut
microbes as an organ is vital for what
immune protection the neurotransmitters
that are created your mood your
cognitive function is influenced by the
microbes there's certain vitamins that
are made by these microbes a lot of your
digestion is related to microbes your
ability to get rid of cancer is related
to these microbes your ability to sleep
good is related to these microbes the
list goes on and on and on that's why
it's so important to on a regular basis
consume fermented foods sauerkraut
kimchi yogurt and taking a very good
probiotic would be very very smart I
covered a lot of stuff in this video I
think all of it's super important
especially if you're over 50 but I would
apply a lot of this information before
you're 50 start creating your health
right now because Health has to be
created it doesn't just automatically
happen but I've given you the key
ingredients for creating health and I
think the next most relevant video for
you to watch would be on the best foods
to eat to create health and for that I
put this video up right here check it
out
