I'd like to talk about why women can't
seem to lose belly fat after menopause
I'm not just going to talk about that
I'm also going to talk about what to do
about it as well so what is going on
with this menopause thing well all these
changes all stem because of this one
change that happens in the body the
ovaries go in retirement they're no
longer going to be producing or
releasing eggs now the ovary doesn't
just make eggs it also makes hor
hormones so what's going to happen as we
go through menopause is we're not going
to have the eggs we're not going to have
the the quantity of hormones but
normally what's supposed to happen is
the adrenal glands which are the backup
are supposed to kick in the adrenal
glands make all of the hormones that the
ovaries make and if the adrenal glands
are strong and stable going in the
menopause usually there's very little
symptoms if any at all so it's not
really normal
to have hot flashes it's not normal to
have any symptoms going through
menopause unless there's a problem with
the adrenal glands but there's a bit
more to this okay so yes it's true that
estrogen drops but you're also going to
get uh a more significant drop in
progesterone so the ratios of estrogen
progesterone it actually could make it
appear that you have estrogen dominance
okay which is not really true it's just
the ratios of estrogen to Progesterone
and some women start going on hormone
repl ment therapy the problem with that
is it comes with a lot of side effects
okay and complications but I'm not going
to get into that right now I want to
focus on another thing that happens in
the body that gives you a solution to
handling this entire problem because
naturally the adrenals are supposed to
take over and compensate for the missing
hormones and no this is not a mistake in
nature it all is supposed to work very
perfectly so in adrenals we have several
things going on we do have an in
increase in cortisol that's the stress
hormone this could explain why through
menopause a woman might feel
anxiety uh excessive nervousness
difficulty sleeping uh maybe agitated
and also an overall low tolerance to
stress that has a lot to do with um this
part of the nervous system called the
autonomic nervous system and that's
really what I want to focus on in this
video so the autonomic nervous system is
basically adapting your body to the
environment your body is constantly
adapting to temperature different
environments and one part of the nervous
system called the sympathetic which is
the flut fight is increasing certain
things to adapt to the stress so let's
say for example you exercise right you
need higher pulse rate you need higher
blood pressure to compensate for the
blood flow and then right when you stop
that exercise you have another system
that kicks in called the parasympathetic
and that system is all about calming
things down and bringing things back to
normal so it's really important to have
this balance between the sympathetic and
the parasympathetic nervous system
what's interesting about menopause is
after menopause a woman is usually left
with a higher sympathetic nervous system
and a much lower parasympathetic nervous
system and if they don't know this going
into menopause they might focus more on
the estrogen problem or maybe they might
just start to exercise to really get rid
of that belly fat that they're concerned
about right and then they might find wow
it's not working it's even getting worse
in some cases and so they go to one
doctor after the next trying to figure
this this problem out so the very
important thing I want to teach you
right now is about focusing more on the
parasympathetic nervous system okay so
that's your recovery system that is the
system that influences your sleep and
your ability to recover and all the fat
burning occurs in this recovery phase if
you're too high in the sympathetic and
you don't have enough recovery then
you're you're not going to lose this
midsection no matter what you do and so
there's a lot of emphasis on exercise
okay and exercise stimulates the
sympathetic nervous system but it does
not stimulate that parasympathetic
nervous system and so what I'm going to
recommend is you shift gears and you
start to exercise your parasympathetic
it would be like taking water and
putting out a fire it calms the
sympathetic and that's going to help you
reduce cortisol it's going to help you
sleep it's going to help you have a
midsection that's flat and so how do we
train this parasympathetic nervous
system well that system is not passive
it's active in other words it is
actively working to calm you down it's
actively working to reset and bring you
back to homeostasis which is kind of
like a normal balance internally so I
guess a good uh way to explain this is
that let's say right now you run outside
and you run up a hill really fast okay
and as you run up the hill the
sympathetic nervous system kicks in
there and it's pushing up your pulse
rate really really high you get your
blood pressure really high and you get
at the top of the hill and you're
huffing and puffing and you were at the
peak of your sympathetic nervous system
as soon as you stop okay and you do
nothing that parasympathetic kicks in
actively it's kind of like a wave that
is pushing things down it's pushing your
pulse rate down it's an active force
that is trying to recover you okay and
all you have to do is do nothing and let
it do its job and so if you were just to
wait until your pulse rate is all the
way back to normal you would strengthen
your parasympathetic but who does that
what do people do when they work out
they go work out they get their pulse
rate really high they let it come down a
little bit they rest maybe 30 seconds if
that and they do it right back they
start exercising and right there you are
failing to exercise that recovery system
you are developing and training the
sympathetic to be really really strong
but without enough recovery and so over
time you lose the strength and capacity
to recover and so your body is ending up
just producing cortisol that's creating
more belly fat it has a hard time
sleeping so I wanted to make a big deal
about this uh video to emphasize this
one simple point that if you really
understand it you can apply it to a lot
of different things you need to rest a
lot longer between your reps and sets of
exercise as well as days of exercise so
if you were to do a certain set of let's
say 10 reps or a certain time period of
exercise what you'd want to do is
completely stop and wait for your pulse
rate to come all the way down okay
before you start another one of those
Cycles the same thing goes with your
entire workout through a given week you
have to make sure you don't overtrain
you want to make sure when you exercise
you give your body a chance to
completely recover and reset and what
you're doing when you're recovering is
you are strengthening your
parasympathetic nervous system I tell
you this might sound like a very
insignificant subtle thing but in
practice it was very very successful
I've had people that I've taken them off
of working out three times a week and
put them on a workout that's just once a
week and then they finally start losing
weight now on the flip side it doesn't
mean you should only focus on on the
recovery and do nothing and sleeping all
day because it takes this exercise
intensity and this stress to make it all
work out now the worst type of exercise
you could do for your belly is any type
of sustained exercise now I'm not
talking about like walking or hiking I'm
talking about jogging or running or
doing marathons or long distance
anything sustained of a moderate pulse
rate is really bad for cortisol and it's
bad for the parasympathetic because of
this one principle of waves everything
in nature is on a wave you have these
circadian rhythms of hormones sleep
cycles your heart is on a wave it comes
up and down it contracts and relaxes and
so this is why like high-intensity
interval training is very very good for
so many things because you're doing this
short high intense exercise with lots of
rest so here are some things to focus on
start doing short types of exercise with
lots of rest don't overtrain don't train
over
soreness focus on getting more sleep and
by doing this it's automatically going
to improve your sleeping because you're
going to be improving the
parasympathetic certain types of body
work whether it's caropractor
is all going to help omega-3 fatty acids
can help as well also the precursor to
all of these hormones it's called DHEA
really good supplement to take
especially through menopause but if
you're female I would highly recommend
you don't take a lot of it just take
what's recommended on the bottle because
if you take too much it can start to you
know increase more testosterone which
you might not want that it's very
important to go on low carb intermittent
fasting because when you do that you
automatically reduce the sympathetic
nervous system and you increase the
parasympathetics that's some really key
nutrients to focus on magnesium choline
vitamin B1 vitamin D is also important
too certain herbs can be helpful uh that
are adaptogens lemon bone a passion
flour and ashwagandha are really good so
in summary the parasympathetic nervous
system restores the sympathetic nervous
system which is that fight or flight
mechanism now because of the censoring
and the suppressing of the algorithms on
YouTube it's becoming more difficult to
find my content and there's a lot of
content that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all all my information go
to drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other side if you have not seen
my stress webinar that gives you
additional techniques I put it up right
here check it out
