hi guys Dr Berg here in this video we
want to talk about skipping breakfast
should you do it or should you consume a
breakfast what is breakfast breakfast is
a situation when you're breaking the
fast so all night long you're fasting
it's called intermittent fasting you're
not eating you're fasting you're burning
fat okay now the question is why would
you want to screw that up and eat well
maybe you're hungry you need to eat well
go ahead but may people are not hungry
in the morning they're because the food
that they're eating is their own fat
their meal is their own fat okay because
as soon as you eat you're going to
stimulate insulin insulin's going to
bring the sugar down you're going to end
up with low blood sugars sometimes and
then you're going to be hungry again
probably mid after probably midm morning
all right and that's what happens the
cycle keeps going and keeps going uh if
you're trying to lose weight you know
here's what you should do
in the morning if you're not hungry do
not eat let your body go as far as you
can before you get hungry now I know
there's a situation where you might have
hypoglycemia or low blood sugars where
you're not even hungry but all of a
sudden you get a headache and you have a
blood sugar crash so if that's the
situation you need to consume a little a
meal right before that usually if you
kind of if it's at 11:00 have it at like
10: right now until you can build up and
correct cor that but the point is that
if you're not hungry don't eat because
it's going to then uh create insulin
Spike and you're going to then be hungry
so eating does not stimulate weight loss
it actually causes weight gain because
it triggers insulin now for me I'm not
hungry in the morning um so what I'll do
is I wait I'll wait till like uh 10:30
11 11:30 and then I'll eat that's the
best thing to do some people are not
hungry until noon so some people are
terribly hungry in the morning and they
should eat so the point is that you
don't want to force yourself to eat when
you're not
hungry um the other point I want to make
is that uh in the past um I was really
never hungry but I always ate really
early because I was taught that you need
to have breakfast okay and in fact I I
had that in my book I recommended that
but I don't Rec recommend that anymore
because I found it's unnecessary it's
very unnecessary because as soon as you
eat then all of a sudden now you're
going to be hungry about 2 or 3 hours
later all right so I hope that helps
with the the confusion that you might
have on that uh but again when you're
not hungry don't eat when you're hungry
go ahead and eat thanks for watching you
I just wanted to take a moment out to
thank you for your amazing feedback that
you guys are giving me it's just
mind-blowing the successes the wins I
created a link down below so you can
actually type out your full success
story and if you have a before and after
with weight loss that would be awesome
and if you don't have a success with
weight but other things just put an
image of yourself and your personal
success story and I would love to read
it and also share it with others so I
want to just thank you in advance for
doing that but there's a link down below
fill it out and I can't wait to read it
