so today we're gonna talk about type 2
diabetes we're not gonna be talking
about type 1 but type 2 diabetes is more
of a disease of insulin than it is of
glucose now let me explain when you're
diagnosed with diabetes type 2 they
usually use a blood test to measure how
much glucose is in your blood if it's
126 or greater and tested a couple times
you are a diabetic so that's called
hyperglycemia this is how they diagnose
diabetes type 2 but here's the problem
retinopathy that's damage with the
retina in your eye neuropathy which is
the problem with the nerve in your toes
and your fingertips nephropathy which is
the problem with your kidney it's like
kidney disease hypertension memory loss
damage with the brain cells visceral fat
all occur before you get high blood
sugar and this is because the
destruction of the eye the nerve the
kidney the brain the heart occurs with
high levels of insulin and it may take
10 to 20 years before you become a
diabetic but in the process you're
getting damaged with the retina the
nerve the kidney the heart the brain and
you're getting fatter so high levels of
insulin over a period of time develop a
condition called insulin resistance
which I'm going to talk about which then
lead to high blood sugar the pancreas
the little beta cells make insulin and
they go into the cells the receptors and
they trigger a certain process that
creates a different effect one of the
primary functions of insulin is to lower
blood sugar but insulin does a lot more
in fact insulin goes into every single
cell in the body the immune cells the
red blood cells the fat cells the muscle
cells the insulin hormone is very
anabolic so the theme with insulin is to
make things bigger to grow things it's
anabolic this is why people get fatter
with insulin
problem is insulin is very toxic in high
levels so the body actually has to
protect itself so it develops it's
called insulin resistance okay so in
some resistance is purely a protective
survival mechanism against the toxic
effects and I've already covered the
toxic effects as your body develops
resistance then we don't get the
feedback loop like we should and the
body makes more and more insulin to try
to cull and now we're getting even
higher levels of insulin and as things
worsen over time that pancreas gets
exhausted and it starts to fail in this
compensation now you cannot keep the
blood sugar level so now the blood sugar
goes up it's basically more icing in the
cake which worsens the situation because
it's going to create a lot of oxidation
and worsens all these conditions that
originated from the high levels of
insulin now why is this so important
because if someone like your medical
doctor could detect high insulin 10
years ago they could have done something
about it to prevent this problem from
happening and not only that but if the
medical profession could understand this
concept they wouldn't be giving a type-2
diabetic insulin they wouldn't give them
medication to increase more insulin
because all that's doing it's like
pouring gasoline on a fire and it's just
gonna make it worse so it's very very
important when you get your blood tests
to ask your doctor to always test your
insulin levels your fasting in some
levels and make sure it's below 5 many
times you'll see reference points that
normals like 8 to 12 but so there's a
there's a lack of agreement on what
normal is and that's a whole other video
on that but you want to keep it 5 or
lower to be safe
alright so now let me just show you what
causes the increase of insulin
carbohydrates carbs and protein
exaggerate the spike in insulin so
barbecued ribs adding steak and potato a
bun with a hamburger
hamburger with coca-cola will do it that
really spikes insulin MSG monosodium
glutamate excessive amounts of protein
especially if it's low fat like whey
protein will stimulate insulin generally
you don't have to worry about protein in
its natural form if it has fat because
for example if you have the egg white
versus the whole egg the egg white will
stimulate more instant than the whole
egg so the fat is actually beneficial to
keeping the insulin in check and also
realize that the counter hormone called
glucagon is triggered when you consume
protein so that does buffer the effect
of insulin so you really don't have to
worry too much about doing you know
regular meals with protein as far as
insulin goes only if it's in a form
that's in a powder with really low fat
frequent eating is a is a big stimulator
of insulin because every time you eat
you trigger insulin this is a real big
one right here vegetable oils have been
linked to insulin resistance which is
going to create more insulin now to
decrease insulin consuming fiber
actually will increase butyrate which
actually will help improve insulin
resistance by the way so that's one one
thing that will help lower insulin is
actually just including vegetables in
your meal doing keto low-carb we'll do
it in a minute fasting apple cider
vinegar certain minerals like potassium
magnesium chromium zinc will all lower
insulin vitamin D will help you lower
insulin exercise will help lower insulin
decreasing your stress lower insulin and
getting good night rest will also help
lower insulin and just make sure the
next time you get your blood test have
them test your fasting insulin level
thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
