hi guys I want to talk about something
called false hunger when you're doing in
a minute fasting which basically is not
that you're deprived of nutrients your
stomach is just growling and your blood
Sugar's might have dipped down a little
bit now this relates to the adrenal
gland there's a whole circadian wave or
rhythm of cortisol and cortisol is the
main adrenal hormone and it spikes if
it's normal around 8 o'clock in the
morning so a lot of people when they do
them in the fasting right around the
morning they might get hunger pains for
about an hour ok that's because the
spike of cortisol will then lower your
blood Sugar's because it's it'll spike
insulin a little bit and it drops down
and then you're going to be a little
hungry what you have to realize is that
it's core so it's not a lack of the
nutrient and so you just have to push
through that and then it gets better
some of the things you can do to help
that is keep improving your adrenal
function and also nutritional yeast will
also help keep this in check this
usually happens when your cortisol is
maybe too spiked but if it's normal it
shouldn't do that alright thanks for
watching you know just wanted to take a
moment out to thank you for your amazing
feedback that you guys are giving me
it's just mind-blowing
the successes the winds I created a link
down below so you can actually type out
your full success story and if you have
a before and after with weight loss that
would be awesome and if you don't have a
success with weight but other things
just put an image of yourself and your
personal success story and I would love
to read it and also share it with others
so I want to just thank you in advance
for doing that but there's a link down
below fill it out but I can't wait to
read it
