the number one best food in the world
that can help unclog your arteries
prevent a heart attack and a stroke this
is better than aspirin aspirin has been
around for 4,000 years i don't know if
you can see it but it's a tiny little
over-the-counter pill that's used for
pain fever and yes aspirin has saved a
lot of lives hundreds of thousands of
people over the years have been helped
by aspirin before 2022 a lot more people
were taking aspirin and I think it was
recommended for everyone over the age of
60 to take a baby aspirin every day to
prevent heart attacks and stroke but
then a report after 2022 said no not
everyone should take this because
there's some slight minor complications
like bleeding ulcers bleeding in the
brain aspirin does come with a package
it can cause side effects and it's not
for everyone the reason why a lot of
people take aspirin to help prevent a
heart attack is because it thins the
blood what I mean by thinning the blood
is it reduces the formation of a clot
80% of all heart attacks and strokes
come from a clot not the blockage of
cholesterol building up and forming
plaque and just as a side note almost
50% of heart attacks occur between 6 a.m
and 12 noon and my theory about that is
you have higher levels of cortisol in
the morning and both cortisol and
adrenaline can increase clotting and
increase your chance of getting a heart
attack or stroke this is why you have
something called the broken heart
syndrome where a loss of a loved one can
increase your chance of getting a heart
attack and a stroke by like 2,000% let
me simply explain what aspirin does in
your blood okay you have these arteries
right and you have red blood cells that
travel through the arteries they carry
oxygen you also have white blood cells
your immune cells but you also have
these little things called platelets
that are attracted and respond to injury
in other words if these were platelets
and they're responding to an injury they
would start to connect and form a clot
some people take this other drug called
warin which blocks vitamin K1 it
prevents that superglue from forming
keeping the blood thinner so you can
prevent a clot what else could do the
same thing but with less side effects if
any side effects and before I talk about
the actual food that will do this let's
talk about the active ingredient in that
food that does the magic of preventing
this clot formation and that compound is
omega-3 fatty acid now when I say
omega-3 you might think of fish oils
right and that's true it's in fish oils
but it's going to be a little more
specific than just fish oils in general
in omega-3 you have two things you have
EPA and you have DHA the real key factor
is the EPA part of that omega-3 fatty
acid how does it compare to aspirin for
example well in this study they showed
that EPA worked to decrease clotting
comparable to lowd dose aspirin epa has
the ability to stabilize vulnerable
arterial plaquing by decreasing
inflammation and when you decrease
inflammation you also reduce the chance
of rupture and having some plaque break
off and then float through your artery
there's also another study 2019 patients
were taking EPA which is the omega3
fatty acid and they had significant
decrease in plaquing decrease
inflammation and decrease cardiovascular
events by 25% what's even more
interesting is EPA has another effect
that goes beyond anti- clotting and it
has an effect on your mood it has the
effect of reducing cortisol and
adrenaline remember I talked about that
so we have this additional benefit which
can also prevent the clotting formation
how does EPA work compared to aspirin
and warin which are blood thinners
instead of making super glue you'll get
platelets that float around but they're
not as sticky the omega-3 fatty acid EPA
replaces a key ingredient so the
superglue can't even be formed in the
first place why do I like that approach
so much is because there's no side
effects aspirin and warin has side
effects but EPA really doesn't if we
look at the best food that has EPA you
do have salmon mackerel you have any of
the fatty fish you also have fish oil
and all of those have plenty of EPA but
there's one additional food that has
some extra benefits to take this to the
next level and that would be cod liver
oil as well as cod liver but either cod
liver oil or cod liver will give you EPA
but it also gives you two additional
factors that can like I said before take
it to the next level vitamin A and
vitamin D vitamin A and I'm talking
about the active form called retinol it
helps the repair of the internal skin of
the body the sinuses the colon the lungs
the inside of the arteries vitamin A has
potent anti-inflammatory effects it can
also help uh decrease atheroscllerotic
plaquing in animal studies but adding
vitamin D in there takes it to the next
level in one study out of a thousand
compounds vitamin D was the most
effective to prevent damage to the
internal layer of your arteries this is
why a lot of people take it for high
blood pressure because it increases
nitric oxide through that inside layer
called the endothelial layer vitamin D
decreases the stiffness of the arteries
it's a potent anti-inflammatory it helps
to stabilize plaquing so the plaquing
doesn't plug up an artery it also has
been known to help prevent rupturing and
decrease arterial calcification with the
help of vitamin K2 so the number one
best food for unclogging your arteries
or maintaining the health of the
arteries to prevent a heart attack or
stroke is cod liver oil or cod liver and
again you can buy it in a can make sure
it's wild caught thanks so much for
watching and I will see you in the next
