hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about tamoxifen this is a very
commonly prescribed medication for women
specifically to block certain types of
estrogen receptors to decrease risk of
breast cancer okay the problem is it
comes with a package as a side effects
lymphedema which can come from blood
clots increased risk for uterine cancer
or stroke from pulmonary embolism
depression moodiness irritability hot
flashes sleep problems a whole bunch of
other ones okay so my question is this
why would estrogen that your body makes
trigger cancer I mean your body makes
estrogen why would it cause cancer
that's the question that that you need
to ask your doctor okay and to answer
that I got this book right through here
the book of toxicology which is the
study of poisons okay so my belief is
that the estrogen that's causing breast
cancer is not necessarily triggered by
your own estrogen it's from some
environmental estrogen okay now that
environmental estrogen can also cause
your glands to produce more estrogen in
that controller cancer but I really
don't think it's an internal problem
it's an external problem in the
environment
there are these things called on page
674 endocrine disrupters
because this book is all about
pesticides insecticides herbicides heavy
metals all these chemicals and the
diseases it creates well a lot of these
chemicals basically mimic estrogen and
their function not to mention the
estrogen that women take from birth
control pills hormone replacement
therapy those type of things them even
talking about the chemicals that mimic
estrogen I believe because we're so
exposed to these chemicals that's really
what's triggering the problem directly
from the environment and indirectly from
triggering your own glands like for
example the ovary if the environmental
estrogen triggers your ovary that can
cause your already produced too much
estrogen now your estrogen dominant and
then that that can set you up for
certain types of cancer and if you do
research on what cruciferous foods can
do for estrogen
and specifically estrogen dominance and
how it can dismantle certain harmful
estrogens and promote your good
estrogens it's amazing so I put some
important links down below so you can
start doing some research on the
powerful effects of what cruciferous can
do on balancing estrogen in your body
thanks for watching hi guys hey listen I
created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause
so take the quiz now and we'll send you
a report
