hello dr. Berg here listen in this video
we're going to talk about apple cider
vinegar and diabetes okay now if you
look at the research you're going to
find that apple cider vinegar
significantly improves insulin
sensitivity now let's talk about what
that means well what happens when you
have insulin resistance which is a
pre-diabetic situation or type 2
diabetes you have insulin resistance
okay so it improves that resistance it
makes insulin more sensitive so it works
better so the pancreas doesn't have to
produce so much influence so this study
which I'm going to put a link down below
showed significant improvement in
diabetics pre-diabetics and in normal
people that don't have even associated
diabetes okay so that's really cool
they took two tablespoons of apple cider
vinegar in water before each meal and
that's what I recommend another
interesting thing about outside of
integral OTT of times people will wake
up with high blood sugar if you have
that situation whether you're a diabetic
or pre-diabetic take apple cider vinegar
before you go to bed in some water
you'll wake up and you'll see your blood
Sugar's will be much better
so episode of vinegar can greatly
improve your blood Sugar's thanks for
watching hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
