if you are losing inches but the scale
is not budging this video is for you
there is nothing more frustrating than
getting on the keto plan doing in a
minute fasting staying clean eating
healthy foods and not losing anyway your
spouse might be losing weight your
friends are losing weight but you're not
and it's extremely irritating and you
may feel like giving up but hear me out
if you're losing inches if your hunger
is going away if you're not craving
anymore and you have more energy it is
working let me show you something a slow
metabolism really is insulin resistance
and insulin resistance is this scenario
right here insulin is a key that opens
up the cell to allow certain things to
go into the cell fuel and amino acids
and certain vitamins so if insulin is
not connecting to the cell because
there's insulin resistance okay it's not
it's not going in to the receptor then
you are not going to absorb protein
amino acids so your body is going to be
in a state where you have atrophy this
is why diabetics pre-diabetics and
especially people that have insulin
resistance usually have atrophy
a loss of muscle mass and decrease
protein absorption because insulin is an
anabolic hormone it builds up muscle
protein and other proteins so if insulin
is not working guess what you're not
going to have the anabolic effect as
soon as you do keto an intimate of
fasting you are going to fix insulin
resistance which means you're going to
absorb more protein more amino acids and
if we compare amino acids or protein to
fat protein actually weighs more than
fat
per
same volume which means that you are
going to shrink you will lose inches but
not necessarily weight loss initially
simply because you're finally starting
to absorb protein you're getting more
muscle mass you're fixing the atrophy
which by the way is a priority in the
body because of the principle you have
to get healthy to lose weight not lose
weight to get healthy part of getting
healthy is fixing atrophy muscle loss
and protein absorption the protein in
your body is not just muscle hair and
nails
there's hormones are made out of protein
all the enzymes and your metabolism are
protein based in fact all the enzymes in
general digestion biochemical pathways
it's all protein neurotransmitters in
your brain are all protein so you have a
lot of machinery going on in the body
that is made out of protein so the body
will always fix that first before
focusing really on just getting rid of
fat so just realize that it is working
and what I mean by working is getting
healthy and you always have to get
healthy before you lose weight thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
