hi guys I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know what does
excessive carbs mean okay now we talked
about how carbs convert to fat but this
person wanted to know well what's
excessive because there's a debate going
on that basically says you can get away
with more carbs and its really vague so
I'm going to talk about it so you need
to know that most people out there that
are too fat basically got that way from
too many carbs okay
because carbs convert into fat so the
question is what is excessive carbs well
we have to ask another question we have
to find out what is normal blood sugar
okay because that will tell us because
sugar is a carbohydrate
what would the body need as far as a
normal amount so normal blood sugars are
between 80 to 90 up to a hundred
basically but just just let's talk about
eighty to ninety okay so if your blood
sugars are between 80 and 90 that's
normal 80 and 90 milligrams per
deciliter but that doesn't mean anything
to people when I say 80 to 90 they go
you know okay whatever so this actually
if you interpret this what this means is
you have one teaspoon of sugar and the
entire body okay that's what's normal
so what is excess mean anything more
than one teaspoon of sugar it's obvious
okay of course the experts say it's
complex that we can't understand it that
it's really your weight that's causing
diabetes and your lack of exercise but
think about it diabetes is a disease of
excess sugar it's high sugar okay too
much so I don't know what I'm missing
here it's kind of like if you're if
you're hot and you're sweating and
someone want to know why you hot and
sweating and you're sitting in the
bathtub
and hot water it's the hot water right
it's it's bathing around your body it's
that simple but I just don't understand
it the average person consumes 27
teaspoons 231 teaspoons of sugar every
single day what's excessive anything
more than one so we have 20
six just 30 teaspoons more than you need
okay
the American Diabetes Association
recommends that 60% of your diet should
be in the form of carbohydrates so this
is why we have the problem diabetes
because the people that are putting out
this false information are so-called
authorities and people are following it
and they're getting a problem so anyway
if you have diabetes just lower the
sugar way down and prove it to yourself
alright thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know hey that rhymes
