now I just assumed that everyone knows
the answer to this question okay and
over the weekend last weekend I was
asking some people about it and I found
that actually no one knew the answer so
I decided to do a video on it you might
already know this but I just want to
clarify it because it's very important
why nutrients get depleted when you eat
sugar and foods that are like we're
flying carbohydrates okay and I'm
talking about also juice and sodas and
like liquid sugar so very simply in your
energy factory called the mitochondria
there is an engine that involves fuel
and oxygen okay and in order to burn
glucose which is a carbohydrate there
are very important and essential
cofactors or helper nutrients or Co
enzymes which are slightly different now
you could look at both of these as the
keys that start the car or the engine be
one especially b1 zinc
especially potassium magnesium chromium
manganese calcium other B vitamins like
b3 b6 b5 are essential and necessary in
the burning of glucose so this process
in your mitochondria which is energy
factory cannot work without these so if
you're consuming pure glucose without
these your body is going to have to get
it from somewhere so it's going to pull
it from your reserves and it's going to
start depleting you of these nutrients
specifically and this is why when you
consume glucose without nutrients you
start having issues like for example if
you consume a lot of glucose you start
becoming deficient in b1 and you get
nervous your heart races you can't sleep
I mean there's a lot of other symptoms
like brain fog apotheke zinc you might
start noticing little white spots in
your nails your immune system is weak
your testosterone goes down when you're
missing potassium your heart rate starts
going higher and higher because
potassium is the brakes
the accelerator on the heartbeats so
there's a lot of things that can happen
when you consume straight sugar now if
you were going to do cane sugar or
molasses which has all the nutrients
you're not going to deplete these now
you're gonna have other problems because
of the glucose but if you're consuming
sugar with nutrients obviously it's not
going to have that effect but so many
people consume refined carbohydrates
white rice for example you're really
going to deplete b1 refined grains
turning the glucose and you're going to
deplete these now whole grains are a
little different
whole grains do have some of the B
vitamins they have the minerals they
have zinc but the problem is they also
have in the brand part phytic acid which
blocks the minerals so you're going to
create a deficiency through that way now
one thing about vitamin C is that
vitamin C is very similar to glucose in
this chemistry and if there's glucose
going into the cell okay at the same
time by the masse is there your body
will uptake glucose and not bottom
you'll see that's why you start becoming
deficient in vitamin C because the
glucose can override this mechanism so
you start seeing your gums start
bleeding when you're brushing your teeth
you start getting tired that's like a
mild subclinical version of scurvy so
this is why if you're new to my channel
you need to get on the healthy keto and
intermittent fasting plan I put a link
down below thanks for watching so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
