so today we're going to touch on sulfur
sulfur is the most important element in
detoxification now in the liver you have
various enzymes that turn poisons and
toxins into harmless particles and a lot
of these enzymes are software-based
so phase one you're going from a
fat-soluble chemical or poison to a
water-soluble chemical enzymes can do
that Phase two takes that water-soluble
compound and makes it less poisonous
even more and then phase three it exits
the cell and is removed from the body
and you need sulfur to make these
enzymes work software is also involved
in three very important amino acids that
our cofactors to help make glutathione
which is one of the most important
antioxidants in the body also sulfur is
involved in two vitamins biotin and
thymine which is b1
now there's other things involved in
detoxification as well like vitamin A B
2 B 3 B 9 which is folate vitamin C and
vitamin E but sulfur is the most
important one now where do you can
suffer cruciferous like radish kale
brussel sprouts asparagus garlic onion
eggs fish cheese oh and by the way go
ahead and comment below on which one of
these you like the most
I'm really curious if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
