now today we're gonna talk about ammonia
and the toxicity in the brain now I have
done some videos on ammonia before
especially if you have a strong odor in
your urine and what that comes from this
is mainly going to be the toxic effect
in your brain it's not a bad thing but
when you're fasting or you're doing the
ketogenic diet you're generating a lot
of ketones as your fuel ketones are
acidic ammonia is basic so ammonia is
generated to counter some of the acidity
from the ketones it's not a bad thing
your body is just compensating for the
acidic urine so if you're fasting and
your urine is very very strong like
ammonia I would not worry about it
and now if you're consuming a lot of
protein you may smell like an ammonia
type odor that can be either some
ammonia or just a really concentrated
byproduct of ammonia which is called
urea which is less toxic that is usually
not a problem unless you have liver
damage now if you have liver damage or
kidney damage you may not break down
ammonia Foley to urea and so it could
actually build up and it could back up
into the brain as well but ammonia is a
byproduct of protein amino acids now the
friendly bacteria in your gut also make
proteins they make neurotransmitters so
if there's an imbalance with your
microbes you could actually generate
excessive amounts of ammonia and that's
one cause of ammonia in your brain as
well
it's from the gut and one of the
solutions medically is that they use an
antibiotic to lower ammonia of course I
have a different viewpoint on that but
if your gut is not right that could
affect what's going on in the brain when
ammonia elevates in the brain it can
really be toxic to the neurons and
affect your clarity of thinking your
cognitive function your mood and you can
actually even go into a coma from that
now if you also over exercise that could
produce a problem because your body is
in this catabolic a breakdown Effect of
amino acids so this ammonia could come
from that potential
now another interesting thing relates to
this bacterium glyphosate from Ronda
Peretti
it's an herbicide in GMO products really
goes after your bacteria in your gut and
one of the deficiencies that's created
is a manganese deficiency and manganese
is essential in producing enzymes to
break down ammonia so if you're
generating ammonia from your gut
bacteria that could be the manganese
deficiency from what you're eating
you're just having too much glyphosate
and that's really the underlying cause
which is in so many foods so as a
natural remedy manganese can help
detoxify ammonia another natural remedy
to lessen the amount of ammonia in your
body is sauerkraut why because you're
enhancing the friendly bacteria plus
it's a prebiotic or fiber which feeds
the microbes so it's a pre and a
probiotic vegetables will give you the
fiber to make more friendly bacteria as
well as the phytonutrients to help the
liver in the phase 1 phase 2
detoxification so vegetables do help the
liver and the kidney detoxify waste also
go on a moderate protein diet try not to
do too much especially if you have a
liver problem or a kidney issue because
that can just generate too much ammonia
alright so there you have it these are
the four things that can help reduce
ammonia in your body
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
