hello again in this video we're going to
talk about the relationship between your
gall bladder and your eyes okay
I've had some patients coming in the
past that notice when they had their
gallbladders out their vision went down
and the reason for that is that vitamin
A is a fat soluble vitamin okay
it supports the membranes that surround
the eye and also the membranes in the
inside of the eyelid itself
it supports the cornea which is the
transparent front part of the eye it
also decreases the risk of certain types
of infection on the eye it prevents
night blindness also it prevents dry
eyes and prevents officers now
carotenoids are a pro vitamin A or a pre
vitamin A that will turn into the active
form called retinol but these are in
plants like kale spinach in leafy greens
this is also fat Seibel and it's great
to support the macula and prevent
macular degeneration which is a little
part of the back part of the retina now
if someone doesn't have a gallbladder or
they don't have enough bile because the
gallbladder is congested or it's
sluggish they're not going to actually
be able to break down the fat soluble
vitamins specifically vitamin A and
carotenoids and eventually it's going to
affect the eyes so the gallbladder is a
little sac that concentrates bile okay
like up to 20 times so when you eat it
contracts it squeezes out and it starts
to dissolve and break down some of these
foods specifically the the fats that
have that contain the vitamin A and then
the pancreas releases an enzyme called
lipase which takes that particle and
breaks it down even further so they work
together so there is a situation where
you can have a pancreatic deficiency of
enzymes and it's not really the
gallbladder that's another possibility
but most common thing is the gallbladder
because so many people have those
removed and then they have issues now if
someone doesn't have a gallbladder or
they have some sluggishness you can't
get some purified bio salts to assist in
the breakdown of vitamin A and these
carotenoids so we just have to determine
is the problem not enough vitamin A in
the die
or is in a lack of absorption some of
the gallbladder symptoms right shoulder
pain headaches constipation because bile
lubricates the colon bloating when
you're eating like you're driving at
night and you can't quite see in the
dark you're squinting or sinus problems
because it affects the inside of the
mucous membranes or dry eyes or any
additional symptom that might related to
vitamin A deficiency and go ahead and
comment below and tell me if you've ever
had any of the symptoms from vitamin
either a vitamin A deficiency or a
gallbladder deficiency thanks for
watching hey I appreciate your attention
and if you're enjoying these videos go
ahead and subscribe and I will
definitely keep you updated on future
events live events and webinars that
we're going to do very soon
