you know when I was in my 20s I was very
very stupid in the subject of health and
wellness my awareness is very very low
and I was eating things that you would
be shocked if you actually if I told you
I'm not going to even mention it so
there's so much confusion out there of
like what diet is good which one's bad
which one is correct which one's
incorrect so what I did I actually had
to hit bottom before I really looked at
the subject of nutrition really to the
core because I wanted to find out the
truth because I was so sick myself so
what I did was I I looked at the dietary
requirements that our body needs and
there are things called RDAs recommended
dietary allowances and those things are
developed by the USDA and the thing is
that I think those are way too low but I
just use those as my standard and I
built a program to analyze several diet
counts or some of the big diets out
there and I wanted to find out if we
could reverse-engineer this and
basically find out what nutrients we
need and then match the foods that would
fulfill that and satisfy that
recommendation you'd probably have the
most perfect diet because if you think
about it the thing that heals your body
the reason why we eat food is to get
nutrients not just to get carbohydrates
or proteins or fats but to actually
repair our body tissue to replace our
body tissue so I did that and the diet
that I have in Chapter ten is the end
result of that research in fact to build
the program and you can take the quiz
and find out and compare what you're
eating to what you should be eating to
see where your weaknesses are if you
want but the thing is that it's a little
bit difficult to reach that maximum
where there's a loud bird up there it's
hard to reach that maximum amount that
you need simply because the soils are so
bad so you're going to have to enhance
your diet with some type of whole food
concentrate but just make sure it's not
synthetic so in other words I want you
to start focusing not on some don't look
for some diet instead just eat for
nutrients find out
that would support all the nutrients and
go for that and I've done the work for
you just need to turn the chapter 10 do
the eating plan get healthy lose weight
in fact that's why people don't crave
anymore because I mean it fulfills all
those deficiencies that create craving
so I hope that helped I'll see you in
the next video
