hey guys so in this video I want to talk
about the absolute most important vital
nutrient for an infant okay DHA
now there are a lot of important
nutrients for an infant but DHA is the
most important one because this omega-3
fat makes up 30% of all the lipids for
the brain it makes up 50% of all the
lipids for the retina so DHA is
essential in the development of the
brain the size of the brain and the
function of the brain
now many infant formulas just don't have
enough DHA and without this very
important fat the cognitive function is
going to suffer the IQ is going to
suffer the size of the brain is going to
be smaller the vision is going to be
impaired well where do we get it well we
get it from breast milk if you're
breastfeeding which I highly recommend
but when you make the transition from
breast milk to actual food I highly
recommend doing some cod liver oil and
one egg yolk a day okay make sure it's
pasture raised or organic but there's
some really great things in egg you know
including DHA you have phospholipids
which make up the the membranes or in
the brain and throughout the body and
also B vitamins which include most all
of them like folate but b2 is actually
more in the egg white but I don't
recommend the egg white until the baby
is at least one years old just to
prevent any possible allergies that
might develop the egg yolk has vitamin A
and vitamin D and vitamin E and vitamin
k2 very very important
carotenoids this is why when you have a
pasture-raised organic egg you'll notice
that the egg yolk is orange and not
yellow that's the carotenoids and the
beta carotene also egg yolks are a
little with zinc and selenium and other
trace minerals and also it's important
to breastfeed as long as possible
to maximize the quality of nutrients and
I'm not talking about till they're 16
years old I'm talking about to a year or
maybe longer
alright thanks for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
