hi guys I want to do a video on ketosis
after cheat day well first of all I want
to know whoever said you could actually
cheat on the program anyway I don't know
who made that up I mean ketosis after
cheat day is very is equivalent to
marriage after a cheat day you you might
end up with some problems right because
what happens is it took you two to six
weeks to get into ketosis because your
cells have to adapt your uh enzymes have
to adapt and you're going along and s
you have a cheat day well you think you
can just like a switch and pop it right
back well if it took 2 weeks to get into
ketosis how many how much time you think
it's going to take to get back into it
after you cheat it could take anywhere
between 48 to 72 hours if you're lucky
but sometimes up to a week yeah I'm
sorry to tell you that and so there's
some variables I want to talk about um
if you're 23 years old and you're a guy
and you're fairly thin you could
probably flip back and forth with no
problem but if you're or sixy old female
that has Ben in diets it's going to be a
situation because the metabolism is
still not repaired so in other words if
you cheat just realize it's going to
take a long time to get you back into
where you started from now sometimes
people will when I evaluate them I find
out they haven't gone back to the
original eating plan it's somewhat of a
modified ketogenic diet where they're
each day they're eating a little bit of
the wrong food well they'll never get
back into ketogenic uh ketosis because
the whole Hallmark of ketosis is low
carbs really low carbs okay so the
variables are metabolism so that's going
to predict how fast you can get back
into ketosis if your metabolism is good
you could probably get back to and fast
also your age that's important and how
long you've been in ketosis if you've
done this for several years your system
is finally efficient where you could
probably switch back and do it pretty
easy but if you've done this you started
last month and you you lived your whole
life on sugar it could bump you uh way
out of ketosis and I keep getting this
question you know I had my cheat day and
it's I'm not back in the ketosis and
it's been a week I said well you're not
quite there yet so and I don't know who
gave you authorization to cheat anyway
but I never did uh so and then how well
you're sticking to ketosis when you're
doing it and then how much you cheat so
if you're cheating a whole day versus
let's say one meal that could be a
variable as well so I just wanted to
point I out that I think your cheat
should be a healthy uh pleasure food
that you can actually make with these
recipes I'll put some links below like
you have the keto boms you can do with
chocolate you can do with almond flour
and really enjoy that but if you're
going to just carb out um that could be
a problem and just have the expectation
that it's going to take some time to get
back all right thanks for watching
