so let's discuss bariatric surgery in
relationship to vitamin deficiencies so
many people are getting the surgery and
seeing benefit with their diabetes now
why does it help diabetes well there are
two ways to increase insulin one is by
consuming a lot of carbohydrates but the
other is by consuming food in general
because every time you eat you trigger
insulin through a hormone in the small
intestine called GIP gastric inhibitory
peptide so you trigger this hormone
which then increases insulin so there's
something in your small intestine that
has the ability to trigger insulin even
if you're not consuming insulin it's
just food in general so when they do
surgery to your small intestine you have
a less ability to trigger insulin in
general and your insulin goes down now
is that healthy on one hand it's healthy
because it's going to reduce insulin but
on the other you're artificially
altering that part of your body and it
comes with a package because now we have
an altered digestive system that it's
more difficult to fulfill the nutrient
requirements and we're gonna have less
absorptive surface of your digestive
system to pull in those nutrients the
most common vitamin and mineral
deficiencies with a gastric bypass would
be vitamin b1 b12 vitamin E vitamin D
and copper okay these are the most
common and then they can lead to all
sorts of additional symptoms this could
be with your skin heart this could be
bone pain calcium metabolism overall
mood immune system this one can be
neurological so could this one this one
could relate to anemia this one can
relate to so many things from energy to
heart so if you already had bariatric
surgery this is what I'm gonna recommend
nutritional yeast to get your B vitamins
okay
trace minerals not just copper but all
the trace minerals like zinc for example
because a lot of times when they reduce
the size of your stomach you're not
going to have the ability to absorb
minerals in general and definitely trace
minerals now vitamin D you want to just
get more Sun or cod liver oil very
important and also with the greens
powder a concentrated high-quality
greens powder you can get not just your
vitamin E but you can get minerals Fido
nutrients from that so in other words
I'm recommending taking a concentrated
food nutrient as compared to individual
vitamins and definitely synthetic
vitamins you want to avoid that you also
want to take out cider vinegar maybe
through the day with some water diluted
not by itself you can sip it with a
straw but this is gonna help the
absorption of minerals okay and the
other thing I'm going to highly
recommend is in a minute fasting because
this will allow you to tap into your own
fat more efficiently and also lower your
nutrient requirements in general the
more intermittent fasting you do the
less nutrients you actually need because
your body starts recycling these
minerals now if you're considering a
bariatric surgery and you haven't done
it yet you may want to hold off and do
healthy keto and in a bit of fasting
because those two things together can
greatly help someone with a slow
metabolism I had a guy who came to my
last summit he was 600 pounds okay he
did not do bariatric surgery he's down
to 230 pounds right now
and he's doing great I'll put a link
down below for his story but there is a
way to do this without surgery thanks
for watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
