well hello today we're gonna talk about
vitamin D in relationship to your immune
system now I had this idea that I
already had this video and I searched
and I couldn't find it
there may be a video out that I just
can't find that I already did but I'm
just gonna do a video specifically on
the immune system first thing you need
to know is that vitamin D is intimately
connected to every single immune
reaction in fact the white blood cells
have the ability to make vitamin D
active so in vitamin E is very important
in fact viruses as one of their
strategies is to downgrade or turn off
the vitamin D receptor so you can't get
any more vitamin D because apparently
they know that vitamin E is very very
important and so that's one way that
they thrive so vitamin D deficiencies
occur when there's not enough Sun right
in the winter why do you think we have
the spike of flu and other viral
infections it's because the vitamin D is
low in fact in the pandemic of 1918 a
Spanish flu it peaked in January which
is in the winter now another thing
that's interesting about the winter
months or basically between November and
March we have much higher incidence of
autoimmune diseases like lupus ms type 1
diabetes rheumatoid arthritis irritable
bowel disease why because vitamin D is a
natural kind of a steroid
anti-inflammatory and so it has a key
function in reducing inflammation when
you have an autoimmune disease the thing
that really creates the damage is the
inflammatory process so if you have
enough d you can have a lot less
inflammation
it's the inflammation that causes all
the collateral damage and what's wild
about this is our own body is creating
damage and so that's just it's just
really bizarre vitamin D is a immuno
modulator
okay what does that mean modulator it
means that it helps to normalize
something that is too much or too little
so it brings into a normal range and
specifically when we talk about like the
cytokine storm where you have this hyper
inflammatory condition we have this
overreaction vitamin D can actually calm
it down
the ki cell that's involved with
suppressing this these cytokines or
these inflammatory compounds is the T
regulatory cell next thing we're to talk
about is there's two compounds that your
immune system makes as anti microbials
and both of these need vitamin D vitamin
D is essential in producing these two
compounds the first one is called
catalase side ins and cathal aside ins
are produced by the phagocytes
macrophages and neutrophils to act as a
weapon to kill off microbes and they
tend to damage the wall of the cell the
cellular membrane of the pathogen and
punch a hole in it and if there's not
enough vitamin D you'll have just too
much inflammation and when side effect
would be psoriasis many times people
with psoriasis have gut problems and
they can't absorb vitamin D in which
case they need to take higher doses next
chemical is defense in you need vitamin
D to make defensive defense and is
needed in the mucous membranes breast
milk has defensin it's a very powerful
antimicrobial if you don't have vitamin
D this can also get out of control and
it can create rosacea another remedy for
rosacea which is like the reddish cheeks
vitamin D now before antibiotics doctors
used a vitamin D compound in cod liver
oil as the remedy to help infections
like TB for example so cod liver oil was
used son was recommended for TB but then
it came antibiotics
and then the cod liver oil was no longer
talked about except by your grandmother
cod liver oil is a really good source of
vitamin D and vitamin A for the mucous
membranes and omega-3 fatty acids DHA
and EPA but the Sun not only gives you
vitamin D but it has other properties
too that can help lower infection there
are therapeutic benefits from the UV
light and other wavelengths including
infrared I just want to give you an
overall understanding of the importance
of vitamin D and also let you know that
it's virtually impossible to get your
vitamin D from food you need to get it
from Sun ideally and during the winter
months take it as a supplement see you
in the next video with another amazing
recipe no brains no sugar
totally Kido there's no suffering kita
absolutely not Karen and it's an immune
system builder absolutely you have to
check this out I think you should hurry
up watch the recipe and make it yourself
it's just so easy to be keto
but is it simple it's super simple we
hope you enjoy making it as much as we
are enjoying eating
