if you want any chance of burning off
belly fat you need to watch this entire
video I'm going to explain six foods
that will directly prevent you from ever
losing your belly fat I'm talking about
a type of fat called visceral fat that
is a fat around the organs keeps your
body in a state of inflammation and when
your own fat is inflamed because you
have visceral fat that alone keeps you
from burning it let's start with the
first food and it's this right here
lowfat yogurt 27 G of carbohydrate
there's only 19 g of sugar but there's
an additional 8 G of hidden sugar as
starch but they don't really tell you
you have to read and understand the
label because the first ingredient is
lowfat milk the second is sugar water
and then the next one is modified food
starch that is hidden sugar this is what
it is right here it's a powder and let
me tell you about industrial starch it's
not just modified food starch it's
modified cornstarch maltodextrin and
many other types of starch the reason
why it's worse than sugar is that it's
not really sweet so people are consuming
a lot more of it than actual sugar if
you look at the glycemic index it turns
into glucose a lot faster than table
sugar turns in the glucose so even
though it's not classified as a sugar it
acts like a sugar but worse than sugars
is creating this constant elevation of
blood sugar which is going to burn out
your pancreas a lot faster it's going to
lead to more diabetes what's really wild
is the purpose of the starch and food is
just to act as a filler it's something
to add bulk in a product industrial
starch goes through high Heats chemical
processing deodorizers they take out the
color with different chemicals so you're
ending up with this like completely dead
product that then has to be flavored
colored and then if we look at the
bottom of the label it'll say made with
bioengineered food ingredients that is
another word for GMO genetically
modified ingredients creating this
appearance a very healthy but it's not
very healthy next food item we're going
to talk about is processed meat
processed meat is very different than
grass-fed beef we're going to take a
look at this chicken hot dogs with pork
added the first ingredient is called
mechanically separated chicken what the
hell is mechanically separated chicken
that is a refined product where they
they process it I'm not even objecting
to that one okay what I am objecting to
the corn syrup is actually made from the
corn starch this is an industrial sugar
that will really spike your BL BL sugar
it's not healthy and when you add sugar
to meat where you're going to get is
something called Advanced glycated
proteins they're not very healthy they
have to use high Heats they use ammonia
sometimes chlorine to kill the bacteria
this is the stuff that they put in the
chicken nuggets and a lot of the other
breaded chicken Meats of course they
also added the modified corn starch in
here as well you don't want to buy a hot
dog that has that much starch and sugar
a much better hot dog would be something
like this let's take a look at these
ingredients organic grass-fed beef then
we get sea salt organic vinegar baking
soda organic garlic organic spices take
a wild guess how much carbohydrate is in
this 0 GRS here you are trying to lose
weight thinking that you're eating all
this great protein when in fact you're
not the next one we're going to get to
is my favorite the Atkins products this
gives you a perception that wow it's
ketofriendly it's low carb 1 G of sugar
you're automatically thinking man this
is great until you read the ingredients
milk protein concentrate and then the
soy protein isolate these are very low
quality proteins the cheapest proteins
you can possibly imagine the very bottom
contains
bioengineered food ingredients it's not
truly nutrient dense it doesn't come
from any real food it's highly process
if Dr Atkins ever knew that this company
would end up like this he'd probably be
very upset I know I would be upset if
someone started to Market this under my
name but typically when you consume
these so-called ketofriendly Foods they
add a lot of fiber in there it's usually
industrial fiber synthetic fibers you're
going to get a lot of bloating diarrhea
over time we're going to find out that
that's going to really affect our weight
just like artificial sweeteners have
been found to create more problems with
their gut converting into things that
then lead to insulin resistance and more
weight gain problems the next food we're
going to talk about is juice juice first
thing you see is 100% vitamin C you're
like wow healthy but when you read the
ingredients this only contains 5% actual
juice let's see what the ingredients are
oh wow water in high fructose corn syrup
this is literally liquid candy I think
this is false advertising they shouldn't
be able to put that on there now the
other thing that's interesting about
this is they'll have a concentrated
orange juice that means that that juice
could be sitting up to a year in a vat
losing all of the nutrition then we take
it out and then we add water to turn it
into something not very nutrient dense
if we're talking about actual juice like
orange juice that usually has more sugar
than soda that's a lot of fructose
fructose cannot be broken down by all of
your cells only your liver can process
that fructose what happens because of
that is your liver starts generating a
lot more fat it creates more of a fatty
liver than actual glucose because with
glucose at least all your cells can
metabolize it but with fructose only Li
can break it down the next product I
want to talk about is agava nectar it's
something like between 15 and 30 on the
glycemic index now how can that be it's
a sweetener it tastes just like sugar
syrup well that's because 80 to 90% of
it is fructose only a very tiny bit of
it is glucose you don't want to consume
things that are very high in fructose
that's going to really mess with your
liver coconut sweetener would be better
and also honey is better if it's raw but
if you're trying to lose weight weight
probably not a good idea because anytime
you consume sugar and starch you're
going to spike the glycemic index and
that's going to bump you out of ketosis
one little side point about insulin I
think it'd be super valuable for all
these doctors to do periodic screenings
of testing your insulin because your
insulin will go high about 15 years
before your blood sugars start elevating
but we don't do that doctors don't test
insulin it's going to be left to the
point where eventually your blood sugars
will rise and then you have diabetes and
it's been brewing in the oven for 15
years and well now we got to put you on
medication lastly I'm going to get into
mayonnaise which basically is mostly soy
oil processed through industrial Heats
hexane chemicals you're getting a lot of
extra things that you don't really want
this type of fat goes into your fat
cells and it doesn't get burned like
saturated fat it stays in your fat cells
longer and so when you consume this and
storing this in the fat cell I think
this is behind a lot of chronic disease
and time is going to prove that
especially since they call these oils
heart healthy and that's going to be a
class action suit waiting to happen now
you know at least six foods and the
ingredients in those foods to stay away
from if you really want to lose your
belly fat we're good
