hey guys Dr Berg here in this video
we're going to talk about something very
very cool it's called lactic acid I
don't know if you ever heard of that
before but lactic acid bacteria is
probably one of your most friendly
bacteria that you have in your gut and
this is what it looks like right here
this is lactic acid this is called
Kombucha tea and it's looks disgusting
it has like a fungus in there they're
little tiny friendly microbes so these
little friendly guys will create a
really powerful uh beneficial acid that
goes in your gut first of all they help
neutralize the toxic bacteria so they're
actually good to support your immune
system they deodorize bad smells so they
actually get rid of rotten smells that
are in your colon so when you go to the
bathroom if you have a bad smell you
need to consume some lactic acid from
something like Kombucha tea and they
also uh enhance the nutritional benefit
of your Foods because it's an acid it
allows you to absorb more proteins amino
acid uh like also uh minerals trace
minerals calcium zinc so this enhances
the nutritional value of the food that
you already eat if your colon is not
acid enough you're not going to be able
to break down food so this ensures that
the pH is correct in the large and small
intestine so it also helps your skin
it's a blood cleanser it's a colon
cleanser like I said it loves muc mucus
membranes so in your colon you have
these layers of mucus membranes and also
in your mouth and the different parts of
your body and your sinuses this is
wonderful to support the mucous membrane
so it's an overall great thing for your
immune system now what's interesting is
this stuff is made from white sugar and
black tea so you take and I'll actually
put the recipe Below in the link but you
basically take sugar and you dissolve it
in water and you put black tea in it
with
caffeine and then you let it cool down
and you put these little this little
fungus in here looks discussing and then
the fungus starts eating up the caffeine
and the tea and the sugar and converts
it into lactic acid pretty wild so we're
basically consuming kind of the waste
product from these microbes with a lot
of good benefits so you can also get
this from consuming pickles right you
can also get it from uh kefir which is a
type of sour yogurt you can get it from
yogurt you can get it from pickled
vegetables and my favorite which is
sauerkraut so start consuming these
fermented foods and enhance the benefit
from your food thanks for watching
