so I wanted to bring up a couple points
and just discuss what I think is uh the
reason why you're frustrated going to
the doctor um this morning I was digging
through all my files and I was cleaning
out stuff and I'm shooting stuff away
and I stumbled on some things I kept I
went to Premed um University of
Wisconsin Parkside and then I went to
Chiropractic College I'm not a medical
doctor I didn't go to medical school but
we were taught a tremendous amount of
anatomy and physiology and biochemistry
so this morning I'm cleaning out my
files and I stumbled on some some old uh
little folders that I used to keep and I
used to sketch things out uh in school
because so I can visualize it like this
right here I was sketching out all the
cranial nerves like that's a work of art
right I mean amazing the stuff that you
had to learn here's the cranial nerve
number seven all the different Pathways
all the different structures here's
cranial nerve number uh nine colossal
Fango and uh just the detail that you
had to know uh was just crazy um here's
another one right here cranial nerve
number five actually I was a quite a
quite a good artist there but the depth
of anatomy physiology that we had to
learn was quite crazy I mean Here's the
the um anterior and posterior lobe of
the pituitary and all the different
hormones all the different functions all
the different Pathways all the different
pathologies the different types of
cancer and here's here's a little chart
on class that renal physiology the study
of the kidney and all the different
things that you had to know quite
extensive but what really hit me this
morning when I was talking to my wife
about this everything is like
classification all these diseases are a
classification or labeling these
conditions and diseases and of course
the anatomy physiology but there's very
little practical application and that
means what do you do with all this stuff
so I pulled
out a medical pathology book just to
kind of show you a couple things and I
pulled out um you know hyper calmia that
means hyper is high calmia is potassium
so the condition of high Potassium so
just here's just an example what I'm
talking about so you look at the basics
so it talks about how common this
condition is the risk factors uh
genetics and then we get ideology which
is basically the cause okay of high
Potassium and it gives you all these
potential causes okay then you have the
diagnosis and then you have the
treatment which is medication now here's
the big problem that I see there is
there's probably about I would say 40
different causes but they don't teach
you the
connection between Diet they don't give
you the Practical knowledge of what
you're going to find when you actually
work with a patient they definitely do
not connect the food aspects of what
that patient is putting in their mouth
that could create this
problem all right here's another one
hypokalemia that's low pottassium so
they talk about how common it is the
risk factors the most common causes it
says decrease intake of potassium well
that's good that's good uh deficient
diets um being an alcoholic elderly
anorexia vomiting diarrhea okay that's
cool um kidney problems and then they
show you how to diagnose it treatment
medication
interesting okay um let's see what else
they have the prognosis all right here
we go the diet in patients with mild
hypokalemia that's low potassium in the
blood not caused by bleeding or vomiting
dietary supplementation may be
sufficient
okay potassium rich foods includes
oranges bananas cantaloupes prunes
raisins dried beans dried apricots and
squash well here's the problem they all
these they're they're recommending the
fruits what about leafy greens what
about um avocado what about beet tops
what about kale what about pistachios
these are all much higher in potassium
but it doesn't really tell you what kind
of supplementation because the body
needs like 4700 milligrams so the
problem is they're recommending some
foods that have some potassium but not
very very high in fact one banana is 300
milligrams so you need 4700 you'd have
to have like I don't know a a lot of
bananas right to actually fulfill your
need so the big disconnect is practical
application how are we going to use the
diet to fix this okay that's really
what's missing here's here's another
one sorosis of the liver okay so they
have a
description um you know occurs in 40 and
50y old U people um predominantly in
males um ninth leading cause of death
okay that's all interesting information
uh risk factors genetics ideology okay
so this is the cause chronic hepatitis
alcohol abuse typ C okay so we have that
the diagnos it physical
exam treatment first
line
medication
wow okay so let's keep going here
surgery oh they do have complimentary
and alternative medicine milk thistle
that's good um ongoing care they talk
about
diet um a high protein diet may cause
more problems
um but protein restriction is no longer
recommended coffee consumption has a uh
graded and inverse association with
liver cancer so again they're not
showing you the stuff that's really
really really important like the high
levels of insulin in in the blood from a
high carbohydrate refined carbohydrate
diet causing stros of the liver so
they're emitting this really key piece
of the puzzle and they don't mention
anything about H High fruitos corn syrup
so this is the disconnect
so when someone going through medical
school has to learn all this information
okay tremendous amount of information
there's not a lot of time um to really
evaluate and figure this stuff out it's
like let's pass the test get through it
graduate then practice and try to figure
it out but you're coming out of school
without the knowledge of the Basic Foods
the basic information on food the
correct information on what to eat okay
here's another one anxiety okay so they
go into the risk factors um it says
right here risk factors Caucasian race
wow if you're Caucasian you're going to
you're going to have more
anxiety uh let's see family history um
genetics all right
ideology uh
neurotransmitter
problems okay they have this a lot of
associated
conditions again this is like they're
not talking about the Vital Information
they're talking about the trivial
information and just like data overload
on steroids okay then we get the
diagnosis okay so there is no blood test
you can do this is all
subjective um they go into that asking
questions physical exam there's you're
not going to actually looked anything on
the on a some type of diagnostic test
it's all again just by asking them
questions all right treatment all right
first line is the type of medication and
they give you list of drugs second line
is some different
medications
okay and then let's see here additional
therapies cognitive
therapy and then they have at the last
thing they have complimentary and
Alternative Health yoga
meditation uh Cava St John's wart okay
diet limit caffeine
avoid alcohol under differential
diagnosis they do have something pretty
cool says nutritional
thiamine wow thomine
deficiency this right here is the most
important thing you need to know about
anxiety it's usually a thyine deficiency
from a high carbohydrate diet or high
stress diet because as soon as you give
the person thyine and provide that as
part of their Foods you actually um can
greatly reduce anxiety and I don't see
anything about the adrenals as well so
uh you know High cortisol levels stress
things like that I don't see anything
about sleeping so you can see that um
this is the frustration that you have
because basically in medical school the
there's a big disconnect between what
you put in your mouth and how it affects
all these different diseases whether
it's cancer anemia or neurological
disorders the most important thing a
doctor should learn and emphasize is the
basic diet all right guys well tell me
what you think about this in the comment
down below and I'll see you in the next
video hey if you're liking this content
Please Subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
