hi guys in this video I'm going to show
you and teach you how to uh work on the
neck now you're going to need someone to
do this on you or you can have uh you do
it to someone else or um you can even
have a massage tool and use it on
yourself but let me show you what to do
okay so first thing you do is you
support the head this way and you take
your hands just like this take your
middle finger right here I'm not
flipping you off but middle finger and
thumb okay and you're going to be going
this way so you're going to need your
hand on the forehead just make sure you
don't mess up the person's hair okay now
it starts off up here with the first
cervical vertebrae and it goes to seven
some people have a very straight neck
this guy has no neck problems so he's
lucky but what happens we want to feel
in there we want to press in there
starting right underneath the skull
press equally to see if there's any type
of stiffness okay so I'll check here and
here and when you press you'll feel it
should feel a little springy but you'll
compare you're comparing this one to
this one to this one to this one all the
way down and you're going to find one or
two that are going to be like completely
stuck so let's just pretend it's up here
okay all you're going to do is you're
about that wide right in you're going to
press in and hold okay and I'm kind of
coming out a little bit so it's very it
feels really good so I'm going to hold
this
pressure and the person's going to feel
really
relaxed for about I might do this for 30
seconds now when I'm pressing in here
I'm comparing the left and the right
muscles so on the left side with him
it's tighter so I'll emphasize the left
a little bit more than the right to
equalize that pressure so I'll do this
for a minute and the person will feel
really relaxed okay then I'm going to go
down to the next segment and feel that
one so we got the first one which is one
and then two it's interesting when you
do two the second one you can actually
help people drain their sinuses so if
you have sinus issues you can try that
so with this one I'm going to press in
here and I'm just pressing this way and
supporting the head so it kind of comes
back okay so I'm coming in there
pressing in and
holding for about a minute maybe 30
seconds uh especially if the if it's the
neck is straight and I'll keep doing
this all the way down here so right down
here this is uh C3 C4
C5 now what I'm going to do with this
one is he's really tight on the left
side so I'm going to press the left side
a little bit more and just hold pressure
in there this is really good to help if
someone has a sore throat or a history
of sore throats or a scratchy uh throat
okay if someone had a sore throat and
you did this you can actually relieve
the
symptoms because it takes the uh the
tension out of the neck so I'm just
holding this here and I'm pressing this
for like a
minute so I'm going to go all the way
down to the six vertebrae down here and
I can feel the left side right here I'm
not flipping you off left side is is
really really
tight okay so I'll emphasize the left
and I'll just press this and he's going
to feel really relax when I do this this
will help if someone has a scratchy
throat let's say they're a singer and
they're have laryngitis or their horse
if you press down here and hold this
you'll see that sometimes it'll actually
pop up in the voice again you should try
it and just see for
yourself okay so again you take take
your fingers like this press in this way
hold ahead come right down and hold
pressure for like a minute and that will
give the person will help them sleep
it'll help relax the whole spine but if
you can relax this part you it'll just
go right down here if you don't have
someone to do this on you you can use
the massage tool and have it done just
by leaning back put the little tool
right back there lean back and let the
body gravity do its job okay all right
go ahead and try this and put your
comments down
below hi guys listen I created an
evaluation quiz it is quite long it's
104 questions but it's very thorough
click the link below and take it and it
will help you to find out what's really
behind all your symptoms
