this is one of my most popular adrenal
uh products is called adrenal body type
support okay the adrenal is on top of
the kidney you have two of them and this
supports the adrenal which is a stress
gland so it has several ingredients that
are are pretty cool it has Gaba what is
Gaba Gaba is a natural remedy to help
increase growth hormone which is the uh
growth hormone is the anti-aging hormone
it's the hormone that helps belly fat
since stress triggers hormones that make
belly fat growth hormone is the opposite
thing that counters that okay so it has
something with that so Gaba also helps
your nervous system it helps you relax
helps anxiety stress calming it helps
you wind down easily it also has Romania
root which combats adrenal stress St
John's wart which is a mood stabilizer
and reduces stress and L glutamine which
counters stress and helps recovery
because so many people are burnt out
this will actually help them recover
that stress burnt out state it also has
adrenal extract and pituitary extract
because the pituitary controls the
adrenal from the brain so it has this
whole feedback loop that goes around
this way it also has many other
nutrients to help
support the health of a healthy adrenal
okay so if you have any adrenal stress
you may want to try this out because
it's a it's one of my most popular
products and it will help to reduce
stress it'll help you sleep and it will
help maintain healthy adrenals
