today I'm going to talk about the
importance of the intestinal mucosal
barrier so a first question is what is
it well it's simply a barrier between
the inside of your colon which you have
all the microbes I'm talking about the
large bowel okay so most of the microbes
the friendly bacteria should exist in
the large bowel and so here are the
microbes right here and then there's a
barrier I mucosal barrier it's thick
there's new kiss in it and then you have
the cells of the colon called colano
sites and these little guys will absorb
selectively certain nutrients okay now
most of your nutrients and your protein
is absorbed in the small intestine the
large bowel is all about fermenting
fiber but there is some water and some
electrolyte absorption but this mucosal
barrier is the first line of defense
okay so the body's trying to protect
itself from pathogens and also from
these microbes getting into the body so
we want to keep these guys out here so
they can ferment fiber because our
bodies cannot break down fiber so we get
help from our friendly microbes that
live in our body this mucosal barrier
also is antibacterial so it repels
bacteria it's also a place to ferment
fiber fiber is a carbohydrate but very
different than glucose this fiber does
not affect insulin so basically these
microbes eat the fiber and turn them
into fat small chain fatty acids okay
the most popular one is called butyrate
okay which is interesting because
butyrate is in the family of beta
hydroxy butyrate which is a ketone so it
has ketone effects also another function
of this barrier would be selective
absorption so the body is going to
absorb certain things that wants to
absorb and not other things and the one
thing is going to definitely absorb is
this fatty acid a small chain fatty acid
because the primary function of this
acid is to feed the colon cells
what's not being fed as energy to these
: cells can also be used by our body
because our liver can absorb it and use
it as energy as well another function of
this would be lubrication people are
always concerned about mucus and I don't
want to lose mucus in my body well your
body does need this mucus to provide for
lubrication so these little guys eat
fiber they turn into these little fatty
acids one being butyrate and then
butyrate feeds the colon cells butyrate
is also an anti-inflammatory so it's
very beneficial to people that have
inflammatory bowel conditions also it
improves insulin resistance so it helps
your blood sugars just like beta hydroxy
butyrate which is one of the ketones
very similar also butyrate is
anti-cancer and things like polyps and
tumors in the colon it also has sati
properties so it helps with hunger and
it just allows you to feel satisfied and
lastly butyrate will help maintain the
thickness of this mucosal barrier which
is very very important because if you
lose this barrier then these microbes
can get in there and create a lot of
problems so this is just another reason
why you should be consuming fiber as in
vegetables there's a couple things that
you can do to help heal this barrier in
addition to consuming vegetables one
would be to take glutamine glutamine
helps maintain this barrier right here
colostrum also will help reestablish
this barrier it can be gotten in a
powder form at the health food store in
a minute fasting very very very
important to help heal the gut reduce
inflammation and there's one more thing
I want to mention which is very
interesting I'm experimenting with it
with several people right now but it's
called bpc 1:27 this is a peptide okay
it's a natural peptide that you can take
in a pill and it goes in there and it
actually heals the lining of the gut I'm
gonna give you more information on this
in the upcoming weeks but it's one of
the peptides that doesn't have to be
injected you can take it orally in a
pill anyway there you have it the
importance of the intestinal mucosal
barrier
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
