let's talk about the unique difference
between the small intestine and the
large intestine or the colon over here
we have the small intestine so you have
the stomach small intestine it connects
with through a valve ileocecal valve and
then the food goes through the large
intestine one thing to know about the
small intestine it's a lot longer
there's three parts the first part is
about a little more than a foot it's
between 10 and 15 inches the next part
is about eight feet and the last part is
between 8 feet and 13 feet so it's quite
long
now the colon or the large intestine is
about five feet so let's start with
these small intestine 90% of all the
digestion occurs in the small intestine
now you have enzymes that are generated
from the pancreas and you also have
enzymes that are generated from the
small intestine itself to help break
down proteins carbohydrates and fat -
the fiber our bodies do not have the
capacity to break down fiber we just
don't have the enzymes however we have a
lot of microbes in the large bowel that
can ferment the fiber and break it down
and that's converted to some really
healthy things which we'll get to now in
the first part of the small intestine
you have the contents of the stomach and
also some of the juices from the
pancreas coming out to help neutralize
all the acid from the stomach so we have
a lot of digestion happening right here
we also have the absorption of iron when
someone gets surgery as in a gastric
bypass they may have difficulty
absorbing iron now this next part is
where you're gonna absorb the calcium
the magnesium some B vitamins vitamin C
folate and there's other nutrients as
well like trace minerals and in the last
part you're gonna absorb and recycle
bile salts so 90% of all the bile salts
will be reabsorbed you're also going to
absorb b12 you can absorb fat and the
fat soluble vitamins as well as certain
electrolytes so 90% of all the digestion
occurs in the small intestine now it's
alkaline which actually triggers certain
enzymes now if you have inflammation in
the colon or let's say you have celiac
which is
within the lining right through here
because you've consumed gluten which
you're sensitive to you're not going to
be able to absorb certain nutrients also
most of the friendly bacteria are in the
large intestine not the small but when
the microbes from the large intestine
back up and get into the small that's
called SIBO small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth in that situation these
microbes are going to pretty much
compete with these nutrients they're
going to eat up these nutrients eat up
your fuel and you're gonna have
nutritional deficiency you have a lot of
bloating and that's called SIBO I put a
video down below if you want more data
on that so let's move to the large
intestine so the contents from the small
intestine now are going to enter through
a little valve right here and you'll see
coal it's going to start going through
this larger space which is a colon and
the fiber is gonna start to ferment
you're also going to get water
absorption fluid absorption absorption
of electrolytes salts potassium which is
an electrolyte but we have a lot more
bacteria going on in the large intestine
you also have a large mucous layer so if
the surface of the Cole's right here we
have a layer of mucus and the microbes
are on top of that now the pH of the
colon is going to be more acidic from
certain bacteria that are making lactic
acid and the purpose of that acid is to
kill pathogens that should not be there
and but not affect our good bacteria now
when this fiber is fermented where you
have these microbes releasing enzymes to
break down this carbohydrate it's gonna
turn into small chain fatty acids and
one is called butyrate and butyrate
actually has a preferred fuel for the
colon cells even over glucose butyrate
also helps stabilize your blood sugars
it will give you energy and it will
improve insulin resistance alright
thanks for watching and definitely watch
the next video on this page that goes
more in depth on the entire cycle of
digestion
