hey I'm back today we're going to talk
about fasting exercise in your glycogen
reserve okay now what happens when you
fast as it causes a mild stress in the
body the body then adapts by increasing
the resistance to stress and resistance
to disease all sorts of really cool
things happen at the gene level that
improve inflammation autoimmune issues
because the body is basically in this
repair mode okay so it's a very positive
things that happen and also you have a
decrease in oxidative stress so you're
gonna have less degeneration you can
have all sorts of benefits but in order
to achieve the benefits from fasting you
must fast for at least 16 hours just
realize that the frequency of eating
decreases the benefits so if you're
gonna eat with an eight-hour eating
window just do two meals and over time
if you want to improve the benefits go
down to one meal a day and that will
increase the fasting time so in order
for you to get into a fasting state to
get the benefits you need to deplete
your glycogen Reserve and get into
fat-burning where you're actually living
off of your own fat and ketones and you
have about 1,600 to 2800 calories of
glycogen stored in your liver and in
your muscle now most of the glycogen is
stored in your liver okay
and some is stored in your muscle the
glycogen that's stored in the muscle
can't be used for the rest of the body
it can only be used for your muscle and
this is why we recommend this thing
called exercise okay to speed up the
process now if you were going to do no
exercise in just your daily activities
you could deplete your glycogen Reserve
within 12 to 22 hours okay if you're
gonna do mild exercise let's say you're
going out for a jog or a bike ride not
that much of a high pulse rate just a
moderate higher pulse rate it would take
between 60 to 90 minutes to deplete your
glycogen Reserve and if you did
high-intensity interval training it
would only take
twenty to forty minutes of exercise to
deplete this glycogen reserve so you can
see that if you add exercise you can
speed up the process and speed up the
improvement what we want to do is we
want to switch from sugar burning or
running off of your sugar you're a
stored sugar to burning fat okay this is
where you see most the benefits now when
you add exercise to fasting and you're
adapted to fat burning it's gonna happen
very smoothly and you won't have a bit
very many problems and you'll feel
really good and you won't have any
issues with blood Sugar's but when
you're just starting out you're going to
be not adapted yet and you may see a
drop in performance with your exercise
with some fatigue and some blood sugar
symptoms all that means is you haven't
fully adapted yet to fat burning because
you either haven't given enough time or
when you're eating a meal it's the wrong
meal you're eating carbohydrates when
you're doing fasting you're not doing a
keto plan and that could be the problem
because as soon as you start adding the
carb meals in there you're not only
going to actually retain fluid and have
a problem with digestion it's going to
make it harder to adapt okay you're not
going to fully adapt and you may find
that when you add exercise that you
don't have the positive benefits that
you want okay so what we want to combine
is healthy ketosis with fasting with
exercise to optimize the benefits from
fasting alright guys thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
about that
