today we're going to discuss the color
of your urine and what that means you
can use urine as an indicator to
determine what's going on deeper inside
your body first question is what is
urine well urine is filtered blood now
you have these little tiny magical
filters in your kidneys called nephrons
and these nephrons are very intelligent
they recycle a lot of good material but
they also selectively are able to take
out the poisons and the bad stuff and
push those out of your body so today
we're going to diagnose or dissect this
problem based on just color alone if
you're urinating and the urine is
completely clear this means that you're
drinking too much water because you're
diluting your urine so much you're
losing all these pigments now what's
interesting about drinking a lot of
water to somehow get hydrated people
that drink too much water they dilute
their sodium and they actually become
dehydrated because the key with
hydration is the right amount of
electrolytes with the right amount of
water if your urine is clear might not
want to drink so much I always like to
recommend drinking when you're thirsty
and especially if you're not working out
or sweating yeah too much water could
actually be dangerous all right so the
next color is basically yellow or Amber
and that color is really coming from a
pigment in your blood I'm not going to
get into the chemistry of how that
happens but when you see your urine
being yellow Amber or straw colored that
means that it's normal all right the
next color we're going to talk about in
your urine is if the color is red or
pink usually this means that there's
blood involved now there's several
reasons why you might have blood in the
urine it could be a kidney stone it
could be that you're menstruating and
that contaminated the urine this could
also be some type of infection or it
could be something more serious but
anytime you have blood you should get it
checked out by your doctor some people
that run a lot like joggers for example
they're doing a lot of pounding on their
kidneys sometimes that can cause
bleeding as well okay now what about if
it's like orange or really almost
florescent type yellow that usually
means that you're taking synthetic
vitamins and they're going out through
the urine and especially the B vitamins
it'll give that bright fluorescent color
it can also common mean that there's
certain medications that you're taking
that have certain dyes in them on a rare
occasion if your urine is orange it
could be something going on with your
gallbladder or your liver but that's not
very common okay what about blue green
urine what's up with that well did you
just take something called methylene
blue that'll make your urine blue are
you taking medication that is turning it
blue green there's a lot of different
foods that have artificial colors that
will make your urine different colors
sometimes an asparagus can make the
urine green if it's dark brown chances
are you're dehydrated you need to add
more fluid as it goes darker into the
Browns that is usually a liver problem
now what if your urine is normal color
but it's foamy like someone put some
soap in it this could mean several
things it could mean that you're
consuming too much protein it can also
mean you have chronic kidney disease and
you're usually going to see protein and
urine from that and it can even occur if
you're a diabetic because usually with
diabetes with all the sugar coming
through it tends to like rust out
different parts of your body especially
the kidneys the number one cause of
kidney damage is diabetes and this is
why we see a high correlation between
protein in the urine and diabetes and of
course the foaminess in the urine but
probably the first thing you should do
is just start cutting down your protein
and just see if that handles it what
about if your urine is just cloudy it's
not transparent it's opaque this usually
means there's an infection okay and the
most common urinary tract infection is
from the microb eoli so if you have that
you might want to get it checked out to
see if you do have urinary tract
infection the other thing you need to
know about with an infection is that if
you're a diabetic all that Sugar that's
in your blood spills off into the urine
to feed these pathogens and just as a
side note if someone is excess Ely
thirsty all the time or or and they're
excessively urinating a lot that's
usually indication of diabetes but it
can also be an indication that your
calcium is too high in your blood and
that's called hypercalcemia now if you
have not seen my other video on urine I
put it up right here check it
out
