alright guys so I had a question from
someone that wanted to know what deserts
can I eat to help me lose weight and is
it possible and absolutely as possible
I'm gonna recommend the keto version of
the peanut butter fat bomb okay
strawberry cheesecake you can do that
brownies chocolate chip cookies I mean
these foods taste almost identical to
the sugar version just without the sugar
shortbread cookies which are to die for
pound cake muffins how about that and
then just berries or cream so you can do
any of these there's quite a few on my
website I'll put a link down below so
you can check them out but really
there's two things that you need to
focus on one is obviously consuming the
low carb version oK we've spent a lot of
time to come up with these recipes to
make them taste really really good so
you'll enjoy them but they're all low
carb second point that's really really
important is they must be high in fat
now if you do a low fat version of a
dessert or a snack the problem is you're
gonna be hungry you're not going to be
satisfied and if you combine that with
high sugar like in low fat and high
sugar now you're really gonna be hungry
probably a half hour after you consume
it so you want a high fat dessert as the
key to be able to do in a minute fasting
so you can go longer you don't want to
do these desserts
unless you're also doing in a minute
fasting why because every time you eat
anything that has any calories you
trigger insulin and insulin is what
keeps you from losing weight so we want
low carb which lowers insulin and we
want in a minute fasting if you see the
average person there doing a breakfast
snack mid-morning snack a lunch
mid-afternoon snack and then dinner and
then snacking at night this is a killer
even if you're doing low carb okay so
you want to graduate to knock out these
snacks but the only way to do that is by
adding more fat and this is one way to
get your fat by do adding a dessert or a
little fat bomb which is basically a
little keto
desert ideally you drop the snacks you
go longer and then you drop your drop
your breakfast and then you only have
two meals and you do this over a period
of time so you can fast longer and
longer longer the fasting is going to
decrease your insulin so you can start
losing weight and then you want to take
these two meals and squish them together
closer and closer and closer
so they're four hours if you have a lot
of weight to lose and your metabolism is
slow and let's say you're getting a
little bit older then you should just
knock out one of these meals so you're
just at one meal a day and don't be
afraid to consume a good amount of fat
or even a dessert at that one meal so
that will help you lose weight so the
key is in a minute fasting infrequent
eating and low carbs a couple problems
that people run into not being able to
stop eating these desserts okay they
start especially at night and then just
keep eating and eating and eating them
so this is a problem you just want to be
able to control the amount so don't
consume more than two to three cookies
or let's say you're doing a little
brownie or a fat bomb just don't go over
two to three per meal the other thing
that's a problem is the snacking that
people do in between the meals this is
the number one thing that prevents
people from losing weight even on keto
it's the snacking between the meals and
it could be even the little things as
well so this is why you need some fat or
a fat dessert or a fat snack at the end
of the meal not between the meal so if
you're hungry between the meals just
increase the amount of fat at the end of
the meal so you can go longer without
needing to snack a lot of times people
will snack without even being hungry so
you're just gonna have to have
self-discipline to not do that anymore
another mistake is that people omit
eating nutrient-dense foods they're
doing dirty ketta which is a unhealthy
version of keto getting some of the
benefits but not the full benefits
because they're not doing enough salad
or vegetables they're not doing organic
because these nutrients are really
important in correcting insulin
resistance and that's going to really
help you lose weight as well especially
if you're kind of play
towing last point is the sugar
substitutes there's two sugar
substitutes one is Malta tall and the
other is fiber YUM
those two out of all the sugar alcohols
tend to raise the most insulin so I
would not use maltitol
or fiber um even though I have used
fiber um in some of the recipes if you
do that just make sure you use very
small amounts and don't do it too
frequently because it can increase your
insulin anyway thanks for watching go
ahead and try this and let me know how
it goes if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
