you do not want to get a surgery unless
you do this one thing first and this is
really really important there's a lot of
risks when you go into a surgery one is
dying this video is not just for
patients it's for doctors too so they
can look at the research and this simple
thing which basically costs pennies can
create a massive Improvement in your
outcomes of the surgery you get getting
your vitamin D tested and making sure
you have sufficient vitamin D before
surgery all surgeries what is so special
about vitamin D in relationship to a
surgery doing the surgery itself lowers
your vitamin D because there's trauma
involved if you're deficient vitamin D
blood pressure can go up vitamin D is
one of the best remedies for high blood
pressure because vitamin D increases
something called nitric oxide which
helps vasod dilation of the arteries
your immune system depends on enough
vitamin D to prevent infections like
sepsis inflammation vitamin D is really
important to reduce
cardiovascular complications after a
surgery and one stud before the
operation there was an average of 42.7
and take a while guess what the average
vitamin D was after the surgery 28 in
your mind you might think I might need
to take 2,000 I use no people are taking
like a 100,000 or even 300,000 or more
before a surgery then you also have
vitamin D affecting your muscles if you
don't have enough vitamin D to the
muscles the muscles can become weak and
your risk of fall falling down uh
greatly goes up if you're elderly this
is a problem because you might end up
fracturing yourself I mean even if you
do a search on Google Scholar and I
found six studies involving vitamin D
and surgery for osteoporosis another 10
studies on bone in general and vitamin D
in relationship to Healing after surgery
if someone has low vitamin D their
postoperative inflammatory indicators
actually increase by 200% and the wound
that they just created takes longer to
heal I'm excited to tell you a little
bit about a new called natural B12
methyl camine with the B complex blend
what's really unique about this product
is the B complex vitamins actually come
from food which is very different from
most B vitamins which come from
petroleum this B12 is not synthetic it's
the natural version called methyl camine
if you want a really high quality B12
you might want to try this take One A
Day I take this in the morning but some
people find it more convenient to take
it with a meal this one bottle will last
you 2 months 6 days vitamin D uh also
controls this
antimicrobial peptide which is a
compound to help your immune system kill
microbes vitamin D has the potential to
increase those antimicrobial peptides by
4,000% keeping the complication of an
infection way down while surgical
complications are cut in half with
sufficient vitamin D in one state I
found as much as half of atrial
fibrillation was reduced with enough
vitamin D and that study it actually
blew my mind they were using
600,000 iuse of vitamin D3 we definitely
want to make sure we have enough vitamin
D if you're going into an open heart
surgery if you're having your thyroid
taken out surgery to remove cancer if
someone is low in vitamin D the
postsurgical cognitive side effects or
dysfunction eight times more likely to
have cognitive dysfunction after a
surgery if you don't have enough vitamin
D having enough vitamin D can decrease
your risk of having some type of
rejection when you're doing a organ
transplant in one study I found um there
was fewer complications especially in
the area of ventilators when
120,000 IUS of vitamin D was used when
you think about vitamin D think of fewer
days in the hospital after the surgery
faster healing rates there was a study
involving children in intensive care
they loaded up these children 10,000 IUS
per kilogram at first I thought it was a
typo it should have been a thousand IUS
but it was actually 10,000 I used some
people are going to ask well what about
the toxic effects we're only talking
about using these high doses you know 3
days before a surgery we're not talking
about using the high doses a long term
you're not getting all that vitamin D to
go in there but you're at least
saturating the body with enough to make
sure that there's no cells that are
insufficient now there's also some
interesting data about your adrenal
glands okay because going through a
surgery puts a lot of stress on your
adrenals this is why they monitor your
heart because sometimes your adrenals
might overcompensate with adrenaline and
you can end up with high blood pressure
so there's definitely an adrenal stress
surgery connection giving you a risk of
adrenal insufficiency they've even
tested a cortisol Spike after a surgery
it can increase by 4X if you're low in
vitamin D which can worsen your ability
to heal your regulation of inflammation
your adrenals do not want to go through
a surgery with low vitamin D vitamin D
influences over 2,000 genes but there's
200 of those genes relate to your
adrenals this video is not just to
remind you to get your vitamin D tested
before surgery but to make sure you have
sufficient amounts and I'm not talking
about just a little bit I'm talking
about a lot before you go into surgery
you want to take this additional vitamin
D 3 days before a surgery so it has time
to really penetrate and get into your
cells and act as a protective mechanism
against the complications of surgery
thanks for watching spread this video to
your friends and family so they can have
this knowledge of doing something
extremely simple and inexpensive to
create a lot of good or protect you
against a lot of bad things that can
happen as you go through a surgery
