welcome to the webinar everyone so in
this webinar we're going to talk about
um
anti-aging I want to teach you some
great things of to actually reverse
aging processes it possible I think it
is uh I've been working with a lot of
people over the years and I found that
um they do get younger as they get
healthier so the goal is to make you
younger every year that you age so that
would be cool
um so um I'm going to just go to some
slides right now um let me just share my
screen here make sure you can see
everything okay so so here's the thing
when we talk about
anti-aging you know if you do research
on the internet you're going to see
there's a lot of information about just
skin creams taking vitamins looking good
on the outside using different um facial
scrubs and that type of thing but
there's a lot more to
anti-aging than just a superficial
putting a cream on your face try to get
rid of wrinkles so we're going to talk
about two things one is how to look
youthful as you get older but we're also
going to talk
about you know the heart of anti-aging
which is to postpone your life to
prevent dying in an early age um we're
going to talk about that because because
it makes no sense to you know try to
look young while you get cancer you know
and dropped out of a heart attack so I
want to cover both things today um and I
wanted to mention that um one of the
things that really emphasize is to um
increase a health Reserve to build up a
kind of a health insurance reserve and
there is a test that can be measured to
look at the internal health Reserve
and I have one of my patients that we
just today were uh evaluating we're
looking at her health reserve and trying
to build that up and I just want to kind
of show you this little graph here you
can see there's a there's this taller
dial and a small dial The Tall dial
should be straight up and down and the
small dial should be all the way to the
right so if the small dial goes to the
left that that's indication that the
person is losing their their kind of
their recovery reserve and I look at
that as kind of like the the deeper
Health Reserve this test just to keep it
really simple without giving you a lot
of big words is um it's called um heart
rate variability it's a test that
measures uh the data in between the
heart beats it measures how elastic the
heart is it measures how the heartbeat
varies from one beat to another and it's
one of the best indicators of overall
mortality from heart attack so um I
don't use it for that but it will give a
prediction on how healthy you are
overall but also for the heart um the
the reason I'm bringing this up is
because I've probably taken 10,000 of
these graphs and there has only been one
person that has ever had a perfect graph
and he was 80 years old and I'm like who
is this guy he was walking down the
street with his dog he falls in a hole
hit knocks himself out he lays there for
three hours knocked out unconscious
wakes up his head's bleeding goes back
home
he has a stiff neck he sees me three
days later his wounds are almost
healed um he has a slight stiffness in
his neck so he had a per perfect graph
and I'm like who the heck is this guy so
apparently when he was younger he took
the Olympics in water polo and he's
maintained his health ever since that so
so he could basically hold his breath
three and a half minutes uh underwater
at this point so out of all the things
all the workouts all the sports events I
would say that um water polo is probably
the most incredibly difficult I almost
drowned try to uh do this sport uh in
college with my roommate who was into
water polo he would just hold me
underneath water until I let go of the
ball and he would anchor his foot into
the drain pipe until I you know
cooperated so it's an intense workout so
in other words I'm trying to just let
you know that it is possible to um
measure your health reserve and um it is
possible to improve it
so let me go to the next slide here so I
think we should probably start this
whole
webinar by isolating what are the top
causes of death uh if you look it up
this is they'll go ahead and tell you on
WebMD it's the heart disease cancer
chronic respiratory accident stroke
Alzheimer's diabetes influenza pneumonia
nefritis that's kidney problems and then
suicide so those are the top causes of
death but they forgot to mention
one big cause of death and that's
probably the number one it is not
probably it is the number one cause of
death and that is conventional
medicine now in the next slide you can
look at the links because I'll send
everyone these uh these PDF uh files but
the point is that 7 over 700,000 people
a year die of
um reactions to prescription drugs
unnecessary antibiotics um unnecessary
medical
procedures uh
hospitalizations so that actually ranks
number one so I guess the therapy the
best therapy is to avoid doctors if you
want to live longer um probably um you
know the question is how many people
actually died of
vitamins uh in 2010 not one person
in 2004 there was three people who died
of Mega doses of vitamin d and vitamin E
but I would there
synthetic uh and of course that one
person died as a result of overdose of
iron and fluoride but I don't consider
fluoride a
nutrient so there's been a huge push you
know by
certain people to um pretty much make
Alternative Care dangerous you know it's
quackery it's
scams but I personally think it's just a
way to camouflage like their own Secrets
or or skeletons because the amount of
medication that's pumped in young
children nowadays uh even psych drugs
that they're pushing uh and the U the
soldiers and there's 23 suicides every
single day in the military and that's
from the side effects from Psychiatric
medication so I wanted to just share a
story by a client she told me today she
uh can you tell us what happened you you
basically went to the doctor and you
wanted some help and you started to um
you had a whole list of problems because
we're working with you but there's some
other issues that you wanted to kind of
evaluate can you just tell us a little
bit about you walked in there and you
saw the nurse and what what was the
first thing that she
said well um first I she asked me what I
was there for so I said well I have a
list of things and I had had some
symptoms going on so I'd been keeping
track of them and writing them all down
and I started list listing them off to
her and she looked at me like I was
crazy and she said ma'am you're gonna
need to pick the top two because she's
not gonna have time to um to deal with
all of those
issues a little shocked yeah it's like
it's like when you go to the doctor you
have a list of uh problems all those are
connected they're not separate problems
yes yes and that's what I tried to tell
her I said no the doctor's going to need
to listen to me because these are all
connected and I need her to to help me
figure out what is going on um so she
left the room sort of hurriedly acting
very like almost rude um but when the
doctor came in I did make her sit there
and listen to me with every single one
of my symptoms because they are all
connected like you and I spoke
today yeah and so so one of the things
that um what's lacking in in healthc
care um I mean look at this you got the
top um cause of death is U over
medicated patients unnecessary
procedures what's everything has become
so specialized into um if you have a
digestive problem you go to this doctor
endocrine problem you go here but
they're not looking at the whole picture
I think um even with you you had uh I
think you had some history of panic
attacks or something or and they what
did they what do they say about that um
so I I talked to her about that and and
told her that I have been having some
panic attacks he basically said okay so
here's a script for you to go to the
psychiatrist and I did go to the
psychiatrists and they said okay well
here's some lorazapam or I don't
remember what it was and you know um
there there wasn't any let's talk about
why you're having panic attacks or what
might be going on it was well here's
this medicine go ahead and take it um so
it was
very disheartening and
frustrating yeah yeah I know it's um
it's you want someone to listen to you
to evaluate to come up with some
solutions um and then I think you
eventually saw the
doctor did he really what did he do did
he say about you okay so so as I went
through my list of symptoms he she it
was it was a woman she says okay so
you're
having um some panic attacks and and
feeling like this so here's your
referral to to go to see the
psychiatrist and oh you're having hot
flashes okay here's your referral to go
to the gynecologist and oh you're having
some joint pain here's your referral to
um oh in in your hip and and your back
so here's your referral to go get some
x-rays done um oh you're you're having
constipation so take some Fiber thing
you know what I it just she was treating
each one of the things as um as a
symptom as opposed to as opposed to
looking at at everything that was going
on that's going on with me as a whole
that there might be something happening
um she just singled each of them out and
sent me to other places and tried to
treat each symptom
individually yeah and that's why I
wanted to do this webinar just to give
you guys some real basic things I mean
even one thing with you with your hip I
did some muscle testing I found out I
asked you a question I said do you cross
your leg a lot on one side and yes you
do yes I mean you constantly do that and
then that's the muscle that is weak
because you keep Crossing it and throws
off the pelvis so um that some of these
things are really really really um e
obvious but the problem is um those are
the sometimes hardest to identify so I
wanted to get through um so I'm going to
come back to that point but I want to
just go through a couple things um about
the third leading cause of death since
we're trying to live longer because I I
kind of protest getting old I don't want
to get old uh I know it's inevitable but
I want to slow it down um but it's
important to kind of know what people
die of the third leading leading cause
of death um after heart disease and
cancer is psychiatric
medications I didn't even know that I
looked that up um and this is um in the
cancer in USA and Europe over a half a
million people die of either um suicide
or psychiatric medication that reactions
to that I think that's why the drug
companies are being sued by the billions
so there's a lot of corruption going on
um with psychiatric drugs in the
military um all over the place uh and
then you have this guy Stephen Barret
Beret whatever his name is on quackwatch
which basically says he says most
diseases have little nothing to do with
diet it's not um and he goes into saying
that it's most things are
Placebo you know don't take
vitamins you know alternative
practitioners
oversimplify he says when they say that
Milling that's like grinding the grain
removes the B vitamins they don't bother
to tell you the enrichment puts him back
so you can see that here is a a person
who is very
anti-natural vitamins he's a psychiat
which causes the third leading cause of
death so it's just a joke so the
philosophy that I wanted to um teach you
guys today is really going beyond the
outside in going the inside out working
on the inside of your body if you want
to this the entire body to look
youthful um I think probably the one of
the biggest indust industries out there
is skin care and makeup and hair care
and it's all just superficial you're
you're just dealing with layer of a very
tiny layer on the outside of your body
um there is much better things to do to
get the um the skin youthful prevent
wrinkles and I'm going to cover what you
need to do um a better strategy would be
to just really look at the um the
quality of materials that you're putting
in your mouth and you're digesting um I
will say that um certain parts of your
body are replaced
at different rates for example um like
your your skin cells sometimes are
replaced every four
days the liver is replaced
every three
years so the red blood cells are
replaced every four months the colon
cells are replaced every three days so
you're constantly replacing your cells
and the question is what are you
replacing them with um I'm going to show
you the best material to replace them
with but there's one thing that doesn't
uh rejuvenate or doesn't um replace
itself and that's the brain so once you
kill off your brain cells you don't
replace them they don't come back so
what I want to do is I want to ask
everyone who's on the
webinar um a question what food and I'm
going to just make this what is the food
that gives us the highest nutrient
value okay it's a category of foods and
I want you to go ahead and I'm looking
at your answers right now I want you to
take a while guess what category of food
gives you the highest amount of
nutrition out of all food
categories I'm gonna give you a second
to answer
that
kale leafy greens
vegetables kale veggies plants protein
fats veggies protein okay well this is
interesting
because this is something that's kind of
unknown um yeah berries
no I always like that when you ask a qu
I'll do a sum I'll ask a question I'll
say um okay does anyone know this and
you know they're not going to know it so
you're just no that's not right so
you're wrong you're wrong you're wrong
so um what about you do you have any
idea what Leslie what what the highest
nutrient food is on the planet that you
can get all of your
nutrition I should know this
huh I'm thinking
um I'm thinking fat I don't know why but
I could be
wrong all right let me I mean I'm
reading all the things on the side
everybody's saying good stuff yeah
sure the one that one thing I'm not sure
what the one thing would
be um okay so now I'm GNA tell you um it
is I thought I had a slide on it but I
don't organ Meats organ Meats okay yeah
liver heart brains kidneys uh for
personally um I can't eat those Foods I
just I just can't eat them I think I was
as a child I was forced to eat liver and
I just can't eat it I don't know I have
a hard time eating brains and kidneys
but I'm letting you know yeah those
Foods I know a lot of them are toxic
because of the the animal feeds but I'm
just telling you as far as the nutrients
that um are in those foods like it's
it's really hard to find one food that
has all the nutrients but there is one
food that has all the nutrients and that
would be the organ Meats so if you like
liver and you have an organic a free
range you know animal um and you consume
that it's not you will get a lot of
nutrition especially like iron and there
is one type of uh nutrient um types of
vit uh nutrients that are better for
looking young young than others and that
would be the fat cable vitamins and that
would be like vitamin A d e k those
vitamins yes they're in vegetables but
they're actually in vegetables they're
previtamin so in other words they have
to convert into the active form and you
have to have a good digestive system to
consume that so you may if you're lucky
convert about 5% of those true fats Cy
vitamins to help the division to the the
skin even vitamin A for your skin if you
don't have vitamin A you actually dry
out your skin you and you actually look
older uh going on a low-fat diet is very
very bad for
anti-aging um so let's go into some of
the the foods or the
nutrients that will help you stay
younger or look
younger um the first thing I want to
talk about is foods for collagen support
what is collagen collagen is like the
glue that holds the body together it's
the um it's in the joints it's in the
skin if you lose collagen your skin gets
thin and it sags and you get wrinkles
and you look
older so you can consume the collagen
itself or bone broth or grass-fed animal
products but you also need trace
minerals to actually utilize that
collagen you also need Vitamin C um to
use the collagen
so uh I want to just show you something
this is a grass-fed collagen that I got
on line great leges gelatin I mean it's
it's good if you have like a lot of
joint problems arthritis and you don't
consume a lot of animal products um
especially grass-fed that would be
something you can try and but I found
that most people are not really
deficient in collagen it's not something
that they're not eating that's not why
they're losing their
collagen I'll get to the why but the
point is that uh it's not a bad
supplement to take but just by taking
this doesn't is does not mean your
Skin's going to look youthful you need
several things to um to make that work
work um the big thing is trace minerals
the trace minerals are not in the soils
um I've done seminars on trace minerals
here's a version I use trace minerals
it's a plant-based it's not sea salt
plant-based minerals have are 50 15,000
times smaller than regular minerals so
they they go in like a rocket ship so
you need the minerals you also need the
vitamin C complexes and I I wanted to
show you um a food that's very high high
in vitamin C but I want to First find
out I want to ask you what foods are
high in vitamin C what are the top three
foods that are the highest in vitamin C
let's see who can get that one right
okay people are saying cam Camu yeah
that's a great Citrus carrots broccoli
kale spinach you guys are you guys are
doing pretty good on that one so I think
you got that one down the three foods
are the highest in vitamin C which
should be number one
papaya number two kiwi
and number
three
Peppers now these are not from the
grocery store these are from the farmers
market these are freaking amazing
Peppers they're uh crunchy they're
they're um loaded with vitamin C and
vitamin C you got to be careful about
vitamin C because most of it is
synthetic and I'm talking about ascorbic
acid if you buy vitamin C and it has
over 100 milligrams of of ascorbic acid
acid it's just synthetic they make
ascorbic acid from corn starch which has
no vitamin C and sulfuric acid and you
take this stuff you're not getting any
the vitamin C complex it's not going to
help your collagen if you do something
like this you're going to get the
complete complex because in the complete
version of vitamin C you
have enzymes a copper enzyme called
tyrosines you have the J Factor the
bioflavonoids the rutins all the
different great complexes for vitamin C
to help build collagen and organic
copper it's a mineral in that thing and
and so it's um and by the way a lot of
the uh the uh vitamin C is stored in
your adrenal glands so if the adrenal
glands are tired you won't have enough
vitamin C to use that and the other
thing is that um when you take vitamin C
in high dosages in synthetic versions it
will create deficiencies of the other
factors of vitamin C causing spider
veins
um and I'm going to talk more about this
in the next seminar but Linus polling
recommend large dose of vitamin C you
ever notice he has these spider veins
around his nose that's a vitamin C
deficiency because one of the side
effects of scurvy is micro Heming of the
capillary blood beds and so this the
bleeding gums the spongy gums that you
have when you brush your teeth that's a
vitamin C
deficiency so um and also fatigue is a
vitamin C
deficiency um but but also the arteries
the
arteries can in high pressure areas have
a micro hemorrage Hemorrhage and so the
body puts a Band-Aid on it called
cholesterol and calcium plaing and
that's what makes the clog artery but
the first thing that happens is the
microage Hemorrhage from the vitamin C
complex
deficiency
so those are some vitamin C um things
that you you can look at and especially
for your skin I mean you need that
collagen
um so now I'm going to go back to my
slide if I
can do a screen share let me see
here okay so we have collagen bone broth
if you took an or uh let's say some
bones from an um let's a cow or
something and it was grass-fed and you
were to cook it uh over a day or two and
and make some bone broth and there's a
great recipe that would not be a bad
idea to drink that stuff it's really
good for collagen especially if you want
really strong nails uh and hair um I can
actually um if I can either use trace
minerals to make hair stop falling out
or sometimes collagen or the combination
of both but because trace minerals also
help the collagen form correctly so the
combination is very very important
especially for hair loss um so the mo
most important thing to do is to make
sure that your animal meats are
grass-fed and um I'm G to show you I use
um like here's an example I do a lot of
beef myself this is
grassfed um and the reason why I do
grass-fed is because it has loaded with
vitamin K2 if you've seen any of my
videos you basically um know about K2
it's going to be the next Super Vitamin
it improves elasticity of the arteries
it decreases blood pressure it gets
calcium out of the joints um it's quite
amazing and of course we have the
grass-fed Cary gold butter it's vitamin
K it's loaded with vitamin A and of
course I'm showing all my food here um
these are my eggs from the farmers
market from a
farmer that basically I have a video I'm
going to put a video of this farmer
because he has these cages in the grass
field in the Clover fields and they're
like the human lawnmower they will eat
all this grass and then he rotates them
I mean talk about a pasture raised
grass-fed chicken I mean those things
are those eggs it's hard to even break
the shell it's so loaded with calcium so
it's quite amazing um there's a couple
questions I want to just go right to the
questions um
said the webinar keeps cutting out no no
uh worries I'm going to record this and
I'll send you the link right when I get
done what about fermented cabbage I love
it I think that's a great idea and
vitamin I mean cabbage is is really huge
in vitamin C and it has a complete
complex uh can spider veins be repaired
by taking proper amounts of vitamin C
well I wouldn't worry about the amounts
I would worry about the type of V SE
that you consume and yes it can be
reversed if you have the whole
complex just make sure you do not
consume ascorbic
acid um let's see what else grapefruit
has some vitamin C but it's a bit too
sweet if you're trying to lose weight I
always have to talk about that
because fruit tends to slow down weight
loss okay good
what what if you have autoimmune and
can't do nitrates well then you you can
use the you know there's Camu Camu is a
great um vitamin C complex you can do
that uh there's a lot of other things um
that you can do other than the
nitrates not a problem
okay
so there's three things for collagen
support one is you need you possibly
might need collagen you might need um
Trace minerals and you you might need to
support your your stomach because if
your stomach has um if you have like
acid reflux or you have bloating or
burping and you don't have enough acid
that could be the reason why you can't
digest protein and collagen is your
stomach has to be really really acid to
to trigger those enzymes in the stomach
to break down collagen so as you get
older
especially during menopause you lose
your stomach acids so if I were trying
to improve my collagen and I was female
and I was menopausal the first thing I
would do before anything is I would make
sure that I correct um that digestive
stomach pH so if I had like indigestion
or acid reflex or heartburn that means
that I would have to add more acid to
that stomach to correct it so the valve
gets closed it's called Bane
hydrochloride so if you're listening now
and you have any digestive issues at all
take some Bane hyd chloride maybe three
with a meal get it from the Healy store
and then within a week or two watch what
happens to your hair nails and skin it
will improve because you'll start
absorbing more of the collagen from the
food you're already eating so we just
have to look at those factors the next
thing I want to talk about is very
important and this is for those people
that um want to uh change the not just
their health but the looking youthful
and that would be the fat cble vitamins
and all the oils um you don't want to go
crazy you have to be able to digest them
you need to um have a good gallbladder
to digest them but the point is
that when people are pushing the lowfat
stuff that's when you start looking
older you want to look at the shelf and
get whole fat um not um lowfat anything
so if you're going to do some yogurt you
know make sure it's whole fat of course
you got to watch out for the sugars and
yogurt nowadays um so there is not a
problem using the butter it's good for
the skin because it
contains vitamin A so the first vitam
I'm going to talk about is vitamin A and
that
is in egg
yolks grass-fed butter shrimp cheese
sardines tuna it's in fish it's in all
the fatty
stuff I'll show you something here
um going to show oh yeah
cheese I'm from
Wisconsin so I
love
cheese and of course Cary gold here we
go Cary gold butter Cary gold cheese
this is my favorite cheese right here
it's that BJ's in Costco now I can't
believe it it's all grass-fed here's
another grass-fed
cheese from Trader Joe's um I do a lot
of cheese that has the vitamin K it has
the vitamin A even even some vitamin D
those are fat cble vitamins that you
need for your skin for your hair to
prevent
wrinkles
um so those are things that'll really
really help you and take them from the
inside don't rub the butter on the
outside of your skin that's not going to
do
it I used to grave butter as a kid I
used to eat it of course um I had no
idea why now I know why I was deficient
in vitamin A H so so vitamin A it's in
these fattier type things that you were
told to
avoid so the other thing you can do is
uh coconut oil you can cook with it you
can eat it fish oils the best fish oil
that you can have is either krill
or cod liver oil yes your your
grandmother was correct cod liver oil
has a wonderful blend of vitamin A and
vitamin
D so don't I mean just I would start
consuming just you don't need a lot of
it you just need a little bit of it okay
now let's talk about vitamin E why is
vitamin E important you've heard Vitamin
E for scarring for skin health for sex
hormon hormones vitamin E is a precursor
for um hormones and it's stored in the
pituitary when women go through
menopause um they don't use their
ovaries very much anymore so they're not
going to have babies so what happens is
that that Dynamic that pituitary release
every month is no longer no longer has
to work as hard so the vitamin E Reserve
tends to dry up in a lot of women and I
find they end up with a vitamin E
deficiency and they start getting uh
unnecessary wrinkles
so I if I were you what I would do is I
would don't be afraid to start consuming
some of these fats but the foods that
are highest in vitamin E are almonds
other nuts sunflower seeds very high but
they have to be raw sunflower seeds
because when you cook them and you roast
them you destroy the vitamin E because
vitamin E is very sensitive to
oxygen and Heat
okay fat of your fish like hbit uh
salmon uh shrimp sardines
Lobster um and it's also in the leafy
greens the spinach CH charred kale it's
in eggs it's in avocados it's in olives
so those are just some some common
things of course vitamin D is the sun
fish oils eggs cheese um but other than
that let's say you're not eating uh any
fish oils or eggs or cheese because
you're in a lowfat diet and you don't
get much sun and you're going to have
low vitamin D levels vitamin D is
necessary for the Aging anti-aging
process
okay
so what I'm going to do now is I just
want to double check just to make sure
that there's
um I'm answering any questions so
someone says they love
sardines cow's milk allergy well if you
have if you're allergic to you know milk
not a problem I I've given you a list of
other things you consume as well
dandelion greens for vitamin A yeah well
the the problem is the plant sources for
Vitamin A they're all previtamin a so
you're only going to absorb
5% and that is the challenge that we
deal with now I
consume a lot of this
kale okay I K I cut it I chop it up in
my salad um so that's loaded with
vitamin pre vitamin A but it's see the
cruciferous vegetables have other
nutrients we'll get into that but the
point is that you need to be eating them
but you're not going to be getting the
majority of your vitamin A from leafy
greens because you only absorb
5% yeah I'm
sorry okay let me just check these
questions right here um um did you say
BJs has good carry gold yes BJs does
carry the carry gold in bulk so yes tuna
is is fine I know there's some problems
with Mercury um
but I think um there's certain type I'm
actually going to do a video on tuna
because there's certain types of tuna
that are actually good and some tuna
that is not good I'm going to do a
complete video because I don't want to
get into a side thing on that right now
fermented CER oil is the best
um and you can get that online you can
get it from Amazon I do take that it's
pretty good um I was given C liver oil
when I was a kid lasted until
Easter yeah it's really good
stuff
um I found I sweat really bad without my
vitamin D
interesting graying of the hair mostly
after
exercise well that's is stress see one
of the things that we'll get into next
is is stress so I'll talk about that
then can you get enough vitamin D from
foods you need supplement that's a very
good question I think you can
maintain your body with just with with
vitamin K2 foods but if you have high
blood pressure stiffness you have
tartter in the teeth soft tissue calcium
you have arthritis or types of uh joint
problems then you're going to have to
take extra
and then once you get rid of that you
can then maintain it after
that so it is possible but not as a
maintain maintaining thing okay now I
want to show you something see if I can
pop back over
here now the accelerated aging of
cortisol the hormone cortisol here's a
new word um that I want to teach you is
called um
catabolism catabolism what does that
mean catabolism
catabolism is a
breakdown of things it's something that
breaks down in the body um your body
naturally uses the hormone cortisol to
break down tissue but with the adrenal
stress hormone being activated what
happens is you get too much breakdown
and not enough buildup so you get this
overall catabolic effect that means a
breakdown effect on the uh on the
muscles specifically your thigh muscles
in the quad group so when you get up
from a seated position or from a chair
it might be difficult to mount this um
to get up also the the skin is very thin
and almost paper-like and I'll see that
with people I'll look at their skin and
you can just see it's like very very
very thin that's that's the problem of
excessive cortisol with stress and
they're losing their collagen you also
have a disappearance of the elastic
fibers and that's why your joints get so
brittle all the time as you age and
that's just one of the effects of of
cortisol now I did a whole seminar on
cortisol that was the last seminar I did
and I talked about stress and if you did
not see that webinar go ahead and watch
it but I will give you some tips on
stress right now because um I would say
one of the biggest things that ages
people is um stress specifically
losses loss of a person love one loss of
a job loss of a marriage threat of loss
Financial threat of loss bad
economy all that will add stress and so
you do have to constantly work on
reducing cortisol there's a couple
nutritional things that I recommend for
cortisol um I do recommend the adrenal
day formula because it has a natural B1
in there that does not it's from
nutritional yeast but it doesn't give
you a yeast infection like some of the
nutritional yeast out there and it's not
synthetic like a lot of the nutritional
yeasts are enriched with synthetic so if
you did um a um that product and you
take the that natural B1 with all the
other things in it it'll tend
to pull a lot of stress out of your body
you feel very very calm and chilled out
so B1 is necessary to rid stress from
your body and you'll feel a difference
how do you know if you have a B1
deficiency there's a couple ways number
one you feel a lot of nervous tension in
your body you just like you can't relax
you have a low tolerance to stress you
have edema and swelling yes edema and
swelling is a B1 deficiency many times
as well um you have nightmares where
very vivid dreams so if you have any of
those we know it's it's a B1 deficiency
and stress will um cause
that another thing you can do is get
space go up for long walks um because
stress tends to um inhibit your space
and you get it's like you need to get
outside and just get some space because
that calms the adrenal gland down here's
just a picture of how proteins and
different things can break down fat can
break down sugars can break down it's
called
catabolism and um just a
breakdown okay we're shifting gears now
to uh cancer control because
one of the things that
um which is um processes dying early
from cancer uh I mean there are people
all around me that are dropping Dead
with cancer patients patients relatives
uh family members uh so it is a problem
and there are things that we can do to
um reduce the risk of cancer and I want
to talk about that um let's let's first
Define what cancer is cancer is a cell
that is out of control it's it's
duplicating at a very fast rate and the
question is why there's a mechanism a
machine in your body that is constantly
keeping these extra cells that are
radically growing out of proportion in
check so there's a there's another word
I'm going to teach you it's called
apoptosis
apoptosis and that that's basically
controlled cell death your
body is killing between 50 and 70
billion cells every single
day which they need to do that because
they need to clean out all these you
know mutated cells the cells that we
need to get rid of so we can replace
with the new cells so for an average
trial between the ages of eight and
14 about 20 billion to 30 billion cells
um die day so that's called apoptosis so
now if we have if we if we're getting
cancer we want apoptosis to work
correctly to kill that cancer so
apoptosis is a mechanism that's an
important defense against cancer okay so
that's that's the foundation I want to
talk about
um
so there's certain things that dis
destroy this mechanism
and block the your body's ability to
kill off these
cells and there's certain things that do
it and this slide is out of order um
it's called endocrine disruptors so I
want to just touch on this for a second
what's an endocrine disruptor an
endocrine disruptor is any chemical in
the body pesticide herbicides fungicides
insecticides heavy metals country and
western
just want to see if you guys are
awake that was a joke that was a dry
sense of humor heavy metals country
Wester this is a bad joke okay so
endocrine disruptors are any chemicals
in the environment that alter your genes
and cause disease there's these I have
this book it's about three inches thick
it's called the um uh modern Tex uh
toxicology it's the basically the
textbook of poisons okay the study of
poisons and what poisons do with to the
body
um we are bathed in so many chemicals
it's it's insane from walking out in the
yard to our food to the air we're just
bathed in all these chemicals I mean
there's over four billion pounds of
toxic chemicals released into our
environment every single year and that's
72 million pounds of recognized
carcinogens which actually cause cancer
so our bodies are constantly hit with
these endocrine disruptors okay well
guess what these endocrine disruptors
um mess up the normal process of your
body controlling
cancer so you may have known that
already but I'm just refreshing your
your mind um I'm just touching right now
want to see if there's any questions
real fast because um oh yeah someone
mentioned Dees diethyl testerol here's a
here's a tongue twister doost testerol
uh was used in the uh 50s for morning
sickness and I think over like millions
of women were exposed to it and they
caused problems not just in The
Offspring but in the third generation it
it really destroyed our bodies and they
did not test the long-term effects of
that very very similarly to what they're
doing now with the GMO Foods so they
made a lot of money and then now um they
banned it okay that's
Dees so
DS is called an endocrine disruptor
destroys your your your
hormones okay so
now this really amazing car called the
cytochrome uh
p450 now I'm just this is another bad
joke but it sounds like a car doesn't it
a
p450 now a cytochrome
p450 is an enzyme that has incredible
capacities to turn
those endocrine disruptors those poisons
into harmless
particles yeah so cytochrome po p450
enzymes are these special enzymes in
your liver and they're in different
cells in your body that can break down
thousands of chemicals toxins drugs and
poisons and they basically just turn
them into water soluble particles that
can go through the urine and it just so
happens that the cruciferous vegetables
increase your liver's ability to make
this enzyme that's really cool
so here it is right here insecticides
pesticides go into the liver and your
liver if you're eating the right foods
will basically dismantle those chemicals
so your liver is like robust but if you
have a fatty liver or it's um um a liver
that's a bad liver from some type of
virus or something then what's going to
happen is that you're not going to get
that break down how do you know if you
have a fatty liver um a lot of people
have it and they don't know it one of
the biggest Clues is is your stomach
being too big and that's causing
visceral fat around the organs and
especially the liver um I sent five of
my patients to the radiologist to get an
ultrasound of the liver and they all had
guts and five out of five had a fatty
liver so when you lose the capacity for
liver you can't detoxify as well and you
get a lot more toxicity and what do you
have to do if you have that condition
you have to basically start consuming a
lot of cruciferous and avoid the junk
you need to get the junk out of the
trunk all right so I just want to check
the questions here Dr Berg isn't it more
of a function of minerals actually being
in the soil before you can assume that
they're part of the plant in a plant or
an animal that is eating yes well that's
why I really want to consume grass-fed
animal uh products because are so are so
bad now uh that we need to and you feed
these animals uh corn and soy they're
not getting any nutrition from that at
all and it's all genetically modified so
at least if it's grass it doesn't it's
not genetically modified and you have a
lot more nutrition in the grass
especially like
Clover
okay let's go back to those slides here
okay the
liver very important with with your skin
if you really work on your liver and you
start consuming a lot more of these
cruciferous
vegetables your skin will start to
change and it'll start looking better
and better and better uh especially with
acne and dry skin and Youthful skin I
mean the liver is really the Hub of all
the um digestion of of your amino acids
your proteins so we're going to talk
about cruciferous for a
second let me just fix the slide here
cruciferous what does this word mean Cru
Cru which means cross it's basically
certain plants that have these little
crosses in
them okay and here's some examples of
cruciferous radishes Russel
Sprouts kale
cabbage Bak
Choy and swiss chard mustard greens
arugula now I have some other vegetables
in here too um but I wanted just to
mention the cruciferous family and this
is this brings me to the next topic
which is going to call um which is a
different type of nutrient we talked
about the fat Cal vitamins um but we now
we need to talk about the other nutrient
that will not just help your skin and
all that but it will help post pone your
life cruciferous was studied by the
World Health Organization and it was
found to um creates some serious
anti-aging effects and anti-cancer
effects on your body each type of food
is Thoroughly tested to to um in
decrease the risk factors of many
different types of cancer so one type of
cruciferous will maybe handle like
several type of cancers another one will
handle different other ones garlic is
probably the top of the list that
probably will that's like the most
anti-cancer properties uh these are two
different types of kale turmeric is a um
an amazing um phytal
nutrient it has phytonutrients I'm sorry
taric is kind of a root that has
phytonutrients so the category of
nutrients that we want to talk about
next is called phytonutrients plant
chemicals these are different than
vitamins and minerals and amino acids
they basically are natural plant
chemicals that have extra Health factors
and properties so they're they're like
they'll actually help with macular
degeneration prostate cancer many
disease States and so the question is
why are not why aren't we eating these
Foods I mean very few people consume
these
Foods here's some good ones parsley
cabbage and celp celp is great for
minerals and
iodine um but these are the foods that I
consume on a regular basis if you don't
consume them you need to start doing it
for your liver and your skin will start
to change as well even now these do not
contain a lot of the fat soluble
vitamins they do contain a lot of the
phytonutrients which are
anti-cancer and again the GMO Foods
genetically modified foods are basically
spreading all over the world right now
and the two big ones are corn and soy
and the animals that are consuming these
are getting all sorts of inflammatory
conditions and even the the pets that
you have like even the dogs and the cats
if you talk to a vet uh and these
animals that come in with arthritis
heart disease diabetes and inflammation
in the gut uh it's because they're
consuming GMO food when you just simply
change the food non GMO these things
clear
up but 90% of all the GMO corn and soy
go to animal feeds that's pretty sad so
in the grocery store that so-called
natural chicken that you have from
Purdue it's all GMO unless it says
organic it's
GMO now what is GMO GMO is um
genetically modified organisms and what
they do is they they actually have them
resistant to theb side called uh Roundup
Ready and so you can spray more of the
Roundup Ready on these crops and so you
bet they do that and it's they Round Up
ready the chemical name is called
glyphosate and glyphosate is um pretty
nasty stuff but of course they say it's
safe so I think it might be
okay um there's this uh French
researcher by the way that was just a
sarcasm um sometimes people get my dry
humor I don't think they're safe but
there's this French researcher who did
studies animal studies and glyphosate
and he found some serious problems with
glyphosate um and I I'm G to send I'm
going to send you the link too it says
that GMO and glyphosate causes tumors
liver and kidney damage in rats within a
week a smear campaign was mounted by the
biotech anology industry with Scientists
primarily plant biologists and not
toxicologists and they basically forced
um the study to be extracted from um
some of these journals so here the study
comes out saying that GMO is bad and
then it instantly was retracted not
because they didn't find a cancer link
but their reasoning was it was
inconclusive because the type of rats
used were prone to tumor
so now here's the thing if they can do
that you know that how they're so
powerful they are so powerful so um I
mean you can this is totally political
so the point is that you know the GMO
food is pretty
bad if you look at um from
1992 to 2012 you can see how many
millions of pounds of um glyphosate is
being put or GMO uh plants are being
uh created and you can see Corn's going
up soybeans is going up wheat actually
some of the wheat is genetically
modified
cotton uh certain vegetables and fruit
rice grapes alphalpha
pasture and hay other crops oh my gosh
it's just kind of going up it's just
crazy so what happens is these chemicals
GMO Foods herbicides they can mimic
hormon
and they go into um your glands the
thyroid the ovary and it can go into the
breast the uterus and cause cancer so if
you take a look
at like they always say that disease is
so mysterious and it no one knows what
causes this take a look at any of the
toxicology books they will list all the
diseases and tell you what pesticide or
chemical causes this illness or this
cancer and they don't really like you
said um Leslie they they do not connect
the dots they don't connect toxicology
with cancer and natural things it's
everything is like their own Island and
so it's very obvious to me that all
these things uh that are related to the
toxins and we we don't actually um we're
not making the connection there um of
course we have psychiatrist like Stephen
Barret what's out Beret whatever his
name is pushing out there that oh no
that's fine just keep eating the stuff I
was uh I just released a video I was on
Sports Talk live and I had a dietitian
and her husband who's an MD get out the
air and uh give me a hard time about the
whole water myth so you can watch it on
my website but um it was ridiculous
they're like oh yeah the tap water's
fine it has minerals keep drinking it
everyone's dehydrated I'm like yeah okay
all right so let me just see next slide
here
okay the the
hormones um like
estrogen um from the environment and all
these endocrine disruptors act like
estrogen in the environment they
actually
block um the thyroid function
so endocrine disruptors basically are
chemicals that mimic
estrogen and that's why females
get way way um too many cancers in the
in the areas that they have receptors
for estrogen which are breast uterus and
even the thyroid um African-American
women have a lot more receptors for
estrogen which gives them a different
shape and that's one of the reasons why
even um African-American women are
getting more cancers than other cultures
because of the estrogen so you really
need to um
increase your cruciferous make sure you
don't consume things that are you know
make sure they're organic hormone free
because it it's going to create a
problem sooner or
later
so I just wanted to put this slide up I
I hit it created you could see if you go
down the grocery store and you see these
incredible like delicious um cookies and
donuts and
breads um it's all the same ingredients
High frous corn syrup hydrogenated oil
chemicals High frus corn syrup
artificial flavoring it's all the same
thing pretty
sad so phytonutrients those are
plant-based chemicals that have all
these really amazing properties and all
these different plant chemicals that do
many things like even vitamin A for
example vitamin A is not a single
vitamin it's a whole bunch of um
complexes like there's over 600 parts of
vitamin A so if you take a synthetic
vitamin a you are not even getting close
to what you should get that's why I'm
very against
synthetics um so crucifer vegetables
help protect the cells from DNA damage
they help inactivate carcinogens they're
antiviral
antibacterial
anti-inflammatory I mean they create all
these wonderful
benefits now I'm going to check check
the questions
here what do you think of um wild yam
well if you um have a problem with um
hot flashes with menopause I think that
would be something you should take
because that will it's a natural source
of um it's called
phytoestrogens which are actually will
help you there's some other ones too
called the um the Clover Leaf that's
actually very good as well
um let's
see okay
how much difference will it take to take
a cruciferous supplement um here's the
thing it's always best to consume the
food but it is hard to get that so what
I'm going to show you um is a the
cruciferous product that a lot of you
are already taking right now and of
course you probably have not been taking
because I've been out of it since March
but I wanted to explain um um kind of a
combination
of of
ingredients that um I'm not even I'm
just talking but I'm not even showing
this image
here okay so you can see right here
there's a product that I I I created
it's called the CR organic cruciferous
food and it has organic beetroot brussel
sprouts uh collag green organic
asparagus organic kale organic parsley
and parsley is probably even has more
vitamin uh vitamins and kale and then we
have organic red radish cabbage garlic
and turmeric so those are all the things
that I personally think are the the
superfoods and I put them in the in one
combination there's 250 tablets in this
and this is something that is convenient
if you don't have all the different
variety of nutrients because it is hard
to get all these nutrients so like it
has all these these products in there it
has seelp because some people wig out
because oh my gosh it's there's
cruciferous it's going to cause a
deficiency of iodine for my thyroid I'm
G to get a goer no you're not I put the
calp in there so it's a really awesome
product and um and in these webinars I
always give people a discount if you
wanted to get some cruciferous um the
bottle is 250 capsules and here's
I have some good news and some bad news
what do you want to hear first the bad
news or the good
news let me see what you guys
say there's a delay in this
thing I'm gu okay Leslie do you want you
want the good news or the bad news
um bad news how about the good news how
about the good news good news okay good
the good news is that
um I'm giving you a
discount on this product $10 off and
here's the coupon code and here's the
link um and the good news is that it's f
um it's almost in the bad news it's not
in yet it's in tomorrow morning it's
coming tomorrow
morning so but the good news it's almost
in and I've had people wait since March
for this product
because because here's the problem I ran
into um it is almost impossible to find
a a local farmer or something in United
States that has the soils that I want to
get these products unless you go to
China or you go to some other country I
don't I don't do that so it's taken us
forever and so what will happen this is
March March see March April May June
July August is it August or September
September okay that's seven months I
haven't had this product I'm getting it
tomorrow morning it's coming tomorrow
morning for thing so what happened is I
would get it would have like one
ingredient tested would be it would have
too much lead in it I'm like I can't do
that and next one would have like too
much I don't know another mineral that
we don't want in there that's toxic or
something like that so we had to
thoroughly test every single ingredient
and make sure that all really really
high quality from the exact Farms that I
wanted it from so it's finally done so
the good news it's almost here the bad
news is not quite here and so um there's
some more bad news
um which um I'm gonna tell you right now
the other bad news is that um the cost
of this product went up severely so um I
I have to increase it a little bit more
it's like going to be$ five dollar more
but
the good news is if if you wanted to get
the product at the lowest fee you can
actually buy as many of these as you
want with uh on this on this webinar so
that's the good news so you don't have
to pay the bigger fee if you don't want
so you can get some Reserve if you want
um the only
catch22 is that I only want you to order
this tomorrow morning not tonight
because I do not want to sell you this
product unless I am 100%
sure it's
available even though I'm tracking I'm
tracking the the guy who's like pulling
up in my office he's I know what state
he's in he's going to be showing up
tomorrow but until it shows up I'm not
gonna take I'm not GNA take the um the
block off my website so in other words
no one could really buy it until I
actually have it in hand so
if you wanted to check in early the
morning and if it actually uh everything
works then it's in if it doesn't work
then you know it's not in yet so I just
want to let you know that um I've been
really behind the scenes trying to get
this thing out for a long time so so the
good news is I'll have it in tomorrow
there's a
99.99%
chance and with the bad news is it's a
little bit more expensive but the good
news is you don't have to pay that
because I'm giving you a discount
so anyway this is a good product to take
for your liver it's the best anti-aging
because it it
fortifies um the inside of the body and
it also protects against a lot of
different types of um conditions that um
people are at risk just from the
pollution in the environment
so so now what I want to
do is I want to
give you a link and a code coupon code
you can just highlight that coupon code
and just
um yeah just save it for tomorrow and
you can go to my website and get a
discount you can get as many as you want
um I I will be increasing I mean the
price is already increased but if you
use that discount which is going to be
good for the next three
days I know it says the offer ends in
one hour but that's not true because I
don't even have the product in so no
worries on that okay now if you are
watching this as a webinar replay just
realize I already have it in okay
because I'll have it in by tomorrow for
sure um someone says can I piggy back on
and auto ship order with my weat crass
juice yes I think you could do that but
you may want to call my office with that
how long is the coupon offer for the
next three days how long is the shelf
life the shelf life is is good for a
year but I think it's actually longer
than that but we we tell people a year
at the because we're being very
conservative someone says don't go to
commercial I'm not I'm not going to
commercial don't worry I'm just people
are asking me I'm giving on a
discount um
can you provide the price of the whole
cerous food yeah um the price was 3$
34.95 now it's $
39.95 um but there's 250 capsules in
there um but the problem is that the uh
the price trying to get these
ingredients is just off the charts even
if you go look for a cruciferous product
it's hard to find um all these
cruciferous and you may find them like
in like broccoli or something like that
but it's only like 90 pills and it's Pro
it's going to be the same it's like $30
it's the same fee so it's it is a good a
good um program with with the quantity
that you're getting and the quality as
well do you ship to Canada
yes do they lose any vitamins when they
are processed um
well you're not going to lose that much
with the processing but if you keep them
in the heat they and keep it open
you may even want to keep it in the
fridge to um have them last a lot longer
what is the dose of how many pills per
day it depends if you want a m
maintenance dose I would take three but
if you want to correct something you
want want to take six personally this is
just my own opinion if I had cancer I
would take 15 a
day I've have I have a lot of people
that just take them for weight loss but
that's just because it improves the the
uh the fat Rel on the liver and it
allows the liver to function better
which is really connected to actually
the thyroid being working better so it
doesn't actually burn fat by
itself um what if you have a thyroid
problem well we have seelp in there so
you have the ey then that's not going to
be a problem is it safe to take if
you're pregnant absolutely because
there's there's nothing else but those
ingredients
can I give it to my toddler uh depends
if he's like one or older just give him
maybe one a day but of course if it's a
baby you're not going to give him that
um unless he can swallow
capsules
yeah so
um so anyway I I covered a lot of data a
lot of information um I'm going to send
everyone a link to all these slides
because I have a lot of references that
you can see and I will send that out um
probably a little bit later on probably
in the middle of the night it'll go go
to you and that way you can see the
webinar I mean all the the slides and um
and I'll send you the webinar replay too
if you want that but I want you to apply
some of the information that I shared
tonight and I want to thank Leslie for
being on to sharing her story of the
wonderful example of uh trying to get
some help of treat being one person at a
time or one condition at a time
so thank thank you very much next
Tuesday we're going to do another
seminar and this one's going to be on
energy and um it's going to be really
awesome I'm going to cover um the topic
on insulin very heavily you need to you
need to see that if you have any insulin
problems and even even if you don't um
if you if you are fatigued you need to
come to this webinar as well um so I'll
show you some techniques as well I'm
going to show you uh an acupressure
technique uh that will literally
increase your energy yeah so I'm GNA
demonstrate it right in my office right
here and then you could do it on your
friends and family just don't mention my
name now I'm fine you can you can do
that so I want to thank you guys for
showing up tonight I um and I will see
you next in the next webinar so I'll
send you a link on that too and um I
will um have someone reply to a lot of
your questions because some people are
um having specific questions about this
and that so I'll try to answer those or
go to my
blog but I want to say thank you and
have a great evening and thanks Leslie
we'll see you next time thank you you're
welcome
