so hopefully right now you're not right
in the middle of passing a kidney stone
get these things out of me and trying to
focus on this video but let's say for
example you can't make it to the
hospital or you can't make it to your
doctor's office you're on a desert
island okay and you're passing a kidney
stone what can you do to get some relief
well number one you need to start
drinking serious amounts of water real
fast okay just drink a ton of water
right now because in this diagram you
see the two kidneys
here's your belly button here's the
front of the abdomen you got the kidney
right here diaphragm right here and you
have two little tubes that come down to
the bladder and a tube that comes out so
you have these two tubes and if there's
a stone that is stuck in one of these
tubes or let's say it's stuck right here
drinking more water will create a little
more space to give you more relief and
and maybe even help you push it through
okay so that's number one if you have
some potassium citrate or
electrolytes around put that in the
water because if it's a uric acid stone
you also want to alkalize the urine to
reduce the uric acid crystals so that
will help you they're also helping
oxalate stones if you don't have that
just use a lemon juice okay Syd rates
will help with oxalate stones so you add
the lemon juice with the water drink a
lot of it start immediately realize it's
going to take a little time for that
water to actually be filtered through
the kidneys so you're talking maybe five
ten fifteen minutes by the time it
starts ending up down here and giving
you a little relief but the water will
give you some relief next thing you
should do is what's called manual
therapy and no one does this you can
actually manipulate the stone and help
push it through so here's your belly
button right here okay so your rib cage
is right here so if we come out about an
inch to inch and a half to two inches
right here and you start pressing in
there and start slowly pressing downward
okay start on the right side and then do
the left side do both sides even if you
have pain on one side okay and you might
find some areas that are in
awesome because that stone is stuck
there you're gonna get a lot of
tightness around this area in the
abdomen
okay because the whole body is freaking
out and and also the side note try to
relax and breathe slowly as much as
possible don't panic because everything
gets tightened up even worse just
relaxed and just start pressing downward
on the right side slowly downward on the
left side all the way down as far as you
can go to the bottom of your for the
front part of your pelvis because you
want to attempt to push things this way
down into the bladder and hopefully out
through this way right here I put some
videos down below on how to prevent
kidney stones that's the ultimate
solution and what's behind a kidney
stone it's good to learn about it this
is a really good remedy called
hydroxycitric I like this one the best
potassium citrate is also good but this
one works better on both oxalates and
uric acid stones
alright guys it's real simple drink a
lot of water add some electrolytes with
lemon juice start doing manual therapy
until you get some relief so hopefully
that'll bring down the pain so you can
get through it thanks for watching
breathe through the pain
hey guys I'm not sure if you have my app
yet dr. Berg app it's totally free you
should download it okay this is what it
looks like you click it it gives you all
sorts of great resources I have all my
YouTube videos on this app okay and it's
regularly uploading the most recent ones
all the YouTube videos are also
converted to audio versions okay so you
can use it when you're walking
exercising driving your car I have a
mini course on there I'll be putting
additional courses I have a lot of
recipes on there this is new and also
PDF resources so there's various
downloads PDFs that you can get as well
and if you wouldn't mind after you
download it check it out
give me your unbiased review and tell me
how you like it I want to know
