so recently I was doing some research on
certain adaptogens those are herbs that
help you adapt to stress and I did a
thorough Deep dive on ashanda which is
an amazing herb but there's another herb
that's equally interesting especially
for a certain effect that it can create
that I really didn't understand until I
really Dove head first into it and this
herb is called riola so riola is an
adaptogen it has this really interesting
effect that I was just questioning and
is this it can help significantly reduce
perceived effort after exercise so
basically does it trick your mind into
thinking that you're not tired so you
can go longer and if you kept going
would you actually get worse physically
so this just didn't make sense to me so
I'm going to show you what I found about
it which is going to be very interesting
now just so you know rode Ola being an
adaptogen it's antistress it has an
anti- coughing effect it can help you if
you cough it's anti fatigue anti-
depression especially if that depression
is more Ley but it can really improve
one's endurance with exercise so let me
just first show you this one graph right
here this is part of the study and I
will put a link down below they're
comparing riola to a placebo and what
you're looking at right here is just a
numbered scaled on perceived effort how
much effort a person felt when they were
exercising and so right here was after
they were comparing the riola to the
placebo after just taking it not
exercising and there was some
improvement but look what happened after
exercise people had more energy less
fatigue than the placebo and this was
very significant and that got my
attention because I'm like why would it
do that take a look at this we have the
flight or fight mechanism and then we
have the recovery
mechanism the names for this uh if we're
looking at the the auton nervous system
that system that works on automatic that
kind of regulates all the body functions
including your heart and glands and
everything is made up of the sympathetic
nervous system it's like your adaptation
to stress okay and then once you go
through the stress and then you have to
recovery and so both of these things can
be measured on a device that I'm going
to be releasing more information about
that soon but I just wanted to let you
know that it is possible to measure
what's going on this would be like the
gas pedal and this is like the brake pad
but the problem is sometimes when we're
stressed or we have body problems we
don't really know do I have too much gas
pedal do I have too much stress or is it
just I don't have enough recovery well
this device allows you to look at each
one to measure it because even right
here if you're recovery is weak and this
is sleep cycles right we go through
these four sleep cycles right here from
a deep sleep to a light sleep deep sleep
light sleep the lighter sleep is called
the REM sleep and that is where you
dream and you remember your dreams but
the wavelengths are similar to being
awake okay but you're actually asleep so
that's the r and you can see the REM
gets longer towards the second half of
sleep and that's controlled mainly by
the sympathetic nervous system but the
deeper sleep is controlled by the
parasympathetic and so that's way more
important in rejuvenating your body okay
because it allows you to recover the
physical damage that was created from
the exercise or whatever you're doing
and one quick way to know that you have
a good parasympathetic is how fast can
you go to sleep can you go to sleep
really fast do you can you just go right
into this deep sleep or does it take a
while to get to sleep because this uh
recovery thing is pushing you down into
the deeper sleep and the reason I'm
talking about this is riola has a really
uh positive effect on your sleep it
helps you sleep especially this nonr
sleep in fact one St I found was that
your body required less sleep to get
rejuvenated and that was even more
interesting now I did find three
research papers that showed taking riola
can improve something called heart rate
variability which is basically the
technology of measuring the autonomic
nervous system and so now it's starting
to make sense okay so that's why someone
can go longer because you're improving
the ability to adapt and recover of
course you're G to have more endurance
so it's happening it's not that your
body is just reducing the perception of
effort it's making things more efficient
because I found other research that
shows that riola increases glycogen
reserves that's like stored fuel
especially for intense exercise and even
an increase in ATP which is the energy
currency of the body now I'm going to
put this research down below but there's
some fascinating data showing how riola
is a prominent anti- altitude sickness
remedy okay what does that mean this
means that can help someone that is
climbing m mountains that then get sick
because of this high altitude situation
because the oxygen at the high altitudes
is less and people basically can get
sick from that if they can't adapt to
that but apparently this is a well-known
remedy for people who do uh mountain
climbing which is very interesting so
how does that work I mean how does riola
help that and this is what they found it
decreases oxygen
consumption as well as increasing oxygen
transportation that doesn't mean it
shuts down oxygen it basically makes
oxygen more efficient to help make ATP
that energy currency of the body as well
as its ability or capacity to carry
oxygen to certain things and it can
decrease tissue in organ damage from
hypoxia all right what's hypoxia well
that's basically a lack of oxygen think
about what happens when you do these
massive climbs right there's lack of
oxygen so you're going to develop all
sorts of hypoxic symp symptoms like
altitude sickness Etc so it puts a
tremendous stress on the body so riola
counters the damage from hypoxia and it
just allows oxygen to work better in
your body which makes a lot of sense
because what stops you from doing a
longer exercise well eventually just you
could run out of oxygen and your muscles
cramp up so riola is not just tricking
your brain to perceive less effort it's
actually giving more Endurance by making
the machine the recovery machine the
energy machine the oxygen machine just
to work more efficiently it's like
giving you more gas in the tank more uh
recovery Reserve in the tank which makes
a lot of sense because now we don't have
the severity of damage from this hypoxia
that we had if you didn't take it even
students uh take it to have more
cognitive function yet at the same time
be calm so it's really interesting about
these adaptogens because they help you
adapt if you have too much stress or not
enough recovery so it you don't
necessarily have to use them for one
situation I mean riola is uh considered
like folk medicine right and it's been
around for a thousand years the Russian
army would use it for their soldiers
when they got fatig and the other two
papers that I was looking at uh both
improved the heart rate variability
score which is a very important thing as
well as improving angina pains now what
is angina that's when you're heart
cramps right why because of lack of
oxygen so apparently riola somehow
improves the oxygen in the muscle and
then the last study showed Improvement
in the heart muscle after exercise so
when you exercise and you damage the
heart muscle Rola can help counter some
of the damage from the hypoxia that's
generated so anyway I wanted to put this
on your radar so you're aware of it so
you have another tool to use to improve
your exercise performance also if you
want to download onepage summary of the
25 natural ways to lower cortisol uh
I'll put that link down
below
