hey guys have a question today and the
question is what is your motivation to
eat that's the topic for today is it for
health reasons is it to satisfy your
hunger or is it mainly for pleasure and
taste there are people that pretty much
only eat for pleasure
what about boredom at night are you just
mindlessly putting things in your mouth
and just eating I mean I used to have a
problem with eating at a board and
especially like peanuts I would be just
consuming because I like that little
crunch not that I was hungry at all
I just ate because there was not much to
do what about stress do you tend to
relieve emotional pain physical pain
that's a big reason to eat what about
number six avoiding waste do you find
that you always have to eat everything
in your plate no matter what even though
you're completely stuffed you have to
finish your plate so this is another
reason why people will eat when they
maybe shouldn't be eating so this is
what I would recommend I'm gonna have
you do an exercise and there's gonna be
a link down below in description to then
click and then upload this little
exercise or document so I can summarize
everyone that does this exercise and do
another video and show the results
that'll be really cool but what it is
it's a food log and you're gonna through
the day log all your food and then right
down next to the food you're gonna write
down your motivation okay and you're
gonna have some increase awareness on
exactly why you're eating certain foods
so the goal is just increase awareness
so many people are eating reactively
they're eating unconsciously and then
one day they wonder why a hack of my fat
okay and they they don't they think well
I need to exercise no use need to be
aware of what you're putting your mouth
and it's not even just the sugar or the
added sugar it's all the foods that will
create a sugar effect which I mean
increase the insulin okay so that's the
combination of carbs in protein that
exaggerate the spike of insulin it's the
combination of sugar in fat that
exaggerate this insulin spike so it's
not even just the added sugar it's even
the large amount of protein
and it's a fad in the combinations that
can really get out of control so really
my goal for you is to get you to eat for
the right reason that's all and if we
look at the definition of the word food
in the dictionary it really comes from
the derivation of nutrients so if you're
eating to make sure you're getting all
your nutrients that would be a very good
thing of course you want to satisfy your
hunger as well and you want to get the
right fuel and this is why we recommend
something called keto in a minute
fasting I'm gonna put the link down
below if you're new to my channel but
most of you are not and you already know
about that and you're already doing it
but this video is for those people that
are not but if you actually stick to
this right here
it'll keep you out of trouble so if
you're having some challenges with your
weight or your health let's do some
things to pull you out of it okay number
one the first step is to increase your
awareness by actually doing a log and
really looking at the reason why you're
really eating okay so do that but I
would like you to fill out the word
document and then upload it in the link
in the description versus typing it in
the comments because it's more difficult
to go through that and summarize it so
that would be helpful for me okay number
two change your motivation of why you're
eating but you know what's interesting
you can also get a lot of pleasure from
foods that also get you healthy all
right number three make it easy to do
make sure your environment aligns with
this right here don't hang out in a
bakery okay don't surf the web on food
channels it's just in your face all the
time so really avoid certain social
activities that could actually get you
in trouble like don't hang on at the bar
that could be a problem
alright restaurants there's a lot of
restaurants that actually serve the
foods that you shouldn't be eating stay
away from those restaurants okay
and there's also restaurants that bring
massive quantities of food and I'm
talking about a lot of pasta and things
that you should definitely avoid and as
a rule just make sure you don't eat in
any fast food restaurant simply because
they give you chemicals that can throw
off your blood sugars and create more
hunger do not go shopping at the grocery
store when you are hungry in
starving for food that's dangerous low
blood sugars
hypoglycemia this is an easy one if you
follow health Aikido and in fasting
because you won't have the hunger the
cravings anymore but if you have a
problem with this fix it it just makes
it easier number four stay in the
present ok if you're in the if you're
truly in the present the odds of you
doing this are much less and if you're
having continual problems just just do
more of the food lock so you can really
just be aware all the time that keeps
you in the present it keeps you out of
trouble we're trying to pull you out of
the unconscious reactive eating and put
you in control of your own eating and
the last thing is I think a really great
tool is fasting I mean think about the
whole goal of fasting if the co goal is
not to eat so you avoid this whole thing
right here so fasting is very
therapeutic not just physically but
mentally it's a discipline of avoiding
food and then you will eventually eat
and then you won't eat so it's putting
you really in control of that it's very
therapeutic on many levels
alright guys there you have it there's a
link down in the description go there
and actually get your food log do the
exercise and then I'm gonna do another
video to show you the results so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
