I'd like to discuss the absolute
healthiest foods that you should be
eating now how do we figure this out so
let's just take a look at what the
definition of food is food is that which
is eaten to sustain life provide energy
and promote the growth and repair of
tissues so if you eat something that
doesn't sustain life that doesn't give
you energy that doesn't help your
tissues grow and repair it's not food
and if we take a look at what foods
create the most
disease well Ultra process foods that's
a real polite way of saying junk Foods
so before we get into the actual Foods
what are ultr processed foods the word
Ultra means to the extreme processed in
the specialized definition of food means
something that has been altered using
either chemical or mechanical or heat or
other methods to change something
something into something else and so
they can start out with corn and turn
that into something that doesn't even
resemble corn okay that's alter
processed and I don't know why they can
even call this food because it doesn't
sustain life you can't live on it it
doesn't give you energy it makes you
tired there are basically no nutrients
except for the few synthetic nutrients
that they spray on it and it doesn't
promote growth especially and we're
talking about like even a growing child
that needs high quality amino acids and
high quality fatty acids so if we look
at a scale from I'm going to call it
nonfood all the way to the other side of
some whole food that has bioavailable
nutrients so that means it would have to
have vitamins minerals trace minerals
amino acids and fatty acids and other
things too and I think fiber um might be
important as well simply because fiber
is something that your microbes do eat
and I'm not talking about added fiber
just the fiber that comes within certain
foods but we do know the essential
things essential fats essential proteins
but there's no essential carbohydrates
we can actually live without
carbohydrates on the flip side there are
some important nutrients in vegetables
vitamin C folate pottassium magnesium
and phytonutrients which have a lot of
additional interesting properties that
go beyond just U basic nutrients
anti-inflammatory antioxidant Etc
however that being said you can find in
grass-fed beef a lot of phytonutrients
that's right there's not a lot of
research in this area as far as the
difference between the two uh or the
bioavailability but they're in there
like I'm demonstrating right here in
this picture and you can see the level
of phytonutrients in my cattle and you
can see it's much higher especially than
the grain fed and this is probably
because uh my cattle get no grain it's
all grass-fed grass finished and even in
eggs right you can get certain
phytonutrients which are plant-based
compounds so you don't always have to
get these phytonutrients from Plants now
if you look at a vegan's diet you can't
really get all of the nutrients without
adding or supplementing to a vegan diet
especially B12 and other nutrients that
are not as bio valuable and then we also
have DHA which is omega-3 and also uh
the amino acids are different from plant
to animal you can still do it being a
vegan I'm not saying that you can but
it's just a little more difficult you
have to combine certain things to get
the complete amino acid profile the
bottom line is there's just more quality
amino acids in animal products than
there are in Plants now in vegetables
you have also um certain anti-nutrients
but for example like cruciferous
vegetables you can cook them you can
steam them and reduce a lot of these
anti-nutrients nuts also have uh
antinutrients soak them overnight it's
called germination even roasting nuts
reduce the antinutrients on one extreme
we have the alra process ingredients
right which really is composed of three
or four main ingredients with a lot of
additional chemicals so let me just give
you one example this was my favorite
snack in college let's just take a look
at what the ingredients are corn
vegetable oils corn canola Andor
sunflower oil so number one realize that
corn is not like sweet corn okay it's
called Dent corn or field corn uh you
can't eat it I mean it's disgusting so
they're processing it to put it in a
powder and then flavoring it and putting
all sorts of things on it to make it
taste edible and then the seed oils are
highly inflammatory and then we have
molto dextrin it has worse effects on
your blood sugars the actual sugar it's
highly processed monosodium glutamate of
course just to stimulate your appetite
artificial colorings artificial
flavorings and natural flavorings and
then some other chemicals too now what's
interesting about this is take a look at
the fats I don't know if you can see
total fats 8 gram that's per serving
size 12 chips that's 10% of all the
calories I mean people think that
saturated fats is the worst thing right
in here but it has one gr then what is
all the other fats in there unsaturated
fatty acids that's the thing that's
creating a tremendous amount of damage
in our bodies because it's the vegetable
oils highly processed highly
inflammatory yet when we think about
junk Foods um no one's really saying to
avoid the unsaturated fats it's all
about the saturated fats this is why
some companies will say hey this junk
food has no saturated fats and you think
oh wow that's healthy not quite and the
last thing they have on there is
guaranteed fresh okay guaranteed fresh
like like taking an apple off of a tree
type fresh you know the purpose of ultra
processed food is to increase shelf life
and make it cheap and make it very tasty
okay and so I really think the um the
essence of healthy foods is really how
much life that food has how dead can you
make a food when you're cooking it five
times using aive pressure chemicals heat
it's in the Pet Foods it's in infant
formulas 67% of all teens calories are
alter processed foods and so yes they
all have chemicals and everything but I
think the thing that's really important
to understand is the basic three
ingredients number one the synthetic
sugars the basic synthetic starches
which is like modified food starch or
mdex and the synthetic oils which are
the unsaturated seed oils those are the
things that you need to really pay
attention to and make sure they're not
in your refrigerator all right let's
finally get to the the purpose of this
video which is the list of the
healthiest foods um number one beef as
in red meat the exact food that
everyone's saying to avoid and I'm not
talking about grain fed I'm talking
about grass-fed grass finished and so
you can't just lump in grass-fed cows
that are on pasture that are rotated
with all the processed meat and also
I've never met anyone who is allergic to
beef beef is high in glutamine glutamine
heals your gut in fact it's the highest
source of glutamine and so many people
have got inflammation this is why
someone that goes on a beef diet or a
carnivore diet starts to uh heal their
gut in a lot of other inflammatory
conditions you notice I didn't say
chicken chickens are fed grains which
really dramatically increase the omega-6
fatty acids however there are certain
chickens that are soy and corn free that
you can get which I don't know where you
can get them but they're much healthier
all right number two wild caught fatty
fish like salmon for example I mean an
average person at least in the US
consumes
32% of all their calories in the form of
these seed oils and number three which
is shellfish clams oysters shrimp
lobster crab things like that you not
only can get the omega-3 fatty acids but
you can get all the trace minerals and
you get high quality protein I mean
oysters are just loaded with zinc then
number four is eggs I think it's really
important to buy the highest quality
eggs you can find uh organic pasta
raised super amounts of nutrition
especially in the yolk they're also very
high in choline which can help a fatty
liver okay number five is fermented
vegetables I'm mainly talking about
either Sauer crop or kimchi and the
reason I put those in the list is
because they're great probiotics the
sauerkraut has like 10 times the vitamin
C of any vegetable it's loaded with the
prebiotics of fiber and the probiotics
which are the microbes plus it's made
from cabbage which has a lot of great
things for gut health glutamine and I
think a lot of people don't realize that
these microbes contribute so much to
your health I mean just take a look at
what happens after an antibiotic to your
heal
goes right down the tubes so we need to
emphasize foods for our probotics all
right number six I'm going to include
the leafy greens that could be anything
from arugula to spinach to just high
quality lettuce that's grown on soil you
also have folate vitamin C you have
potassium and magnesium yes it's true
that spinach is high in oets but if you
consume cheese with spinach or or you
cook your spinach you can reduce
oxalates number seven organ Meats I
personally don't like liver even though
I know it's super healthy I can't eat it
for some reason but I do like cod liver
and I get it in a can it's loaded with
omega3 fatty acids and it has a lot of
other good things and I like the taste
doesn't taste like liver number eight
certain herbal spices and I'm talking
about garlic uh onion uh Sage thyme sea
salt which is not an herb but it's just
something I want to throw in there basil
and cinnamon all these herbs have
special compounds that can help in
various ways now there's one popular
video I explain a lot more about the
number one food that is the most
anti-inflammatory and I want you to know
more about this so check out this video
I put it up right
here
