my name is Sheila bender and I have been
working on my health for many years now
and I've heard about dr. Burks treatment
over the years and I decided after so
many years to just come and investigate
and since he was given a free consult I
came in the whole reason is to of course
always want to be helping improve health
and so I'm at that point in my life
where that's probably the first thing on
my list is to improve my health and so
that's why I came to see dr. Berg
fortunately I haven't I don't have
anything that you know prevents me from
living life to the fullest but several
issues that I wanted to discuss with him
of course always the weight but general
health issues one for example I did
discuss with him about a headache that I
have had probably for nine years and
always felt like my head was in a vise
being squeezed that's every day and I
think over the years I became acclimated
to it so I'm able to function with it
and I was told it was my teeth so I had
teeth removed and I was told it was
trigeminal neuralgia somebody said it's
not that but at the end of the
consultation and after a minor treatment
that dr. Berg did I was able to feel
some release from that vise on the first
visit and that's frankly what really got
me excited and I'm really going hold
Hogg to do this program because I want
to see the end result of it being in the
nursing profession for so many years I
know quite a bit about the body and how
it works
but there's some things that dr. Berg is
doing that I've never looked at the
functioning of the body the way he does
and that's very interesting to me so I
want to know more about it so that's why
I'm here oh my goodness of course I know
all about hormones but I gained
knowledge in the fact that realizing
that actually the hormones when they're
not functioning properly can hinder your
weight loss or also affect weight gain I
don't think anybody has in my experience
that's not what they usually teach you
and I don't I know they don't teach you
that in nursing school I know about
hormones growth hormones all of them and
what they do but never from the
perspective that if you are not
producing enough hormones or that would
have an effect on whether or not you
would be able to lose weight you always
look at counting the calories how much
food you take in the exercise piece you
look at that but never the hormone so
that's what I'm walking away with and I
see already from just the two weeks that
I've been here that it that it's a lot
of truth in what he's saying yeah if the
hormones are supposed to work a certain
way to accomplish a certain result in
your health and they're not working that
way well there's a problem but I don't
think the medical profession has gotten
to the root of the problem they have
given us and and and I'm not knocking it
because you do medicine when you need it
but don't you keep your patients coming
back for a pill which actually helps you
along but once you stop the pill you had
the same problem so did you help them
not really so if you can find the root
of the problem I was telling somebody
that today I think it was one of my kids
finding the root of the problem
is the answer because once you find the
root of the problem
and fix that you know you don't have the
problem anymore so that's that's the
problem in the United States today we
wait until people are sick and then we
try to help them but we never find the
route we give them something to take
care of the symptom but the problem is
still there
I have never in the years that I've been
nursing in the years that I've been a
doctor's patient had a trained a
professional doctor in that area to sit
down and spend as much time with me as
he did that was so impressive impressive
to me you just don't find it and that
alone is of is a big plus in my mind big
plus in my mind that someone would take
the time to talk to you and even go as
far back as your childhood to find out
where this problem actually started
there is no such animal out there there
is none trust me and I've been around so
this is why I'm here and I'm going to do
this I want to do it for myself first of
all and I do want to do it for my family
and others you know when they see the
results my culture that I come from you
can plainly see you've got to show them
something it's working you can't just
say do this so that's my goal is to not
just help myself but I got to help
myself before I can help others you know
communication is - is a two-way street a
good listener is the best communicator
and I feel that he heard me it's very
important in nursing we teach the nurses
that the patient knows their body you
need to listen to them so that's very
important I believe that he does that if
he did it with me I believe he does it
with others because I have a lot of
questions and he answered all of the
questions that I
and so that's important I believe he's a
great listener because of the fact that
when I walked out of here at that first
visit I felt better usually when you go
to a doctor you don't feel so good when
you come out when they're finished but
you know being around 66 years and doing
what I've done for 30-some years when
you walk out of a doctor's office and
you feel better you need to go back you
need to keep it going
and that's my goal and I know I love
sweets but he said no sugar so I'm
working on that it's a work in progress
but I plan to continue yeah you know it
took me years to come here years I think
I've known about this probably eight or
nine years but you know you try so many
different things hopefully it'll work
everybody has to come to their place
where they say okay I've tried
everything and then look around and see
what you have not tried
unfortunately nine times out of ten the
thing that you didn't try as a thing you
should have tried in the beginning you
know that's I think human nature so I
wish I had come five years ago six years
ago seven years ago eight years ago
especially when the headaches started
I've gone to Dennis I've gone everywhere
trust me to try to get this taken care
of and I'm just beginning to get some
relief from that so to me this is a a
secret that needs to be exposed
you know it's covered and it needs to be
exposed I think this is a light that's
not shining bright enough and it is my
earnest prayer that this man and his
work becomes exposed to the nation
because we are really sick and we're
dying every day and we need to do the
preventive health not to be political
though but it certainly will save us
billions of dollars and
you think it's going to save us make us
live longer or live better and save our
country money it needs to be known
