you know many people have cravings for
sugar for junk food for cakes cookies
candies alcohol beer all these things so
there is an herb called gnima which I'm
going to demonstrate to you and it
actually has the capacity of blocking
any sensation of sweet so what we're
going to do right now we're going to go
to the grocery store and we're going to
get uh a bunch of cookies cakes
chocolate candy and some alcohol and
then we're going to do a demonstration
with a couple um young adults to see how
it works but what we're going to do is
we're going to take one of the tablets
of gimema crush it up put it into a
powder and have them taste it and then
we're going to do it before and after to
see if actually blocks The Taste for
sweet or not
[Music]
of no patience see
me okay so we're ready for our first
experiment now U I know Dr o recommends
drinking wine the problem with wine is
the alcohol destroys the liver since all
six fat burning hormones work through
the liver the wine is going to stop you
from burning fat now you know they say
everything in moderation the problem is
that a little bit leads to a lot over
time so if you if you're having hard
time struggling losing weight I don't
recommend alcohol however if you have a
problem you're addicted or you want to
get off um the continual consumption
each night I have a great remedy and
it's called gima gnima is an herb that's
been around uh for like 600 BC and Jima
uh is used in India for diabetes we're
not going to use it for diabetes we're
going to use it
to take the taste of sweet away so what
it does is it blocks the sensation of
sweetness okay sugar so what I did is I
crushed up uh a tablet and then we're
going to first experiment on on wine so
Shane we have our victim I mean uh our
demonstration here why don't you just
take a little sip and um uh tell me if
you like that wine
mhm pretty good okay good so now we're
going to actually give him a little bit
of just let's put this in your hand uh
just put this in your palm up your hand
all right good now go ahead and put that
in your mouth and just kind of yeah it's
a little bitter yeah not too bad okay
good so we're gonna let that brew a
little bit so again it's what this is
going to do right now it's blocking his
taste for anything sweet so we're going
to turn
uh wine into vinegar all right so this
is going to be very exciting so now what
I want you to do is go ahead and cons
take a little sip of that wine and just
tell me what it tastes like
now so we just basically ruined your
pleasure for wine now now what did what
did it taste like like vinegar vinegar
yeah so again if you're struggling
trying to lose weight and you just want
to kick the habit this is a great thing
to uh take and put on your tongue before
you know you're going to go out for
dinner or something just that way you
can block The Taste and one way to not
consume wine so so that's the
demonstration with wine next we're going
to go to something else okay we're at
our next demonstration we're going to
actually do beer so now let's
let's go ahead and uh it's already in
your mouth right now so go ahead and
just sip that and just tell me how you
how much you enjoy that
beer not anymore not anymore so again
this is great for people who um just
have this bad habit of drinking each
night and this is a way to break the
Habit you take one of these each each
night before you consume this and it
just ruins the pleasure and it's great
to do at a party too if you want to ruin
a party uh I did this uh one New Year's
um my wife killed me because I gave
everyone a little taste of this herb and
um there was no pleasure from any of the
alcohol or any of the sweets that was in
the house which actually um it backfired
on me but it actually helped them right
it's just it's for the cause okay so you
can do it for beer and you're also going
to do it for something else we're going
to get into the next video okay so we
got a we have a um Coca-Cola we have a
soda here and and um of course there's a
little bit of sugar in here just a
little tiny bit 39 G per uh tablespoon
okay so go ahead and take some of that
soda and just tell me what it tastes
like what does it taste like um very
Bland
like you see what happens we we
basically if you take the sweet away
from a lot of these sugar drinks you
actually taste the chemicals in the
drink so now you can taste what you're
really drinking okay so it's a great
demonstration to do on teenagers and
kids especially the one on alcohol
especially if they're underage okay so
in this next video um we're going to
grab some other things okay so we have
our next victim I mean uh demonstration
um we're going to give you an herb
called Jima you can just put this in the
palm of your hand and then you can put
that on your tongue and uh it's a little
bit bitter but um just kind of get it
try to get it all over your
Tong it's it's it's very earthy it's
very herbal e yeah um so just um tell me
when it kind of dissolves a little bit
but Jima has the ability to just kind of
block all the sensation of taste so what
we have here is we have some wonderful
powdered Donuts we have this Sour Patch
candies I don't know if you ever eat
those before got the Twinkies got
Hershey's chocolate okay so um what what
would you like to sample first um how
about the twinkie okay okay good so just
take a little bite of that Twinkie and
tell me tell me what it tastes
like it taste like
anything does it does it like void of
any type of
taste it kind of still tastes like the
twinkie but a lot less really okay cool
so let's put that there and then let's
uh let's try this little chocolate thing
right here and tell me what that tastes
like tastes
interesting a lot different lot
different it's weird weird I mean is it
less
pleasurable definitely okay and then
let's try the
donut doesn't taste
good sure we don't want the whole
bag so this is one way to um get uh
teenagers and young adults to uh not
consume too much junk food but again
this is just a demonstration to show
that you can actually get rid of The
Taste which is another strategy to get
people to um avoid eating junk food okay
well thank you very much and thank you
very much uh we'll be back next week for
another demonstration
