all right so I wanted to talk about what
causes high liver enzymes okay
you'd have high ast alt or ALP okay
so these two are high it's meaning than
the liver if this one is high chances
are you could have a stone that's
blocking a little bile duct and you're
having the bowel
backing up so it's a kind of a congested
bile situation backing up to deliver so
the number one cause would be something
called non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
okay so it's basically of a fatty liver
that is not coming from alcohol but I
always like to know what causes this
it's insulin resistance okay I've done a
couple videos on that probably about a
thousand so insulin resistance increases
insulin okay and then that will convert
to fat in the liver that's kind of it
that's where your body is going to dump
it first so the fat fills up it gets
inflamed it spills over around the
organs causing visceral fat it creates a
scar tissue you lose the function you
have the high liver enzymes and then you
develop diabetes so that's the
progression and number two a fatty liver
that's caused by alcohol okay now
between ninety and a hundred percent of
alcoholics have a fatty liver and of
course they're going to also eventually
have high liver enzymes so alcohol does
destroy the liver and the enzymes that
are supposed to work through the liver
number three medications statin drugs
steroids Tylenol antibiotics all will
destroy the liver and there's a lot more
as well and perform infection like
inflammatory conditions like hepatitis
and viruses certain parasites can do it
other microbes will do it epstein-barr
virus
cytomegalovirus number five cirrhosis
that's scar tissue of the liver but of
course will cause the cirrhosis there's
a fatty liver and insulin resistance so
if you have high liver enzymes this is
what I would recommend very simple do
the keto intermittent fasting program
and see if they don't come down
I put a link down below of exactly how
to do it hey guys a lot of you already
have my book some of you don't but this
new edition called the new body type
guide is an upgrade from my last edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has a hundred fifty six
images three hundred seventy eight pages
full glossary I talked about keto in a
minute fasting the body types in detail
I have a new stressed chapter I'm going
to show you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
