so when we talk about essential fatty
acids primarily we're talking about two
different kinds we have omega-6 and
omega3 I want to focus on both of them
today because we have a big problem the
ratios at which people are consuming the
Omega 6 to omega3 are way way way way
off on an average American they're at 20
to1 to sometimes 70 to one or more and
this introduction of the seed oils are a
relatively new thing for humans and I
know people call them vegetable oils but
there's no vegetables in these oils
they're they're seed oils so this whole
seed oil thing started in 1866 with
cotton seed oil I mean before this we
used cotton seed oil in lamps as a fuel
we used it as a lubricant in machinery
and then someone had a great idea to put
it in the food supply and turn it into
edible oil in fact all the information
I'm sharing with you is out of this book
right here the ancestral diet Revolution
by Dr Chris Kenobi MD an incredible
textbook on everything you'd ever want
to know uh about the seed oils in the uh
effects that it can create for our
health but I want to read you um a quote
on page 30 on the topic of cotton seed
oil use an issue of Popular Science from
the turn of the 20th century era summed
up cotton seed in cotton seed oil with a
single phrase what was garbage in 1860
was fertilizer in 1870 cattle feed in
1880 and table food in
1890 there's so many things we have in
our environments that are considered
waste that we somehow turn it into food
I mean even toxic SE is uh recycled
into biosolids and used as
fertilizer you have restaurant grease is
recycled and put in the food supply but
let me not divert from this topic let's
get back to this uh omega-6 omega-3
fatty acid uh ratio we need both of
these essential fatty acids but we
definitely don't need it in the
imbalanced amounts not to mention the
source of the seed oils right you're
talking about using petroleum derived
hexane which is a solvent uh in this
process chemical alkalization bleaching
deodorizing and you're heating these
very unstable oils many different times
and what's really wild about this is
roughly about a fourth to a third of all
your calories it's not just in cooking
oil it's in a lot of different things we
already have a problem with inflammation
the number one selling drug on the
planet is an anti-inflammatory and when
your fat cell becomes inflamed that can
produce insulin resistance and then also
at the heart of this inflammation we
have a lot of associated mitochondrial
dysfunction the majority of illnesses
and disease these are in mitochondrial
origin now I'll just show you two graphs
right here the top graph is the Omega 6
fatty acids okay the bottom graph is the
omega3 fatty acids as you can see the
trend for omega-3 is not nearly as high
is Omega 6 I'm going to show you this
graph right here if you look at heart
disease going up and look at saturated
fat right in the center there that is
not spiking parallel with seed oils so
in other words we replaced our saturated
fats with seed oils with this false idea
that the saturated fats are the problem
and the unsaturated fats are the
solution unsaturated fats do have the
capacity to lower cholesterol but
they're not heart protective there's a
lot of data that indicates that these
highly processed industrial seed oils
create a lot of damage at the cellular
level you can see total um meat okay and
you can also see uh over time red meat
is not really uh a big spike but poultry
is interesting so the big spike in meat
is really chicken which is very high in
omega-6 fatty acids if you're doing
grass-fed Meats it's going to be very
low in this omega-6 fatty acid in this
graph right here we have cardiovascular
deaths correlate more with vegetable
oils than it does with sugar seed oils
are in so many different foods and it's
definitely part of pretty much every
single ultrapress food AKA junk Foods
you know a lot of times people think
that um ultr processed foods are just
you know saturated fats well the really
the only saturated fats in these ultr
processed foods is palm oil in very
small amounts I mean really no one's
talking about the seed oils in these
alra processed foods the unsaturated
fatty acids which are very unstable
that's enough for omega-6 fatty acids
now what about omega-3 fatty acids where
do we get that we get it from fish cod
liver oil Cod Liver has probably the
most omega-3 fatty acids sardines and
wild caught shellfish but the animals
that consume these grains like pigs and
chickens and even the grain-fed beef are
much higher in omega-6 fatty acids so
this is one reason why a lot of people
are turning to grass-fed grassfish beef
okay
because it's going to contribute to the
omega-3 fatty acids people are doing
more and more fish which is also going
to contribute now when we have this
omega-6 fatty acid and omega-3 fatty
acid they go through a series of
Pathways to be able to turn into certain
compounds that benefit our bodies and
the enzymes that allow this biochemical
conversions are shared by both the
omega-6 omega-3 in other words both of
these oils compete with each other and
so if there's any problem in this
biochemical pathway because maybe we are
missing co-actors then you're going to
get dysfunctional fats you're not going
to get the benefit of the omega-3 and
we're not going to be able to use some
of these oils now don't get me wrong we
do need Omega 6 as well but we don't
need it in such high quantities and we
also need it from a much higher quality
source so the co-actors that allow this
to happen include like magnesium B2 B3
B6
vitamin C and and this is interesting
insulin now you have to realize that the
great majority of people are insulin
resistant which means they're deficient
in insulin so therefore they're not
going to have the co-actor to allow this
to happen so I really think based on
that data that if you're doing a lot of
seed oils and you're insulin resistant
there's going to be a lot more
compounded damage versus if you were to
correct insulin resistance
through a diet that's low and carb and
doing intermittent fasting for a period
of time you're going to be able to
utilize uh more of the benefits of these
essential fatty acids and not have uh
dysfunctional problems with them
primarily we have like EPA in DHA EPA is
more for inflammation DHA is really
important in cognitive function
attention focus learning and that's
going to come from fatty fish and fish
oil now there's also a precursor um that
turns into EPA that's called ala
sometimes you'll see in U various
articles that um you know consume more
flax and chia seed and walnuts if you
want to get more omega3 fatty acids but
they're not talking about EPA they're
talking about the precursor there's a
really um important test that measures
your omega-6 to your omega-3 fatty acid
ratio and so that way you can actually
know if you're okay or not it'll tell
you based on a simple um blood spot test
where you just take a drop of blood put
on this little card send it in it'll
give you more information uh into what's
happening internally in your body and I
highly recommend that test uh done over
time to be able to correct these ratios
if they're off so in summary start to
consume wild caught fish on a regular
basis like salmon and sardines things
like that and at the same time start
limiting the amount of Omega 6 fatty
acids because never in history have we
consumed the quantities and the out-of-
balance ratios of Omega 6 to omega3 and
I'm going to put a link down below for
uh Dr Kenobi's book as well as a link if
you wanted to get that test um to
evaluate and instead of me taking an
affiliate commission I'm going to share
that commission with you as a discount
so you pay the least amount possible so
I'll put that link down below you can
get that test and see where you're at so
thanks for watching and if you have not
seen my video on cod liver oil uh that's
a good one to watch too I put it up
right
here
