so I want to create a quick video on
this amazing oil emu oil and this oil
actually comes from an Australian bird
and they take the fat just beneath the
skin okay and you can get it topically
or you actually in a pill form but it's
very very rich in essential fatty acids
omega-3 omega-6 omega-9 so it has
antioxidant properties anti-inflammatory
properties and it's loaded with vitamin
A and phytonutrients so you know it's
really good for the skin so people take
it for eczema psoriasis dry skin
wrinkles to make your skin look really
gray dermatitis itchy skin damage from
shingles but they also take it in pill
form for gut healing because it helps
all the internal lining of your
digestive system it's also great for
joint pain and muscle pain so in
addition to doing a healthy ketogenic
diet okay loaded with fat soluble
vitamins to help heal from the inside
out and intermittent fasting which could
make your skin a lot younger this might
be an additional natural thing that you
might want to add externally to enhance
your results
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
