what's cool about what's happened here
for me is the fact that I came because I
was concerned about belly fat I just
couldn't seem to do anything about it
and I have really actually lost 16
pounds since I came and I'm
eating totally different from what I was
before and I'm liking it I really enjoy
the food I enjoy fixing it and when I
think of the results that I'm getting I
feel really good about it
and I had pain too I had pain in my hip
which was really really bad at times and
now I'm not having that pain it's very
very minimal now and I just feel good
about the whole
thing people notice that they say oh you
have you got Slimmer you lost weight and
I really haven't lost any weight but the
inches are just coming off and I'm more
vibrant and now I could walk I used I'm
a walker anyway but now walk I could
walk like 10 15 miles with no problems
cuz I had knee problems and now my knees
don't hurt anymore so that just makes me
feel great it makes me feel like I just
do anything that I want
now the sleep was a big dramatic thing
for me I um wasn't sleeping maybe like
three maybe 3 to 5 hours but now I'm
getting I have to make sure I go to bed
and I get my full 8 to 9: so I can get
up CU I got to get up early in the
morning and work out
um yeah I do find it you know um you
know good and you know encouraging that
you know it is possible to get better
rather than you know think in terms of
oh I'm going to have to live with this
or uh you know each day you know it it's
it's getting worse but uh you know to to
begin to feel that you know things are
improving you know dayt day you know is
encouraging you you feel less stressed
CU you're getting you know the the
acurate pressure points uh worked on and
I have a little shoulder uh injury also
so we recently start working on the uh
shoulder so now I can actually lay on my
left side when I you know sleep at night
before I could not lay on my left side
at all so definitely I feel like a
little pep in my step once I leave the
uh the
treatment well I'm excited because um my
energy level has come up and the wealth
of knowledge that I'm learning about my
body is just
Priceless and
um my eating habits have changed I'm
more conscious of what I'm putting into
my
body um I'm trying to get more
rest and
um I just enjoy coming here I look
forward to coming cuz um my pain is
lessoned
um you know the techniques that they use
is really helping me so I'm I'm just
excited
