so there's a tremendous amount of new
keto snacks and foods coming on the
market and I highly suggest you start
reading the ingredients and avoid these
ingredients okay corn fiber okay first
of all it's GMO and it creates a lot of
gas malted dextran which I'm surprised
they call this keto friendly because
it's like it's over a hundred on the
glycemic index it's like it's it turns
into sugar faster than sugar turns into
sugar
I think sugar is only like 65 this is
over a hundred okay dextran dextrose
polly dextrose these are synthetic
sugars Multi tall which is very high in
the glycemic index
soy protein isolates GMO then we have
Splenda which I did a whole video on
that at the link down below you can
check it out and artificial sweeteners
like aspartame things like that and then
we have the tapioca starch which turns
into sugar pretty quickly and also
realized that there are many other
ingredients including sugar alcohols
that are in so called keto friendly
foods which are gonna give you a
digestive problem so the best way to
identify those is just to see how they
affect your digestion if you're having
gas or bloating avoid em alright guys
I'll see you next time alright alright
guys see you later alright I'll see you
in the neck alright guys have a good one
I'll see you there
alright guys I'll sure I'll see you
later alright guys I will see you later
all right guys all right guys all right
guys all right guys all right all right
guys all right guys all right guys I'll
see you later
