hey guys Dr bur here I want to talk
about what is alkalosis okay that means
when your body is too alkaline so um
again every part of your body has a
different pH and you don't want to be
too acid or too alkaline you want to be
just perfect so here's some of the
common symptoms the big one is stiffness
in the muscles and the joints especially
in the morning you may have muscle
cramps that are um they cramp especially
if you're holding position for a period
of time like it's called accelerator
foot where you're actually driving and
you have the foot on the pedal and all
of a sudden the whole thing starts
cramping cuz you had it on there too
long that's a sign of alcalosis because
you're when you're too alkaline you
can't pull in the minerals especially
calcium and magnesium to be able to keep
the muscles chilled out nausea is One
symptom a sour stomach heartburn which
by the way that means it's too alkaline
and the food's not digesting so you're
going to need to take to correct this
apple cider vinegar or Bane
hydrochloride those are the two things
that will actually acidify the person
cold feet and hands is a symptom of
alkalosis your eyes and nose water
easily so you're you're kind of always
having fluid come out and even drooling
you know too much drooling not that you
would have that but maybe when you're
sleeping you wake up and you drooled all
over the place um loss of taste and
smell is a symptom and allergies so you
can actually take any person that's very
very sensitive to to some they're
allergic to and you can drop the ph and
make it more acidic and improve the
allergies okay so that again the Alid of
vinegar is very important betain
hydrochloride okay so I just wanted to
kind of give you the the overall
symptoms of alcalosis thanks for
watching hey guys thank you so much for
watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
