dr. Berg here again and in this video
we're going to show you how to make
another shake
using papaya which by the way has the
highest vitamin C out of any food on the
planet so we're going to vitamin C we
have the kale which is very high in
vitamin A vitamin K so we're just going
to take about a handful of this with the
stem and everything just break it up and
I'll put a little bit more in here now
we're putting the papaya in here papaya
if it's very ripe will make it very
creamy so it'll be a real nice good
shake and we're going to put some water
about one and a half cups and let's
blend it up
okay so now we have this wonderful shake
papaya huge amounts of vitamin C and
kale which is a huge amounts of
chlorophyll and this saying is filled
with enzymes and because papaya is
really good for your digestive system as
well let's go ahead and see if there's
any good that is delicious
it's actually a little bit sweet but
it's not too sweet for those people who
don't like sweet drinks I would use
papaya
