now this information is very very
important if you are on medications if
you know of someone on medications send
them this video because I'm going to
show you how to greatly reduce the side
effects for medication now one primary
reason uh why a lot of people have side
effects from medication has to do with
something in your liver it's a certain
group of enzymes that help break down
certain medications and toxins as well
and that that enzyme system is not
working not only are you going to
experience more side effects but the
medication could also not be as
effective as it should now of course you
already know this but I'm all about
giving people alternatives to medication
but there's certain people that need to
be on medication and uh it's a really
good thing to minimize the side effects
and then at the end of this I'm going to
give you a download that you can give
your medical doctor
to help them look at a potential DNA
problem that you might have that can
greatly alter
uh the type of medications that you're
given
and so I will talk about that at the end
but let's first just talk about what is
an enzyme an enzyme is a protein that
speeds up the chemical reaction in your
body millions of times faster than if
that enzyme wasn't working
the great majority of medications work
by inhibiting certain enzymes for
example like an Ace inhibitor which
inhibits this Ace enzyme that affects
the blood pressure like aspirin inhibits
something called Cox enzymes that relate
to inflammation and so enzymes speed up
the reaction but what's really
interesting about enzymes is they don't
seem to use their own energy in this
work that they do in other words they
can keep being recycled and they seem to
be very magical in that way the other
thing about enzymes in order to make
them work is they need helper molecules
they need what's called cofactors or
coenzymes and those are basically
vitamins and minerals and so now you
know very simply why we need vitamins
and minerals to allow these enzymes to
work in our body and we have millions
and millions of millions of different
enzymes in the body that create all
sorts of different effects but the
primary enzymes I'm going to talk about
today are called The Phase One the phase
two enzymes now these are families of
enzymes they're groups of enzymes
they're not just one enzyme and the
phase one enzymes in your liver are
called cytochrome p450 enzymes again
there's a family of them and if there's
any problem with this enzyme you're not
going to get the the breakdown or the at
least the start of the breakdown of this
drug or toxin or whatever's trying to be
broken down and then when you get into
phase two which works with phase one you
have other enzyme groups called
glutathione enzymes so you have both of
these working together to take a poison
I'm sorry a medication and dismantle it
and then turn it into a harmless
water-soluble particle that can be
eliminated through the urine or the
sweat or the bowel and this doesn't just
have to do with medication breakdown
this has a lot to do with pesticides
herbicides fungicides Benzene from
petroleum products that you're exposed
to
Pro carcinogens which are cancer-causing
things
smoke the chemicals in Smoke alcohol
estrogen so this enzyme system is very
very important not necessarily just to
reduce the side effects but also the
effectiveness of a drug but also to
prevent cancer because a lot of these
medications or toxins that you're
exposed to if they're not fully broken
down they can build up in the body and
accumulate and create toxicity and
increase your risk for cancer and other
problems why am I talking about this
right now well recently I'm doing a deep
dive into genetics and it's a
fascinating topic and there's certain
problems that go on with your DNA and
your genes that can end up causing a
problem with your inability to detoxify
one section that I'm studying right now
is all about the detoxification genes
and a big one which is a common problem
is a mutation of this cytochrome
p450 enzyme system there's over 2 000
different mutations that you can have
with this one Gene and it can lead to a
lot of problems so if you get your DNA
tested and you find this being a problem
then you need to work harder on these
detoxification enzymes and it could be
the reason why you are experiencing
unnecessary side effects from your
medication in general so number one you
can have DNA mutations with these
enzymes okay that's number one number
two you can have liver problems let's
say your liver is fatty or let's say
it's inflamed or let's say you have Scar
Tissue as in cirrhosis this can decrease
the function of these this phase one
phase two detoxification also if you're
consuming grapefruit which is an
inhibitor of this enzyme the cytochrome
p450 that can be a problem because what
happens now that medication that you
take starts to accumulate and it can
create
a much bigger effect than it should and
then also certain medications can
inhibit that enzyme too like Warfarin
antidepressants and even statins so your
doctor needs to be aware of this a lot
of this detoxification can then lead to
inflammation and this is why even like
the omega-3 fatty acids like from the
fish oils that were the olive oil that
are anti-inflammatory that support the
heart and even some of the omega-6 fatty
acids that create inflammation also work
with this enzyme so again if there's a
problem with this enzyme or your liver
you might not get the full benefit of
you know these fish oils or collard oil
when you're taking them you still feel
inflamed so the question is how do we
speed up this phase one phase two
detoxification system well you're in
luck because certain vegetables help to
trigger this enzyme system so in other
words it causes these enzymes just to
work better in your body which is kind
of like can on switch
so you have the cruciferous family of
vegetables and you also have the allium
which is the garlic and onion now if you
do the Christopher Sprouts like broccoli
Sprouts that are very high in
sulforaphane that would be a really big
trigger you can also do a supplement
called dim which is a concentrated form
of cruciferous which is a potent
stimulator of phase one phase 2
detoxification as well now the other
really cool thing which is pretty
inexpensive is you just do fasting
fasting is a potent stimulator of the
phase one phase two detoxification you
wouldn't think that fasting could do
that but when you don't eat
you start to detoxify in a good way and
it's pretty inexpensive now number three
the obvious one is reduce the exposure
of these chemicals and toxins and
poisons and get with your doctor and
maybe there's alternative versions of
some of the medications that you're on
so you can take maybe
um natural versions of these medications
and then number four is just
strengthening your liver and one big way
to do that is to get the fat out of the
liver and the way that I recommend to do
that is to get on a healthy version of
the ketogenic diet okay and then there's
a really good supplement called milk
thistle you can take that that
strengthens the liver and then there's
also herbal things that you can take
curcumin green tea and garlic like I
mentioned with the allium vegetables and
for more information on how to Target
the liver directly and get that fat off
the liver I should really check out this
video right here
