hey guys Dr Berg here in this video I
want to share with you how to handle
excess urination at night okay so let me
give you a little background first
there's two conditions I going to talk
about one is diabetes and citus which is
a type of Diabetes which blocks a
certain hormone okay which caus you to
dump all your fluids so this type of
diabetes is a person that's craving a
lot of cold water like ice water that
just dumping tons of water they're
craving it and it's going right through
so they're peeing a tremendous amount
okay that's the two big symptoms with
this condition right here because that
condition blocks a hormone that is
controlling the retention of urine or
fluid in your body so there's a hormone
called anti-diuretic hormone that's
supposed to hold the water and this
condition blocks that hormone so you
dump all the fluid okay thus the
relationship between diabetes and
urination okay there's another condition
called diabetes metis different
situation that's a high sugar in the
blood okay so high sugar in the blood
what happens it spills over into the
kidney and into your urine and wherever
the sugar goes the water goes so water
follows sugar okay so you're going to
pee more with this because you're going
to have more sugar in the urine okay
same thing with the if you not a
diabetic whatever and you actually crave
sugar and you eat sugar you're going to
hold a lot of fluid it's water retention
so just realize that wherever the sugar
goes the water will go too okay now
there's a whole bunch of
pre-diabetic States so I'm not saying
that this is just for diabetics there is
a gradient scale from Hardcore diabetes
all the way over here to a pre-diabetic
situation so it happens one step at a
time so many people have pre-diabetes
and they don't even know it and it
happens uh gradually over time so
there's a condition called um insulin
resistance that's a pre-diabetic State
and that's just the problem with insulin
that person is going to eventually turn
into a
diabetic so there's an insulin issue as
well so they're going to tend to have a
problem with fluids in general and I
found that if you can correct that
pre-diabetic situation you can greatly
help someone's urination problem at
night okay so even the derivation of the
word
diabetes uh comes from the word that
describes urine passing out through a
siphon or a tube so it's basically the
word even comes from too much urination
just coming out of your body which is
interesting okay there are six things
you need to do number one cut out the
sugar so you have to start reading
labels read the labels and if it has
even one gram of sugar try to get it to
zero grams of sugar or less than one
gram that includes cutting out the
fruits the juices
the alcohol the hidden sugars in the
grains like the breads pasta cereal
crackers you need to cut that out okay
why because that's going to aggravate
the problem with insulin okay so just
start cutting it out all right so then
number two no snacking between meals why
because even if they're healthy snacking
does increase insulin what we want to do
is we want to lower the insulin okay cuz
people with pre-diabetic have a resting
insulin of five to seven times greater
than a normal person okay no
snacking so so if you're not snacking
and you're hungry you want to jump up to
number four which is more fat so you
want to add more fat with the meal fat
is the only thing that will not trigger
insulin too much so it kind of keeps
insulin down so you can have breed
cheese uh you can have peanut butter
avocado olives coconut oil o some type
of fatty healthy fatty thing that will
actually allow you to go longer because
if you try to do this on a low fat diet
you're going to be craving stuff you're
going to be so hungry you're going to
need a snack okay less meals so if
you're not hungry in the morning skip it
skip the meal and just do two meals one
at 12 and one at s uh 6 6 o'clock okay
and then you just add more fat to adjust
that all right next one five more
potassium foods that would be more large
vegetables okay we want big salads you
can eat the meat with the salad you can
have a shake with Blended like a kale
Shake if you want I have videos on that
but we need more potassium why because
potassium decreases the need for insulin
all right and then lastly more B
vitamins B vitamins also decrease the
need for insulin so actually these two
are really important don't get the
synthetic version get some nonfortified
nutritional yeast from the heal store
okay or amazon.com make sure it's
nonfortified take a tablespoon of
nutritional yeast it's going to be very
very important to do this so number one
cut out the sugar no snacks between
meals less meals like two meals maybe
three but no snacks in between more fat
with the
meal more potassium foods vegetables
avocados more B vitamins okay from
nutritional yeast if you did if the
average diabetic or pre-diabetic the did
these things right here you would see
huge huge changes these are the most
important things and you just need to
try this for like two weeks and prove it
to yourself that it'll work because if
you're not getting up at night Ur
urinating just think about what your
sleep is going to be like okay and your
energy is going to be like getting up
every hour and the hour is a is a
nightmare and I will guarantee that um
the people that have urination problems
at night that I I mean I've seen this so
much I can I can guarantee that you're
going to see a one- one relationship
they have a blood sugar issue they're
always doing something they're eating
eating a little bit too much sugar doing
too much alcohol snacking grazing at
night have any too many meals the meals
are too big sometimes they're doing low
fat they're not doing enough
vegetables okay so I hope that helped
and I will see you in the next video
