someone wanted to know what foods are
high in vitamin k2 now vitamin k1 very
different is all about stopping bleeding
okay so if you're bruising for example
probably need more k1 k2 completely
different
k2 is about making sure calcium does not
build up in the soft tissues especially
in the coronary arteries also in the
joints and then it takes that calcium
and pushes it into the bone so it makes
your bones really really strong now as
far as the amounts it really depends on
what you're trying to do if you're
taking a maintenance dose let's say it's
a hundred micrograms I would stick with
that if you want a therapeutic dose go
up to 400 micrograms now I recommend
taking d3 with k2 at this ratio right
here so if you're taking 100 micrograms
take 10,000 IU's of d3 if you're taking
200 micrograms of k2 take 20,000 I use
okay the foods high in k2 all right at
the top of the list NATO has the most k2
this is a fermented soybean product then
we have goose liver duck liver chicken
liver beef liver now I personally
consume these in a pate egg yolk has a
good amount of k2 make sure it's
pasture-raised organic eggs grass-fed
beef as k2 emu oil has k2 hard and soft
cheeses gouda cheese has a good amount
of k2 pepperoni salami pork sausage
grass-fed dairy products including
butter and sour cream cream cheese has
k2 and sauerkraut even has some k2 all
right guys there's your quick video on
k2 thanks for watching if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
