well hello everyone today
um I want to talk about type 1 diabetes
in relationship to doing keto as well as
intermittent fasting there's been a lot
of questions on this topic
um type 1 diabetes is a situation where
you can't produce insulin anymore the
cells that make insulin of the pancreas
just are broken and this is the problem
because now you can't regulate blood
sugars so your blood sugar goes really
really high so a person that's type 1 is
dependent on
um insulin now what did they do before
they discovered insulin they did low
carb right because if you lower your
carb you decrease the need for insulin
and that's really the point about this
interview with Manuel who is a type 1
diabetic is that the goal is to take the
least amount of insulin possible to have
normal blood sugars because everyone's
worried about high blood sugar but what
about the high insulin you have to take
the damage is just as bad as the high
sugar so
welcome manual I appreciate you taking
the time out to tell us about your story
um
super excited to be here dog absolutely
a pleasure uh this is something that I
I've obviously felt that responsibility
as I've gotten better
in the subject I've gotten more control
over my body like the fact that you are
here giving me the opportunity to share
this knowledge that I've accumulated um
I'm definitely honored by it
awesome how long have you been a type 1
diabetic Corp so it's going on 21 years
now I believe I'm 41 I developed the
condition
um when I was 19 or 20 years old and uh
I I have a a theory that I believe that
I was probably and you can tell me what
your thoughts are doc I think I
mentioned this before I believe I was a
type 2 diabetic but then I didn't pay
attention to my body at all and I didn't
know what the heck was happening for a
few years potentially until I I was
actually living in Mexico and then I
lost so much weight and I was going for
the diabetic process of like having to
go to the bathroom every 30 minutes and
I couldn't sleep well and I was weak and
then my father was the one that told me
you're describing to me diabetes and
that was the first time that I even
understood what diabetes meant so I
think that I was a few years already in
the making until the pancreas collapsed
on me that's my theory and I could be
wrong so
this is an interesting point I just I
won't spend too much time but I want to
just mention typically type 1 is
autoimmune but but what about
what about a situation where a lot of
the type 2 diabetics
um after a while have to start taking
insulin because the cells of the
pancreas just start dying out now this
brings up an interesting point if you if
you never had the autoimmune situation
and this came from just going from type
2 to type 1
who knows who knows if that cell can't
come back I mean I would never rule it
out as uh impossibility so that's good
data okay so here's the thing the first
question is um
you before you did keto or intermittent
fasting you were taking how many units
of insulin per deck
so uh I think um I can I can say that I
have been pretty much skinny my whole
life
um all the way to obviously the age of
30 something I'm 41 now metabolism
started going downhill I wasn't eating
that well that healthy and um
I believe that I was averaging before
Keto
somewhere around 40 units a day which by
the way I go to the doctor's office and
it's crazy how low the standards are and
you know that really well doc like the
medical community standards are
extremely low compared to your standards
that you have for People's Health I go
to the doctor and I tell them yeah I'm
I'm taking 40 units a day of my fast
acting insulin and I'm taking uh 25
minutes a day of my long acting insulin
two types of insulin and they look at my
a1cs and they look at my body in general
and they say wow you're in really good
shape which tells me I always Justified
and I use that as like oh I'm in really
good shape I don't really have to do
much of anything and my wife would
always say but but that doesn't make any
sense because there's so much more that
we can get with our bodies and how much
better we could get and I'm like oh yeah
we'll see so I used to take a lot of
that insulin and I felt it was okay
because uh when compared to other
diabetics that were being treated on
these practices the doctors were blown
away with me some of these guys were
taking 200 units a day
like you know today yeah because the
average the average is uh 0.5 to 1 1
um times your kilograms in weight so I
don't know let's say you were 180 pounds
you'd be taking about 40 to 80 units per
day on average but that was um but some
people yeah they're like 200 which means
they're eating a lot of carbohydrates to
the people to push down that sugar
so I think I think I was in the low end
so I guess I was a a good behaving
diabetic all right compared to where I'm
at today doc
yeah I think it was absolutely terrible
uh now that I look at it as like the
hindsight I'm like oh my god there was
so much more to accomplish with the
correct system I you know obviously I've
been close to you for many years now I
wish I would have paid attention earlier
doc uh a lot more in detail because my
life has dramatically changed even
though I was at the lowest end of
insulin use
um I was still using anywhere from 20
units a day on a good day
to 50 units a day on a day in which I
misbehaved meaning that I I tried a
couple of pizza slices I got four kids
so things in my kitchen can get crazy so
I I maybe put things in my mouth that I
shouldn't have so you know then we go
into insulin resistance problems and
other things because as I eat that stuff
my body cannot handle it like if I had a
piece of pizza and I have to
dramatically increase my insulin use so
on a bad day 50 maybe even six units of
insulin that my body's not responding to
that was and I felt that I was pretty
decent because like you said right now
40 to 80 is the average I think I was
generally in the lowest side of things
so that's not it wasn't terrible right
now I can tell you it is terrible
so so
um so you get on keto you start doing
fasting
um all of a sudden this is an adjustment
you're like well wait a second I'm
taking a lot less insulin you probably
even nervous you're taking so so small
amounts like you you went down to uh
what was correct me if I'm wrong but it
was like three units or something units
three units right now a bad day for me a
bad day is five units of insulin you
know what I told you I told your dog
that uh 20 was a good day 50 is a bad
day so right now I I went down to two on
a good day and five on a bad day all
right and it's it's it's pretty dramatic
so like based on on my theory at the
beginning of the interview which you
said that who knows maybe I was not even
a type 1 to begin with ever so
I've been decreasing it so so the one
thing that I found is the the long
acting one I use one called Lantus uh
the long acting one I've been lowering
it and I'm doing I went from 25 to Now
using 10 a day this is one time a day 10
units so that one is the one that I have
felt that is the most important one that
if I completely take it away like here's
the thing I'm only eating once a day
right now and I love it and I'm not
hungry like something that we can talk
about too like I I really it's it's it
gives me goosebumps because it's an
experience that I I didn't even know was
possible like the whole thing of one
meal a day I was like this is not
realize it's not superhuman I can't do
that now it's just for me really normal
like I I can go by an entire day and not
feel hungry and it's amazing and you
kind of transition and so you go for the
path of like first the addiction to food
and the impulses of food then you get
out of the addiction and now it's a
mental side of things so now you move
out of the mental
limiting factor that you cannot do that
and now it's like oh wow so I don't
really need this this doesn't make sense
those french fries they're not mine I
don't want to put them on my body and
and even though I have this enormous
movement in my house because I have five
humans living on the house and all these
little humans that eat all kinds of
stuff
I don't put any of that stuff in my body
so it's been a dramatic change and I
think it's been now I'm on the eighth uh
full week of like behaving well uh I
think maybe I broke it once or twice
very lightly and but but it's it's a
it's a great thing to to make food
um the diet something that is easy to do
it's not it's not painful like going
through the system uh doing the keto
diet intermittent fasting it really is
uh light work it's not really exhausting
it's not really difficult but I can tell
you this for anybody that hasn't gone
through that uh for the last 20 years I
felt it was impossible and I felt it
wasn't real and I just pushed myself for
about two to three weeks it was
difficult but once I got through that
period then now I'm just cruising it
really is like optional uh to you know
the things that I put in my body are are
not in uh so this training so this
transition period I want to talk about
that because I I kind of were back and
forth talking about the transition
because you're what happened was your
blood sugars went down to like 50 or
something it went too low right and so I
was using too much insulin yes so I
started every single night I was waking
up in the middle of the night four to
five times because my sugar levels were
dropping dropping dropping yeah yeah so
here you are uh on this trend and this
is why the transition is always tricky
you have to get supervision and all this
and get with your doctor to work with
you but what'll happen you keep taking
the same amount of insulin
and it goes the opposite direction
starts going down and then it gets too
low and you get shaky weak uh you know
fainting you know that type of stuff
um so what do they normally tell you eat
some sugar right
um I mentioned maybe have protein or or
something like that instead of the sugar
because then we just like spike it up
and then we bring it back down we need
more insulin so uh you you work that out
you worked it out and you kept adjusting
until you got The Sweet Spot
um you were a little concerned because
it was going like three three units I'm
like well you know
that's the thing is like if your body
doesn't require all this insulin then
why are you giving it to it you know
it's like it just it has a function of
regulating blood sugar so if you're not
eating sugar and not and also eating
does trigger insulin too so because
you're doing one meal a day
uh that's that's another point and then
the other point that happened with uh
Manuel is that he um
one night he ate a lot of protein and he
woke up I think you woke up in the
morning and your blood sugar was pretty
high right
yeah so so it's funny because uh
obviously I've had the incredible
privilege of having you guide me a
little bit along the way and
um I had a late dinner uh one night and
it's breaking the routine I had a a
dinner somewhere around nine o'clock I
ate a big steak and I thought that I was
doing something that was okay for my
body and I woke up with like very very
high sugar levels
um it was nine o'clock at night when I
ate the steak so here's the thing about
protein as you mentioned
it just it's gonna It's Gonna Creep the
sugar levels up it's gonna do it now
it's not gonna do it
so quick like if you eat a a candy bar
or if you eat like a soda or something
but it will continue to creep it up so I
have a an app that I use to monitor my
sugar levels and it was I ate the piece
of steak at nine o'clock at night and
all the way to 3 A.M the sugar level was
stable uh but it was slowly creeping up
um from 80 to 90 to 120 to 130 and then
I'm at some point around four or five
a.m it just exploded and it went to the
200s and I ended up waking up with 285
or something around that and then I wake
up to a message which is almost like I
don't know if you were like uh reading
minds or some kind of experience that is
like Supernatural but then Dr Burke
sends me a message that says hey just so
you know Sugar Sugar sometimes a protein
when you have too much is going to
increase your sugar levels and I'm like
what it's it hadn't happened to me
before so the timing was um
maybe 12 12 hours late doc because if I
would have gotten that message in the
night before I wouldn't have had that
big steak but it was it coincided with
me understanding and and getting that
lesson about also like listening view if
you have a a large amount of protein it
would also
um keep creeping up your sugar levels
and that's something to to keep in mind
now I'll I will mention guys that I used
to have
um my sugar bills that they sell for
diabetics it's a big item people buy it
a lot the the diabetics carry them in
their pockets and they use them
um as a solution to the low sugar
episodes because it's it's very
difficult to replicate uh what your
pancreas does naturally so the diabetics
just eating all this trash being outside
a routine not really taking care of
their health they just eat eat and then
inject hoping to replicate what the
pancreas does naturally and they very
often fail here's a beautiful thing
I have a lot of those bills and I have
buckets and buckets of them doc I do not
use them anymore I don't use my sugar
pills
um I was using them back then when I was
going into the adjustment process of
like wait a second I don't need 25
minutes let me go to 20. oh that's still
too much let me go to 18. oh my God I'm
still lowering 13 let me go to 12 let me
go to 10. like so I went for that
process and I had to use sugar bills
because a steak will not increase your
let's say that I wake up in the middle
of the night 1am and I have a low sugar
episode and it's at 47 or 52. I cannot
go to my kitchen and eat a piece of
steak because a steak will increase the
sugar but it will take a lot longer to
increase the sugar levels so my only
option at that point the adjustment was
like I need sugar right now because my
sugar levels are going down and I'm
starting to sweat and it's a it's a
danger thing that your sugar levels go
too low the steak is going to take
longer to bring that sugar level up the
the point is that as I got into the
adjustment process I I the last time
that I used a sugar pill was probably
six weeks ago doc the last time so if I
show you my sugar levels they are stable
throughout the entire day and yes when I
eat too much protein like last night
perfect example we had another dinner I
went to a famous steakhouse here in
Tampa called Burns and uh I went with a
client of mine I had a big steak
somewhere around seven o'clock eight
o'clock not that late but that steak
gave me some trouble because it just
keeps on going for hours and hours and
hours so I have a little bit higher
sugar level than usual but in general I
just put very little insulin and here's
the here's the other thing Doc insulin
becomes so much more effective when you
have you know this whole insulin
resistance thing it disappears so now if
let's say that I have a 190 back in the
day day maybe two months ago I would use
six or seven units to bring that down to
70 or 80. right now I put one unit and
it goes down to 100 or 280. so the
insulin my body really responds very
well just because I have this system or
this diet in place it's it's a win
across the board that's for sure
that's so true because you you start
your insulin becomes more sensitive and
responsive to the triggers so versus
before it just takes forever
um the other thing I want to bring up is
exercise right so you you mentioned when
you exercise you're like whoa the blood
sugars came down because you burned off
all those sugars but another thing you
could do too if they're high is you can
go exercise to burn off this sugar right
yeah so
um I I think that if you were to ask me
um what's the most important component
of everything that I've done
um of course the diet is huge It's a
combination of all these things uh but
for me they're working out is something
that I have never done routinely and
it's very important for people to know
what are we talking about with working
out what type of workout because I'm a
tennis player I play tennis since I was
like a little kid
that wasn't enough of a workout to give
me the results like it's it's called Uh
aerobic aerobic uh exercise dog yeah so
so it's just not enough so I I started
doing in my case what worked out and I'm
doing it three to four times a week
that's it uh but when I do it it almost
works like insulin I am using a machine
called tonal
um I'm not necessarily promoting it I'm
just saying this is my solution because
I'm a very busy guy so I have a digital
weights machine attached to my my garage
and it's very cool there's many
variations of it
um whether you go to a gym or whatever
for me a workout routine of 30 minutes
three to four times a week that's all it
takes
that has been a major part of like my
body not needing a lot of insulin so I'm
still like in that process like okay I
think I've lost somewhere around 13
pounds in the last eight weeks uh I feel
energetic like in my case I used to have
like major 4 pm crashes those crashes
are gone like I have zero I have
consistent energy throughout the entire
day and people look at me and they say
even my daughter she's 13 years old and
she says Papa You Gotta Eat You Gotta
Eat something he's not all right and I'm
like baby look at my sugar levels I'm
great I'm stable look at my energy look
at my face I am ready to go I don't
really need
um none of this stuff so it's hard for
people to adjust themselves and my
question becomes like who decided that
we needed to eat three times a day who's
the person that said hey we got it that
free meals a day it was a human being
that decided that at some point a long
time ago and that became like a trend
which everybody agreed to it instead of
like gotta find something that works for
you it makes you stronger look at me I'm
high energy I'm stable I'm using less
medicine I I can guarantee you the
pharmaceutical industry is not gonna
like this but I don't need much medicine
anymore it's it's so yeah I think
insulin is expensive too isn't it it's
very expensive
um I do unfortunately my company has
company insurance and uh it's still
expensive every time that I have to go
buy it
it's a few hundred dollars uh to right
to actually buy it uh it used to be a
lot more dog because if you if you
recall uh before the Obama Care
um if you didn't have a company
sponsored Insurance before Obamacare uh
you will not insured you will not be
insured you were already like too high
risk so the first 15 years of uh or my
first 13 years maybe of my diabetes I
used to pay 600
for a vial of insulin of the Lantus
insulin 600 for one vial and I had no
choice so much so that I actually lived
in Texas for many years and I used to
cross the border to Mexico so I can get
it over there
for sheep uh for a lot cheaper because
the United States will not be able to
give me something affordable so it's
it's such a big business it's like it's
insane that's why people are like maybe
Dr Berg and what you're doing dog to
educate the society it's it's not really
something that they love because you're
you're you know I follow your advice and
I have to use like what is it 100 times
less I mean going from two units from 50
units to two units a day it's ridiculous
so there if we repeat that across the
board these people are going to lose a
lot of money but we're gonna lead so
much healthier lives and I remember my
Father which you knew Dr Burke he used
to tell me
um if I had to choose between High
insulin or high sugar he said Son
high sugar all right shoes high sugar uh
he believed and dog you can tell me your
opinion but his opinion was also with
with his research that insulin is more
destructive in your body over the long
term than high sugar and that's
something that I learned from him I
don't know what your thoughts are on
this yeah well if you um if you just
look up
hyperinsulinemia and just you can just
do Wiki and look at all the side effects
you'll see exactly what it does I mean
because that they used to do insulin
shock therapy and put people in the
Comas and I mean it's just it's just it
really
um is bad
um one last tip I'm going to recommend
for you since we've been going back and
forth and for anyone else watching if
you're doing omad and you're especially
a type one or a type two
um if you had your last meal at the day
or the only meal at between two and
three
you would probably optimize your results
um I did a video on that
shifting your timing when you eat
because you're aligning your meals with
your circadian rhythms of your body and
so you'll just you'll get a little bit
better results with everything if you do
that compared to eating too early or too
late so I'm not saying do that every
time but if you can shoot for that even
though it doesn't fit with the social
you know any type of social Customs or
anything that would be the optimum time
that's when I'm doing my my one meal of
the day right now and I like it um
but anyway I wanted just to um don't
want to take too much of your time and I
wanted just to kind of ask you some
questions about this I think this is
going to be helpful for people that are
type one and just give them some hope
that uh maybe they can lower their their
need for that insulin that would be I
think a good thing I think overall
extend their lives that that's what I'm
really looking forward to I really feel
that my life which obviously I want to
live as long as possible as healthy as
possible my life is going to be longer
because of doing this and talking about
your one meal a day dog that you just
mentioned right now here's the thing
about it I now look forward to my meal
and it's that period it's almost like a
religious half an hour like I just like
I don't want anybody to interrupt me the
kid seems to stay away from me you know
everybody knows like this is this is
this is that space uh and I I gotta try
to 2PM it doesn't interrupt the middle
of the day that the one thing that I
have experienced I TR I did try at 4 P.M
and then I I was a little bit too hungry
at midnight and it kind of gave me some
trouble sleeping so again I'm still
trying out different things the one that
I'm doing right now that has worked out
the best for me has been at 16 M meal 6
p.m that's it so right now for example
as we're recording this it's 1 30 PM I
have no food in the entire day I've had
your electrolytes Dr Berg electrolytes I
love them and they travel with me and
they're amazing and I don't know why doc
but they take away when I get a little
bit anxious or hungry I just have an
electrolyte cup and it's it goes away
and I I go back to operating like I
don't know if that's supposed to do that
I just feel better with them so I love
the electrolytes uh so I do that and I'm
taking obviously nutritional yeast and a
few of your stuff which is I really is
it really is helpful but at 6 PM I have
a pretty big dinner and one of my
favorite things that I do no matter what
I eat I always have an entire avocado
and I'll put a lot of olive oil in it
and then I'll have my meal with a little
bit of protein a lot of salad and I feel
like even like I don't have to eat a big
plate because now
what has also happened is that I get
full much much faster so almost like
almost like the people that get
surgeries like I have no surgeries but
you know they they say about the uh the
gastro whatever surgery that they get
that they make the stomach smaller I
feel like my stomach has gotten smaller
just because of the diet I don't I'm not
that hungry right that's right so at 6
PM I'm done with the meal at 6 30 p.m
and then I'm just relax the entire rest
of the day until finally it's bedtime 10
30 o'clock 11 o'clock at night I'm still
full and I wake up also just have my
coffee
um and sometimes I break the fast with
like coffee with cream sometimes I don't
so it works for me like this particular
thing really does work for me and and
you got to find something that works for
you that's what it's all about awesome
thank you I appreciate that that's
awesome well thank you doc thank you for
having me
