someone brought up this question will
drinking mineral water cause kidney
stones let's talk about it now the most
common type of kidney stone is the
calcium oxalate type so when you consume
calcium whether from water from food or
as a supplement that calcium goes into
the stomach into the small intestine and
actually it will bind with oxalates from
the food that you're consuming so when
calcium binds with oxalates in your
digestive system it will not get
absorbed and transfer over into your
blood and then up in a kidney as a stone
so in reality when you're taking calcium
or consuming calcium from the food or
getting it from your water you're
actually decreasing the risk of getting
a kidney stone because you're gonna bind
up the oxalates in the digestive system
and prevent it from ending up in the
kidney so to answer this question it's a
big fat no now foods that are high in
oxalates are the almonds spinach rhubarb
Kiwi franquito you're not gonna be
eating Kiwis beets chocolate and there's
quite a few other ones so you can do a
couple things you can avoid some of the
foods that are high in oxalates if
you're a stone former and if you do eat
some of these foods you can take calcium
with it because the calcium in the meal
will bind with the oxalates and actually
not end up as a stone so if you are
gonna do that I would avoid taking
calcium carbonate okay because it's very
hard for your body to break that down it
takes like 12 different steps a better
source of calcium would be calcium
citrate some type of calcium magnesium
calcium orotate calcium lactate I've
done a lot of videos on kidney stones I
put some links down below but the most
important thing is to realize that these
kidney stones occur when you have the
perfect storm of concentrated calcium in
the kidney with oxalates and when it's
supersaturated or concentrated so this
is why you need to consume more fluids
if you're a stone former
minimally at least 2.5 liters of fluid
so even though you have calcium in the
kidney even though you might have
oxalates it's not concentrated enough to
form the stone all right so that's a
wrap on this video
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
