you know about a week ago
I noticed that I was a little bit tired
and I then would try to reflect back on
why was my energy not as high as it
normally is normally I have tons of
energy
they started looking at my food and
nothing has changed with that I haven't
been through any stress but I did
identify one thing normally I added
apple cider vinegar to my large glass of
water with my lemon juice and
electrolytes but for a few days I did
not add this apple cider vinegar for
some reason and normally I would kind of
add like two tablespoons so I added it
back in and wow my energy just went
right back and so then I did a little
Deep dive on what is it about apple
cider vinegar that can increase your
energy and I found some fascinating
information I want to share with you and
this is so easy to do if you want more
energy or if you're tired you need to do
this it's so simple it's not that
expensive one tablespoon and a glass of
water once a day will definitely
increase your energy I've done a ton of
videos on apple cider vinegar showing
how it can improve your digestion with
bloating indigestion gerd acid reflux
I've also done videos probably about 130
different videos on how it can improve
your blood sugars right it can help
insulin resistance it can improve the
dawn phenomena which you're waking up
with high blood glucose despite not
consuming any sugar it can also help
with the fatty liver it can help you
lose weight it can even help with blood
pressure and so it can actually help you
with your cardiovascular system and
another interesting side note apple
cider vinegar can help you with oxalates
right oxalates or oxalates are in our
Foods our body makes oxalates they lead
to all sorts of problems with pseudo
gout which is
not gout with uric acid but crystals
forming from oxalates and can cause pain
in your big toe also oxalates are
related to forming kidney stones and
especially when people start consuming
uh spinach almonds beet greens chard and
of course oxalates are very high in
beans and Grains but apple cider vinegar
can inhibit the formation of these
oxalate crystals let me explain what it
can do for your energy and you've
probably never heard this before
what is apple cider vinegar it's
basically acetic acid and acetic acid
can directly be absorbed by most of your
tissues as fuel that's right in fact it
converts to acetone and
beta
hydroxybutyrate now what is acetone and
beta hydroxybutyrate it's two of the
three ketones that our bodies can run on
as fuel
which are converted from fat now this is
very interesting because let's say
you're already in the ketogenic diet and
you are fasting and you want more energy
you can actually add the apple cider
vinegar to boost your energy even more
whether you need that for exercise or
whatever it's really nice to have this
extra energy just by consuming apple
cider vinegar not to mention the
benefits of digestion and if you have
less bloating you'll probably have more
energy just from that and if you have
better blood sugars that could even give
you more energy now another interesting
little
fact that I found out about acetic acid
is that your body makes acetic acid
that's right your colon cells actually
have the ability to convert
carbohydrates like the fiber that you
can't digest into
small chain fatty acids in fact most of
the microbes in your gut that don't
require oxygen can make acetic acid and
that acetic acid can feed your colon
cells fuel they can also help you in
different ways by improving your blood
sugars by improving inflammation they
can act as an anti-inflammatory acetic
acid tends to increase blood flow
through your colon it helps the
peristalsis or a pumping action of
certain parts of your digestive system
and your own gut makes it it's pretty
wild there's two other small chain fatty
acids that are produced as well one is
called butyric acid which is in the
family of this beta hydroxybutyrate
right which basically also acts as a
ketone but butyric acid really supports
the tight junctions of your colon it can
actually help you increase mucin which
is kind of that mucous layer and it can
even decrease your risk of getting colon
cancer and you can stimulate that just
by feeding your microbes fiber and the
fiber I would recommend is from salads
and different vegetables you see acetic
acid bacteria convert apples the
carbohydrates in the fiber to acetic
acid and that's how they make outside of
vinegar well your gut also ferments
carbohydrates and fiber and makes all
sorts of things as well propionic acid
which is the third small chain fatty
acid apparently it helps you as an
anti-inflammatory now this is very
simple to do all you have to do is add
one to two tablespoons of apple cider
vinegar in a big glass of water like
let's say 16 ounces right and yes I add
lemon I add some electrolyte powder you
don't do that you can just add the apple
cider vinegar drink it down and you're
going to notice your energy is going to
go straight up in vertical the type of
apple cider vinegar that I would
recommend getting is is the Fairchild I
used to use Braggs until I found out
that they were bought out by another
company and now they dilute their apple
cider vinegar because of course if you
add water you can actually dilute it you
can make more money fairchilds is just
total upset of vinegar it's organic it's
concentrated it has the mother in there
which Mother by itself is not doing much
but just the fact that they're not
filtering it is a good thing because
there's not just acetic acid in this
there's a lot of other acids in there
that are very beneficial now I have an
apple cider vinegar video that has
generated over 16 million views and if
you have not seen that one I put it up
right here check it out
