so I had another question from someone
that wanted to know about what is
reactive hypoglycemia and what could be
done about it I've done other videos in
hypoglycemia but not necessarily
reactive hypoglycemia so let me just
explain what it is postprandial
hypoglycemia means after a meal and it
could happen immediately to four hours
later okay well you have this drop in
blood sugars after you consumed a high
carbohydrate meal you ended up with low
blood sugar
okay now to keep this really simple you
have blood sugars that are tightly
controlled
okay so there's sugar in the blood after
the meal occurs and there's two sets of
hormones involved one hormone insulin is
trying to reduce the sugar okay and then
there's other hormones that are
releasing stored sugar that are putting
the sugar back into the blood to ensure
that the blood sugars don't go too low
okay so we don't want sugars that are
too high and we don't want sugar that's
too low because some of the symptoms if
there's too low would be tired brain fog
dizzy craving sweets blurred vision
irritable and if it goes even to low you
can actually be in a coma so the body is
trying to stabilize that sugar in
hypoglycemia you either have an
overreaction of high amounts of insulin
that's pushing the blood sugars down
with too much force and or not enough
adrenal support to mobilize the sugar in
to raise it so it's low cortisol okay
from the adrenals let's say your dreams
are burnt down or that week and you're
these counter hormones are not working
it could be also a hormone in your liver
called IGF insulin like growth factor
and let's say there's a problem with the
liver and you don't have that affect so
it could be their adrenal or liver or
there's another counter hormone in the
pancreas called glucagon which does the
opposite of insulin it mobilizes fuel
and it helps to raise the blood sugars
so it can either be a problem with one
of these right here in another situation
is that the medical profession lot of
times doesn't really acknowledge
that this exists because sometimes when
they do testing everything comes out
normal
so there's actual levels of hypoglycemia
and you can't just test a fasting
glucose test you have to test your blood
sugars after your meal
1 2 3 4 hours so you can actually see
what happens dynamically and a lot of
times even the test itself I don't
believe is valid where you're going to
drink this glucose mixture ok and
they're gonna check your blood sugars
every hour for the next three hours
I mean who consumes or drink straight
glucose well maybe do if you drink sodas
but it'd be good to do this test on the
food that people consume especially the
high carbohydrate meals to really see
what happens after you consume that so
sometimes it's difficult to get a
validation from the medical profession
because it has to be like below 70 okay
but let's say it's 75 or even 80 and you
have these symptoms right here you could
have a severe insulin resistance
situation have the symptoms and because
you have insulin resistance and this one
controls the input of that glucose into
the cell your cells could be starving a
glucose yet have normal blood sugars so
there's different scenarios that could
happen so if you go online and you get
data you're gonna find all sorts of
information that is so confusing so some
of the support groups or foundations
will talk about the complexities and
there's just almost an unlimited amount
of causes it could be this it could be
that and I want to just read something
because I look at the Q&A and this is
what it said what is the best diet for
those who suffer from hypoglycemia the
best diet for hypoglycemia is one that
emphasizes healthy fat and protein and
low in carbohydrates now I agree with
that I totally agree with that because
the elephant in the room is this right
here high carbs why don't you just stop
eating carbs okay it's that simple
I guarantee if you stop doing the carbs
and you adapt to fat-burning your blood
Sugar's will come out nicely and you
won't have the sense in
anymore their bodies are not designed to
run off high carbohydrate diets this is
the thing that's abnormal this is the
root cause behind a lot of these issues
right here all right let me continue
basically said the best diet would be
protein and fat and low carbohydrates I
agree frequent feedings are often
necessary to control long-standing
functional hypoglycemia this is where I
disagree okay because every time you do
frequent meals and obviously they don't
understand this one point you stimulate
insulin when you eat okay so if you eat
less frequent you'll keep insulin low
and insulin is the thing that's pushing
the blood sugars down so if we don't
have high insulin your blood Sugar's
will be actually be level the diaper
hypoglycemia is designed to avoid a drop
in glucose not capitalized fix it after
it falls why wouldn't we want to design
a diet that also fixes this problem okay
eating sugar in all its forms as well as
eating refined carbohydrates triggers
excessive reactions by the pancreas
they must be avoided yes this is true
because what's happening the reason why
the insulin is high is not for no reason
it's reacting to something it's reacting
to the high carbs and also the frequent
meals so the combination of going low
carb okay moderate protein higher fat is
very very smart because there's one more
key to this whole puzzle and that is
insulin resistance people that have
hypoglycemia also have insulin
resistance and to fix this you must
consume foods that are high in magnesium
potassium and those are called
vegetables so if you did the low carb
moderate protein higher fat with at
least seven cups of vegetables
high-quality salad something like that
you're gonna find that you will
eventually heal instant resistance and
you won't have this anymore
thank you so much for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
