had a question recently from someone
that wanted to know what to do
naturally for ringworm so I wanted to
create this very short video there's 40
different types of fungus that can cause
ringworm and it presents us this small
red circle rash that's kind of scaly
kind of itchy and you can get it
anywhere in the body men tend to have it
in their groin area kids actually
usually get it in their scalp but one of
the most common ways that you acquire
the ringworm is to your dog dogs are a
reservoir of microbes that they bring in
from the outside to the inside so
sometimes you have to be careful where
the dog is kissing you
so simply there's a really quick remedy
you take garlic oil two drops and you
can either put it in a tablespoon of
olive oil or coconut oil and apply it to
the skin on a daily basis for about
three or four days it should completely
go away you can also use zinc cream you
can also put tea tree oil in the coconut
oil that works as well alright thanks
for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
