let's talk about the five reasons why
you may develop stomach pain when you
start the ketogenic diet all right
the biggest reason is that you're
consuming all these keto friendly
desserts or what's called keto bombs
which are these fat cookies and they
have sugar alcohols in them and you're
sensitive to it a lot of people
especially in the beginning are
consuming those in large amounts and
they don't realize that their system has
to adjust to it and a little too much
it's gonna create a lot of bloating and
pain in your gut all right number one
sugar alcohols and this is very very
common these are the sweeteners that are
low on the glycemic index okay so you
have a retort roll xylitol mannitol
maltitol there's quite a few other ones
but here's the thing that they might not
tell you about these things they can
create a lot of bloating and distension
and pressure and pain in your gut
especially if you consume them in large
amounts and that's something that
usually happens in the beginning because
you're all excited you start it and now
you realize wow I can have all these
kita friendly cookies and you start
consuming them and you start getting
pain in your gut so that is number one
and it's very very common so I always
recommend doing small amounts especially
in the beginning and see how it goes
number two there's too much fiber you're
not used to it you don't have the
friendly bacteria to deal with actually
seven to ten cups of vegetables so if
you're not used to it start small and
then gradually increase it because you
can overload the microbes it's just too
many for the amount of microbes that you
have they will adapt but it does take
some time and there's also certain
vegetables that you may be sensitive to
for example if I already consumed
broccoli right now even though I like it
it would just cause so much pain in my
gut for other people it could be cabbage
so it really depends on the person so if
you're consuming a new type of vegetable
that could be something that you need to
avoid right now but also realize that
consuming too much fiber can also cause
constipation for certain people but in
other people if you don't have enough it
can create constipation so you want to
test the waters but ideally you would
want a good
now to get your minerals magnesium
potassium in definitely vitamin C if you
have a condition called SIBO small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth this is
where the microbes that should be in the
large intestine are now in the small
intestine and you consume too much fiber
you're gonna basically cause those
microbes to go in a an eating frenzy in
the wrong place and they're gonna
ferment the fiber in the small intestine
you're gonna just blow up and feel
really bad so if you have this I
recommend you do carnivore for a while
okay number three not in the fluids now
what does that have to do with anything
when you switch from doing carbs to
burning fat you're gonna be getting rid
of a lot of excess fluid okay that's
number one so you need to actually
replace that fluid the second thing is
that the fiber that you consume from the
vegetables requires more fluid so some
of this fiber that is not digestible
acts like a sponge and it starts
requiring water and if you don't give
your body enough fluids it can actually
suck some of the fluids in your large
intestine and leave you a bit dehydrated
that can cause the pain so this actually
believe it or not is actually quite
common so the next time you get some in
pain especially if you eat something
with a lot of vegetables consume more
water and it should just go right away
very very simple number four too much
dietary fat you don't have the gall
bladder capacity you haven't generated
enough bile salts in your gall bladder
which is produced by the liver to handle
that amount of fat coming into your body
okay dietary fat so you might want to
cut it down the other thing is that you
may have heard about this thing called
the bulletproof coffee right well you're
doing MCT oil or butter or coconut oil
whatever in this coffee and now you're
slugging this down well the MCT oil if
you take too much it can cause pain and
you could also just not have the gall
bladder capacity to break down those
fats and create a lot of pain and
discomfort and especially if you don't
understand the difference between
certain fats
for example if you consume a lot of oils
like from soy oil or corn oil that can
be very very hard in the gallbladder or
you're consuming nuts that are rancid or
oils that are rancid and you don't know
it that can create a lot of pain and
inflammation your gut so it really has
to do with the quality and the amount of
fat and lastly if you're doing high lots
of protein because you're you heard that
Kido is just low carb and high fat
maybe you haven't heard that it's
moderate protein but if you're doing
high protein okay and you're just doing
protein and maybe some other foods that
are low in carb and you don't have
enough stomach acid what's going to
happen is that protein is not going to
fully break down it's gonna kind of sit
there and you're gonna have a lot of
pain in which case you need to add
betaine how to chloride and apple cider
vinegar so the purpose of this video is
just to kind of go through some areas to
see if any of these indicate to you of
being a reason why you have pain so you
can make some changes thanks for
watching and definitely check out this
other video that I have that talks about
bloating but more related to the
gallbladder check it out
