alright guys so today I'm going to talk
about something probably on your mind
the Black Plague there's some other
names for the Black Plague you have
Black Death the great plague or bubonic
plague they're all the same thing
there's some real interesting new
findings that relate to nutrition that I
want to bring up now the black plague or
Black Death was the second pandemic
event that occurred in the year thirteen
forty through the 1400s now if you look
in the history books this event was
caused by a bacteria infecting fleas
which then was spread by rats
okay throughout Europe and even Asia
however recently there was 25 skeletons
which were victims four of the black
plague in a London cemetery here's what
they found the bones of all 25 victims
showed signs of rickets
what is rickets that is a severe vitamin
D deficiency now what's the relationship
between vitamin D and the black plague
or an infection
well vitamin D is not really a vitamin
it's a hormone it's one of the most
powerful immune modulators it regulates
the immune system and if you're
deficient it's going to make you highly
susceptible to infections bacterial
infections viral infections systemic
infections septicemia and autoimmune
diseases in fact you will nearly always
find a vitamin D deficiency in someone
with an autoimmune condition alright so
number one they found a vitamin D
deficiency also the bone showed other
signs of malnutrition and signs of
injuries now what's interesting about
this is it relates to another video I
did about this Spanish flu which
occurred in 1918 and if you haven't seen
that video I put a link down below and
the reason why that's significant is
there were 50 million people who died in
the Spanish flu and there was about 50
million people that died in this black
plague okay
because it was a pandemic event and my
question is how could just a virus
spread through the entire world and just
kill that many people it just doesn't
make sense what came just before the
event what came right before the Spanish
flu and what came before the Black
Plague so with the Spanish flu you had
this world war one which occurred just
before the event which you had huge
shifts in the transport of food you have
the canning of food which led to
nutritional deficiencies when you can
food you decrease the zinc by 85% and
with the Spanish flu it peaked in
January which is the time of year where
you have the lowest amount of vitamin D
exposure from the Sun of the entire year
which is interesting so what happened
with the Spanish flu is we have this
malnutrition vitamin D deficiency a war
situation and then you get this
infection well with the black plague
signs of injury well that sounds like a
war to me now why would they have low
vitamin D and malnutrition now there's
some other interesting points in 1315
there was an eruption of a volcano okay
Mount Tarawera
and the ashes from this event may have
fected the temperature around the globe
you can look this up and precipitated
the Great Famine of 1315 just 13 17
other references say it's 1315 to 13 22
but there was a famine interesting so
now we have malnutrition and if you're
having ashes that could potentially
affect the temperature you're gonna have
low vitamin D levels because it's going
to act as a barrier most of Europe was
affected this famine apparently was
caused by bad weather probably from this
event and then you had crop failure so
you have all these things that are just
stacking up to set people up for a very
low immune system now what's interesting
is that some people think that the
bubonic plague was way in the past it
doesn't happen right now
it does happen very rarely but it still
could happen in fact seven people in the
US every single year get the bubonic
plague
now one more interesting point about
this that may relate to this
or the topic we're talking about but the
California brown shrimp were fed a diet
without vitamin C and within six weeks
they develop black lesions now with the
black death or black plague or bubonic
plague what happens you're getting
necrosis of the tissue very similar to
gangrene and the tissue is turning black
that's why they call it the black plague
well apparently when you start shrimping
and see they develop black lesions and
they call it the Black Death disease and
the bacterial counts go way up and they
get septicemia which is a severe
infection now the reason why I wanted to
bring up this whole point is to show you
the relationship between severe
infections and vitamin deficiencies
especially vitamin D especially during
the winter months to protect yourself
against viruses you really want to make
sure you get enough vitamin D now it's
very difficult to get it from food if
not impossible and it's equally
difficult to get it during the winter
months so you're going to have to take
it in a supplement form and lastly just
to summarize the main point the Black
Plague and the Spanish flu are perfect
examples of how a nutritional deficiency
could potentially set you up for a
serious infection all right thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
