hey guys so I wanted to answer another
question related to water someone wanted
to know how much water do we get when we
consume vegetables okay so I just wanted
to extend that to other foods as well
but you get a lot of water when you
consume vegetables in fact most
vegetables are made up of between ninety
to ninety eight percent water
okay cucumbers are more ninety eight
percent and then broccoli is about
ninety percent so it really depends on
your vegetables but there's a lot of
water and vegetables salmon and chicken
are about 60 to 69 percent water beef is
between 50 and 59 percent water amazing
cheese thirty to thirty nine percent
water butter is actually ten percent
water roasted nuts between one and nine
percent water and then you have oil and
sugar have zero percent water in fact if
you consider all the fluid that makes up
your body roughly between 35 and 39
percent of it comes from the food you
eat not the water that you drink thanks
for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
