hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about another part of the nervous system
that gets affected with high blood
glucose or high insulin okay in other
videos I've talked about the damage to
the brain your memory your cognitive
function I talked about peripheral
neuropathy which is damage to the nerves
in the hands and the feet because high
levels of insulin and high levels of
sugar destroy the blood vessels that go
to the nerves
but the autonomic nervous system is
another part of the nervous system that
is not commonly talked about okay
the autonomic nervous system is composed
of three different sections you have the
sympathetic nerves which is the
flight-or-fight
you have the parasympathetic nervous
system which is responsible for rest and
digest and recovering from stress and
then you also have the part which is
called the enteric which is all the
digestion so the autonomic nervous
system is that system that works below
your conscious awareness
it works on automatic so when you have a
neuropathy nerve damage of this system
you can have a problem with the bladder
retention lack of control where you have
to wear a diaper leaky valves your
genitals could be also affected in
potency you can't get an erection you
don't have a libido anymore digestion
there's a condition called gastroparesis
where your stomach just doesn't empty
very fast so everything is very slow of
course if you have a slow digestive
system you're going to end up having
constipation because you're not getting
the full digestion and then you're gonna
have problems with the heart blood
pressure either high or low pulse rate
either high or low or rhythm problems
like atrial fibrillation or heart
palpitations you can also have problems
with breathing in oxygen exchange as in
sleep apnea so the consequence of high
sugar and high insulin on the nervous
system is quite extensive but the good
news about this is that if you can
control the sugar and you can lower the
insulin you can heal some of these
disorders I'm seeing this happen all
over the place when you put people on a
healthy ketogenic diet and in the minute
fasting you
see amazing things clear up that you
wouldn't necessarily think could clear
up
you see bladder and prevent improvements
with the sex organs great improvements
with digestion cardiovascular and the
quality of sleep so just because you
have these conditions does not mean it's
permanent so I put a link down below for
those of you that are new to this you
definitely need to look into the area of
keto and in a min the fasting hey if you
enjoyed this video press subscribe and I
will definitely keep you updated
