hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I
want to show you the secret of how to
get rid of a chronic cough and sometimes
I'll uh people will be coughing for
years and they don't even realize
they're coughing but their spouse might
realize that and what's happening is the
vocal cords are get irritated they kind
of go in a little bit of a spasm
sometimes and then it irritates the
throat down here and you have to kind of
cough there might be a little bit of
mucus there but there's a really good
natural remedy that you can find on
probably on Amazon or from a health care
practitioner and um what it is it's
actually the same remedy as you would
use for a cramp in your calf or a cramp
in the muscle okay it's a type of
calcium okay it's a deficiency of a type
of calcium and it's a type of calcium
magnesium and the the type of calcium
that I recommend is
called calcium lact
and this is from a company called
Standard Process I highly recommend it a
bottle it might be cost $5 it's very
cheap but this is the most wonderful
type of calcium it goes in like a rocket
chip it's a calcium magnesium it's
non-dairy and you would take this before
you go to bed or an empty stomach about
2 or three and you will see your cough
will start going away and that because
it calcium is involved in the nervous
system too the flight or fight mechanism
and it relaxes the contraction allows
you to contract a lot better and it also
this works for cramping in your calves
as well but if you have a chronic cough
this is the one that I recommend and uh
you can get it probably on Amazon do a
search for it's called calcium lactate
or a healthc care practitioner that uses
Standard Process okay go ahead and try
that and leave your uh comments below
