so today we're going to talk about an
interesting hormone progesterone so many
women are focused on estrogen because
their estrogen dominant but progesterone
is the opposing hormone okay so they
work together during menopause you have
a severe drop in progesterone in
relationship to estrogen so progesterone
drops even more and progesterone is
important because it's it's kind of like
a pre hormone that is there to help turn
into other hormones like estrogen and
even cortisol and some of the other
adrenal hormones so it's very very
important especially during menopause
because if you get the severe drop in
progesterone you may not have enough to
make the adrenal hormones that are
necessary to even compensate for the
loss of the ovarian hormones so you end
up having various symptoms vaginal
dryness atrophy thinning skin loss of
collagen decreased libido hot flashes
night sweats insomnia and feeling
irritable other than that you're
perfectly fine so progesterone has a
calming effect it relaxes a female it
also it's great to take in the evening
so when you go to bed you can actually
sleep better it's also diuretic so when
you're low in progesterone
you'll get fluid retention and
progesterone is intimately involved in
almost every part of the menstrual cycle
and also involved with pregnancy and if
you increase stress that can suppress
progesterone - another reason why
someone might have a low progesterone
levels that is not going through
menopause or maybe is going through
menopause and they added stress brings
it down even further
one thing you need to know is that
cholesterol is the key element to help
someone build up progesterone so if
you're in a low-fat diet or a low
cholesterol diet or a statin that could
be the reason why you don't have enough
progesterone it can really throw off the
hormones one of the best remedies is
wild yam extract okay you'll see wild
yam and an over-the-counter progesterone
cream now in the lab wild yam extract
does have a chemical that turns into
progesterone but a human
they have not found that it actually
really turns into progesterone so they
don't know exactly why but the
properties the vital chemicals or
nutrients in wild yam seem to improve
these symptoms right here seems to mimic
progesterone and again you're not
actually taking progesterone cream
you're taking something that mimics it a
more than a natural way that seems to
create these very cool effects by
improving these things and when you take
the cream I would I would not recommend
putting it on the inside of the wrist
right here because it goes in too fast
rotate putting it in 1000 and it can act
as more of a time release so it goes a
little bit slower than going into the
wrist which goes in like a rocket ship
that you'll get this spike and find a
brand that has good reviews now as far
as the dosage goes I would follow what
it has on the directions because each
brand has their own concentrations
anyway thank you so much for watching
hey guys I want to introduce you to my
new doctor Berg app it's right here it's
I'm really excited about it you need to
download it it's free has a lot of great
data has all my videos it's updated on a
regular basis I also have the audio
version of the videos audio episodes I
also have a mini course that you can
take I also have a button for new
content so you can really know of all
the recent content that I'm downloading
and I also have something called PDF
resources which gives you additional
cool little one-page PDF documents on
all sorts of health things so download
it check it out and tell me what you
think about it and don't forget to give
me a review
it's dr. Berg app
