hey dr. Burke here in this short video
we're going to talk about hormonal
imbalance I'm going to give you some
very important principles there's two
points I want to bring up on this number
one it takes the tremendous amount of
problem the body for a hormone to show
up out of balance so just because your
hormones aren't are normal it doesn't
really necessarily mean you're fully
fully healthy okay so that's step number
one especially with the adrenal gland
when the adrenal glands are just
dysfunctional yep literally you have to
be 90 percent that of that Drina husband
has to be dysfunctional and unless until
it shows up on a clinically so it
doesn't show up until far in advanced
stages and there's also subclinical
things which is things that are below
the radar and you'd have to look at all
the symptoms for a particular condition
not just blood tests a lot of times
people in their mind it unless they have
a blood test you know they're healthy
unless the blood tests show abnormal
then they start worrying about it so you
might go to the doctor and they might go
okay come back in six months we'll keep
checking this blood test over and over
and over until you have the condition
and then they treat it so that's step
one you can't always go just on hormone
tests okay number one number two let's
pretend that you do have a hormone
imbalance so you have a deficiency of
the thyroid hormone whatever what do
people do they take a thyroid hormone
right it sounds logical but what causes
this problem that's what's missed you
have to ask what causes a slow thyroid
what causes a deficiency in an estrogen
or an excess of insulin or excess of
cortisol or any of these hormones that's
really what's missing in medicine is the
understanding of why what they do is
they treat it directly they treat the
hormone deficiency so if you're low in a
hormone they'll give you the hormone
prescription and then you're imagining
supposed to be better
what then when you stop taking it you go
back to take it again doesn't make sense
to me so let me give you a little
background number one hormones are
communications they're messages just
like I'm communicating to you right now
you're listening through your ears right
now you have little receptors here
and then you understand what I say and
then it collects and then you're
supposed to respond back of course I
can't see you so if I were if you were
in the room we could have a conversation
so if we're having a conversation the
hormone would be the message is between
two people all right so they travel
through the blood and they connect into
these little tiny receptors that receive
that hormone and then do the function
whatever their Homans supposed to do so
the purpose of hormones is to create all
these effects in the body from going to
sleep to growing hair to being able to
burn fat all these different things so
you have 600 different hormones in the
body now this is what I'm going to talk
about the gland the gland is the thing
that makes the hormone it's the thing
that sends the hormone is the thing that
receives the bio the feedback from this
hormone to connect the dots to have this
whole communication cycle this is the
thing that's the most neglected it's the
it's the root of most of the hormonal
imbalances yet no one talks about the
gland so what I'm going to recommend the
next time you have a problem that's
related to hormones is when you go to
your doctor ask him why instead of
taking just taking the hormone why is it
deficient because when you take a
hormone let's say you took a hormone
it's going to cause your gland not to
have to work anymore and it's going to
create a dependency on that hormone and
that is why taking years of thyroid
hormone pills causes your own thyroid to
shrivel up and become dysfunctional so
that is a side effect of taking hormones
as your glands don't have to work
anymore ok so we want to support the
gland what I like to do is I like to
instead of getting into diagnosing
hormonal stuff just take the Glam that
makes that hormone and support it
nutritionally you can even do there's
some even acupressure techniques that
you can help the gland function better
because glands secrete hormones they're
like mini muscles that send hormones
into the into the tissues so we want to
do things
to improve the root of the problem so
then the hormones can balance out
whatever what if it's a increase or a
decrease it doesn't make a difference we
want to help normalize this right here
so those are the two points that I want
you to understand about hormone
imbalance I hope this helped I will see
you in the next video
