so today we're going to talk about why
blocks had a higher risk of diabetes and
high blood pressure
there's a great article I'm gonna put it
down below by John Hopkins that talks
about having low potassium and then
increasing your risk for diabetes and
then having higher amounts of potassium
and decreasing your risk for diabetes
but there's this huge focus on reducing
sodium right like cut your salt down if
you have high blood pressure for example
but what about increasing your potassium
that's completely ignored our bodies
actually require a thousand milligrams
of sodium every single day that's almost
one teaspoon level teaspoon of salt will
give you a thousand milligrams of sodium
but when we talk about potassium it's
more than four times we need 4700
milligrams of potassium but we only need
a thousand milligrams of sodium okay so
the ratios are basically four to one and
very few people have this correct ratio
and those people with diabetes and high
blood pressure they're lucky if they
have half the amount of potassium but
they do have a lot of sodium too hidden
sodium from junk foods
monosodium glutamate things like that
not to mention if you have high blood
pressure
you're usually taking a diuretic right
thiazide well guess what that alone will
deplete your potassium high carbohydrate
diets deplete your potassium so serum
potassium or blood potassium is an
independent risk factor for diabetes so
now let's just talk about what potassium
does in the body does a lot of things it
helps you store glycogen so here all the
glucose molecules they're combined and
stored as stored sugar it's called
glycogen with potassium so if we're
potassium deficient we cannot store
glycogen like we should and then we're
gonna crave sugar right we're going to
crave sugar we're gonna have blood sugar
swings up and down and also it's going
to worsen insulin
which is always involved in diabetes and
when you have insulin resistance your
body makes more insulin and but it
doesn't work so the blood sugars start
going higher and higher and higher so
when you lower your potassium your blood
sugars go up your arteries actually
stiffen up when you don't have enough
potassium and that's why the blood
pressure goes up so taking more
potassium can make your blood vessels
very elastic potassium actually protects
the kidney now when you have end-stage
kidney disease they don't want you to
take potassium because it can be toxic
but if you don't have end-stage kidney
disease you need potassium to protect it
and potassium can also decrease the risk
for gout which is usually pain in the
big toe and it's a form of arthritis but
I think most people don't realize what
this means like forty seven hundred
milligrams do I have to eat ten bananas
no because that's too sweet because we
want to go on a low-carb diet for those
of you that are new I put a link down
below exactly what diet you need to do
to actually fulfill your potassium and
lower your carbs okay it's a link right
down below but the most important thing
is to make sure that you consume foods
with enough potassium what will help is
to increase your salads okay very simple
have two salads and at the end of the
day if you can achieve between seven and
ten cups that will get you a lot closer
to this of course you're gonna get
potassium out of other foods as well but
this is the easiest way to do it a
couple big salads and you will be
shocked to find out what happens to your
blood pressure and your blood glucose
levels one point about this that's
interesting when you buy a supplement
you can't find one higher than 99
milligrams that's weird isn't it but we
need 4700 milligrams so I highly
recommend start with your diet okay cut
the carbs down increasing the foods with
potassium and just see for yourself the
benefits not just blood Sugar's and
cravings but blood pressure as well
alright thanks for watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
