so I wanted to answer the question what
is a mycoplasma okay Michael plasma
Michael coming from the word fungi and
plasma coming from the word just
basically like a plasma because these
small microorganisms do not have a cell
wall they look like a little jellyfish
so they're the smallest free-living
bacteria and you see these little
creatures involved in a lot of
autoimmune conditions rheumatoid
arthritis and mass crohn's but they're
very stealth there's many different
types there's like 200 but there's
really only five that are pathogenic
that actually create pathogens and they
can just go in the body and just hang
out for up to ten to even 30 years and
wait until you get older you get
stressed where there's a lower
resistance and you become more
susceptible and then they come out and
what happens is they don't actually
create the damage your immune system
tries to kill them and because they're
they're very mobile because they don't
have a cell wall they're very hard to
detect they can go throughout the cells
and the different parts of the body they
can move and so your immune system
starts to attack them and it's your own
immune system that creates the
inflammation that creates the
destruction thus the autoimmune right
where you're it's a self attack why is
the body doing that well it could be
because it's trying to kill something
your body's not stupid why would it
actually try to attack its own cells
well it's trying to get something and
try to destroy it and dismantle it and
in the process as it ends up destroying
your cells and a really good remedy
would be something called cat's claw
this is a great antioxidant /
anti-inflammatory really good for the
immune system and it like an
antimicrobial remedy it's natural so the
goal is to try to build up our defenses
with natural things and not go the
antibiotic route because that actually
kills the good and the bad the same time
wiping out your defenses
I'm not saying not to take antibiotics
I'm just pointing out these are natural
things that you might want to research
to see if it can help you so I have a
cat's claw we have olive leaf extract a
very great remedy for michael plasmas
good to put viruses back in remission
it's a great natural antibiotic and it's
great for the flu as well colostrum
is a natural substance that helps build
up your immune system so let's say for
example that you had a lot of
antibiotics and now you're antibiotic
resistant and your immune systems
crashed and maybe you took steroids
before or prednisone for some condition
and now you just you just don't have an
immune system anymore colostrum is a
great thing to take small amounts before
bed over a long period of time to build
up the immune system it's a very good
remedy and then we have something called
fasting I have a lot of data on this I
put some links down below but fasting if
done correctly and prolonged fasting
could put your body in the state of
what's called a Toph Ajit and etaf Ajit
is the recycling of old damaged protein
structures into new proteins but it also
does this very interesting thing it
actually helps to clean up residue of
old infection and microbes and viruses
and mycoplasma
and Candida and yeast and fungus and
mold so fasting is very very good for
the immune system especially prolonged
fasting but you have to do it at least
for 18 hours to to see some benefits but
this is something that's very very cool
for the immune system all right well
thanks for watching if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
