there's no lifestyle safe enough to
avoid breakdown and reinjury I became
very aware quickly of this gap of
conservative treatment for the spine and
building back from injury is only
focused on everything in your core
except for the low back today we're
going to show you some amazing things to
fix your lower back I had a history of
low back pain for many many years ever
since College I did something really
stupid I tried to squat 425 lbs and blew
my disc out and ever since then I've
been struggling with a low back ins s of
kaipan I recently stumbled on some
really cool information by a man named
Brendan Backstrom he found something
that I never really looked at or really
considered and I wanted to bring him on
to show you this information because if
you have low back pain you need to know
this welcome Brendan thanks for coming
on thank you so much I uh I appreciate
you Shar the story of your back history
and the deadlift it took for you to
become aware of that potential for pain
I only needed about 300 lb to end up in
the same story so yours is a little bit
more impressive but it's honor you kind
of were in a situation with a lot of
people you were basically they told well
you know you can't ever really get to a
point where it's fully resolved you have
to just kind of cope with it and do the
best you can yeah so just kind of just
accept that right and and you said uh no
I'm I'm going to see if I could figure
this out right
yeah so I thought I was an isolated
situation an isolated case and being you
know I only knew I had a low back once I
hurt my low back and then as I went to
the doctors I started to become very
familiar with what is the current
culture and uh mindset around the low
back and that it's something really to
protect not something to build and uh
it's a fact of age and as you get older
back pain is just something that comes
with life so what does that mean if
you're 21 and you started to have
chronic back issues that just means you
got the Unlucky draw and now you started
this spiral early so you better buckle
up and learn how to be careful and I was
in the field a little bit I was training
to try to become a physical therapist
and I I thought I had a really good
grasp of how to be as careful as you can
be as mechanically safe and it turns out
there's no lifestyle safe enough to
avoid breakdown and reinjury and and so
I became very aware quickly of this gap
of the uh you know sophisticated science
that has a lot of Merit and it works
well for getting people out of the
initial injuries and the initial pain
and many people end up in this Loop that
I did which is where you become more
sensitive and more vulnerable and then
you just feel disempowered and lost and
uh I thought it was just me I only found
out through sharing on the internet and
people surprising to my surprise
resonating that it turns out there's
lots of people of all ages in this sort
of state and they just want to want to
know there's any hope to build the back
I mean if you just if you look up you
know low back pain it's all about well
you know if you've injured your back you
have to protect it right you have to
squat down very carefully make sure you
don't reinjure it tell us a little bit
about the point where you said you know
wait a second there's something
neglected here there's something missing
yeah so it's a it's a very very standard
approach to view the core as the
protection for the low back and I
completely agree and we do well with
that I don't know what led me to this
sort of questioning but I started to
view the core is like the core of an
apple it's what it's the center point of
everything that's meant to protect you
and so much vital organs and the spine
but when you are in sports medicine the
core is mainly talked about with the
things in front with your abs with the
sides with the obliques and deeper maybe
trans verse abdominis these muscles that
are known to stabilize you which is
important but then I started to see I
I've never gotten hurt my oblique I've
never gotten hurt on the side I keep
getting hurt at the direct weak in
my armor which is my low back directly
so when I started to look at the core
through just a textbook without the
teaching of how to train it but just
Anatomy wise it seemed like a more
fitting concept of the core is a 360
Barrel
also with the ceiling and also with the
floor so you have the front of the ABS
which we train a lot of in gym culture
and lifting we've all done sit-ups we
have the obliques we have some of the
deeper side muscles the stabilizers but
then in the spine there's this wall of
tissue you have layers with the big ones
spinal Erectors that keep you upright
but then you also have segment by
segment little musculature that almost
hugs the bones of the spine and gives
you true stability in circulation close
to all the problem area so majority of
conservative treatment for the spine and
in building back from injury is only
focused on everything in your core
except for the low
back that's I understand why it's the
most scary it's the most frightening to
touch because it's the most sensitive so
it's actually very safe advice in the
short term to just not touch it but then
in the long term it guarantees an
acceleration of breakdown and
Decay so that's how I ended up to that
sort of mindset if anyone's watching
basically he stumbled on the back part
of this core which is part of the spine
are basically just very very very weak
and it's going to keep you very fragile
so his program is pretty cool because he
found a way to get the back really
strong on a really nice gradual way as
you said in your video you know you
could very easily overdo it so here's
another principle I want you to talk
about when you rehab the lower back if
you want to call it that or you want to
strengthen or balance it out um there's
a there's a right way to do it in a
wrong way so just kind of talk a little
bit about that because that's kind of
like an underlying principle of your
whole program as far as you don't you do
this on a very gradual level so you
don't reinjure yourself right so one of
the one of the most delicate processes
is going to be reestablishing
communication
with an area of the body that you have
either massed or avoided for so long so
we don't know what a productive low back
stimulus may feel like and so what that
means practically is many of us have
gone to the gym and done bicep curls and
we know what that feels like we may go
and train our legs and feel a pump in
the quads and we know what that feels
like but after many reinjuries and
becoming more sensitive and having more
breakdown in that area of the back when
you go to train your low back you have
to be slower than you think not training
to the level of the strength of the
muscles you have to train to a concept
which I've tried to teach people of
tissue tolerance lowest sensitivity of
your most fragile tissue that's what's
going to set the pace for this sort of
training and so if we go to the back
training I show a lot of times I may
show the further stages because I'm
proud of what I've built to and I want
to inspire fire others who are starting
from an injured place but the starting
point is actually scaled back to
something that almost doesn't look like
training it could just be holding your
torso up at a certain angle for 30
seconds and you're just squeezing the
low back muscles gently without any
motion and then you see almost through a
bit of survivorship bias did you make it
through that with no pain is the the
next day do you have any increase of
symptoms if not that's your current
capacity you now got a little bit more
familiarized that your back can handle
that and so it's not all or nothing I
think the mindset I really try to get
people out of is this light switch
mentality versus turning dials it's not
avoid the back or train the back it's
all Spectrum slightly more this week
than last week and the truth of it is
you may sometimes go into a flare up
which is you overdid it you cross the
line and now you're in a little bit of
pain and this is actually sometimes
useful for people as well it's not fun
to go through but sometimes you have to
cross the line to know where the line is
and you go that's my true capacity level
most people avoid all sensation in their
back good or bad and the only time they
feel their low back is in an awkward
tweak when they reach for something and
they get that spasm or that realization
that reminder your low back's vulnerable
so I try to teach people to remet to
meet their low back and get some
experience and evidence and it's a very
slow process so you're basically going
from this complete disconnect from your
lower back to fully in communication
with your back and you're really kind of
you're aware of what's Happening you're
doing it why don't you go through some
of these exercises to show people what
you're talking about sure the most
direct stimulus we could try to get to
the low back is simply anything that
moves our shoulders in front of our hips
the muscles in our low back just keep us
upright they're called spinal Erectors
correct means upright if you didn't have
low back muscles you would just collapse
so what we're going to do instead of
going into range of something that's
scary you can get on this machine and
just hold the position and it may not
look like much but even 30 seconds on
this for a lot of people could cause
extreme pain the next day if they overdo
it so this isn't even the most bare
starting point you could start lower you
could put the pad very high and you
could have it up to your chest could
start lower and it could be up to the
shoulders pretty much the the more body
weight that you're holding the more
that's hanging off the machine the more
weight your low back is holding yourself
up so you find any level within that
spectrum and you're hold for 30 seconds
calm trying to get your nervous system
relaxed deep
breathing trying to keep your system in
this
most away from the figh ORF flight State
and then uh over time you can increase
the time to maybe a minute 2 minutes
this is what I call making daily
deposits you're investing it's almost as
if you're in back debt you have very
little money to invest you have to micro
do and then after three four months the
person that was extremely sensitive to
even do 10 seconds may work up to 2
minutes and at that point then you start
to actually work range and you can start
to use the vertebrae piece by piece
going through half the range usually
these machines have handles and you
could go and just do 10 with a slight
round in the
back give it a few months give it eight
weeks and then you could go further and
see can you actually go
inverted and then you reach a point
where you're getting decompression of
the spine which many people know is
great for relief but then what's missing
is the recompression so if you're at the
bottom inverted my discs are actually
starting to separate in Space the
vertebraes are giving more space but as
I piece my back together with all the
small muscles now I'm getting the
strength to
recompress and so that's what you start
to build
direct stimulus to the spine the muscles
all around those intraspinal little
muscles I was describing earlier and you
create piece by peace stability again
that you may have lost for a decade so
this journey alone I just showed it in
in 3 minutes most people if they're
starting from a chronic place of pain
it's going to take about two years to go
from gentle holds to what I showed 30
reps is a very good body weight goal for
anyone who wants to get to an active LIF
style Sports even just to have longevity
well into your 50s and 60s and onwards
the strong back this is the best
protection that you could get directly
for anything that you may get in an
injury picking up stuffff anything that
gives you fear this is going to be your
best measure of how protected is my low
back you can build your own back brace
That's My
slogan see when you're doing this what
you're doing is you're creating um a
whole bunch of things in addition just a
stronger muscle you're pumping blood
flow you're getting your discs to get
circulation you're also stretching out
the FASA fascia is like the wet suit
around your body but you also have
fascia around the nerves the nerve roots
and I think um even with me uh there's a
lot of scar tissue in the fascia that
every time I would move or bend over it
would just pull on that nerve so it's
not necessarily A a disc on a nerve
directly an impingement because you can
even look on an MRI it's like oh no it's
the disc is not pressing on it it's the
soft tissue that doesn't show up and
with these stretches and strengthening
exercises done on a real nice level I
think what you said even in your video
like it starts to now Glide you start
creating more less friction around that
nerve route right yeah especially if
someone is stica yeah sciatica is very
tricky because it's exactly that we
immediately assume that the original
cause of our pain is the same exact
source of our chronic problems and many
times it's not the original discernation
discernation are more common than the
flu sometimes about 60 70% of people
around on the street may have some form
of bll over the age of 30 now the reason
it becomes chronic back pain is the
secondary dysfunction the breakdown of
the supporting muscles the memory of
fascia fascia basically can hold your
tissue in the position it was in when it
was injured take away that disc bulge
you take away that inflammation but the
fascia if you don't move it just becomes
stuck and can even continue to remodel
in that stuck position so now your body
learns at this segment of the spine
we're extra tight and the fashion
reflects that and so the only way that
we have you know holistic control of
that is what we do with our body and so
sciatic is a tough one because it's it's
a tissue that when it's working right we
don't feel it we don't want to feel
nerves that's that's kind of the the
goal so we can work the entire path of
the nerve and basically from the nerve
root of the spine down the glute down
the back of the leg through the calf to
the Big Tub so in the program I teach
people to very gradually strengthen and
try to reactivate muscle all the way
along the path that the sciatic nerve
can Branch off to I like even in your
program because you get into you do not
want to put yourself into a painful
position you're you're working on this
to the point you'll know when to go more
because there'll be no pain you have to
and because that's where I'm trying to
do a more thorough and better job of
educating this with longer videos cuz if
you give me 60 seconds to explain how to
get into this it's going to be very
difficult because uh there's so much
Nuance that depends on your sensitivity
and your level and the same thing it's
it's like all of health and medicine
it's the dosage that's the devil it's
like the application and how you do it l
back is very tricky given the Neurology
of it there's so much potential to feel
nerve issues and ination of it versus an
elbow so you have to be very in tune and
very slow never just push past the pain
because your body's going to learn this
is actually worse for me when it could
be the best thing you need the most
potent healer I say if something's
potent as an exercise is a high
potential to heal or a high potential to
harm depending on how you do it now here
you have a person who injures the back
and then they get Scar Tissue one of the
worst things you can do for fascia is
inactivity just like a person in a
nursing home they become you know they
get stuck in this position because
they're not moving and then on top of
that as you're not moving or you're
maybe stuck in a a certain position you
end up getting atrophy of all the spinal
erecta muscles here you are do maybe
doing your your abdomen your six-pack AB
program or your other exercises and that
back muscle is the weak link I mean yeah
that's a really really good observ
that we don't ever end up with like pain
in our abdomen or our sides it's always
in the back and just to really
strengthen that back muscle it was so
severe for you right you had like
constant pain didn't you when you were
at your worst if we were doing this
interview three years ago you would have
saw me actually turn the chair and sit
on this glute and then sit on this glute
because I had this chronic SI joint pain
which is right where the base of the
spine meets the pelvis your sacrum um it
wasn't even at the sight of my disc
problem anymore it spread and so your
body becomes so avoidant of certain
positions that it compensates and my
hips move to one side and now I had this
chronic constant pain just re deepen the
glutes on that joint and actually led to
me sitting all the time off one side so
my hips became set in this lateral hip
shift and I'm still lifting I'm still
trying to exercise better than
inactivity so what happens when I squat
I'm squatting like this
and then I got hip impingement in my
right hip so the because it wasn't
properly aligned the ball in the socket
was now grinding weird and then I got a
sports hernia on that same side which it
turns out they've done you know studies
and people that got surgeries for sports
hernas that about 70% of them when they
were in their operating they just look
at the hip capsule and they see signs of
hip impingement so many people at this
lineage of disc problem hip imbalance
hip socket problem AB tear the sport
Heria I get comments from dozens of
people I've had that exact lineage so it
was so severe it became a whole body
problem again I thought I was alone in
this till I shared it if you look at uh
some of his videos he'll do that back
extension with weights I'm talking like
um is that 245 pound weights on and
you're basically bending over on your
back so to do that you you have to
really build up that back muscle in your
extensors I mean that's like crazy
amount of weight so to go from can't
even do it at all to to do that much
weight and plus I think you if I'm not
mistaken you also do some squats as well
right yep I list I do lift traditionally
I just made sure that I never skip the
low back ever again and so I want to be
a product of the product and it's
actually the best compliment sometimes
or comments of people saying you never
had a back injury cuz there's no way you
could get back to that point it's ironic
but it's such a good feeling when you
have such a good low back and that was
the worst aspect of your body for many
years it's just our health is remarkably
in our control amazing so so just to
kind of um summarize there's a series of
exercises that was one of them that you
put people through on a nice gradual
level from where they're wherever
they're at to where they need to be over
time and you have information on like
the principles of why you're doing that
exactly every single exercise is a
journey of step one through 10 so every
exercise has a level that you take your
grandmother through and then you could
take your friend who's trying to be an
Olympian and you find where you are on
that gradient and then alongside we have
these education modules I didn't want to
you know make a course and have to teach
too much I like the XY Zoo do this
blueprint however the context matters a
lot for every exercise so I alongside
teach people how do you train these
exercises this isn't a six week get lean
program this is a one to twoe remodel
the deepest part of your body program so
yep the road map of exercis is very
thorough with all the regressions the
education side of it tries to match any
problem you may come in with and give
you the nuance that would make all the
difference we also have a really good
Community with thousands of people in a
chat that are just sharing their stories
and just uplifting and so try to give
what people may need only from thinking
of what would I have desperately needed
five years ago that didn't exist and I
think the most impressive thing is what
you charge it's basically whatever the
person feels they want to pay yeah the
the slogan is pay what you want the
entire model people sign up and it's a
monthly subscription you can cancel
whenever you could pay $2 some people
have paid 200 it's what it means to you
and you can also change it I don't
expect you to trust an internet a
stranger to charge you thousands that
was a thing I tried to find stuff I
could do years ago but it was behind a
pay wall of thousands of dollars your
exchange between the person is so nice
and even because so many programs you
don't even know if it's going to work
paying all this money I think that's a
great way to keep your level of Exchange
in with people because they they would
appreciate it yeah it's uh it's anti-
marketing for sure which some would say
is great marketing but me and my my
business partner joke about it all the
time that you know you're taught a lot
of times to price something very high
because that changes the perceived value
it's like well that must be a great
program if it's thousands of dollars and
when you really have something that is
authentic and there's nothing hidden and
you're not afraid to just put it out
there the people will tell you what it's
worth and people often times message me
you know hey I was skeptical but after
eight weeks I'm just in awe I'm going to
up the subscription because they want to
support me supporting people and
so there's a lot of bells and whistles
out there you know and and when you have
something real I don't think you have to
rely on that I've I uh I never thought
I'd be in this position to even help
people for free let alone make money
from it and for me I just want this gap
of ignorance to be bridged that's my
main long game is to get as many people
in this shift as they can and leave the
hopelessness of the back Loop that's
awesome I'm going to put your link down
below highly recommend everyone sign up
for it you'll get a download videos I
think this is awesome a game changer and
then put down your um your comments on
how this program has helped you because
I don't do these interviews very often
with people but when I see something
that I really think would work I'm
definitely going to promote it so thank
you so much for taking your time to be
on this uh is an honor I'm extremely
grateful I hope this really can help
some people and uh um I'm really
impressed your openness of someone who's
you're very young and healthy but I am
half your age and to be open um from
where Insight may come from I think is
admirable and this is why people look to
you as the beacon for for health and
taking personal accountability in it so
I'm I'm just honored to be a part and
I'm extremely grateful so thank
you oh I appreciate that thanks
