I'm going to share with you the absolute
best vitamin for arthritis and I'm not
talking about vitamin D vitamin D is
great but there's something else that's
amazing I stumbled on this by accident I
was taking this vitamin I never took it
before go to sleep wake up and I just
noticed like all this stiffness that
would normally have because of all the
injuries to my spine it's like someone
to put WD40 in my joints I'm like why am
I feeling so loose so I'm like oh I took
that vitamin day before so with
arthritis you have inflammation
breakdown of the carage you have wear
and tear you have pain people are taking
nids to get rid of inflammation the
problem is there's some side effects GI
bleeding ulcers kidney problems things
like that if you take a steroid the side
effect is it'll destroy your joints it
will lower your immune system so is
there something that you could take that
doesn't have these adverse effects and
the answer is yes specifically in the
mitochondria and it's a precursor to
this molecule called naad NAD is kind of
a helper molecule for turning food into
energy like ATP and so we're talking
about biochemistry here we're talking
about uh helping move these things
called electrons which are really
unusable until you package them into a
certain
energy form so that's what NAD helps you
with and NAD is involved in over 400
different genes so it's a really
important molecule and I'm going to talk
about first what happens when you're
deficient in NAD all right number one
you're going to have low collagen
repair number two you're going to have
inflammation number
three you're going to have fatigue
because you're not going to be able to
make energy number four you're going to
have muscle pain muscle weak weakness
and even loss of muscle number five
you'll have metabolic diseases right
that could range anywhere from diabetes
Alzheimer's even cancer next one is
aging faster than you should because if
you can't repair the DNA you're going to
age faster and then the next one is
lowered immune system but aspirin
targets something in your cells that
helps make proteins and certain types
fats well it just so happens that this
vitamin that I'm about to reveal does a
similar thing to aspirin but without the
side effects it helps to reduce the
oxidative stress in the endoplasmic
reticulum so that's very interesting so
that's probably why my neck is so loose
right now which I'm very excited about
all right so what is this vitamin called
vitamin B3 ni acetamide there's two
versions of B3 you have nin and you have
netam nin is really really good for uh
lipids and cholesterol and all that
stuff nicomide works more on
inflammation arthritis and many other
things as well and so ni acetamide so
here's how you'd want to take it you'd
want to take smaller amounts of it
through the day than higher amounts once
a day so maybe you take 100 to 150
milligrams three to six times a day
depending on how severe your are
arthritis is so in other words taking a
little bit more ndide through the day
helps to allow your biochemistry to work
a lot better despite having these
genetic issues they're called
polymorphisms okay a couple other things
about this you'd want to make sure you
have sufficient protein for it to work
because you need protein right it's like
the building block to help you repair
the joint also make sure you're not
drinking any alcohol I don't know if
you've know this but tryptophan can
convert to B3 as well but the efficiency
of that is not very efficient uh it
takes like 60 times the units of
tryptophan to turn into one unit of B3 a
lot of times people are not getting that
conversion despite all the problems in
the diet especially if you consume a lot
of corn that can block your um
tryptophan and also if you're eating
junk foods and things like that you can
definitely easily be deficient in
vitamin B3 but I just wanted to give you
the mechanism of how this ni camide
works and I'm liking it a lot and uh I I
think out of all the things that I've
taken and I'm not telling you not to
take other things like vitamin D and but
this Nomine is just fascinating I'm not
recommending taking it right before bed
at first you know you want to kind of
gradually work into it maybe earlier in
the day but there's some people that say
that just helps them sleep niten also
helps to give you energy to exercise
which is really cool but I wanted to
just kind of focus in on this natural
remedy for our arthritis that boy if you
have arthritis it sure is nice to have
something that is um non-toxic that's
effective and that is very low cost now
if you wanted to know the number one
anti-inflammatory food you should be
eating you should probably check out
this video right
here
