hey guys dr. Barry here in this video
we're gonna talk about something called
the ORAC rating okay this is basically
the capacity of antioxidants to fight
free radical damage free radical damage
basically alters the stability of the
cell membrane so it can really throw off
the whole cell the cell is constantly
fighting to stay whole but free radical
damage from pollution from UV light from
radiation can disrupt this now Iraq
values do not measure the specific type
of phytonutrients
they don't measure the amount of
phytonutrients so there's different
aspects of antioxidants or
phytonutrients so I just wanted to focus
on this one aspect of phytonutrients
okay if you look at chili powder its
23,000 that's pretty high broccoli is
only like 1,300 time is 27,000 black
pepper 27,000 ginger 28,000 P cons
17,000 p cons have the highest or AK
value of any nut sage 32,000 curry
48,000 basil 67,000 parsley 74,000 cumin
67,000 cocoa powder which is 80,000
turmeric 159,000 oregano is 200,000
which is really good for an
antibacterial antifungal it does create
a little bit of a detox on some people
and that's why I recommend grapefruit
seed extract instead but this is a
really good antimicrobial cinnamon which
is also really good for diabetes and
blood Sugar's 267,000 clove at 314,000
this has the highest or AK value so if I
look at this whole scene there's one
thing that just kind of pops out and
that is that most of these things are
spices okay and certain spices go
together cocoa powder cinnamon and clove
I'm gonna put a link down below of a
kind of a nut granola that we made with
cocoa cinnamon cloves so you can make
that these
very very high so I put a couple links
down below so you can get more
information on this but definitely start
adding more spices to your food thanks
for watching hey tell me what you think
about this video go ahead and comment
below and give me your feedback
