today we're going to talk about eight
different ways that you can heal your
trauma I'm talking about physical trauma
without medication I stumbled on one
therapy that I've never heard about even
in practice and it was amazing and I
wish I would have known about this when
I was in practice because I could have
helped a lot more people at the heart of
trauma okay we are dealing with
inflammation inflammation is part of the
healing response you can't heal without
it
but the problem is when it crosses over
into chronic inflammation which I am an
expert at that because I have a lot of
old injuries and I think to be an expert
in anything you'd have to have results
in it and relating to inflammation I do
have that but I want to deviate just for
a minute on this topic of
inflammation and cancer because
inflammation is the most potent
carcinogen which is really interesting
you know when people think about
carcinogens they about smoking or junk
foods but the common theme of a lot of
things that can turn into cancer involve
inflammation in fact cancer spreads into
areas of inflammation but there's
something called the warberg effect so
cancer came from a normal cell something
about that cell became damaged and then
the cell had a plan B and shifted to a
different type of metabolism which
involves the fermentation of glucose now
immune cells also follow the same
pathway in fact a lot of chronic uh
disease type conditions are also using
this warberg effect and I didn't even
know this until recently and I found it
very interesting now there's a certain
test that you can do for cancer called a
pet scan where they're scanning the body
for areas of high metabolism of glucose
to locate where cancer cells are growing
but it also identifies inflammation as
well so my question is how do you
differentiate between inflammation and
cancer cells and I haven't found that
information yet I'll be looking into
that but just the fact that it can pick
up inflammation is interesting so what
actually is inflammation okay at the
cellular level
inflammation is where the cell is
leaking protein and now we have a higher
concentration of protein outside the
cell you have fluid retention right and
so when we're talking about fluid
retention we're really talking about
something called um an osmotic pressure
so edema fluid retention is really just
like this pressure and apparently that
pressure causes this warberg effect so
maybe it's because the damage on the
mitochondria I don't know so I just want
you to remember that as we go through
these different ways of helping the body
heal from trauma and of course we really
need inflammation it's part of the
healing process but what we don't need
is is chronic inflammation because
chronic inflammation turns into scar
tissue and
fibrosis which then can increase your
risk for cancer I mean let's just take
hepatitis or an inflamed liver that then
turns into chronic therosis of the liver
the next phase of that is liver cancer
the same thing with the lung when you
get inflammation the lung through you
know smoking for many years you get Scar
Tissue chronic obstructive pul disease
and now the risk for cancer goes way way
up I mean even like with diabetes you're
getting all this high levels of sugar
and you're getting inflammation and
you're going to be at risk for for
cancer anything that involves chronic
inflammation can increase risk for
cancer and so you have a chronic
consumption of alcohol that can do it
eating junk Foods even having a chronic
infection could create the same problem
having a long-term autoimmune disease so
when we're dealing with healing physical
trauma we're really dealing with trying
to fix this chronic inflammatory State
and so when you develop scar tissue or
calcification that occurs things get
stiff and then you get lack of
circulation and so these eight different
methods are going to do one or more of
what I just talked about now of course
the first thing is just the elimination
of the thing that is uh triggering this
inflammation whether it's a food or a
bad habit like smoking or drinking
alcohol things like that um isolating
what that is and eliminating it I mean
so many people are consuming something
that they know they shouldn't or maybe
they're not even aware of it and they
might not even realize that that food is
creating inflammation they're
experiencing maybe gas or bloating or or
something like that but they don't know
what's really happening deep inside so
this is one benefit of going on
Carnivore for a few weeks especially if
you have anything related to
inflammation in your gut or at the very
least doing keto eliminating a lot of
the refined sugars and carbs and
correcting some bad habits so that's
number one that's the most important
foundation number two a combination
between heat and cold like a hot shower
or a cold shower or a a sauna or a
Whirlpool or cold immersion tank back
and forth what is that going to do it's
going to increase circulation in your
lymphatic system it's going to remove
waste it's going to stimulate healing at
the cellular level so sometimes you have
to add trauma or on a microscopic level
intermittently to stimulate the healing
process all right number three this is
an important one exercise oh my gosh
this is one of the most potent things
you can do for trauma
because what's happened with chronic
inflammation in scar tissue and an
injured body part is you have now a lack
of Mo motion and so when you put your
body into motion you automatically
create all sorts of healing at many
different levels at the cellular level
at the muscle level at the Joint level
it's when we stop moving we start to die
you know so if you can just keep
yourself going and keep moving you're
going to extend your life then we get
actual stretching I've done a tremendous
amount of stretching and stretching can
help you sleep it can help with Motion
in the joints it can help with posture
it can help break up the scar tissue
that is interfering with your motion
that's creating more inflammation and
then we have number five taking high
levels of vitamin D to remodel the
tissues in your joints in other tissues
and then you have the famous omega-3
fatty acids right in cive oil fish oil
things like that you also have vitamin
B3 there's two forms one is niin another
is nicomide you need to take the
nicomide version I did a recent video on
that and I will put that link down below
so you'll figure out the dosages and
then you get polyphenols in all the
Herbal Remedies curcumin in turmeric
green tea they're in stingy nettle root
there's another great remedy that I
talked about in a video called methylene
blue methylene blue is the first
synthetic drug that was ever created
even before aspirin and it used to be
used for all sorts of infection
TB malaria as an antimicrobial but it's
also a pretty good
anti-inflammatory fairly non-toxic if
you take it in small dosages but what's
really cool about methylene blue is that
it helps you at the cellular level at
the level of the mitochondria all right
number six is what I call the opposite
technique I have a lot of videos on this
if you haven't seen these you need to
check them out the way that you want to
treat it is working on the opposite side
wherever you hurt on the left side you
work on the right side if you hurt on
the back you work on the front side I
know this sounds weird but I use this in
practice as the most successful way to
eliminate pain and reduce
inflammation how does it work probably
has something to do with the nerve
circuits and you can also use this on
Old injuries as well number seven is
fasting fasting is another potent way to
drop inflammation and pain and causes
your body to adapt and survive better
and turn off inflammation it's quite
amazing and lastly Shockwave therapy and
I'm not talking about shock therapy okay
no I'm very much against that I'm
talking about Shockwave therapy now they
use shock wave therapy to break up
kidney stones even gall stones called
lithotripsy but they also have units
that are not so focused on something
small small in fact I think pretty much
every sports team at a high level uses
this on their athletes I had no idea so
I went to get some treatments I was
blown away this technique just literally
breaks up the cement doesn't hurt it
breaks up Scar Tissue it increases
healing now of course they do have home
units but I would recommend going to
someone with the right frequency range
that knows how to use this it will
stimulate uh more blood vessels to grow
in a certain area you can help uh
reverse calcified tendonitis I fractured
my left elbow in 30 pieces they had to
reattach my uh tendon underneath the
tricep which is completely messed up so
when they did this therapy on that it
just like almost gave me a brand
new uh elbow I was like what the heck
why have I heard about this before it's
great on uh Saka so anyway I just wanted
to create this one video of all the um
therapies that I think could help a
person recover a lot better from
physical trauma now I did mention this
methylene blue and if you haven't seen
this video I think it' be a really good
next video for you to watch check it out
