so today I want to define a word
epigenetics in very simple terms now
you're gonna hear a lot more about this
it's a very exciting field but let me
just explain where it is so you have the
genes and genes are small sections of
the DNA the DNA is the blueprint
instructions for building a body and
this DNA gets copied as something called
RNA it's a copy of the DNA and the DNA
is a double strand RNA would be a single
strand so there's a little copy machine
that unzips this makes a copy to at once
and then the RNA goes outside the center
of the nucleus of the cell and goes to a
protein factory where it makes body
tissue different proteins so that's
basically what DNA is and then a section
of the DNA would be a gene so this right
here would be compared to a CD on a CD
you have the song you have the artist
and you have the playlist in a certain
order another example would be sheet
music okay for a song on the piano you
have you have all these different notes
in a certain sequence and the sheet
music is basically the instructions on
how to create this song but you need
someone to do something with that music
you need some someone to play the CD
that's epigenetics epigenetics means
above genetics the DNA or gene is not
set in stone so just because you have
certain genetics doesn't mean anything
it's really the epigenetics it's really
your environment okay so the environment
is what triggers turning on or turning
off these genes and what I'm talking
about is activating the gene to turn on
to be turned into a certain protein and
do a certain function if something is
not turned on its silenced okay that
turn it turns it off versus turning it
on which means that gene is expressed so
expressed means turn on silence means
turned off now some triggers with
epigenetics
be your environment like what you eat
the nutrients in the food when you eat
and when you're not eating
fasting temperature cold heat the stress
level sleep exercise the type of
exercise you do your mood can affect
your genes okay your state of mind could
affect your genes which is pretty cool
your age will affect your genes so it's
really only 1% of the genetics that
differentiates us from someone else and
this is important to understand because
you have to realize that you are in
charge of your DNA okay you're not so at
the effect of these genes as you might
think
you can do something about these genes
and it has to do with your environment
and what you eat what you don't eat your
fasting your stress level your recovery
all right that's what it is in simple
terms thanks for watching if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
