so let's talk about the relationship
between cortisol and your sleep
first of all what is cortisol it's a
stress hormone and has a lot of
different functions with the immune
system for countering stress it's a
survival hormone and if it's too high it
can definitely interfere with your sleep
normally when you go to bed at night
ideally at 11 o'clock or maybe even
10:45 would be the perfect time because
that is when the circadian wave start
happening and I'm talking about the
sleep cycles so it starts over here
and you go through your different waves
of sleep through the night from a
superficial sleep which is the REM sleep
to the deeper levels which end up to be
the Delta wave sleep now
right around between 12 o'clock midnight
and - this is where you have the lowest
cortisol ideally it should be the lowest
amount of cortisol the highest level of
cortisol is between 6 8 and maybe 9
o'clock in the morning but what happens
cortisol can start going higher earlier
through the night in counter the depth
of deep sleep so what happens is you
might sleep but you're not getting the
deeper restful rejuvenation sleep you
wake up feeling just as tired is when
you went to bed so the real problem
behind a lot of issues with sleep is
this darn high cortisol so I'm going to
talk about a little bit about how
cortisol is regulated in the body so you
have the hypothalamus up in the brain
it's like the master gland then you have
the pituitary that is also in the brain
but it's slightly lower and then you
have the adrenal so H P a it's called
HPA axis okay so there's a little tiny
group of cells in the hypothalamus
called the pbn para particular nuclei
that send a signal down the pituitary
okay in response to some stress reaction
and the communication between the master
gland hypothalamus and the pituitary is
called c ra just going to try to
abbreviate some of
hormones right now and then the
communication then goes from the
pituitary down to the adrenal gland and
that communication is called a CTA so
basically you can look at it like this
here we have the coach on the football
team then we have the quarterback and
then we have the players right here we
have two players you have two adrenals
they're right on top of the kidneys
right deep true and the cortisol is a
stress hormone there's a lot and so the
core salt is a survival stress hormone I
have a lot of videos and of course so I
put the links down below but here's what
you need to know if there's enough
cortisol being produced okay normally it
works like a feedback loop like a
thermostat there should be signals that
are sent back up here and over here to
turn off this production of these
hormones so the goal is to send the
signal we need more cortisol down
through here the adrenal complies with
that order produces cortisol and then
there should be a turn-off switch okay
in theory but what happens when this off
switch it's busted then you have more
cortisol more cortisol more cortisol
becomes a chronic situation and if you
have too much of any one hormone the
receptors in the cells start resisting
that hormones and then you get cortisol
resistance just like you would have
insulin resistance so that makes
everything worse the body will start
making more and more course all because
the cortisol is being blocked so the
feedback signal never gets back up to
here so these guys never get the
information to turn off the flow of
course also it keeps producing more and
more and more the sleep mechanism is
composed of two things one is the locus
coeruleus and the other is the Rafa
Nikola a nice little on/off switches in
the back part of the brainstem work one
works to wake you up the other one works
to help you go to sleep and these
centers are greatly influenced by this
hormone
here okay because this here raises
noradrenaline and that would be a
similar hormone to adrenaline which will
wake you up but we don't want it raised
in the middle of the night especially at
2:00 o'clock or even at 4:00 o'clock
we want it to be as low as possible so
we don't want to stimulate this okay
there's another player involved called
the amygdala and that is a little area
in the brain that's similar to your
adrenals it's kind of like the adrenals
but in your brain if you have a problem
with this right here you can even get
panic attacks so it really is involved
in a lot of stress responses so this is
also triggered when we have too much of
this communication too so we have a
problem with different parts of the
brain that are activated that's going to
prevent you from getting the sleep all
because of this down cortisol will not
turn off because cortisol is also
supposed to turn off both of these as
well in the feedback loop but if there's
a problem with it we never get the off
switch so question is what do we do with
this high cortisol you want to obviously
try to find out what's causing your
stress in life and do whatever you can
to handle that if you're in a situation
with people and they're stressing you
out change that environment really quick
because it's not worth it you really
need to create an environment that you
have a lot lower stress now there's some
things that you can do one is go for
long walks and I'm talking about 45 to
60 minutes every single day not of high
intensity but long walks somewhere in
nature where you're not listening to a
headphone you're not on your cell phone
you need to disconnect you need to get
more space this is probably one of the
best things you can do especially since
most people sit behind a computer for 8
to 10 to 12 plus hours all day long and
then they you know go watch TV and then
they go to bed so we want to extract
yourself from that desk and get out
there and get some space acupressure
there's a Do It Yourself acupressure
technique in which I show you how to
extract stress from your body
okay so that's another thing you can do
now I want to talk about some other
things that you can take to reduce
stress now these two right here are
amino acids okay l-tyrosine in
l-theanine both of these help in the
regulation of noradrenaline okay so
these two will make you feel calmer the
other minerals that are involved in
supporting cortisol to make sure it's
not too spiked be calcium very very
important magnesium as in calcium
magnesium that's a really good remedy
also potassium you can get this from
vegetables you can get all of these from
vegetables right here and zinc very very
important in a lot of different things
especially sleep so these are the
minerals involved with regulating
cortisol there's a neurotransmitter
called gaba which is another good one
and that is going to decrease that
little area of your body called the
locus coeruleus which is involved in
triggering this right here so when you
when you if you take gaba you can
actually lower the adrenaline and the
little center and hypothalamus that
starts the whole chain reaction so this
is why when people take gaba they feel
less anxiety calmer they sleep better
ashwagandha is one of the best herbs to
act as an adaptogen so it helps you
adapt to stress it increases your stress
tolerance and it has the ability to help
inhibit adrenal hormones okay Magnolia
Magnolia is another great herb that will
increase DHEA which is like the buffer
for cortisol it'll help inhibit high
levels of cortisol and there's another
remedy called NAC that will also limit
the noradrenaline as well and then
vitamin C when you go through stress
believe it or not your body dumps
vitamin C so you lose vitamin C and you
need vitamin C for the manufacture of
certain hormones so vitamin C is very
important in supporting an adrenal gland
that is stressed out so don't forget to
take more vitamins you consume foods
that are high in vitamin C by the way
always take vitamin C and it's complete
complex don't take it as a synthetic
fraction of the vitamin C complex
because you need the whole complex but
this one is probably the most important
right here and it's just simple b1 I
recommend getting it from nutritional
yeast
why because b1 is necessary to make some
of these neurotransmitters like GABA and
it also helps calm the autonomic nervous
system now and specifically the flight
or fight mechanism which is called the
sympathetic nervous system and also
you're living off of coffee or tea with
sugar and alcohol these are the things
that will deplete b1 the tannins in
coffee and tea make b1 unavailable to
you so that's a big blocker right there
and plenty of course sugar and carbs
especially refined carbs will deplete b1
and definitely alcohol will so of course
avoid these things right here but don't
forget to take nutritional yeast because
that's probably one of the most
important things that you can do so the
whole goal is not to keep cortisol at
zero but to have normalized cortisol so
you don't have anything interfering with
these very important sleep cycles yet
you still have the function of course so
which is vital for all the survival
mechanisms including the immune system
alright thanks for watching so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
