hey Dr Burg here in this short video
we're going to give you a few
hypothyroid diet tips number one the
single worst thing you can do if you
have a hypothyroid problem is go on a
low calorie diet why because as you
lower your calories you also lower your
nutrition that starves the metabolism
and you end up just slowing down your
thyroid even more the thyroid does
control the metabolism but it adapts to
its environment so if the input is less
that it needs it's going to has to
compensate by slowing and being more
conservative so lowc calorie diets
especially some of the ones that are
like the um 500 800 calorie all you're
going to do is you're going to end up
with a much much slower metabolism
number two pre package foods and you
know what I'm talking about the
mainstream big diets out there that are
all the different package foods that you
have to buy those have something called
soy protein isolates now what is soy
protein isolates they are a very low
quality protein um very cheap protein
but they interfere with the thyroid in
the liver they're not good to put in
your body and when you take those things
it tends to increase the estrogen amount
and anytime you increase estrogen you
shut the thyroid down all right because
I I'll have see people all the time come
in and they have a thyroid problem is
when did it start after they went on a
diet and they did the prepackaged food
so avoid soy at all costs uh number
three stimulants and that would be like
again uh these diet pills and uh fenamin
and things that suppress the metabolism
or stimulate the metabolism we don't
want to do that because the thyroid is
exhausted so anything that stimulates it
ends up burning it out down the road so
those are three very very very very
important things to do now in the next
video I want to cover what I'm going to
cover several things number one what's
behind a thyroid problem and it's
usually secondary to something else and
number two why traditional supplements
for the thyroid never never work I'll
see you in the next video
