so fish is not only good for your brain
but it's also good for your eyes okay
why because of DHA now not all fish have
high levels of DHA I will explain which
ones do but DHEA is an omega-3 fatty
acid and it's used as a primary
structural component of the brain and
the retina now in the brain it makes up
the synapses which is basically the
connection between the nerve cells now
if you're low in DHA it can affect many
many different things but the two things
that really stand out are a lowered
cognitive function so your memory your
focus your concentration might be
inhibited also not having enough can
greatly affect your mood as in
depression and anytime you see DHA
you're also going to see the other fact
called EPA DHA is more for the
structural part of the brain and the
retina which is an extension of the
brain and EPA works more on the function
part so what foods have the most DHA now
per a hundred grams it's caviar that has
3,400 milligrams per 100 grams so caviar
is number one number two Atlantic
mackerel at 1,400 milligrams then we
have anchovies 1292 and then Atlantic
salmon 1115 milligrams then we have
herring which is about 1100 v chinook
salmon which is 944 bluefin tuna 890
beef brain right your your favorite at
855 milligrams per 100 gram now if
you're a vegan and you don't do this you
can do microalgae
there are cofactors that allow DHEA to
work in the brain and in the eye zinc
and iodine well guess what it just so
happens that you're going to get Zeke
and iodine when you consume seafood now
DHA is also needed to make something
called rhodopsin rhodopsin is a
light-sensitive
protein in the eye made me involve with
low-level lights so let's say for
example you're driving at night and it's
hard to see in the dark and it's hard to
adjust you may need DHA or you could
also need vitamin A and as a side note
you also need zinc to allow vitamin A to
work as well as DHA so this is also
important anyway thanks for watching and
definitely make note of some of these
fish so you can start to add more DHA to
your diet if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
