so today we're going to talk about what
is worse white sugar or white flour now
when I'm talking about sugar I'm not
talking about beet sugar I'm talking
about cane sugar okay and just regular
white wheat flour now beet sugar is GMO
and so is high-fructose corn syrup but
cane sugar is not now on the glycemic
index we have a sixty-three compared to
a 71 so white flour is worse than sugar
however both of them are gonna create
similar effects with the spike in
insulin we're gonna get weight gain
especially belly fat we're gonna get
eventually in fatty liver if we do too
much the complications of a pre-diabetic
insulin resistance and eventually
diabetes high cholesterol and the list
goes on and on and on the thing with
white sugar is they don't use bleach
okay but they do use bleach in the flour
so what they're gonna do with the sugars
are going to take sugar cane and they're
gonna take out the vitamins and the
minerals they're going to take that in a
separate thing and that's called
molasses and what's left is the white
sugar so the white sugar is pure
carbohydrate without the nutrients the
problem is when you consume this
concentrated white sugar without the
nutrients it will deplete you of
nutrients because in order to metabolize
that sugar you need these vitamins and
minerals okay so if you don't have them
the body has to reach within its reserve
pull them out to use that in the burning
of that sugar so you end up with a
potassium deficiency magnesium
deficiency b1 deficiency and a calcium
deficiency now with the flour when they
refine it they also take out the
vitamins the minerals so you're left
with a pure carbohydrate without the
minerals and vitamins but most flour is
fortified okay so they're gonna add back
in some synthetic vitamins and iron okay
but not the type of iron that you want
those so-called nutrients they put in
create a problem especially if you have
a problem with iron which a lot of
people do it's very difficult to get rid
of iron our bodies tend to accumulate
but we have a hard time getting rid of
so if you're consuming food with extra
iron in the wrong source it can build up
and create a lot of problems now with
the flour they use dough conditioners to
make the dough really easy to turn into
bread and pastries and things like that
then they use a bleaching agent called
benzoyl peroxide okay which by the way
will combine with certain proteins in
the wheat like gluten and make this
thing called alloxan now alloxan is what
they used in experiments with rats when
you feed these rodents alloxan it kills
off the cells of the pancreas that make
insulin and they become a diabetic type
one okay
now I'm not saying this creates the same
effect in humans only in mice and
probably hamsters now if you have a pet
hamster or a gerbil make sure you do not
feed them this flour with benzoyl
peroxide okay because we don't want to
give them a Locsin and make them a
diabetic type one because then you're
gonna have to do the insulin thing it's
gonna be a problem
all right so here's the big negative
about flour okay potassium bromate this
is banned in Europe China Brazil and
Canada but not in the US because it's
been known to cause cancer in animals so
they put this in the flour to make the
texture of the dough just perfect when
you make those muffins or those pastries
or the croissants okay but it comes with
the package and let's not forget the
gluten okay so many people have a
problem with gluten it can actually
trigger an autoimmune disease and create
a lot of inflammation in your gut so as
you can see if we compare these two
there's a lot more problems with this
than that thanks for watching if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
