now what would happen if you consume
mostly healthy whole grains for one
month well if you haven't tried that
experiment you might want to try it I
did it pretty much my whole life all the
way until I was I think 28 years old
roughly about five years ago and I would
say it probably wasn't the best
experiment to do in my body but I was
really consuming a lot of what I thought
were healthy whole grains you know the
cereals the breads the pasta this the
crackers things like that so let's do a
whole Deep dive on these healthy whole
grains to dissect some of the component
parts now the first thing I want to talk
about is fiber right because they always
say like um you know if you eat whole
grains so you're getting like two to
three times the fiber uh compared to
refined grains
well yes that might be true but
grains don't really have a lot of fiber
to begin with I mean even like brown
rice only has like four percent fiber
that is not high so one cup of rice has
about 0.4 grams of fat so it's really
low in fat it has about 45 grams of
carbohydrate which is extremely high yet
it only has 0.6 grams fiber that's a
very tiny amount and it has about 4.3
grams of protein that's pretty low too
now what about multigrain bread well we
have 1.7 grams of fat so that's pretty
low and we're talking about like one
slice okay it has 18 grams of carbs
which is quite High yet only three grams
of fiber and about five grams of protein
now if you take celery for example
that's like 50 percent fiber like
spinach like just one cup fifty percent
fiber and only four grams of carbs so
you really want to get your fiber from
vegetables not grain and the next point
I want to talk about is I mean no one
really consumes just 100 whole grain
they consume products with whole grains
which come with refined grains and they
come with refined sugar and a lot of
chemicals and a lot of other things and
I've never met one person who would just
take the whole grain and eat that okay
they usually have it when it's turned
into flour right I mean who eats just
whole grains right I'm going to put in
the cereal you might cook them or soak
them or something but people don't do
that they grind them or Mill them into
some flour and then they make another
product so when they Mill it or grind it
into flour they then expose it to air so
so you're going to lose nutrition just
from that you're going to get oxidation
especially with vitamin E and any other
fat soluble vitamins so oxygen destroys
the fat soluble vitamins not to mention
that flour that you buy that you're
going to make into certain products have
been sitting on the shelf for quite some
time so the more exposed to air it is
the more time the less nutrition but
that's not the real big thing the big
thing to me is that if you're going to
consume something in a flour based
product when you eat that broken down
grain which basically exposes more
surface area of that grain to your
digestive enzymes you're going to get a
spike in blood sugars simply because 80
percent of that grain is starch and
starch is a bunch of little glucose
molecules stuck together so when you
heat it or you grind it or you process
it in some way the digestive enzymes are
going to turn in that so-called healthy
complex carbohydrate into simple
carbohydrates is a bunch of glucose
molecules so basically it's very similar
to eating sugar and yes it depends how
much you eat but in this video we're
talking about if you're going to be
consuming mostly whole grains now the
glycemic indexes basically it means how
fast that product spikes your blood
sugars between whole grains and refined
grains are not significant they're
pretty close so that's one issue but the
other issue is these grains especially
whole grains have a lot more phytic acid
than refined grains and so what is
phytic acid phytic acid is an
anti-nutrient it's something that
inhibits your absorption of zinc calcium
iron magnesium and this could lead to
all sorts of deficiencies especially in
children I'm going to talk about that in
a bit and then we get to the topic of
gluten certain grains have gluten that's
the protein in certain grains and gluten
is very very damaging to your intestines
and it can irritate the intestine it can
create inflammation it can create leaky
gut it's linked to
um hypothyroidism especially Hashimoto's
and other autoimmune diseases so if you
have a thyroid problem you shouldn't be
consuming any grains whatsoever but
gluten either creates an allergy or it's
a gluten intolerance so a lot of people
cannot tolerate gluten and it's really
surprising me that even certain keto
products have wheat gluten because it's
a protein but it's highly inflammatory
so why would you want to have that in
your product and then lastly we have the
problem of Roundup or glyphosate which
is an herbicide which is almost always
added to wheat even no wheat typically
is not a genetically modified seed but
they still add it so so you can imagine
the effects that that can create on our
bodies so the big problem by consuming
mostly High grains are number one the
glycemic index how fast it's going to
spike your blood sugars now the types of
grains that we eat nowadays are way
different than what we used to consume
way back in time nowadays we have hybrid
grains that are very very high in carbs
and also high in phytic acid so what's
going to happen when you consume these
grains it's going to affect your blood
sugars it's going to affect your mood
okay talking about having more anxiety
possibly depression because of the spike
in blood sugars it's going to affect
your cognitive function there's a huge
connection between what happens in your
gut and what happens in your brain and
so if you're getting inflammation or
bloating whatever in your gut it's going
to affect the cognitive function it's
going to probably put you in a brain fog
and then we get the topic of weight gain
right so you're going to gain more
weight potentially develop a fatty liver
and allow these carbs just basically
spike your cholesterol okay so that's
number one number two the phytic acid in
these whole grains
blocks various minerals and what's
really interesting and you can look this
up I'll put the links down below over
10 million children worldwide die of
malnutrition each year and a good
percentage of these children die of
diarrhea that comes from a zinc
deficiency now take a wild guess how you
would develop a zinc deficiency well
number one animal sources of protein are
not available which is high in zinc
that's number one but number two
cereal okay cereal based diets a lot of
these children especially under the age
of five are living on cereal and all
that phytic acid can deplete zinc and
can set this child up for diarrhea and
even a risk of dying as well as stunted
growth and a lot of other problems that
are related to the development of our
bodies at an early age now what they're
doing to try to solve this problem is
fermenting some of these grains and
giving it to the kids now I don't know
how popular this is and when you ferment
the grains for 72 hours the microbes
that develop from this shift in PH okay
with lactic acid
start to make an enzyme called phytase
to break down phytic acid
so this is why when you ferment grains
you'll have less phytic acid and more
nutrient absorption specifically with
zinc magnesium iron and calcium and this
is another reason why we ferment our
grains for our chickens we have like 16
chickens and I soak the Grain in water
for 72 hours and they eat it up and that
way there's less phytic acid they get
more nutrition all right and the third
point about whole grains is that what it
does to your digestive system you're
going to get gas you're going to get
bloated
you're going to get inflammation because
the high levels of Omega six fatty acids
irritate the colon you potentially can
get sibo small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth you can even develop
allergies or even an autoimmune disorder
called Hashimoto's which I put a link
down below of that Association so grains
are not favorable for your digestive
system some people can digest refined
grains much better probably because
there's a lot less phytic acid in other
anti-nutrients in refined grains and
it's easier to process of course the
other problem is you're going to just
create additional problems with refined
grains so they both have their problems
so if I had a choice between refined
grains and whole grains well I wouldn't
have either of them all right and then I
already mentioned glyphosate which is an
herbicide which affects the microbiome
there's been an increase association
between glyphosate and increased risk of
celiac which is a Digest issue not to
mention a lot of other issues which I'll
have to do another video on later and
then lastly we have the fortification of
these grains so even though you're
eating these whole grain foods they
still sometimes fortify them right they
enrich them with a few synthetic
vitamins and then they also throw in
some iron in there which is not the type
of iron that your body can easily
assimilate and that's why certain grains
just sit in your gut for a long time
because of that iron and just the type
of vitamins we put are just not the ones
that our bodies are designed to absorb
like they put in folic acid instead of
folate they put in synthetic versions of
B vitamins to try to minimize the
vitamins that were lost in the process
of refining now for those of you that
are a little bit skeptical in this video
and and don't have any problem with
consuming whole grains we'll go ahead
and try to consume mostly whole grains
for one month and report back to us on
how you did health-wise now if you seen
my older video that I did on how to
permanently get rid of cravings for
bread
it's a little bit comical you have to
check it out I put it up right here
check it out
