hi guys I want to talk about protein
amounts on a ketogenic diet and when
you're doing in a minute fasting okay so
a couple things you need to know the
body does recycle its own tissue at a
rate of a hundred to 300 grams of
protein every single day so you're not
losing all this protein your body is
conserving it
we don't actually store a lot of protein
there is a pool of amino acids but we
don't store protein like we do fat and
like we do sugar we store about 1,700
calories of glucose in the muscle and
your liver but not the brain or the red
blood cell but we just we need protein
from the diet so the body can make 14
out of the 22 amino acids so we need
eight from the diet okay those are
called essential amino acids but there's
over 50,000 different types of protein
in your body made from different
combinations of amino acids which are
the building blocks of these proteins
but we just need what gets lost but
here's a couple things you need to know
number one if there's adrenal stress if
you have high levels of cortisol adrenal
fatigue that cortisol will start
breaking down proteins a lot faster it's
called a catabolic response versus an
anabolic build up response so if the
adrenals are involved and maybe you're
going through menopause what'll happen
is you'll get more breakdown of muscle
tissue and that's where you get the loss
of collagen weakness in the muscle then
you have a situation we have
pre-diabetes or insulin resistance which
basically blocks the absorption of amino
acids so that's why I diabetic has weak
muscles they have flabby tissue and they
just don't have a lot of collagen but I
really believe that a large population
has insulin resistance and they don't
know it and they're just a matter of
time before they become a diabetic so
when you dookied oh you're gonna drop
your carbs okay so that's going to start
healing insulin resistance but the
intermittent fasting is probably even
more important because you can stimulate
growth hormone by thirteen hundred
percent women and two thousand percent
and men
and what that will do it actually
preserves and protects the protein loss
okay
so right there that will decrease the
need for a lot of protein and not to
mention that in termina fasting is one
of the most powerful things to stimulate
something called a tapa G which is the
recycling of damaged parts in the cell
and those are all proteins so you're
getting even more recycling of the body
tissue so the need for protein goes less
especially as you start decreasing your
meals because let's say you're doing six
ounces of protein per meal three meals a
day right and then you go to two and you
go to one so you're not going to
necessarily do this where you're doing
three meals a day you can do 18 ounces
of protein for that day and then two
meals of the day you're going to still
have that 18 ounces of protein and one
meal a day 18 ounces of protein that
would be a huge amount of protein that's
not the way it works because as you
reduce the frequency of eating the need
for protein will go down even more
because of these two things right here
so if you have two meals a day maybe you
would have an eight ounce portion of
protein for each meal now if you're at
one meal maybe you're at nine or 10
ounces for that one meal but you're not
going to do 18 ounces of protein simply
because there's a maximum amount of
protein that your body can absorb but
the point is that as you do the move
fasting the requirement for protein is
less so thanks for watching hey guys I
want to personally invite you to a new
Facebook group that I just started
called dr. Berg's keto and in a minute
fasting lab ok so I created this so we
can share our successful actions what
worked what didn't work your results so
I put a link down below so go ahead and
sign up and I'll see you inside
