hey guys I'm back and I'm gonna do a
short video on interesting topic the
Navy SEALs are now doing key tail ok
because one of the problems is that when
they do deep diving is that the risk for
seizures goes up well guess what it just
so happens that Keiko is very effective
for epileptic seizures so the military
now is funding research on ketosis and
they've been doing it quite a while but
they're finding that it's not just good
for reducing the seizures they're
finding it's also good for the ability
of a Navy SEAL to hold their breath and
it's not that Kido increases your oxygen
it actually decreases the waste a
decrease in co2 production so if you
have less co2 you're naturally going to
have more oxygen and that's the benefit
of ketosis it's a better fuel source
it's more efficient in the mitochondria
it puts out more energy but it produces
a lot less co2 waste allowing a diver to
maintain their oxygen underwater and I
think they're going to also see a lot of
other benefits in the area of cognitive
benefits focus memory concentration and
one last point I want to mention on this
topic right here the buildup of co2 if
you have too much co2 build-up you're
gonna have sleeping problems as in sleep
apnea so if you do have sleep apnea you
may want to get on keto as well alright
guys see in the next video
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
