hey guys I'm back and I had another
question about what is Astros Anthon
okay Astros Anthon is a type of
carotenoid which is a phytochemical a
plant based chemical and it's fat fybel
there's over 600 carotenoids and this is
one of them it's probably one of the
most powerful ones it's fat soluble
which means that you want to consume it
with fats coconut oil of olive oil
avocado something like that it's 20
times more powerful than beta-carotene
it's a hundred times more powerful than
alpha tocopheryl that's the button in
the vitamin E complex and it's a
thousand times more powerful than
vitamin C okay it's an anti-inflammatory
it helps you detoxify in the liver it
prevents degeneration chronic
degeneration in the body especially with
the eyes like macular degeneration
cataracts brain issues like dementia
Parkinson's heart issues skin issues
okay now the question is where'd you get
it well it's in wild Pacific sockeye
salmon red trout lobster shrimp crayfish
crabs chlorella which is green algae and
quill so I want you to tell me which of
these do you like the most put that in
the comment right now hi guys hey listen
I created a pretty amazing evaluation
quiz down below that actually analyzes
your symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause so take the quiz
now and we'll send you a report
