hey Dr Burke here in this video we're
going to talk about the adrenal fatigue
formula this is probably my most popular
product and it's used as a recovery uh
nutrient for the adrenal it does not
contain any hormones it contains
nutrients to support the gland so it
supports a healthy adrenal gland one of
the products in here is called hu Wu and
the reason why I use that herb it's a
Chinese because it's been around a very
long time and it's been known as a great
tonic for the adrenal uh I recommend
taking one before bed and then if you
wake up in middle of the night take
another one some people might need two
before bed I personally take one before
bed it increases the quality of sleep
now the way people get energy is through
the deep sleep and also all the fat
burning occurs when you're sleeping so
enhancing the sleep is very very
important to help recover your adrenals
and so this is probably uh one of the
best things I have for stress and people
that are stressed out and for the
adrenal body type so the adrenal fatigue
formula is a great nutrient to support a
healthy adrenal gland
