hey guys Dr Burg here listen out of all
the videos that I've done this is
probably the most important video and
you'll see why because there is so much
confusion so much false information um
that it's very complex for people so I
want to break it down step by step it's
a little bit longer but it's very
important so we're going to answer the
question is the so-called bad
cholesterol LDL really that bad okay
well first of all LDL is not cholesterol
um in order for to trans Port
cholesterol through the body which is
fat doesn't mix with water it just
doesn't mix so the body has developed
little shuttles or different particles
or vehicles to transport cholesterol
okay and um you have LDL low density
lipoprotein and you have HDL high
density lipo protein LDL which is
considered bad really is a kind of a
misnomer because um LDL really is the
cholesterol that goes from the liver to
the vascular system to the cells so it's
going through into the body okay HDL is
this the opposite it's going from the
vascular system back to the liver to be
recycled or
eliminated okay so really these two
types of uh proteins are exchangers that
are just constantly working together to
exchange cholesterol back and forth to
transport cholesterol and triglycerides
which are blood fats okay so that's the
the first thing you need to understand
let's go to the next part okay so you
may already know that the body makes
cholesterol right it makes a lot 3,000
Mig every single day that's equivalent
to about 14 eggs the cholesterol in 14
eggs the cholesterol in 300 strips of
bacon or the cholesterol in about a
pound of butter okay that's a lot of
cholesterol now why does it make so
much well it's there to provide raw
material for cell membranes half the
cell all the cells in the body are made
out of cholesterol and you have a 100
trillion cells that's why we need so
much cholesterol so it's part of the
structural property of a membrane around
your cell which allows exchange back and
forth of nutrients and vitamins and uh
minerals and um glucose and all sorts of
things so it also has antioxidant
properties it prevents free radical
damage it has anti-inflammatory
properties it makes vitamin D it's the
precursor the building blocks for
Vitamin D it actually helps you make
bile that then helps you uh dissolve the
fat and extract the fat CLE vitamins
from the fat that you eat very important
without without cholesterol you can't
have that happen cholesterol is there to
make the stress hormone cortisol and
cortisol is essential for life and all
the sex hormones testosterone estrogen
progesterone are all made from
cholesterol these are the normal
functions of cholesterol but you have
additional functions that a lot of
people don't know about because
cholesterol also responds to
crisis like if someone um has an
infection in the body cholesterol will
go up because it binds and inactivates
bacterial
toxins it also prevents the damage from
microbes it also acts as a Band-Aid so
in the cell membrane you have the
endothelial layer which is the layer
around the inside of the blood vessel
okay and that actually has little pores
that exchange back and forth white blood
cells nutrition things go back and forth
so if you were to get a little tiny
allean ulcer damage from various things
which I'll cover in a bit um the
cholesterol is there to go in there and
help heal and actually to provide a
Band-Aid that's the real purpose okay
let's go the next part okay so now this
part is very very important so if You'
checked out just check back in with me
hang in there because this is the most
vital piece of this puzzle okay there's
two types of LDL when you get your LDL
checked on your routine cholesterol uh
assessment um it doesn't differentiate
between this type or that type so it's
type A or type B or you can call it
pattern a or pattern B okay they don't
differentiate the two um the type A is
large buoyant that means means it floats
right it's big and
fluffy uh it doesn't go into the
epithelial wall it doesn't create uh
involved any uh plaing or clotting or
anything like that so this is more
normal LDL okay this type B are small
dents these these little guys can go
right into the epithelial wall and they
can uh start to be involved in the
plaing formation so when people have
heart attacks and
strokes you know they have more of type
B okay make
sense so you see more oxidation and
build up
plaque type A it pretty much lasts two
days in your
body type B lasts about 5 days so it
hangs out longer so how do you know
which is which you can do a very uh
Advanced test if you want but a better
thing to do an easier thing to do I
wouldn't say it's better but it's easier
is to look at the triglycerides and the
HDL okay so let's say your LDL is normal
or high whatever if your triglycerides
because there is a um a percentage of
triglycerides in LDL in addition to
cholesterol if you look at the
triglycerides and the HDL if the
triglycerides are high and the HDL
so-called good cholesterol is low then
chances are you have more type B LDL
okay but if the tri triglycerides are
low and you have high
HDL you have more of type A so that's
how you would
differentiate um what type you would
have last point I want to mention is
this what types of foods will increase
type A versus type
B saturated fats will increase type Tye
a interesting when you consume more
carbs and refined sugars and sugar
itself you increase type B and this is
why nearly all the blood uh assessments
that I see when patients come in they
always have hydro triglycerides and low
hdls the people that are consuming carbs
but if you actually eliminate this and
you do more saturated fats you don't
have to worry about it because you'll
have you may have even high LDL but it's
the type A that doesn't create a problem
now one last point and this is the most
important Point let's say you do have
type B it's not that it's a bad
cholesterol it's not the villain it's
not the criminal it's at the crime scene
but it's there to actually
heal the lesion the problem the
inflammation uh the damage from the
inflammation or the microbes that's
behind it and so this is only bad in
that it's part of the chain of events
that occurs that it's there trying to
fix things but in the process it doesn't
think the body doesn't think longterm it
thinks with short-term survival so it's
going to form a plaque and a clot to try
to heal the area just like you would if
you sprain an ankle or broke a joint
Scar Tissue comes in and heal it it
doesn't care if the joint moves anymore
it's there to protect and stop the
motion so yes it creates a problem
because you will die of a heart attack
and stroke but the body's is not
thinking long term it's thinking let's
go ahead and patch that artery and let's
let's start putting a Band-Aid and
starts growing bigger and bigger and
bigger the point is that we need to
change the eating plan we need to get
these out of the diet and then your body
can assimilate these a lot better um all
right so now let's go to the next part
okay so now the question is why would
someone have high LDL pattern B okay we
already talked about the sugar right um
because sugar creates inflammation it's
very destructive to the cells that's why
diabetics have a lot of nerve damage
vision problems inflammation coronary
heart disease so sugar and refined carbs
are really really bad okay also low
thyroid will create it uh High cortisol
will create um higher amounts of pattern
B
stress uh vegetable oils the soy and the
corn oil and canola all that GMO that's
vegetable oils that's high in Omega six
fatty acids that creates more
inflammation in the body uh trans fats
hydrogenated partially hydrogenated fats
would do it low Vitamin C just like a
situation when you get bleeding gums you
get bleeding arteries uh glycation what
is glycation that's when you combine
glucose or fructose with a protein or a
fat so let's say you take barbecued
sauce and you put it on some ribs and
you bake it you heat it over 200 I think
in 48 degrees uh Fahrenheit you're going
to get glycation so the glycation means
that it's this combination of sugar with
protein that goes in the body it's very
sticky and it starts creating high
levels of pattern B among other issues
as well fries so they take sugar and
they spray it on French fries they deep
fry it same deal Donuts deep fried
donuts
glycation um what's interesting is so
you when you combine
um protein with sugar or sugar with fat
and you uh bake it or you cook it you
create glyca um also when you consume
High fructus corn syrup or
fructose um in the form of refined
fructose or a tremendous amounts of
fructose um you can increase glycation
by 10 times okay because it combines in
your body so not only does it have to be
you know external it could be internally
as well okay and then surgery will
increase pattern B because of because
LDL Is A Healer it's trying
to be go in there like an ambulance and
actually fix things that's the purpose
it's trying to help you and what do
people do they take a stat and they try
to eliminate they're not understanding
why we need LDL visceral fat will also
trigger pattern b as well um so anyway
those are the things that will increase
the real um it's not bad cholesterol
it's the it's the cholesterol that
creates that's involved in the crime
scene in the damage all right okay in
summary we just want to understand
colesterol LDL what it is and what it's
not and use as an indicator to pull a
string to find out why it might be high
if it's higher it could be normal if the
triglycerides are normal and the HDL is
normal um but if there is a problem with
these then you have to under ask why do
I have a hypothyroid issue am I eating
too much sugar am I doing this did I
just get done with some surgery or
trauma all right thanks for watching put
your comments below hi guys Hey listen I
created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
