hey I'm back we're gonna talk about the
dawn phenomena okay or the dawn effect
okay this is a situation where you have
a spike in blood sugars between like 4
a.m. sometimes it's a little earlier 2
a.m. in the morning so the blood Sugar's
spike so here you go to bed and you're
supposed to be fasting all night right
and you got this spike of blood sugars
so let's talk about what can cause this
okay so when you go to bed at night okay
you're gonna go for the next seven or
eight hours without eating so let's
discuss what could happen so here you
are you go to bed okay so you're
supposed to go from all night long
without eating that you're gonna fast
all that long right so the blood sugars
should come down because you're not
eating but they go up and here's what
happens there's a certain mechanism that
happens when your blood sugar goes a
little too low there's a counter of fact
from a couple other hormones epinephrine
and cortisol leases from the adrenals
and growth hormone and another hormone
called glucagon that originates from the
pancreas so all of these hormones
actually cause a rebound effect and
release sugar or stored sugar from the
liver so they create a liver dump of the
release of glycogen which is stored
sugar and that's really what spike enos
it's a counter hormonal effect that is
causing these hormones to dump stored
sugar from the liver so if you if you
research this there's not a lot of
people that know anything about it
they'll say well don't eat before you go
to bed some people say we'll eat some
carbs before you go to bed or don't
snack for carbs or don't snack on carbs
late night there's all these different
things that people are saying well
here's what I'm gonna recommend which
will bypass and fix the whole problem
realize that you're not in ketosis you
are running your body on glucose you're
not running your body on ketones which
is a better fuel source if you run your
body on ketones by going through the key
to adaptation phase by cutting your
carbs down you're not going to have this
effect anymore okay you won't have the
highs and lows the issues that you have
with blood sugar problems now if you're
a diabetic
one or type two I still suggest you do
keto and intimate fasting because those
two powerful tools can help minimize
this effect right here and I know
diabetics who do ketosis and in the
fasting and this thing clears up however
a certain percentage of population still
have a issue in which case you're going
to support the adrenal glands okay now
I'm going to put a link down below of
how to do that or the liver okay but
that's actually rare but if it does
happen then you're just gonna support
either the adrenal or the liver and
fully resolve this issue okay
thanks for watching hey you know what I
just want to say thank you for watching
these videos you made it this far I
appreciate your attention and your
precious time
