so the question is will zero carb
alcohol stop ketosis let's talk about it
so you have beer wine mixed drinks
coolers all of these have a good amount
of carbs but whisky vodka brandy tequila
dry martini
has no carbs and alcohol does not turn
the sugar so does that mean the alcohol
is keto friendly well let's take a look
at a couple other things first of all
alcohol has seven calories per gram and
a carbohydrate has less than that it is
four calories per gram so these calories
have to go somewhere so despite the fact
that it doesn't turn in the sugar and it
doesn't raise your insulin the alcohol
calories will turn into fat your body
doesn't even need to break it down
within one minute it's already into your
bloodstream
up to your brain so really what happens
is this alcohol goes to the liver
your liver considers it a toxin so it
gives it priority beyond the
carbohydrate the protein in the fat so
in the liver you have this enzyme okay
which breaks the alcohol down into this
highly toxic chemical even in small
concentrations and this chemical has the
ability to create scar tissue or
fibrosis eventually cirrhosis
inflammation a fatty liver oxidative
stress and it will definitely stop that
burning because there's calories
available to be used as energy and be
converted to fat and for your body to
process the alcohol it needs certain
nutrients so the more alcohol you
consume the more you deplete b1 b12
folate zinc vitamin D vitamin A and
there's a whole series of other
nutrients that I don't even talk about
so in summary realize what your body has
to do to get rid of this alcohol and if
you're going to drink try to drink in
very small amounts and make sure your
diet is super healthy full of
phytonutrients to counter the
complications and the side effects and
the nutritional deficiencies that
alcohol can create and definitely check
out my next video on what to do if you
have a fatty liver
