let's talk about the seven reasons for a
chronic cough okay number one a b12
deficiency now this is not as common but
if you're deficient in b12 it's gonna
affect the neurology throughout the body
but it could also affect the nerves to
your vocal cords and create an
irritation so realize that a simple way
to get b12 is by consuming red meat
and/or liver
that'll give you enough b12 pretty quick
alright next one is something called the
laryngeal fern Geel reflex okay that is
a situation where you're getting acid
that's kind of coming up through the
valve and your stomach should be closed
kind of comes up there and it's going to
irritate all the way up through the book
into the vocal cords now that could come
from a vitamin D deficiency number one
or just low hydrochloric acid in your
stomach and both of these are very
common if your vitamin D deficient and
just realize that vitamin D does
influence gastrin which helps you
release hydrochloric acid this can
create this effect where the valve just
doesn't close and you start getting a
stereo tation and even the enzymes can
even break down the protein and your
esophagus and even your vocal cords so
that can be more severe now if you're
low in hydrochloric acid in the stomach
and you're not deficient about M&D but
let's say the pH which normally should
be one to three is four five or six you
just don't have a strong-ass in your
stomach that could be enough to prevent
the valve on the top of the stomach from
closing and that acid come right up and
irritate your throat as well as the
enzymes this could come from many things
it could come from just getting older
and you just need to supply more factors
like betaine how to chloride or outside
a vinegar to make it more acidic if you
come from eating too much junk food
taking any acids you're deficient in
salts which is necessary to build
hydrochloric acid so there's many many
things and I'll put a link down below to
learn more about this but if you're low
in HCl or low in vitamin D you can
create this condition
next thing is if you have an allergy and
a lot of times in the spring of the fall
the mold or the pollen can irritate the
throat or the sinuses cause a post nasal
drip and create this cough now if it's
all year round
it could be mold in your house for
example that could be causing this one
interesting thing about allergies is
that if you acidify the stomach and you
add more let's say betaine how to
chloride or upset a vinegar to make this
more acidic it can improve the allergy
so it'll be less severe next thing is an
enlarged thyroid if your thyroid is
enlarging or you have a goiter that can
put pressure on your vocal cords and
create a coughing sensation sometimes
when you look at people you can actually
even see that they have this swollen
area right around your thyroid they
don't even they're not even aware of it
so they should go get it checked and I
have videos on that as well next thing
is a viral infection it could be a virus
that you had way in the past that is
reactivated because viruses go dormant
that's called latent and they can be
reactivated under stress or when you're
deficient in certain things like vitamin
D or zinc and that can actually come out
as a viral infection in your throat or
in the upper respiratory area two very
good things to take for viruses and
prevent them from coming out of
remission would be zinc and you got a
vitamin D and number seven is probably
the most common reason for a chronic
cough it's a calcium deficiency and by
the way you can become calcium deficient
if you don't have enough hydrochloric
acid because it takes a very acidic
stomach to absorb minerals especially
calcium so if you're at deficient in
calcium it can create a little bit of a
spasm in your vocal chords and that can
create a chronic cough I always
recommend something called calcium
lactate for for people under chronic
cough if you don't have some of these
other condition I recommend the calcium
lactate and it seems to resolve it
pretty quick so there you have it the
seven reasons for a chronic cough
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
