hey Dr Berg here I want to cover a a
point on um the thyroid and the
menstrual cycle and pregnancy what is
the relationship between all three of
those um if you ever talk to someone who
has a hypothyroid um ask them what their
periods like and it's usually going to
be either pretty heavy crampy uh
excessive bleeding
and the reason why that is related is
because that heavy Peri is an estrogen
dominant situation and then high
estrogen actually inhibits or blocks the
thyroid gland the same exact thing with
pregnancy as well so when when a female
gets pregnant the estrogen goes up and
the thyroid Goes Down And even some
women that are borderline a hypothyroid
they end up with a pretty severe H
hypothyroid and even women that are
hypothyroid going in the pregnancy have
to take more the medication because of
this situation so it's all about this
estrogen situation so now how do we kind
of bring this back here do we support
the thyroid do you take more medication
I'm going to recommend that you support
um more natural type um environmental
things like like avoid any type of soy
in the diet make sure that you're not uh
having hidden soy and uh in some of the
diet foods prepackaged foods and soy
milk uh just stay away from soy and then
the other thing is that um
cruciferous is a very
anti-estrogenic food that you could take
um this is a concentrate of all the
cruciferous foods that are will help
clean up some of the liver with estrogen
and then the other thing that I that you
could do is take uh overy support for an
overactive ovary if if it is a cycle um
because this tends to help the period um
be more regular less intense less
bleeding because it supports the gland
so those are the two things that may
help you that you might want to consider
but I just wanted to show you the
relationship between this darn estrogen
and hypothyroid and especially if you're
frustrated and you're trying to figure
it out you have to kind of look more
lateral and there's other possibilities
so that's the tip of today and I'll see
you in the next video
