now for some reason
we don't like to freeze
we don't like to starve
it's very uncomfortable we like warm
weather we like to have food available
all the time and we definitely like to
be comfortable as far as our temperature
well our ancestors have adapted to
temperature over a very long period of
time due to the season called winter
nowadays we can easily overcome this
severe cold winter by just turning the
thermostat to 70 degrees today I'm going
to talk about some interesting research
relating to cold water immersion and
your genes and how using cold therapy
can greatly affect your genes in a
positive way now I have an actual cold
water immersion tank outside my house
and when I first used it I set the
temperature to 37 degrees okay that's
pretty darn cold and I don't recommend
doing that to start out with because I
could only last five seconds I would
recommend starting out like at 50
degrees Fahrenheit which is 10 degrees
Celsius starting out with just a minute
you know and then gradually working up
from that but to experience the benefits
of this cold therapy you want to be
uncomfortable and to experience the
benefits I'm going to talk about you
really only need 11 minutes per week so
anyone can do that even if you don't
have a cold water immersion tank you can
do this with a cold shower you can find
a pool that's really cold or maybe jump
in the pond somewhere but there's
different ways of experiencing this
therapy now if you compare cold therapy
to warm therapy like a a hot shower
you're definitely going to experience
more benefits with the cold therapy
simply because it's more uncomfortable
if you just can't even fathom to doing
this or have no tolerance for doing this
it could be that you just need more B
vitamins B vitamins help increase the
tolerance to extreme temperatures and I
will put a link down below of where I
got my tank and I'm not affiliated with
this kind company I get no Kickbacks but
it's called the cold plunge store and I
bought the tank called the flex but I
really like it I think the benefits are
amazing you're going to find all sorts
of cool benefits relating to cognitive
benefits physical inflammation repair
Etc so I'm going to go through the
benefits and then I'll talk about the
genetic benefits as well however I do
want to make one point about when you
initially get into this tank your pulse
rate is going to go up your heart rate's
going to go up okay you're going to have
probably the urge to hyperventilate
you'll probably have respiratory gasping
where your your breathing is affected
you really have to focus on controlling
your breath slow it down breathe in slow
it down breathe out and that will help
the shock of getting into this cold
water immersion so let's first talk
about all the things that it can
decrease okay the first thing that it
can decrease is the ratios of something
called APO a to APO B ratios and this
really has to do with a cardiovascular
risk without getting into the details
APO a and APO e have to do with proteins
that are attached or that regulate the
lipoproteins and so when this ratio is
decreased you have better cardiovascular
function another thing that will
decrease is your homocysteine levels
okay that is another Factor that's uh
associated with cardiovascular problems
you also have decreased oxidative stress
a decrease in cortisol and the hormone
that controls cortisol which is ACTH
which is interesting because you would
think your stress would go up but it
actually goes down maybe not initially
but as soon as you get out of the tub
and you're relaxed antibodies even
decrease okay so this is going to
strengthen your immune system especially
if you have an autoimmune problem your
insulin actually goes down and that's
going to be a good thing because you
could imagine how many body problems are
associated with high insulin uric acid
goes down
your risk for upper respiratory tract
infections Goes Down And as a side note
it especially go down if you're a
swimmer swimmers have this added benefit
of the cardiovascular plus many times
these pools are on the cold side so
swimmers have a much less incidence of
upper respiratory and tract infections
another thing that will decrease is your
depression okay cold water therapy is
like a natural antidepressant but
without the side effects pain will
decrease inflammation will decrease
muscle soreness will actually decrease
now I do want to mention another thing
about muscle there's been some research
that shows that when you do this on a
repetitive basis cold therapy it can
actually inhibit your gains in growing
muscle
but if you're just doing you know 11
minutes per week I highly doubt it's
going to influence
your muscles in any negative way shape
or form the benefits far outweigh any
potential downside now your recovery
time will decrease when you do this
therapy as well so if you just exercised
or you've done some type of athletic
event you'll recover faster and there's
also evidence that shows that
cold therapy actually inhibits the
growth of tumors and one Theory why this
does this is because of the spike in
brown fat which can suck up a lot of the
glucose which is fuel for cancer cells
but it does make sense that cold therapy
would be anti-carcinogenic because of
what it does to your genes of what it
does to your immune system and what it
does to your overall survival now let's
flip over to all the things that this
cold therapy will increase okay it can
increase your thyroid stimulating
hormone as well as increased T3 which is
active form of the thyroid hormone cold
therapy actually increases your T cells
okay I'm talking about your killer T
cells which address viruses and attack
cancer overall it can increase your
white blood cells the concentration of
zinc will increase your noradrenaline
can increase making you very very alert
you can even increase your insulin
sensitivity which has to do with
lowering your overall insulin probably
one of the biggest benefits that I like
about this is that it increases your
mental resilience this is your capacity
to adapt to stress it makes you mentally
strong when you do this it's just kind
of like the same thing with fasting when
you can not eat for a period of time you
develop a stronger willpower because
you're basically now more in charge of
your body versus people with a lowered
willpower and they tend to
cave when their body is craving things
now let's talk about the
gene expression okay we're turning on
certain genes that were otherwise
inhibited there's one gene called
pgc-1 Alpha and when this Gene gets
turned on it creates mitochondria
biogenesis it actually increases the
growth of mitochondria which is going to
help your metabolism it's going to help
generate more oxygen in the body there's
another Gene called v e g f which will
increase more blood vessels and so
basically you're getting more
angiogenesis which is the production of
new blood cells there's another Gene
called PPA r g c 1 a that has to do with
VO2 max Your Capacity to use oxygen and
if someone has a mutation with this Gene
their VO2 max it can be decreased up to
50 percent so cold therapy can cause
expression of this Gene turn it on and
increase your CO2 Max there's another
Gene called PS me1 which has to do with
a protein aggregation or accumulation of
damaged protein in the body which
creates a lot of problems and when you
add co-therapy you can actually increase
the recycling of this this protein so
you'll get less accumulation of this
protein aggregation another Gene is
expressed having to do with glutathione
which is like the most powerful
antioxidant in your liver which can help
you break down poisons into harmless
particles which also can influence
networks of other antioxidants
so cold therapy increases antioxidants
and as a side note
heat therapy as in a sauna or even a
Jacuzzi can inhibit your antioxidants
now I'm not saying not to do it but
let's say for example you do have a
problem genetically with oxidative
stress then maybe you should focus more
on cold therapy than heat therapy
there's another Gene that gets expressed
called actn 3 which has everything to do
with increasing your tolerance to stress
so the more you do this the more
tolerance to stress you'll have the more
resistance to stress you'll have the
more mentally resilient you're going to
be and the last two genes rbm3 and cirp
you'll get more survival of your cells
improved DNA stabilized RNA which is the
copy of the DNA which will give you
enhanced protein synthesis or shall I
say building of proteins as well as an
anti-inflammatory effect and an
antioxidant effect so as you can see the
benefits of cold water immersion are
huge and I think it's actually
beneficial to alternate this with heat
therapy and if you haven't seen my video
on that topic I put it up right here
check it out
