hey guys today we're going to talk about
intermittent fasting and how to improve
your mental clarity and your mental
sharpness now there's some really cool
research with doing intermittent fasting
and improving certain parts of the brain
I'm gonna put some links down below one
key part is something called the
hippocampus okay you have two of them on
the left and right side of your brain
the Greek word for hippocampus means
seahorse because it looks like a
seahorse
but it's intimately involved with
learning memory and spatial navigation
okay what does that mean it means your
ability to locate yourself in your
environment like like it's kind of a GPS
so to speak now when people have
dementia from Alzheimer's they have a
very difficult time finding out where
they are in a certain environment they
kind of get lost in a parking lot it's
kind of like they lost their GPS so by
improving hippocampus you can increase
your ability to learn you can actually
increase the synapses in your brain you
actually can regrow nerve cells that's
very exciting you can slow down the
aging process you can improve your
memory you can sometimes improve your
emotional state because the hippocampus
is similar to a relay switch with
different emotions and definitely
improve your ability to find yourself in
your environment now it's interesting in
animal studies if you damage the
hippocampus that animal becomes
hyperactive and they have difficulty in
learning sounds familiar with kids right
so the question is what causes damage
with this part of your brain okay
stress high levels of cortisol there's a
condition with high cortisol called
Cushing's syndrome and you see damage
with the hippocampus so one of the
symptoms would be dementia and memory
problems but it can come from stress
vitamin b1 deficiencies can create a
problem with the hippocampus in fact
even if you look up vitamin b1
deficiencies one of the side effects is
memory loss okay and then we have high
levels of sugar and insulin can also
destroy the
campus and that's why one of the
symptoms of diabetes for example is
dementia and it just so happens that
high sugar and insulin can deplete
vitamin b1 high cortisol can deplete b1
so vitamin b1 is vital and allowing the
hippocampus to work correctly and the
best source of b1 would be nutritional
yeast okay so that's what I would
recommend getting you can get it in
tablet form but it'll be something that
would could actually greatly improve
someone that's trying to prove these
things right here the other thing that's
really important is aerobic exercise I'm
talking like long walks getting lots of
oxygen low stress very beneficial to
helping improving destruction right here
now as far as intermittent fasting goes
I'm gonna recommend that you start with
three meals a day no snacks whatsoever
the snacking completely destroys the
benefits form in a minute fasting you
have to add more fat to the meal to go
longer then over time gradually knock
out your breakfast a lot of times you're
just not going to be hungry in the
morning well don't eat if you're not
hungry
okay our bodies do not need to eat every
hour and a half unless we have a problem
with our blood Sugar's so then you have
two meals a day okay and then you want
to gradually start shrinking the
distance between the two meals from
maybe eight hours to six hours to
eventually four hours so if you were to
eat at one o'clock and five o'clock that
would be awesome okay and if you really
want to take it one step further you can
start going to one meal a day that would
create some serious improvement in your
hippocampus especially if you have any
of these problems right here with your
memory and spatial navigation issues or
learning you're going to see some great
improvements alright so there you have
it so go ahead and apply this and
comment down below
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last Edition
called the 7 principles of fat burning
it has 156 images 378 pages full
glossary I talk about Kido
in a minute-- fasting the body types in
detail I have a new stressed chapter I'm
going to show you exactly what to eat
any comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
