what if I were to tell you that I had a
pill that you could take that would
totally get rid of any type of sweet
cravings and all you have to do is take
that and eat a chocolate cake and you
wouldn't crave any sweets whatsoever
that would solve it right well today I
want to talk about the HCG diet you've
probably heard about it hopefully you
haven't tried it because why isn't
anyone asking a question you know if it
really worked if it really burned fat if
taking that hormone htc would melt the
fat off why do they have to combine it
with a 500 calorie diet I will tell you
right now anyone that consumes 500
calories will lose weight eventually and
especially if they eat all protein so
basically it's gonna be another fad that
people do the problem with HCG is that
when you're taking this hormone you're
cutting your calories you're gonna
destroy your metabolism you're going to
shut down your metabolism your body is
going to compensate I've had people lose
a lot of weight on that eating plan but
it comes right back so you really have
to think long-term because what's the
sense of doing a diet to lose it and
have it come right back and actually
damage your metabolism I highly urge you
not to go on that diet simply because it
doesn't align with the philosophy of
getting healthy to lose weight it's
actually a very unhealthy diet so always
ask a question when you're doing a diet
you know does it make sense does it
align with getting healthy that diet
does not
