alright so there are actually nine
reasons why someone is deficient in
vitamin D let's go through them number
one I don't know if you knew this but
bacteria in viruses have a unique
strategy of interfering with your
absorption of vitamin D there's what's
called the vitamin D receptor and what
they do is they block it so you can't
get an amount of mandi which is
essential for your immune system and
that's how they survive and that's how
they kind of break down your defenses by
shutting down that vitamin D before you
can even get some help the epstein-barr
virus lowers the vitamin d receptor HIV
virus completely stops the vitamin d
receptor shuts it down so if you have
HIV or I've seen barbarous you should be
taking a lot of vitamin d TB down
regulates the bottom in d receptor so
they're very devious these viruses and
bacteria they go right for this the
receptor for vitamin D and that's why a
lot of different illnesses use what's
called vitamin D receptor analogues
there which are basically kind of a
mimic vitamin D and they actually bypass
the system then go right in but you can
actually do it other ways as well you
can increase the amount of vitamin D
that you're taking you can also take
bile salts but I'll do a separate video
just on that aging decreases the skin's
conversion of vitamin D so as you get
older you need three times as much
vitamin D and that's when you actually
really need it when you get older so if
you're older you should be taking
vitamin D but always take it with food
because it's a fat soluble vitamin okay
and it'll go in a lot better
number three difficult to get vitamin D
in the diet I did a whole separate video
on this it's almost impossible to get
really what you need from your diet
unless you're doing condom oil because
it's just it's just not in the foods if
you're breastfeeding you need to be
taking vitamin D if you're pregnant you
need to be taking vitamin D very
important for that growing child
number four 57% of the population is
deficient in vitamin D I think it's
between 37 and 57% but a lot of that's
based on your location where you live in
the world so in different latitudes if
you're in the south and the tropics
chances are you're probably not going to
be very deficient but if you're in the
north which a very large population
lives that right there can severely
decrease your vitamin D from the Sun
exposure
number five mutations with the vitamin D
receptor
it's called polymorphism okay and just a
fancy word for there's some alteration
in the vitamin D receptor in certain
populations okay and it's actually
higher than you think and there's
different there's four different
alterations in this little receptor and
it's a genetic thing and you can get a
test you can find out if you have this
problem and this would explain if you
have any of these symptoms like for
example your depression autoimmune
disease insomnia adrenal fatigue that
can't seem to be resolved some skin
disorder like psoriasis eczema chronic
inflammation and you're taking vitamin D
it's supposed to create effect but it's
not working
what you need is you need a lot more
because you may have this genetic defect
within the receptor and it's just not
working you won't see any effects if you
have a fatty liver or hepatitis or
cirrhosis of the liver
you're not gonna absorb vitamin D - well
okay
so because your liver is is key in the
absorption of vitamin D the conversion
of vitamin D even from the Sun as well
as the kidneys you need good kidneys and
a good liver to actually absorb and use
vitamin D number seven you don't go
outside anymore you're inside all day
long maybe as a kid you're outside but
now you just stay inside well that could
be a big reason number eight if you have
a chronic infection a low-grade
infection which a lot of people have and
they have they
chronically fatigued or they have
fibromyalgia or some type of low-level
infection going on that can suck the
vitamin D rather than give you tissues
because every single immune cell has
receptors for vitamin D it's important
in preventing infections and then if you
have an infection it will deplete your
vitamin D high levels of cortisol okay
from stress will deplete vitamin D so
another interesting thing that you may
not realize so the more stress that you
have the more vitamin D you should take
it's going to bring your mood up as well
so I hope this increase your awareness
of the importance of vitamin D and the
reason why people need it thanks for
watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
