so I had another question that someone
wanted to know is coffee bad for your
liver okay well actually and I'm gonna
list the studies down below it's a
paddle protective it actually has the
ability to protect your liver the liver
is about 3.3 pounds the size of a
football it's located right here it's
one of the largest organs that you have
second to the skin and it does a lot of
things it filters toxins it's involved
in blood sugars it helps make bile its
stores fat soluble vitamins its main job
is to detoxify though but it has a total
of about 500 functions and coffee has
the capacity to protect liver cells and
even decrease liver enzymes so what is
in coffee that can benefit the liver
it's the phyto nutrients plant-based
chemical antioxidants okay it contains a
lot I listed several right here and they
can help you regulate bile they have
anti-inflammatory effects increasing
vitamin D stabilizing blood sugars
reducing insulin anything that reduces
insulin is going to help your liver
because one of the causes of liver
damage is high insulin if you have a
phytonutrient that can help minimize
that damage it can improve the liver
cells and it's interesting because
coffee actually has more antioxidants
than tea even green tea and even red
wine and if you're thinking what about
when they roasted aren't they destroying
the enzymes actually when you roast the
bean you increase the antioxidants which
is quite interesting but realize that
when you grind the coffee bean okay and
it's exposed to oxygen you lose a lot of
the antioxidants so if you're going to
consume coffee make sure that the time
spanned between when you're grinding the
coffee and you're actually drinking the
coffee is not too long because oxygen
can destroy these phytonutrients okay so
now you get all the positive things
about coffee there's a few negatives
okay number one caffeine caffeine can
stimulate this sympathetic nervous
system that's the flight-or-fight that's
like activating your dreams okay so this
can greatly decrease your ability to
sleep and that can create a whole series
of issues how much coffee do I recommend
personally I would recommend doing one
cup in the morning okay not before bed
so if you drink in the morning obviously
it will actually give your system and
your liver a chance to break this down
so you can actually sleep at night but
if you're drinking too much coffee you
can get an over stimulation of the
sympathetic nervous system I mean if you
ever see the long lines at Starbucks
there's people drinking coffee all day
and all night so if you have fatigue and
you're tired all the time and you're
drinking coffee to stay awake you're
kind of covering up an underlying
problem that you should fix and if you
do have a Teague I put a link down below
of what causes that so you can fix that
but so many people are using coffee to
stimulate and boost their energy but
they end up wearing out the part of the
autonomic nervous system and then they
have issues down the road okay
all right chemicals the coffee bean is
the most heavily sprayed crop in the
world so there's so many chemicals that
are sprayed on these coffee beans so
just do organic coffee
problem solved alright last point is
this the more caffeine you consume the
more depletion of certain vitamins
specifically vitamin b1 calcium and
potassium so if you're consuming too
much coffee you're gonna have to put
those vitamins back alright so that's
the end of the video and now I want you
to comment below and tell me how many
cups of coffee do you consume per day
and how large are those cups of coffee
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
