hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about a very powerful oil called thyme
oil thymus vulgaris for Candida ok now
here are the Candida symptoms you have
fatigue you have memory issues brain fog
you're kind of Spacey numbness tingling
neurological issues you can't sleep
muscle aches a lot of bloating abdominal
pain constipation vaginal itching PMS
anxiety mood disorders and all the blood
sugar disorders that I talked about for
insulin resistance rectal itching nasal
itching loss of voice white tongue
headache and there's even more to but
these are all the symptoms so if you
have these symptoms and you have Candida
you might want to use this oil because
it's a powerful antiseptic it's a
powerful thing to destroy funguses and
yeast and Candida in the body without
harming the friendly fungus or the
friendly yeast and it's also really good
for bladder infections now if you have
Candida you must do in a minute fasting
because intermittent fasting stimulates
at otha G in etapa G cleans up old
fungus yeast viruses and Candida out of
the cell okay and then make sure you cut
down your sugars and do a healthy keto
plan because that alone will starve off
the candida and your blood sugar
symptoms will go away alright thanks for
watching
