so I recently had a question for someone
that wanted her now kin-kee tell help my
liver because they had cirrhosis and
they wanted to know if there's anything
that can be done about it so let's talk
about that
what is cirrhosis it's an advanced liver
disease where the liver has filled up
with scar tissue and this is because the
liver has been under this constant flam
Ettore state where the body is then
healing with scar tissue now in a normal
liver
you can filter 1.7 liters of blood every
single minute okay that's a lot of
recycling so you have this this filter
going on right here and the liver has
about 500 different functions
it also helps make bile that helps you
extract fat type of vitamins from the
food and your your liver can make one
liter of Bayeux every single day it has
incredible restorative repair functions
but there is going to be a point of no
return where the liver is too damaged
and it can't come back one of the big
problems with the liver being cirrhotic
is that the nutrition from the blood
that comes from the small intestine is
flooding into the liver but it's if you
can't go in here anymore because it's
filled with scar so it backs up so you
have this huge pressure problem outside
the liver and that's where you see high
blood pressure you see all sorts of
complications you start seeing a
condition called ascites where there's
fluid backing up into the SAC around the
abdomen so if you ever see someone with
let's thin with this huge protruded
belly that could be a liver problem one
is called spider nevi which is a little
area of here on your skin we have this
like spider veins emanating from a
central location jaundice where your
whites of your eyes become yellow your
skin becomes yellow breast tissue simply
because you can no longer get rid of the
excess amount of estrogen the liver acts
as a buffer for certain hormones like
estrogen and even testosterone also an
enlarged liver because of the backup
situation we mentioned ascites
testicular atrophy is one of the
symptoms high blood pressure we talked
about that and also a musty breath like
kind of like a chronic halitosis bad
breath situation okay let's go to the
next chart right here to the causes if
you look up the causes you'll see
viruses at the top the list as in
hepatitis that creates inflammation
which then leads to scar tissue because
the scar tissue is really the healing
response to the inflammation and then
you have high iron why because iron is
very corrosive creates oxidation to the
different tissues of course alcohol and
medications but usually what is missing
is the number one cause and that is high
amounts of insulin and insulin
resistance because high insulin and high
glucose create inflammation which leads
to scar tissue yet this one right here
is probably the most common yet it's
rarely emphasized so what is the
treatment medically for liver cirrhosis
well it's basically you just treat the
complications the symptoms and you wait
for a liver transplant now there are two
types of cirrhosis okay
you have compensated cirrhosis and
decompensated cirrhosis what does that
mean in compensated you have severe
scarring but you have enough healthy
liver cells to function the liver is
really really robust and it can survive
a lot of damage and it has an incredible
capacity to repair if it's not
decompensated okay in this condition
it's beyond repair too much damage so
you have fluid backup edema and your
legs you get mental confusion mood and
personality disorders because the
ammonia is backing up into the brain
alright so what can you do about this
what can you do with both conditions
well you want to get on a ketogenic plan
because the very cause of the scar
tissue was inflammation so lowering your
carbs doing in a minute fasting can
bring down the inflammation
if you test someone with cirrhosis
you're always gonna find low amino acids
in the blood they have a protein
deficiency because the liver is so
damaged it can't manufacture proteins
anymore so you have a protein deficiency
in the body and the body is actually
breaking down muscle protein to try to
compensate and if you actually consume
too much protein you can get too much
waste products from that proteinuria and
eventually ammonia okay so what can you
do well this is what I would do if I had
that condition I would actually take
pure amino acids as a supplement in a
powder okay or in a tablet you can take
the essential amino acids okay in the
right amounts there's certain products
out there which will be 99% absorbed
without the waste products okay so
that's number one number two I would
take electrolytes because usually you're
gonna have fluid in a demon that's
backing up so we need to increase more
potassium in magnesium to push that
fluid out I would also recommend taking
bile salts why because you're not able
to make the bile anymore because you
have too much scar tissue and the bile
is necessary for a lot of things
including the absorption of vitamin A D
and K so I would take purified bile
salts with cod liver oil and maybe some
vitamin D and k2 to really start
increasing the absorption of the fat
side vitamins and because bile is
recycled by the microbes I would take a
really good probiotic I would also take
apple cider vinegar to improve the blood
sugar situation because you're gonna
have insulin resistance as well so this
can help that greatly and I would also
consume a large amount of vegetables for
the chlorophyll for the phytonutrients
for the antioxidants and I would also
include celery celery has a unique
property of breaking down ammonia in the
body so that would be one good solution
and it's actually very natural without
any side effects definitely do low carb
that's going to drop the inflammation I
would also do in a minute fasting
hardcore
and I would do a moderate amount of fat
simply because the person won't have the
bile salts to break down fat and I would
do a moderate amount of fat not
necessarily a high fat diet but a
moderate amount simply because it's
going to take a lot of bile to break
down that fat and if you don't have it
it can back up to the system all right
thanks for watching so if you want to
get notified with all my content click
the notification bell next to subscribed
