let's talk about how to cure toenail
fungus for under two bucks all right so
what is this fungus fungus kind of is in
the family of fungus yeast mold and
these microorganisms love a warm moist
environment like in your shoes this
specific fungus is called dermatophyte
if you wanted to know that now I just
want to say that um you have friendly
fungus beneficial fungus called
symbiotic fungus and you have pathogenic
or unfriendly fungus and yeast and mold
and things like that in fact I want to
show you something um in this book that
I'm reading which is actually quite
fascinating it's called Michael razio
Planet how symbiotic fungi work with
roots to support plant health and build
soil
fertility now check this out pick a
handful of old growth forest soil and
you'll be holding 26 miles of linear
melium now what is mycelium melium is
this fungus in The Superficial layer of
the Earth it's just a very friendly
fungus that does a lot for the plant and
the soil so in just one handful of dirt
in the forest you have 26 miles of these
little threadlike fungus that are
helping breaking down leaves they're
helping decompose different things into
smaller pars particles they actually act
as another organ for the plant to help
break down minerals and help feed the
roots in exchange the plant gives them
carbohydrates okay as an exchange so
give me the carbs I'll give you the
minerals so we have all these
microorganisms living all around us but
this specific microbe is not the
friendliest and it's an overgrowth of a
certain fungus that normally should be
in check by our own immune system but it
can get out of control now here's the
challenge that I see here when you take
medication and again I'm not telling you
not to take medication I'm just giving
you the data um lamisol lamisol that's a
common medication they use for toenail
fungus you're going to take it orally
and you're usually going to take it for
two to three months okay now the problem
is this medication penetrating all the
way deep into the inside of your nail I
mean you have to take it a long time to
penetrate but in the meantime time it's
doing a number on your liver uh some of
the side effects it can increase liver
enzymes it can cause liver damage it can
cause lupus okay which is an autoimmune
disease it can create central nervous
system damage it can actually put you in
the emotion of depression and cause a
loss of taste and jaundice which is a
liver problem and even alopecia which is
hair loss so not only does it come with
a negative package with all these side
effects but but it's marginally
successful it's like 30 to 40%
successful now if you look up
alternatives to this like natural
remedies there's going to be a lot of
stuff you're going to read that oh
there's not any studies that shows that
it works uh or it could be harmful or
this and that but I want to give you
some solutions that I've personally seen
do work so these Solutions I'm going to
talk about at least have less side
effects a lot less side effects if any
and they potentially could actually
really help you get rid of this nasty
fungus now I've done a video on this
before where I talked about soaking your
feet in epson salts which is magnesium
sulfate for about 15 minutes a day and
then drying your feet out and making
sure that you're maybe wearing uh
sandals around the house so your feet
aren't so sweaty and you're going to be
adding two teaspoons of epsin salts and
four cups of water and you're going to
heat it up so it's nice and dissolved
and you just going to soak your feet in
there okay so this is a good remedy the
problem with this remedy is it does take
a long time to work you're doing this
for weeks and weeks and weeks okay so
I'm going to give you a couple other
things that are a little bit faster okay
tea tree oil it originates in Australia
it's been used by the indigenous
Australians for a very long time and
they used it for coughing acne dandruff
all topically they don't take it orally
as well as lice scabies and fungus it's
a natural wide spectrum antifungal uh
compound
it inhibits fungal melum and this is
that fungus I talked about I mean the
interesting thing about a lot of these
natural remedies like even tea tree oil
it's developed these unique uh
protective mechanisms against
environmental pathogens which are
funguses it could be viruses and
bacteria and so we can tap into that and
use that to help our own bodies because
it's natural and it's going to have a
lot less side effects now there is
another remedy that I'm going to
recommend that's even
less expensive than tea tree oil and
it's under $2 simple iodine okay just
one drop of this iodine on the toenail
fungus every single day will inactivate
that fungus to the point where it's not
going to be there anymore now there's a
couple things about it some people don't
like this bright yellow color that it's
going to do on your nail well guess what
you can get decolorized iodine okay and
that way it's clear it's not going to be
a problem or if you don't the color
stain I would recommend povidone type
iodine it's very inexpensive and it's
pretty non-toxic I did a video on how to
get rid of skin tags with this iodine
and all you need is one drop of this
every single day on the toenail put it
topically try to keep your feet dry okay
not in a moist environment especially
around the house let your feet breathe
and make an environment where the fungus
cannot grow now there's one very very
important point I want to mention
and that has to do with what fungus live
on they live on carbohydrates okay
they're not ketofriendly they're carb
junkies so guess what if you start
consuming less carbohydrates the risk of
this coming back are going to drop down
dramatically if you want more
information about that I put the video
that you need to watch first right here
