so recently I had a series of questions
related to coconut oil some people are
still I don't know a little nervous
about consuming coconut oil thinking
it's poisonous based on some false
information recently so I wanted to just
create a summary of exactly what coconut
oil does there's really three main
things that it will do for you and no
it's not bad for the heart no it's not a
poison it's been used by many cultures
for hundreds of years without problem
there are a few cultures that literally
consume sixty percent of their diet
coconut based and they're really really
healthy so coconut oil will boost the
HDL which is the so-called good
cholesterol I'm gonna put a link down
below so if you're concerned about it
messing with your heart you can look at
the study it's quite impressive
alright so coconut is a seed it is the
largest seed on planet Earth it actually
takes three years to break down in the
soil before it can actually grow alright
I want to cover the three significant
benefits of using coconut oil the first
one supporting your brain okay a
significant amount of coke annoying is
MCT which means medium chain
triglycerides this is a type of fat that
turns into ketones okay and your brain
cells love ketones ketones actually
protect the nerve and brain cells
against stress and it's been shown to
help boost cognitive function in really
beneficial in people with dementia and
even Alzheimer's there are three main
fatty acids in coconut oil
the first one is caprylic then caprile
and then lauric acid so these acids are
antibacterial antifungal anti-candida
and yeast and on top of that antiviral
specifically lauric acid
lauric acid is kind of a precursor to
something called mono Lauren and I've
done a video just on this alone as a
supplement mono Lauren has the capacity
to dismantle and destroy the lipid layer
or the fat layer around certain viruses
so this function really helps your
immune system now lauric acid is in
breast milk and unless you're an infant
you're not going to be
to get access to that so we're gonna
stick with the coconut oil alright the
third big benefit is giving you more
energy
why because MCT oil does not require
digestive enzymes it gets absorbed
directly into the body so the fuel that
coconut gives you is number one fatty
acids and ketones okay and fatty acids
and ketones are a much more efficient
fuel than glucose in fact per quantity
it will give you more ATP and that's the
energy currency that the body uses so
carbs does not give you the quantity of
energy as ketones and fatty acids all
right so I hope this summary kind of put
things in perspective these are the
three benefits it's not dangerous it's
not poisonous how they recommend that
you start consuming coconut oil as part
of a healthy ki tell plan alright thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
