in many videos that I've done I talked
about how eating and carbs will knock
you out of ketosis but there's something
else that's actually quite interesting
and a lot of people don't realize this
and it has to do with MSG monosodium
glutamate will definitely knock you out
of ketosis so let's talk about what MSG
really is it's a flavor enhancer it's
meant to make the food taste better than
it really is a lot of times when you're
eating foods that have msg you're going
to notice you're going to be hungry
about an hour after you consume that
food some people have various reactions
they might get a headache
they might get itchiness they might have
blood pressure problems they might feel
nauseous some people are allergic to it
some people retain fluid from it as in
monosodium glutamate because it has
sodium other people might get sleepy and
typically people associate that MSG when
they go to a Chinese restaurant but it's
also in a tremendous amount of foods
that you would find at the grocery store
and they don't seem to list it as
monosodium glutamate anymore they listed
his modified food starch or modified
corn starch actually there's a list of
quite a few different names that they
use but it's in the chips it's
definitely in fast food okay if you go
to a fast food restaurant it's in soups
ramen noodles deli meats now if you're
doing dirty Kido which you're not really
paying attention to the quality of food
and you're at a fast-food restaurant
right well guess what there's MSG in
that food that can really knock you out
of ketosis also if you're doing deli
meats for example a lot of times we'll
have dextrose but they also put the
modified food starch in there too
so even though it's low carb it has msg
in that can knock you out of keto
another food that has msg is cottage
cheese unless it's organic but you're
going to be shocked to find how many
foods contain this chemical when you
start to look at it alright now let's
talk about the effects of monosodium
glutamate and animal studies but some
people might say oh yeah it affects
animals and rats but
has no effect on our bodies I don't know
if you knew this but MSG is one of the
common chemicals that will cause an
obese Mouse when they do research to
fatten up that rat they use msg okay so
and you're thinking it has no effect on
our bodies well it may all right number
one it actually causes type 2 diabetes
in my studies number two high doses of
MSG in small rodents will increase body
weight in fat mass and I already
mentioned this when you eject a mouse
with MSG at birth they become obese you
triple the amount of insulin and before
it creates oxidative damage or stress to
the brain kidney and thymus it actually
destroys the nervous system and there
before it induces learning and memory
deficits as well as destroying the
retina now I remember about 25 years ago
when my wife and I lived in San Diego we
would always go to this restaurant that
had this amazing hot and sour soup and
guess what it was a loaded with msg but
we were so addicted to it we would go
there and then within hours we would
notice that we just start retaining
fluid we would feel sleepy we had to
take a nap so I really do believe that
it does have effect on our bodies but
what I'm curious about is if you
personally had any negative effects when
you consumed foods with msg comment
below and let me know
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
