so today we're going to answer the
question can fasting actually reverse a
poor memory that comes from aging and
there seems to be this agreement that
it's normal to lose your memory when you
age okay have you've been told that by
your doctor my viewpoint is I totally
disagree now there is a point of
limitation of matter where you can't
reverse it you can definitely improve
things and if it's not too far gone
hopefully it reversed them and the key
to getting your memory and your focus
and your concentration back is really
just to understand the basic problem and
the different factors that relate to it
okay so what do we know about this topic
well we know that Alzheimer's takes like
15 years to develop it doesn't happen
overnight it starts off with a little
memory problem and it gets worse and
worse and worse okay and we do know that
people as they age they do have memory
problems some people don't some people
are really sharp into the 90s and we
know other people that are in their 40s
that have a terrible memory sometimes
even up in their 30s so what else do we
know we know that the area is involved
with Alzheimer's the parts of the brain
are the same areas in the brain that
actually make insulin that's an
interesting connection so we have the
hippocampus okay that part of the brain
is involved with memory and learning
then you have the prefrontal cortex
which is involved in short-term memory
planning decision-making goals
differentiating good from bad
trivial versus important the ability to
predict consequences talked about
short-term memory and selective
attention now the ability to focus on
something and filter everything out so
you don't get distracted how many people
have a problem with that
and I will say that there's a
relationship between this part of the
brain and these right here but honestly
there's a lot of unknowns about this
they don't really have it figured out
but there is some connection between
this part of the brain and these things
right here and then you have the
olfactory bulb okay and that's involved
in the sensation of smell and then those
neuro circuits can go to different parts
of the brain because let's say for
example if you smell
smoked for example that alarms part the
part of the brain to take action and do
something about it or let's say you you
smell some rotten food that's gonna tell
you not to eat it so we need our our
smell another interesting side note
about this is that these parts of the
brain also have a good amount of zinc
involved but I'm gonna do a separate
video on that let's focus on insulin
right here so these are the areas of the
brain that get damaged with Alzheimer's
but they're also the areas that can
actually make insulin now if someone has
Alzheimer's there's something called
intranasal insulin that they can spray
up into their nose which does not get
into the lungs it actually gets
connected to nerve fibers that connect
to the olfactory bulb and bypass the
blood-brain barrier and go right into
the brain and this has shown huge
improvements in memory so apparently we
need insulin to work for your memory to
work and when people have Alzheimer's
it's not just memory loss it's that you
lose your GPS your ability to locate
yourself in space it's kind of like a
okay where did I park that type of thing
and we know that the hippocampus is
involved in that as well all right the
next point I wanna talk about is the
blood-brain barrier okay the blood-brain
barrier can develop insulin resistance
if there's too much insulin your body
will protect it by developing insulin
resistance around the blood-brain
barrier so this is one of the big
problems and letting fuel into the cell
and actually at the heart of Alzheimer's
you have this synapse which actually is
dying because it doesn't have fuel
because obviously there's a problem with
insulin okay whether this is shut down
or you have insulin resistance or a
combination of both
also in diabetics or pre-diabetics you
have lower amounts of insulin through
the cerebral spinal fluid that actually
is another route up so we do know that
there's a problem with insulin we have a
problem with insulin resistance and we
have a problem with the fuel in the cell
so the enron's
of this environment is you start
developing amyloid plaque okay now
there's some other clacking going on too
but this is one of the big factors
that's involved in Alzheimer's right
here amyloid plaque which basically is a
type of protein that is a Mis folded or
stuck together in a way that makes that
protein unusable and that has a hard
time leaving the body so it's kind of
stuck there between the synapses so we
lose the communication connection
between synapses so research right now
is heavily focused on trying to get rid
of this right here now of course we want
to prevent that so we're gonna have to
keep insulin lowered by keeping our
sugar down but there's some other things
that we can do fasting why fasting is
one of the most powerful things you can
do because starting at 16 hours of
fasting your body starts turning on
something called a Tov G okay this word
means self eating okay where the body
starts eating up damaged proteins and
miss folded proteins these are the
proteins that turn into amyloid plaque
in the tar accumulating and can't leave
the body so it just so happens that
etapa G is the answer to that because
the top of G will take this into its
cell and spit out brand-new amino acids
it'll help recycle the damaged proteins
not to mention it also clear out viruses
bacteria things like that but it starts
at 16 hours but it gets stronger at 18
hours and up to 23 hours so if you're at
23 hours you're doing what's called one
meal a day very important for
Alzheimer's patients now some people are
gonna say well what about if the my
grandmother is frail and if she goes at
any minute fast and she's gonna lose
more weight very simply what you do is
you add more fat in the form of MCT oil
that gives you the calories but see MCT
oil will actually turn into ketones okay
and ketones will stimulate etapa G and
the cool thing about ketones is that
ketones will provide
a bypass of the glucose fuel and feed
the neurons directly so these neurons do
not need to run on glucose in fact
what's really cool about this is that if
someone does have Alzheimer's
and you give them exaggerated as ketones
ketones salts and MCT oil and even in
the presence of glucose the brain will
use the ketones so the brain loves
ketones it'll use ketones as its
priority so the combination of fasting
and getting on the ketogenic diet with
adding MCT oil and exogenous ketones for
someone that has Alzheimer's is a very
powerful plan now I'm gonna put some
links down below on a lot of research
being done on this right now which is
fascinating but the point is that if you
know someone that has Alzheimer's have
them do this if you're starting to have
short-term memory loss
I highly suggest you do this you may not
need to do these right here but
definitely this and definitely this
thanks for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
