so today we're gonna talk about
manganese which is very different than
magnesium but you don't really hear much
about manganese so let's let's talk
about what it is if they trace mineral
which means you need it it's essential
but you need in very very small amounts
so manganese is a coenzyme what's a
coenzyme it's a helper compound involved
in certain types of proteins in this
case talking about bone which by the way
is mostly protein and connective tissue
itself so if you're deficient in
mekinese you could have a problem with
bone and connective tissue which equal
the joints okay so you're gonna have
knee pain a joint problems shoulder pain
problems with your ligaments so let's
just say for example your mother when
she was carrying you was deficient in
manganese you could end up with problems
with connective tissue issues like flat
feet and problems with your skeletal
structure so you could end up with
skeletal deformation you can also have
muscle spasm inflammation primarily
because manganese is involved with very
powerful antioxidants in your body it's
part of the defense mechanism to protect
you against free radicals and this is
why if you don't have enough of it you
get a lot of inflammation it was a side
note there's this micro bacterial dino
caucus radiodurans this is the toughest
bacteria on planet Earth
it can withstand over 500,000 rads of
ionizing radiation let me think about it
a hundred rads would kill a person these
microbes can withstand 500,000 rads and
they can survive the cold dehydration
they're extremely tough and guess what
they use manganese to protect against
the free radicals that are generated and
lastly you can have a buildup of ammonia
okay which is kind of like the byproduct
of urea and protein metabolism okay what
foods are high in manganese clove is
number one P cons it's in grains but
is a problem we don't recommend grains
for a couple reasons number one they're
not keto friendly number two they have
phytates especially if they're whole
grains fight aids inhibit manganese they
bind it
same thing with zinc T has tannins which
blocked manganese so even though there
is manganese and T and a lot of other
herbs
there's tannins in there it's not going
to be absorbed spinach is high in this
thing called oxalates okay ox let's bind
with manganese and calcium as well so
these three are not good sources pumpkin
seeds kale squash sea kelp are also good
sources this is just another reason why
you should have a diet that has a lot of
variety and not just eat one thing all
day because you want to get these trace
minerals one really important point
about manganese and other trace minerals
is that you don't want to consume large
amounts of these for long periods of
time if you want to take some let's say
for example you have a knee pain or
something you take it small amounts in a
blend of other trace minerals for short
periods of time okay because it can be
very toxic if you take too much alright
guys thanks for watching I'll see you in
the next video
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
