hey guys in this video I'm gonna attempt
to define Ross this will probably come
up if you're reading some of the studies
relating to Alzheimer's or the benefits
of ketosis you might see Ross come up
and I just wanted to find it because it
can be a little confusing and in reality
it's pretty simple
Ross stands for reactive oxygen species
now what the heck does that mean so Ross
can either be a free radical or a non
free radical involving oxygen so this
kind of let's back up what is a free
radical a normal atom has paired
electrons so if you have something
that's paired if you just kind of
envision it like a little disc and two
little weights on on the outside that
spin it's gonna be very symmetrical
nothing's gonna happen it's real nice
and smooth but if you take one of those
electrons out and you have an unpaired
electron and it starts to spin or move
it can really be a radical and move in a
radical way in create destruction
because it does not have a parent
electron okay so free radicals tend to
destroy things
now the body makes ross also ross can be
generated from the environment as well
coming into the body but the question is
why would your body make something
that's destructive that's the question
and this will help you understand what
it is well there is a natural process a
natural program cell death in the body
it's called apoptosis and apoptosis is a
condition where your body is actually
killing off certain cells now you might
say well that's a bad thing
but actually it's a it's essential for
life okay because your body has this
urge to survive so it's looking at the
greater good if there's certain cells
that are mutated altered they're
dysfunctional then the body has to get
rid of them and that's when it produces
Ross so Ross has the ability to
eliminate certain things that we don't
want in the body and if that involves
killing off certain mitochondria or
whatever that's a good thing so even
your white blood cells produce these to
actually kill off microbes
that's how it dismantled certain viruses
so your body has this interesting
balance between free radicals or
oxidants and antioxidants so your body
can make any oxidants as well and you
can get them environmentally so you have
this whole balance that happens in the
body so whether you're exposed to a
certain stress that called oxidative
stress so let's say you have a certain
metal in your body from iron and that
created a mutation in your mitochondria
well your body would produce this to get
rid of that the body does not want
mutated cells exposure to chemicals UV
radiation that would come from external
or exercise produces higher levels of
Ross to actually kill off the damaged
muscle cells that are that need to be
replaced and it's replaced by the stem
cell so it actually just grows back
hypoxia decreased oxygen pollution
smoking infection so your body is
constantly cleaning all this stuff up
and replacing it so this is a real
positive thing so you probably in your
house have hydrogen peroxide and you can
put it on a cut or a wound and see it
foam up because hydrogen peroxide is
this and that actually helps to kill off
certain microbes okay the same principle
what's really cool is that ketones
reduce the excess Ross in the body so
ketones can act as an antioxidant and
they protect the nerves
they're very neuro protective and this
is why ketones are so good for the brain
and high sugar diet or high carb diet is
so terrible for the brain because it
actually causes so much destruction and
it leads to things like dementia and
then eventually Alzheimer's anyway I
just wanted to explain what this is as
simply as possible hopefully you
understand it now and thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
