so if you personally have lupus you need
to know about these two natural
alternatives okay what is Lucas it's an
autoimmune condition where your body's
immune system is attacking itself it
affects the joints the skin the kidneys
the blood cells the heart the lung it's
triggered by various things and these
triggers will give us clues on a
solution one is UV light number two
birth control
that's estrogen low vitamin D levels
certain drugs and stress many many
people who experience lupus get it after
a stress event an emotional loss or some
trauma the symptoms joint pain fever
rash fatigue ulcers in the mouth swollen
lymph nodes and other glands sensitivity
to light it's called a great imitator
because it mimics so many other
conditions okay
so there's some interesting clues about
this condition number one 910 adults who
get lupus are women okay so if we look
back to those triggers Astra j'en
involved okay that could be a trigger
next one
african-americans are three times more
likely to get lupus Wow and they're
probably going to be women because none
in a 10 adults who have lupus are women
as a side note african-americans are
three times more likely to get asthma
okay is there a connection the next clue
is this 80% of African Americans are
vitamin D deficient you can greatly
improve asthma with vitamin D and you
can greatly improve lupus with vitamin D
as I'll talk about next slide one big
common treatment for lupus is using
cortical steroids okay it's an
anti-inflammatory it's a synthetic
version of your adrenal hormone cortisol
okay you're the two things vitamin D why
because vitamin D is an immune modulator
it regulates and controls the immune
system there are vitamin D receptors in
nearly every single immune cell vitamin
D is an
inflammatory and vitamin D is not really
a vitamin it's a steroid hormone that
mimics cortisol it has very similar
effects to cortisol remember we talked
about this cortical steroid so vitamin D
can create a similar effect so vitamin D
would be the first alternative I would
highly recommend doing 20,000 I use at
least
why wouldn't we use a lesser amount
because the RDAs for vitamin D which I
believe it's about 600 IU's were
developed to prevent scurvy these RDAs
were not figured out to create
therapeutic benefits for other
conditions it was merely developed to
avoid rickets and if you personally are
going to take higher amounts of vitamin
D I put a video down below just so you
can get the full understanding of some
other things you need to do like vitamin
k2 and magnesium so you can check that
video out next one is fasting as an
intermittent fasting fasting can
increase your t-cells dramatically I'll
put some links down below fascinating
research with lupus fasting can restore
the stem cells that actually make up
your immune system fasting gets rid of
inflammation it's anti-inflammatory and
the biggest symptom or destructive
effect of lupus is inflammation so if
you can actually get rid of inflammation
by using these two things right here you
can hopefully put this lupus in
remission and the last thing I want to
mention is this is not meant to replace
your medical care and check with your
doctor before altering your medications
or adding anything else to your current
treatment thanks for watching so if you
want to get notified with all my content
click the notification bell next to
subscribed
