hey guys today we're going to talk about
how to identify nutritional deficiencies
when you're doing ohm at one meal a day
okay now a couple things what we're
talking about is subclinical
deficiencies not like a major classical
deficiency where you have like b1 berry
berry or pellagra or scurvy with vitamin
C deficiencies we're talking about the
first sign of a symptom from a
deficiency of a nutrient okay well what
would that look like now by the way I
recommend the healthy version of ketosis
okay it's in this book get the book read
it I explained how to do it also you're
going to combine in a minute fasting the
need for nutrients goes down when you do
intermittent fasting okay so you don't
need as much so that's good so you don't
really need to follow exactly the RDAs
but what I'm going to show you now will
kind of give you some good clues on if
you are starting to become deficient
okay now if you're deficient in vitamin
b1 the first symptom would be fatigue
and especially nervous energy like this
nervous anxiety this pressure that
builds up you can't relax you want to
strangle someone okay alright be to oily
skin and then flaky skin and then the
list goes on and on um okay
b3 moody depressed it's the same thing
with vitamin b6 Moody and depressed
because these two nutrients are involved
in the production of a protein basically
neurotransmitters okay and
neurotransmitters affect your mood if
you're deficient and b5 one of the first
symptoms would be fatigue why because
vitamin b5 is needed for the adrenals
and then we have biotin which is in the
B vitamin family hair loss and split
ends inositol this isn't the family of
the B vitamins as well and you get these
red eyes okay or irritated the surface
of your eye gets irritated underneath
the lids of the eyes they're red now
this could also be a blood sugar problem
but it just so happens that
not at all is involved with blood
Sugar's in fact
inositol as a nutrient as a vitamin is
actually a sweet vitamin it's very
similar to glucose but it's not it's the
vitamin b12 red swollen tongue but
there's many other symptoms you can get
okay the first sign that your vitamin A
deficiency is you can't see in the dark
so you're driving and you're not able to
adapt readily to seeing in the dark so
that would be indication you need more
about it than a okay
vitamin C bleeding gums so you're
brushing your teeth and you notice some
blood also if the gums are swollen
all right vitamin D deficiency bone pain
like deep pain in your hip or your leg
or wherever and you're feeling kind of
down you have the blues you see this in
the winter months because of vitamin D
okay vitamin D deficiency the first one
is muscle weakness so let's say for
example you're going to go to the gym
you're going to work out right and you
just can't seem to get enough energy or
momentum because your body is just
physically weak it could be a vitamin E
deficiency also could be a sodium
deficiency because it has very similar
symptoms okay you might just need more
salt okay vitamin K one deficiency you
bleed easily let's say you bump your
elbow on the door or something and you
start bleeding okay that's a vitamin K
one guess where you get vitamin K one
leafy greens surprise okay
vitamin k2 this controls the calcium out
of the arteries and also out of the
joints so one of the first symptoms is
stiffness it's calcium building up in
the joints okay one of the first
symptoms of a potassium deficiency is
high pulse rate and by the way sugar
cravings but if you're on keto you
probably don't have sugar cravings but
higher pulse rate and eventually high
blood pressure and then arrhythmias
magnesium deficiency overall tight
muscles tense you you you don't go to
bed very easily your body is this very
very tight and rigid and then I also
mentioned
feeling weak alright what's the moral of
story it is don't waste your meals on
low quality food alright get the book do
keto healthily and you won't have
nutritional deficiencies
alright I'll see you later
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
