ready okay so let's give you a little
tour this is called the Health and
Wellness
Center so we have my waiting right here
um it's a video I'm playing over and
over and over again just to get people
to really get it and so this is the
waiting room this is where people wait
because when you go to the doctor's
office you have to wait that's what we
call them patience you have to have
patience okay so we have ai right here
she's uh um actively productively
working um and then we have kind of the
doctor's offices back here the tiny
little look at this little kitchen kind
of small isn't it so let's go over here
and I'll show you some of the uh rooms
that we
have so we have about eight rooms and
they all go around in a circle so here's
a room right here and um we just do
treatments we do acupressure coaching
exercise advice nutrition we have a room
right
here and a room right here and we also
do urine right here it's a cool test
from Germany because we can plug in a
little thing into the urine and just
spit out all this information in about a
minute so that's a cool test and then
over here we have a a little device it's
a rower that allows me to do exercise
recovery training I could figure out
what exercise you need exactly and not
have to guess because we hook you up and
measure before during and after an
exercise because we don't want you to
overtrain we want you to to really um do
the right thing for your body type now
here we were doing the before and after
pictures and everyone when they come in
so we can see the
transition after this is uh kind of the
office that I pretty much hang out in
where I do my
consultations and acupressure is a
technique that pulls stress out it's
kind of like massage but it's a little
bit deeper into different parts so when
a person gets a treat
they might have a pain but we're not
doing traditional therapy we're pulling
stress out to help sleep increase
flexibility and reduce stress because
stress activates that hormone called
cortisol that increases the belly fat so
we focus on that we put people in the
right eating plan for their body type
and that's the chart right there so each
body type needs a different program and
different plan you can't put everyone in
the same program it's not going to work
different bodies need different
recommendations the same thing with
exercise then when we're done we put
them on What's called the therapeutic
waiting
room and so this is my therapeutic
waiting room and I have different tables
right here and I'll show you how this
works basically you put your feet in
these things you can put your your
forearms it does your neck and it
actually rocks you back when's the last
time you've been rocked it's very not
often to be rocked but it will do all
these really cool things and then this
is after someone gets the treatment we
just take it to the next level and just
pull the stress out the problem is that
I can't get people out of this room
because they like it so much so um let's
go over
here and then right here this is where
we do our testing we can check your
metabolism we can check your stress
level we can check your ability to uh
recover and we measure the blood
pressure and other things as well so
those are some of the things that we
would do in the office I hope you
enjoyed the tour and we'll see you on
your first visit
