okay guys so today we're talking about
how to do what's called a kidney detox
flush so many people detoxify their
colon their liver but they really don't
focus on the kidney and the kidney
filters out a tremendous amount of waste
through the body so basically what the
kidney does is it filters the blood it
recycles a lot of the different
nutrients but it gets rid of the waste
all right you're going to be using three
different vegetables parsley dandelion
greens and celery you can either juice
them you can blend the powder you can
get an actual powder of each one of
these and just blend together as a shake
or you can consume them as a whole plant
in the salad raw all right so why would
you use parsley parsley is extremely
nutrient dense it has vitamin C vitamin
A even though it's a precursor to the
active vitamin A it still has a lot of
different types of what's called
carotenoids which are phytonutrients and
it contains a natural chemical called
apigenin which is really good to lower
uric acid levels in the body it's also
diuretic so it flushes fluid out of the
body that excessive amount of fluid that
people are holding parsley can actually
help flush that out okay then we have
dandelion greens this is really good for
the liver and by the way all three of
these are good for the entire body but
they're especially good for the kidney
it can also decrease uric acid levels
and acts as a diuretic provides for a
lot of other nutrients celery you can
also decrease uric acid act as a
diuretic
then actually a lot of times I recommend
it for blood pressure to help people
lower their stress levels help them go
to sleep at night and it has a lot of
things so there's really four things
that these three ingredients will
provide number one it helps flush out
the things that turn into kidney stones
high levels of uric acid as well as
oxalate stones they will also help pull
out the toxins and detoxify because
they're loaded with certain types of
enzymes that help support that process
number two provide tons of final new
treants which will lower something
called oxidative stress and by doing
that you will help reduce inflammation
and protect the cells against the toxic
environment the kidneys are very
sensitive to chemicals in the
environment and pesticides insecticides
and all that number three increase urine
flow now for men over the age of 50 a
lot of times they have a prostate
problem and when the prostate enlarges
it can obstruct the flow of urine and
then the urine starts backing up into
the kidney and you have congested kidney
and you can even see it on certain
diagnostic testing we have the kidneys
and these little things called the
ureters they're dilated they're
enlarging because the fluid is not going
through because the prostates
obstructing that and so when that
happens you get a buildup of a lot of
urine and waste in the kidneys and it
can't flush out and so men typically
take certain type of flow agents and
medications increase the flow when in
fact they can do this is a natural way
to increase the urine flow and remove
some of this waste and then number four
in addition to the final nutrients we
have a lot of vitamins we have a lot of
minerals a lot of trace minerals which
will also protect the kidney and help
heal the kidney and like I said before
the three different ways you can do this
is in your salad or as a powder or as an
actual juice all right so now let's talk
about the quantity if you're doing it as
a salad what you'd want to do is create
a salad of let's say three maybe four
cups of equal amounts of these three
right here okay new to consume that
every day for three to four days every
two months if you're doing as a powder
you can actually buy these online and
have about 2.5 grams of each in a shake
and you just drink that down now if you
want to do it as a fresh juice you would
actually take these three ingredients an
equal mixture that would normally make
up the salad three cups and just juice
them and drink the juice and again you'd
want to do this for three to four days
every couple of months
and of course more frequently if you
actually have a problem with your kidney
oh and one last little point about this
if you have advanced kidney disease if
you're on dialysis you if you have an
actual disease with the kidney check
with your doctor because they may not
let you do this because it could provide
too much potassium in which case that
could become a problem so just check
with your doctor before doing this
cleanse All Right see you later hey guys
I'm not sure if you have my app yet dr.
Berg app it's totally free you should
download it okay this is what it looks
like you click it it gives you all sorts
of great resources I have all my youtube
videos on this app okay and it's
regularly uploading the most recent ones
all the YouTube videos are also
converted to audio versions okay so you
can use it when you're walking
exercising driving your car I have a
mini chorus on there I'll be putting
additional courses I have a lot of
recipes on there and this is new and
also PDF resources so there's various
downloads PDFs that you can get as well
and if you wouldn't mind after you
download it check it out give me your
unbiased review and tell me how you like
it I want to know
