So today we're going to talk about Dairy
and keto there's a lot of questions on
this it's it's not just a simple answer
so I want to cover all the different
aspects um you have first of all the
carb content in different types of dairy
let's cover that first so 8 O of milk
give you 12 gram all right then we get
to cheese okay 1 ounce of cheese is .1
gram so it's pretty low all right let's
go to Yogurt unsweetened Greek yogurt 6
oz give you about 6 gram of uh carbs now
realize when you're doing a sweetened
version of yogurt the sugar goes up
considerably up to 26 G per 6 o so start
reading labels of course avoid that
kefir 6 oz gives you 6 G uh butter 1
tbsp 0 g of carbs sour cream 2 tbspoon 2
G low half and half 1 tablespoon 6 G
pretty low and then cream like in
whipping cream um that's zero for one
tablespoon so this would be good to put
in your coffee you can still use this is
pretty low now the other problem is the
quality of dairy is it organic if it's
not those cows could be fed grains which
are GMO and that could be a problem all
right grassfed much higher quality now
if something is organic and it's not
grass-fed that means that those cows are
consuming grains that are not GMO so you
may not have the levels of healthy
omega-3 fatty acids but at least it's
non-GMO grains ideally it'd be great to
consume Dairy that is organic and
grass-fed now the other problem with
dairy is that Dairy has growth factors
so for example if you're a guy and you
have a prostate problem where it's
enlarging you wouldn't want to do dairy
because uh it could potentially make
things
worse now allergies so many people have
allergies not just to lactose the milk
sugar but also casine which is the
protein in the dairy some people just
don't feel good on Dairy so I would
recommend doing keto without the dairy
if you have allergies if you're
concerned about this right here uh and
if you're having a hard time finding the
quality of dairy that you need and
lastly I just wanted to bring up one
point generally speaking most people do
not do well on large large amounts of
dairy um small amount of dairy is fine
just make sure the quality is there all
right thanks for
watching hey if you're liking this
content Please Subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
