alright guys so I had this question
quite a few times I want to just cover
in this video how many nuts are too many
nuts when you're doing keto now we're
not just talking about nuts we're
talking about two nut butters we're
talking about nut flours as an almond
flour so let's just cover each point
it's very easy to overdo the nuts
especially when you're doing nut butters
okay if you do too much you're going to
find you're going to bloat
you're gonna gas and that is because of
two reasons okay number one when you
consume more fat you need more bile
production and a lot of people are not
adapted to that yet they haven't done it
long enough to generate enough bile to
be able to deal with all this fat okay
same thing with your enzymes and your
pancreas so eating too much fat too
quickly with some people especially nuts
can irritate the digestive system
especially around the gallbladder and
even the pancreas I always recommend
alike gradual into this so you can
slowly adapt to digesting some of this
fat now the next reason is this nuts
have certain anti nutrients and certain
chemicals that can irritate certain
parts of your digestive system
specifically the bile duct okay and
that's right underneath the rib cage
right here so this is why when people
consume nuts in large quantities they
can start feeling bloated and it can
refer pain to the right shoulder all up
to the neck and even cause the pain in
the jaw and even cause headaches on the
right side of their head even the right
shoulder blade right back through here
as well so if you have that this could
be the reason why and let's say for
example you're not sure if that's the
reason and you have the pain in the
right shoulder blade what what you do is
you just massage over the gallbladder a
little bit and see if the pain goes away
then we know it's connected and it's
called referred pain from the
gallbladder there's a nerve called the
phrenic nerve that goes right up to the
neck part from underneath your diaphragm
on the right side okay you also have it
on the left side too so the pancreas
could cause it on the left side but it's
mainly on the right side now also if
you're predisposed to kidney stones okay
and I want to complicate things too much
but certain people are stone formers and
when they consume almonds for example or
almond
flower it's higher in oxalates but nut
that's the lowest on the scale for
oxalates are the the pistachio those are
pretty safe okay now there's also things
in nuts that protect the nut from
sprouting and growing into a plant so
there's a term called germinating and
that means soaking the nut in water
overnight rinsing it out and then drying
out the nut in even the oven or a
dehydrator and then when you consume
them they're easier to digest because
you don't have these enzyme inhibitors
fighting you okay because when you
consume raw nuts it's it's harder on the
digestive system for some people now
when you consume roasted nuts they're a
little easier to digest but we have less
nutrients in them so to make this
complicated topic a little bit easier I
would recommend not to consume more than
1/4 of a cup of nuts per meal ok or not
to consume more than a tablespoon of nut
butters per meal so I wouldn't combine
these I would have either/or and if you
still have a problem with this you're
gonna have to eliminate the nuts and
you'll probably do a lot better the good
thing about nuts is it's a good
combination of fat and protein low and
carb to allow you to go longer but I
think people overdo it because it's
really easy to do these nuts because the
next thing you know after you consume
these nuts or you're doing the peanut
butter on the jar you consume the whole
jar or this huge container so maybe what
you can do is separate out fourth of a
cup and a little baggie and then that's
your ration okay and that might work for
you because some people they don't
really have a turn off switch so they
just will keep eating and eating and
eating I like personally I like the
pistachios because you have to work to
get those things out but I personally
have to have just a little bit of that
per meal and I do fine so anyway I hope
that answered the question on the nuts
and I will see you in the future videos
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
