hey guys I wanted to show you a very
interesting link in relationship to
sugar and high blood pressure ok now
I've talked about sugar and so many
videos but this one's specific on high
blood pressure because here's really the
data I'm going to give you a link down
below for more information about this
but when you consume sugar you actually
trigger insulin insulin triggers the
sympathetic nervous system so what is
this in pathetic nervous system it's
part of the system that's on automatic
you have two parts you have the
parasympathetic which is rest and digest
and then we have a sympathetic over here
which is flight-or-fight when you're in
sympathetic dominant mode these are some
of the symptoms you get high blood
pressure lump in the throat cold
extremities can't wind down of course
that's gonna affect your sleep high
pulse rate dry mouth dry eyes nervous I
already mentioned insomnia and anxiety
so you have all these sympathetic
dominant symptoms that actually come
from insulin now what's really cool is
when you do the opposite of this when
you go on keto we cut down the sugar we
cut down the insulin guess what happens
we enhance the parasympathetic we help
the digestion we help the rest we help
to sleep we take people out of adrenal
stress mode and so when people tell you
that keto puts your body in emergency
state it's the exact opposite it puts
you in a relaxed state and this is why
people feel so good they feel calmer
they actually their mood is elevated
their inflammation goes down but the
blood pressure definitely comes down and
this is the reason why alright go ahead
and try it out and see how it could work
for you
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
