let's talk about hyperbaric oxygen
therapy hands down this is one of most
incredible therapies it's not weird it's
very credible it's been thoroughly
researched with hardcore science by the
military it's in hospitals and people
are even getting reimbursed from their
insurance so how does it work
when you breathe air you're only getting
21% actual oxygen so hyperbaric oxygen
therapy raises that oxygen to nearly a
hundred percent and you're put in this
pressurized closed environment so the
oxygen can not just go into your lung it
goes right in your tissues and it goes
into your blood and your blood carries
you to the organs and it basically feeds
the different tissues that have hypoxia
and that's areas where there's no oxygen
it could be from some trauma or
infection or from anything so simply
it's driving a high amount of
concentrated oxygen into injured tissues
it also has the capacity to stimulate
stem cells by 800% stem cells are
basically undifferentiated cells there
are cells that don't have a purpose that
turn into certain cells so this therapy
targets things like dementia stroke
heart problems
definitely things like angina or
coronary heart disease asthma other lung
conditions like COPD and the Simo
inflammatory conditions like autoimmune
conditions especially things like ms
brain trauma carbon dioxide poisoning
anemia inflammation after injuries
unhealing wounds it has a profound
effect on your DNA in genes but to start
affecting the genes you'd have to get
between 25 and 35 treatments over a
period of time it has the capacity to
explode mitochondria in tumor cells the
mitochondria have a different type of
metabolism there they no longer have the
respiratory type of tableaus and they
have the metabolism that's
sugar and when that happens these tumor
or cancer cells don't die anymore they
live forever and they keep growing
they keep dividing so we don't want them
in our bodies this is a great therapy
for tumors and even cancer one common
factor of tumors is something called
angiogenesis and that basically is new
blood vessels that feed the tumor
because the tumor needs a lot of oxygen
and nutrients in fact it tends to hog
all the fuel the glucose but without
those blood vessels it can't survive so
this therapy has the ability to shrink
or inhibit angiogenesis what triggers
angiogenesis is basically hypoxia a lack
of oxygen so if you give the body oxygen
it won't develop also a post-traumatic
stress disorder now as far as the time
that you're in this chamber one to two
hours maybe three times a week for
several weeks it really depends on what
you're using a for is it something
there's a lot of damage for or you're
doing it for maintenance or anti-aging
so you can get this several ways one is
just doing a search in your area
hyperbaric oxygen therapy near me and
finding a place that you can go to and
get this done probably get a
prescription from your doctor some
people actually buy or rent a unit and
bring it in their home but it's a very
valid and credible and effective therapy
so check it out
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
