so let's really narrow in on this topic
of appetite did you realize that
overweight people have insulin
resistance and they have a higher
insulin five to seven times normal and
did you know that people with type two
diabetes have nine times more insulin
than normal people now why is that
significant because insulin is the
hormone that not just blocks fat burning
but it keeps your appetite high because
if you're not going to burn fat guess
what you're going to be burning glucose
sugar the problem is you only have about
1,700 calories of stored glycogen or
stored sugar but you have a hundred
thousand calories of fat and that is on
a thin person so if you're overweight
you have way more than a hundred
thousand calories of fat sitting on your
body
that's your reserves many people just
never tap in to the fat they're running
on the glycogen and they have way too
much insulin that keeps them hungry all
the time so here you are you're hungry
and you can't lose weight that's a
terrible combination and if you have
type two diabetes it's going to be even
worse so what are you gonna do well the
most important thing is to lower the
insulin and fix insulin resistance okay
but to do that we have to understand
what insulin resistance is if you look
at insulin as a key one of the functions
is to unlock the door on the cells to
allow glucose to go in to feed the cells
but it also allows amino acids to enter
the cell it also allows nutrients to go
in the cell like potassium magnesium
vitamin D b1 vitamin C zinc chromium a
lot of other minerals and a lot of other
nutrients so if you have insulin
resistance you are not going to be able
to allow the nutrition or the fuel to go
into the cell so you're not gonna feel
satisfied now for those of you that are
new to the term keto the key to jannecke
diet
in a minute fasting I'm not gonna cover
a lot of that in this video but I put a
link down below I would highly suggest
pausing this going to that watching that
and coming back to this this video is
more about the person who is trying keto
but the appetite is still a problem and
they don't know what to do just realize
that if you're having a hard time all
that means is you have insulin
resistance and you we have to fix this
now when you drop your carbs and going
keto and you're do in a minute fasting
your insulin is going to go down and
your body is gonna start to tap into
this fat roughly within three days
you're gonna be about 50% of tapping
into ketones but you're still running on
glucose so it's not a hundred percent so
you may still have an appetite because
your body has to adapt to keto over a
period of time and it has to build the
the machinery in the cells so let's say
at 3 days you're at 50 percent seven
days you had 70% in two weeks you're at
80% this may take a lot longer the more
insulin resistance you have okay and
especially if you were diabetic or you
are a diabetic it could take even longer
so your main target should not be weight
loss initially it should be to fix
insulin resistance the way that you know
that this is being fixed or improved is
your appetites going down if you cannot
go from one meal to the next very easily
without being hungry that means you
still have this right here so there are
a few things to do to speed up the
progress and one thing is to start
taking MCT oil and the advantage to that
is that if you're partially into ketosis
by taking MCT oil you can go into 100%
ketosis pretty fast and so right there
you're not just gonna feel good in your
brain but your appetite is gonna go down
now as far as weight loss you may not
lose weight why because your body is
using the MCT oil is fuel and not your
own fuel but that's okay
because our goal is not weight loss
initially it's to help you with insulin
resistance because we're thinking
long-term so ideally we want to fix this
and then lose weight later so it's get
healthy then lose weight now there's a
couple other really important things to
do by consuming more MCT oil or fat with
your meal that's gonna make you more
satisfied right but also the nutrients
will make you more satisfied and this is
why when people do keto and they don't
consume enough vegetables they don't get
the minerals they feel like there's
something missing like they're gonna
feel unsatisfied so these nutrients will
help satisfy you just as much as fat
will help satisfy you this is why in the
beginning you may need to take
supplements like electrolyte the B
vitamins and other nutrients because you
still have insulin resistance and these
nutrients can't go in the south so that
will help you get by but as you correct
insulin resistance
you're gonna absorb more and more of
these nutrients and the need for taking
them will decrease also if you were
allowing carbs in the diet and you're
not going low-carb and I'm talking about
bringing your carbs down to between 20
to 50 grams
preferably 20 grams or less those carbs
will definitely keep the insulin just
too high and prevent the fat from coming
out so you're gonna be going along
you're gonna still have the appetite
you're not gonna lose weight you're
gonna be struggling because you're darn
carbs are too high so we definitely need
a combination of keeping your carbs real
low to make this work adding more fat
doing in a minute fasting and taking the
nutrients so in summary to really make
this work
take the goal of weight loss put it over
here focus on getting healthy take some
nutrients to bypass this blockage right
here get your cells full of nutrients
okay keep the carbs low do in a minute
fasting be okay with not losing weight
initially because what we're trying to
do is we're trying to get you to fast
longer longer just
this right here you can cut back on the
oil because you're going to be a hundred
percent in ketosis thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
