so occasionally I'll hear this comment I
don't need a Dookie no because I'm not
fat because Kido is for fat people
well actually it's for everyone you know
if done correctly and I'm talking about
the healthy version of it is not really
a diet it is just a healthy way of
eating so there's something called
skinny fat then on the outside that fat
on the inside many thin people have
visceral fat that is around the liver
it's around the organs and they have no
idea so adults that have a BMI of less
than eighteen point five so they're not
that overweight are at a 1.8 times
greater risk of dying then people with a
greater than 18.5 BMI okay people that
are more overweight I think what happens
is this if a person's genetics are such
that they they can pretty much eat
whatever they want and they never gain
weight they don't even maybe exercise
they just don't get fat
they they would tend to eat pretty much
whatever they want
in fact I'm that person in college and
in high school I had no real physical
symptoms I had no weight problems I ate
whatever I want and I ate really bad
foods but it caught up to me and what I
want to do with this video is just kind
of increase your awareness that just
because you don't have a weight problem
you may want to still do ketone don't
wait for a motivation to change your
diet and start eating healthy even
though your genetics are good there's
other things that go on deeper inside so
if you were to get an ultrasound of your
liver you may find there's fat in your
liver and despite everything else
looking good but the point of doing keto
is to lower insulin and high insulin is
behind so many health problems including
chronic inflammation all sorts of
problems with the eyes from the nerve of
the eye that you're affects the vision
and to the lens to the pressure of the
eye to floaters to the ability to see
and then your liver becomes fattier with
high levels of insulin the arteries are
affected now realize it takes time for
this to happen so one of the first
symptoms of a heart attack over 50
percent
time is death there is no symptom so you
want to be proactive but what happens
with high levels of insulin is it starts
to destroy the inside of the artery you
get inflammation you start getting
plaquing and calcium buildup one of the
best tests that you can do would be
called a coronary artery calcium test
okay
CAC next time you're at your doctors get
this test see where you are at it should
be a zero okay you don't want any
calcium and your arteries especially in
the coronary arteries okay fatigue is a
big one especially after you eat your
moved is somewhat lowered okay
memory is affected by high insulin you
start forgetting things but again these
symptoms many times take years to
develop
in fact dementia it takes 30 years to
develop it starts off small and a
graduate gets worse in Washington worse
alright guys so the summary of this
video is to don't just wait till you get
fat do something proactive start doing
healthy Kido to keep this insulin in
check so if you want more knowledge on
how to create a healthy body subscribe
now and get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
