all right so you just hit your
weight-loss goal on keto and you want to
now maintain your weight you don't want
to lose any more okay a couple tips here
this would be a pretty quick bit here
well we recommend between 20 and 50
grams of carbs so just stick with 50
maybe even 60 maybe even 70 grams of
carbs per day this is probably going to
be the most important thing right here
because if you try to maintain your
weight and you don't want to lose and
you're keeping the carbs low you're
probably gonna keep losing
okay so increase the car what kind of
cars well berries squash this thing
right here okay
squash each day even rye crackers
there's a crisp bread or here's one
right here a thin crisp this is from
Finland the other one I think is from
Sweden and I'm Swedish so I'm gonna
recommend it but if you actually take
this and put some Kerrygold butter on it
okay have it with the meal this this has
some carbs it's low on the glycemic
index but it's a way to consume your
butter it's way better than wheat okay
rye crackers and grass-fed butter okay
just some ideas make sure your meals are
bigger you're gonna have to increase
your calories to maybe 2500 to 3,000
calories with some people that have a
faster metabolism so before maybe you
were doing 3 to 6 ounces of protein per
meal well go up to 8 add bulletproof
coffee MCT oil butter because if you do
more fat the body we use that as energy
and not your own fat all right let's
talk about intimate fasting ok as far as
frequency of meals i recommend two meals
not three meals two meals not one two
meals but I would recommend to spread
out those meals now I usually recommend
for people that want to lose weight
bringing this to four hours a window of
eating but I would extend it longer okay
let's let's make it let's say a seven
hour eating window that will give you a
17 hour fast
okay that that means that you wouldn't
lose as much weight which is what we
want to do and um you're still doing
intermittent fasting you're just
extending that eating window so that's
what I would recommend
make sure these meals are quite large do
these things right here and that should
help you alright
I'll see you next video
so you do two meals increase the okay
now we have a daycare center
really
