I'm going to show you two natural
remedies for grinding teeth at night
okay and it's called nocturnal bruxism
and this is a very common problem with a
good portion of the population but of
course there's not much known about it
they don't know what causes it but we're
going to get into it and connect the
dots and not knowing how to deal with
this can definitely lead to excessive
wearing of your teeth teeth pain
headaches when you wake up in the
morning your jaw being in spasm and then
of course you end up wearing a night
guard which is a piece of plastic in
your mouth all night okay so there's a
new term I want to talk about what's
called
rhythmic
masticatory muscle activity well that's
just a medical term that describes what
happens when you grind your teeth
masticatory has to do with the muscles
involved with uh chewing your food and
of course the term rhythmic means that
this regular
set pattern or wave of something there's
a couple things involved one is related
to the autonomic nervous system
apparently right before you started to
do this at night there's an activation
of this autonomic nervous system in this
transition phase that affects the heart
apparently the heart is involved you
start getting an increase in pulse rate
which is interesting okay what's up with
that well both of those are involved
with the autonomic nervous system that
system that works on automatic and it
controls a lot of different parts of
your body well less than a second before
this occurs 0.8 seconds to be exact you
have the stimulation or the increasing
tone of your jaw muscles that occur and
we know that's related to grinding and
so apparently this problem has something
to do with this transition phase and
this dysfunction of the nervous system
that controls the muscular system the
muscles of your jaw and just so you know
like during sleep you have these cycles
of sleep from superficial sleep to deep
sleep and so some of these levels of
sleep are are very active and you can
have these wild dreams like you're
almost awake but you're actually asleep
you would think that the grinding of the
teeth would wake you up and of course
this phenomena is occurring in the level
where your brain is aroused and it's
active versus the phase of sleep that
all your muscles are basically paralyzed
and you're just laying there completely
in the dead of sleep or the Delta wave
sleep and so this mainly Curves in The
More The Superficial levels of sleep now
what else do we know that's uh helpful
well we do know that there's a high risk
of getting bruxism in smokers if you're
a smoker you have two times the risk of
getting this also it's higher in people
that drink alcohol it's higher with
people that are on ssris which are
medications that are manipulating
serotonin or anxiety and depression okay
so that's a little clue in fact there's
even condition called SSRI Associated
bruxism okay as a side effect and we
also know that serotonin is involved
with sleep and the ssris involve
serotonin and so whether someone takes
them because they're deficient in
serotonin or once they take them they
become deficient
we don't know but there's a serotonin
connection there's also a dopamine
connection because they found that when
someone takes like l-dopa which is a
precursor to dopamine
there's a lower incidence of bruxism and
they both do also relate to the
autonomic nervous system because
remember neurotransmitters are like
hormones for the nervous system so you
have the neurotransmitters for the
nerves and then you have hormones that
communicate through the blood we also
know that bruxism can be triggered by
stress events
trauma excess caffeine intake and then
there's another Association which you
want to bring up
with a problem with what's called Snips
now what are Snips and I'm going to give
you a new word here so and I'll Define
it very simply but a Snips s n p s
stand for single nucleotoid polymorphism
and very simply what that is it's a tiny
change in the sequence of your Gene that
can alter a function in your body and so
when you get a DNA test which I've been
talking about in other videos you're
really looking at these Snips and from
that you can kind of deduct
susceptibility to certain problems how
does this relate to grinding of your
teeth well apparently there's this
variation or change
with your genetics that can increase
significantly the risk of grinding your
teeth at night and this Gene HTR 2A is
the receptor Gene for serotonin what a
coincidence and serotonin can also help
with stress dopamine also can help
reduce stress as well and so if you have
this snip variation with this serotonin
receptor okay you can be deficient in
serotonin okay so you basically are
going to just have to increase more
precursors to build up that hormone to
fix it so it might not even be a problem
even if you have a problem with this
Gene if you're taking all the necessary
things or doing all the necessary things
to handle this receptor for serotonin
and I just want to point this out
because people think that if they just
have a kind of a problem with their
genetics they can't do anything about it
or they'll automatically have a problem
with it that's not true certain people
will have a problem if let's say their
diet's not right or their environment is
not good especially if they go through a
lot of stress and things like that and
they eat poorly all right so what can
someone do well
the first nutrient I'm going to
recommend is
B1 thymine why well because if you think
about it how do you become deficient in
B1 definitely by drinking a lot of
alcohol definitely by drinking a lot of
caffeinated Beverages and definitely by
smoking a lot where you're exposed to
nicotine so all these triggers could be
leading to a problem with a deficiency
of B1 which then causes an exaggerated
deficiency of Serotonin and dopamine and
then compounded with your genetics and
stress boom it's the perfect storm and
so you need B1 so I mean to make
serotonin and to make dopamine which is
another interesting connection and this
could also explain why if someone takes
like aldopa as a precursor as a
supplement right initially they tend to
do good with this bruxism but if they
take it over a long period of time it
seems to come back well it could be they
didn't address this vitamin B1 okay
that's the precursor
so you just kind of have to have all
these little pieces to the puzzle to
kind of understand what you need to do
you can get it from nutritional yeast
and I would recommend if you get it from
nutritional yeast make sure you have an
unfortified one so you don't get the
synthetic added
B vitamins to it or else just find a
natural B1 okay so that's number one the
other vitamin I would recommend the
vitamin D3 because vitamin D3 is a
potent modulator a regulator
for dopamine vitamin D3 also activates
serotonin so it's very important in
these two neurotransmitters and when
you're deficient in vitamin D3
uh people tend to have depression they
get anxious they have deficiency
symptoms of dopamine and serotonin so
both of these vitamins have been shown
to decrease the risk of bruxism directly
but now we know why so very simply this
is what I want you to do start taking B1
start taking vitamin D3 and then comment
down below if you're grinding of the
teeth goes away now I've done a ton of
videos on thymine okay B1 but if you
haven't seen this one that I've done at
my Summit you definitely need to check
it out it's actually pretty good I put
it up right here
