so today we're going to talk about ten
different ways that you can increase
your bile output from your liver and
gallbladder okay the liver makes bile
it's stored in the gallbladder okay the
purpose of the gallbladder is to store
and concentrate the bile okay if you
don't have a gallbladder it just
trickles down with no concentrated bile
which actually greatly inhibits the
digestion of fat and the extraction of
fat soluble vitamins and essential fatty
acids from the fat that you eat so the
bile is very very important in breaking
down fats lubricating the colon it helps
kill certain bad bacteria it's involved
in the balance of microbial health it
does a lot so we need biome so here's
ten things that you can consume to
increase that output even if you don't
have a gallbladder especially if you
don't have a gallbladder okay one is
beet tops now you can steam these I like
to put them either in my salad raw or in
a kale shake i blend them in there and
has a lot of potassium it's really good
for the liver and gallbladder ginger
will increase the output of bile
artichoke will majorly increase bile
production basically these foods
stimulate the liver to make more bile
lemon or a lime will help dandelion
greens okay milk thistle choline choline
is also good for a fatty liver turmeric
betaine and actually taking bile salts
purified bile salts this is actually you
can get this in a supplement but purify
bile salts are basically you're adding
bile back to the system maybe because
you lost it from having diarrhea or
something or just years of bad food
because most of the bile is recycled
through the microbes but if you don't
have the microbes you can't recycle it
but there you have it ten things that
will increase your output of bile
hey so if you haven't done so please
press subscribe now that way you can be
aware of all the new content that I'm
putting out on a regular basis
