so today we're going to talk about how
to get rid of herpes with something
called the toffee G which I'll explain
in a second so herpes there's many
different types it's identified by the
location of the body part you can have
it in your mouth
you can have it in your private parts it
can even go into the brain it creates a
lot of problems the herpes virus it
travels through the sensory nerves and
it can even hang out in these little
nerve cell bodies called ganglia and
these viruses can go out of remission
and back in the remission back and forth
with various things that can activate
them stress sun chemicals and they can
really make your life miserable however
on a positive note there is something
you can do about it and it's called a
fasting or in a minute fasting now
fasting will do some very fascinating
things in the body one is it will
trigger a condition called a toffee g
state where your cells are ridding
abnormal proteins breaking them down
with certain enzymes and recycling them
okay so it's like a self-cleaning oven
it will also recycle damaged organelles
organelles are like the mitochondria
endoplasmic reticulum these different
little parts of the cellular machinery
that could be damaged and what's really
amazing is that etapa G will also target
microbes invading microbes the term is
Zenith AG okay which xeno comes from the
word foreign or strange and Fei Jie
meaning eating
so basically Zi know they G means a tapa
G against a pathogen or a virus and
what's really good about doing fasting
if you had herpes is that herpes travels
to the nervous system and etapa G is
more efficient and more effective on
neurons more than other cells so it can
be a very good tool to deal with this
infection and I also think that when our
bodies are sick we naturally lose our
appetite which we're naturally going to
do fasting as a mechanism to deal with
the infection so there's two things that
I would recommend number one is to start
doing in a minute fast
and number two I would also recommend
certain natural antiviral compounds like
mono Lauren this comes from coconut oil
sant√© viral oregano which is antiviral
olive leaf extract is antiviral garlic
is antiviral now a couple points in in a
minute fasting I would really recommend
you do it gradual starting at 3 meals no
snacks do that for a while and then
graduate to two meals no snacks and then
graduate to one meal eventually ok
especially if you have a really bad
situation with the herpes because I
think this could give you a lot of
relief now I for those of you that are
new to namenda fasting may have a video
down below that explains how to do it
effectively etapa g starts being
effective at 18 hours in your fast ok
and it kind of maxes out at about 23
hours so if you were that's why i was
recommending doing 2 meals and then down
to one male to really get the full
benefit of this anyway I put some links
down below for some more research give
it a shot see if it can help you thanks
for watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
