did you actually realize that high blood
sugar can actually make your brain gets
smaller why because when you have high
blood sugar you increase insulin and
when you have chronic elevation of
insulin over a period of time you
develop in Sun resistance and it's the
insulin resistance that creates atrophy
of the gray matter in your brain and the
structure called the hippocampus
hippocampus by the way has the highest
concentration of insulin receptors in
the brain now when you have insulin
resistance your body makes more insulin
by a factor of 7x incredible and then
the hippocampus is involved with memory
and learning it's like a relay switch to
your database your memories so you may
find that it's hard to recall things it
takes you a lot longer to learn new
things
you're not as sharp as you used to be
and with an atrophied brain you get
decreased oxygen decreased blood flow
and decrease ATP which is the energy
currency of the mitochondria or actually
the entire body so if we don't have
energy you're gonna be mentally dull and
you might have a lot of brain fog now
the good news is that this part of the
brain has the potential to regenerate
that's good right and the two things
that will do it our number one calorie
restriction or in a minute fasting okay
and I don't recommend calorie
restriction because you're restricting
nutrients as well I would recommend
intermittent fasting so intermittent
fasting can not only increase insulin
sensitivity okay but it can increase the
the connection between the synapses in
your brain so it increases communication
in the brain very powerful and then of
course if you add a lower sugar diet as
in healthy keto you take it to the next
level now if you want more information
about this I put a link down below so
you can check it out but you just need
to know the relationship between sugar
in the diet and then sugar in the blood
and then what it got triggers and what
eventually leads to these things right
here all right I'll talk to later
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
