how to lose weight without changing your
diet one bit Let's first talk about
exercise Jumping rope At rest you're
burning about 50 calories But when
you're jumping rope you burn about 560
calories per hour One pound of fat is
3500 calories You would have to jump
rope for
5.3 hours to burn one pound of fat Let's
say we wanted to walk off one pound of
fat You burn 340 an hour walking briskly
which means you would need to walk 10.2
hours Next activity is laughing For
every 10 minutes of laughing you can
burn off an extra 40 calories To burn
off one pound of fat you're going to
have to laugh for about 14 and 1/2 hours
Let's move on to the next one Fidgeting
You can actually burn an extra 50
calories per hour Just by fidgeting for
70 hours you can burn off one pound of
fat Moving right along to the ice bath
When you go into an ice bath for 15
minutes you can burn an an extra 250
calories But if you're between let's say
45 to 50Â° F spending 14 sessions which
is basically doing it every day for 2
weeks you could potentially lose one
pound of fat The reason why you burn fat
is your body has to maintain this core
temperature So it's going to do whatever
it can to keep you warm and it's going
to generate a lot of heat And that's how
you burn calories When you do the ice
bath you'll actually hear that if you
breathe faster okay you can even burn
more calories To burn one pound of fat
you're going to have to breathe deeply
for about
291 hours Let's get to the next one Sex
That's right You can burn more calories
with sex You can actually burn four
calories per minute For every 1 hour of
sex you are burning 200 extra calories
So if you wanted to burn an extra pound
of fat you'd have to spend
14.58 hours of constant sex to burn off
that one pound Donating blood When you
donate blood your body has to then make
up that loss of blood So it has to
generate more energy to make up that
blood And so you can burn up an extra
350 calories In 14 sessions of donating
blood you can lose a pound of fat As
you're probably realizing it's going to
be very difficult to lose even one pound
of fat without changing your diet And on
top of that if you're adding certain
foods that you shouldn't be eating Big
Mac or fries or a Coke think about how
many extra calories that you're going to
have to add on top of all these other
things that you're doing that are going
to make it very difficult to lose any
weight If one slice of pizza is 285
calories well you can run three miles to
burn that off If the Big Mac is 550
calories you can bike for an hour to
burn that off But we're not talking
about weight loss We're just talking
about breaking even Okay and that soda
that's 270 calories That's doing Zumba
for 45 minutes just to break even
Unfortunately 15% of all the activities
that I just mentioned contribute to your
actual weight loss whereas 85% of the
results from weight loss come from diet
You're going to have to change your diet
There is no other way You cannot
exercise your way out of a poor diet I
love exercise I recommend it I do it but
not necessarily for weight loss What you
get from exercise is higher fitness You
get better muscle tone You get
tremendous health benefits but not
necessarily a lot of weight loss And
unfortunately when you see people at the
gym week after week trying to exercise
off their stomach or trying to lose
weight with exercise it's very tempting
for me to go up to them to give them
some advice But since you're watching
the video I want to give you some advice
If you want to lose actual fat okay
we're talking about fat not just water
weight There's one really important
thing you need to do we have to keep
insulin low But the cool thing about
doing that is your appetite and your
cravings will go away That'll make it
really easy to do and stick with because
if you don't do that you're going to
have a massive struggle trying to lose
weight with being hungry all the time
with cravings and that is torturous To
reduce insulin you must go on a lowcarb
diet The ketogenic diet where the
primary thing you do is just lower your
carbohydrates not just sugar You're
going to have to look at the label and
make sure they're between 20 and 30
grams for the entire day But it's very
important to point out that we're not
just talking about sugar We're talking
about carbohydrate which include sugar
And starches are those hidden sugars
that will keep you from losing weight
That would be the bread pasta cereal
crackers biscuits and ingredients like
maltodextrin wheat flour Some people get
rid of all the carbs They just eat like
meat eggs fish cheese That's called
carnivore They don't have any plants
It's very simple to do and they'll lose
a lot of weight because they're bringing
their carbs down to zero We can also add
in one more powerful thing to put your
fat burning in hyper warp speed and that
is intermittent fasting Because as you
lower your carbs it's going to be easier
to stick with it because you're going to
lose your appetite And then if you just
eat when you're hungry you're going to
be able to go longer without eating
because you're going to lose your
appetite You may find that one day you
just are hungry for one meal and the
next day maybe it's two meals but then
the following day you're not even hungry
at all So you're literally going a
couple days without even eating a meal
When you do intermittent fasting or
prolonged fasting you are definitely not
starving yourself You are living off of
your own fat This is how you burn fat
and you fix a lot of other health
problems Your inflammation goes down If
you had high blood pressure that'll
start going down Diabetes that will kind
of come back to normal Depression that
will lift up and you'll feel better If
you were fatigued now you have energy
What you need to know is carbohydrates
block fat burning They block weight loss
Trying to lose weight with exercise and
these other activities is really only
going to be a tiny piece of that puzzle
Full circle Is it possible to lose
weight without changing your diet the
answer is yes but it's only a tiny bit
of
