so there was a Dr Gil caral who did a
factchecking video on me so today we're
going to do a factchecking video on the
fact Checker so we got a ton of requests
from a lot of you guys to comment on
this video okay so the first thing he
says is there's a ton of you that
requested to do a video on one of my
videos H what what is my channel have to
do with your channel I'm just curious
like Gil can you just maybe show us
uh how many people actually requested
this video we're going to focus only on
the substance no ad omms I didn't Google
him I don't know anything about him I
didn't go watch a bunch of his other
videos for context nothing because it
doesn't matter the only thing that
matters is whether the claims match the
evidence so don't you hate that when you
know that there's some bad news coming
so some negative things about you coming
but they kind of prep it with you know
oh we won't look at as a character we
won't we'll be really nice to as someone
maybe pushes you underneath the bus okay
let's continue let's go this was in 2018
the new guidelines by the American Heart
Association okay this is brand new they
said total cholesterol is not
significantly associated with heart
disease okay that's the new finding they
just found out looking at your total
cholesterol doesn't really give you a
lot of information with in relationship
to predicting heart
disease I don't know what he's talking
about total cholesterol is not the best
marker it's a dirty marker but it
definitely Associates with
cardiovascular disease with heart
disease I don't remember any American
Heart Association guidelines saying that
it just doesn't associate period here's
the 2018 American Heart Association
guidelines like he said population
studies suggest optimal total
cholesterol levels are about 150
populations with cholesterol in this
range manifest low rates of
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease
nobody's saying it's the best marker but
this is the opposite of what he's saying
I've read these guidelines there's
nothing in there about total cholesterol
not associating period maybe he saw
something else and misunderstood it uh
is there anything in the description
that he links as a
reference okay two links to journals
that's good American Heart Association
Journal that's probably it let's click
here all right sweet
um wait this is scientific advisory for
dietary
cholesterol no way no
way don't tell me this guy is confusing
wow
wow yep here's the passage he's
referring to my God generally no
significant association with
cardiovascular disease
risk but this document is the scientific
this is the science advisory on dietary
cholesterol I think most people
understand the difference but just in
case all right so that sounds a little
bit staged but nevertheless he's
absolutely correct I did make a mistake
the American Heart Association did not
say that but they did say that the
dietary cholesterol is not associated
with cardiovascular risk however if you
take a look at this paper in 2018
entitled LDL cholesterol does not cause
cardiovascular disease a comprehensive
review of the current literature under
section two does high cholesterol cause
atherosclerosis and in summary no
association between total cholesterol
and degree of AOS sclerosis that's stuff
that clogs up your arteries so Gill
point is correct American Heart
Association did not say that but another
uh paper did say that so both dietary
cholesterol and blood level cholesterol
is not associated with cardiovascular
risk more specifically risk for getting
atherosclerosis all right let's move on
particle size no longer predicts risk
it's just like the astri analogy and
they add two more lines of evidence okay
wait a second let's go back to this for
a second saturated fats and
cardiovascular health current evidence
and
controversies this is an
editorial piece it's not an actual study
it's someone talking about the data and
they add two more lines of evidence
statins which have a well-established
effect of lowering risk preferentially
reduce large LDL and number two patients
with familial hyper cholesterolemia
which is a disease where people have
very high cholesterol and very high risk
of heart disease they have mainly large
ldls and they are at high risk
indicating that large ldls are not
benign okay the next point he brings up
which is rather a long explanation I'm
going to summarize it because it gets
into a lot of additional things which
are a bit complex but basically the
point I was making was that um you have
two different size particles with LDL
you have small dense and you have large
buoyant okay and I was making a point
that the small dents were more
pathological they create more problems
than the large buoyant particles and so
then he shows several references that
it's not true they're both Dam damaging
especially if you look at the total
concentration of LDL if that's high you
know that's going to be a bigger problem
but uh there was two additional studies
that I want to show you right now that
um came a little bit later than the one
he posted this one was originally
published in 15 February
2021 small dense low density lipoprotein
that would be the small dense LDL
cholesterol is the most atherogenic
lipoprotein parameter in the prospective
gringham Offspring study in the
conclusion it says our data indicate
that small dense LDL is the most
atherogenic
lipoprotein parameter and then there's
one more study I want to show you
2017 small dense lowdensity lipo Protein
that's LDL as biomarker for
atherosclerotic diseases so this is the
conclusion the results of the recent
study demonstrate that LDL fractions
talking about the low dense versus the
um large buoyant okay the two different
uh particle sizes have different
atherogenicity that means ability to
affect the arteries with the small dense
LDL being more arthrogenic than the
large LDL
subfractions small dense LDL is
characterized by the enhanced ability to
penetrate the arterial wall that makes
it a potent source of cholesterol for
the development of atherosclerotic
plaque importantly longer circulation
times of small dense LDL result in
multiple atherogenic modifications of
small dense LDL particles in plasma
that's your blood further increasing its
atherogenicity now they just mentioned
why the small dense LDL is more
pathogenic because it has the ability to
penetrate the deeper walls as as well as
having a longer circulation time the
longer that a small dense LDL is exposed
to the arteries okay it's going to
create more problems and there was some
additional data that there's more
oxidation going on with the small dense
LDL than the large buoyant okay let's
move to a different topic um one little
thing that um Dr Gil kept bringing up
was uh this this word we he keeps saying
well we did this or we're doing that um
my first thought was I thought you were
an independent guy who just basically is
putting out the message and and um doing
videos on various topics it's not on his
YouTube channel I had to do a little
searching and I suspect it's a a group
that he's a member of and of course I'm
just guessing but that's the only group
that I could find so Dr Gil is a member
or council member of an organization
called true health initiative so let's
take a look at what this organization is
plant-based Di for reversing disease and
saving the planet okay so this is a
plant-based
organization all right let's go down to
the bottom and and take a look at the
purpose of this organization and what
they
do okay changing policy changing Minds
improving lives we are a global
Coalition of world-renowned experts
fighting fake facts and combating false
doubts about creating a world free of
preventable diseases using the time time
honored evidence-based fundamentals of
Lifestyle as medicine okay so the whole
uh mission is to fight fake facts and uh
combat false doubts okay all right so
that must be the organization that he's
talking about when we're talking about
we uh if we scroll down we see no beef
week challenge okay so this is uh this
is definitely a vegan or vegetarian type
um group supporting the benefits of
plant-base uh let's take a look at their
Partners the true Health Initiative
Partners okay we have no beef so I can
see very clearly they're against beef
now if you look at how many videos that
I have on meat and beef there's a lot I
actually am Pro beef right I tell people
to consume beef now I see why this
factchecking video was created Dr go
also did one on Dr eberg Who also has
the same philosophy U because we're into
the a healthy version of the ketogenic
diet okay so now it's all making a lot
more sense so Dr Gil if you're watching
um I just want to let you know I did
participate in a study involving
grass-fed beef and uh from Farmers all
over United States and they submitted
their beef into this study uh and it was
a metabolomic study looking at all these
metabolites and comparing
grass-fed to grain-fed beef okay and
about 6 months after the study
uh the researcher called me up and said
what are you doing uh I said what do you
mean he says take a look at this report
look at this first graph total phyto
chemicals phal stands for plants
interesting so you can clearly see the
difference between the beef that I
submitted for This research project as
far as the amount of phyto chemicals
plant-based chemicals in the beef and
this was compared to other farmers who
had grass-fed and compared to grain Fed
so this was the total phyl chemicals
okay if we scroll down we'll take a look
at a very specific phyl chemical called
hirate which is the major polyphenol
these typically are antioxidant
anti-inflammatory and higher levels are
associated with improved gut microbial
diversity and a lowered risk for
metabolic syndrome in humans here's
another one that was significantly
higher which is anti-inflammatory
metabolite here's another one
antioxidant anti-inflammatory and take a
look at the fatty acid profile we're
looking at the Omega 6 to omega3 ratios
so a lower Omega 6 to3 ratio is
typically considered beneficial lower
levels means a higher abundance of
omega-3 fatty acids here's another
interesting finding vitamin B3 quite a
bit more than the other groups here's
one that's a bit lower than the others
Advan glycation and products which is an
a major negative marker for health
here's another one homosysteine uh much
lower than the other groups which is a
beneficial thing but and the reason I
wanted to mention this is because so
many times people lump in processed meat
with grass-fed grassfish beef like
they're the same thing they're not and
of course there's not a tremendous
amount of research in the area of
grass-fed grass finish but that's coming
using what's called metabolomic testing
so you could really see what's going on
with these Health markers because there
is a difference in differentiating going
to McDonald's versus getting a really
healthy source of beef which is filled
with phytonutrients and a lot of other
great things including a lot of great
bio valuable protein so Dr Gil if you're
watching just want to let you know um
there's a lot of positive things in beef
that personally I feel very healthy when
I consume it but I can see that I'm a
target for this organization for sure
all right let's scroll down a little bit
further on the true Health Initiative we
have beyond meat all right the truth
about plant-based
Meats okay I see so this is definitely
supporting plant-based meats and
alternative Meats okay and if we do a
search on Dr Gill's site you have quite
a few videos uh about imitation meats or
Beyond impossible Burger Lab grown meat
I I have no idea what your thoughts are
I didn't watch these videos but you
definitely talk about these these
products now the president of this
organization uh Dr David cats is
definitely not a fan of Keto or any
other diet that restricts ENT food
groups calling them unhealthy or
unsustainable he said that keto is just
a false label for some kind of diet that
presumably restricts added sugar and
refined carbohydrates which frankly any
good diet does cat's low opinion on keto
is echoed by many nutritional
Specialists across the country cats join
24 other top names in the field to rank
35 popular the weight loss programs for
2020 recently put up by the US News and
World Report which is a very credible uh
news organization on being very
sarcastic here's another article
toasting 2017 goodbye with the ketogenic
Kool-Aid this is by Dr Katz as well he
said the historical case for ketogenesis
denying the body its customary fuel
source that
glucose is in short supply and instead
it metabolizes fat preferentially and
generates Ketone bodies as fuel uh
resides in Starvation rather predictably
starvation has profound effects on all
aspects of metabolism the body
effectively turns to autodigestion to
sustain itself during the protracted
fast now first of all I can tell that
what you're talking about is is
starvation it's not even fasting your
body might create autophagy but it's not
going to go after the muscles until
you're actually starving until you burn
up your fat I mean this is the way our
bodies were designed to store fat to
live during times of famine and we
didn't have food so we would burn fat so
there's a way to do ketosis without even
doing fasting and just cutting down your
carbs he goes on to say that the one
known benefit of ketogenic diets is for
the shortterm control of otherwise
intractable seizures mostly in certain
children so why would that be a
short-term thing if it helped them and
that's the only benefit that you know
okay you should go to my website I have
over 7,000 success stories which you
probably won't consider valid but
there's 7,000 people um that are real
testimonials of going on the ketogenic
diet and looking at many other benefits
here's another quote there are as noted
short-term studies of ketogenic diets
showing the usual metabolic benefits
attached to almost any diet so basically
just lump everything together all right
whatever but this next sentence is quite
entertaining but lest you think
short-term improvements in these markers
a good idea makes consider these other
interventions that do the same aout of
chalera a crack cocaine binge the spread
of cancer through one's body or the
advance of
tuberculosis my goodness many
life-threatening diseases evoke
autodigestion and cause weight
cholesterol glucose insulin and blood
pressure to fall they are all
emphatically ill advised just the same
so he's caring the ketogenic diet
creating damage like you would if you
smoke crack or had cancer or had TB and
the last thing I want to bring up just
one last quote as I write this the
proposed guiding principles for healthy
eating in Canada have just been released
they are eminently sensible current and
evidence-based so naturally they are
under immediate attack as was the
comparably sensible 2015 report of the
diet AR guideline advisory committee
here in the US before it's ink was dry
all right so definitely he's talking
about how you know there was some attack
on this dietary guideline advisory
committee well if you take a look at
this website called the US right to
know.org nearly half of the dietary
guidelines advisory committee have
conflicts of interest this is why it's
attacked so I'm not sure about Dr Gil
but I definitely know Dr Katz doesn't
like keto and probably doesn't like my
9980 keto videos which very
unfortunately well he'll probably like
this it's you can't even find them
anymore when you do a search on keto all
you see is the negative keto videos that
come up but of course if you search for
the plant-based ones they're all really
nice and positive so my question for Gil
and others who do like an uh anti-
drberg videos is what diet do you
recommend you know what should we be
eating and let's compare that versus
just the keto ketogenic diet because
there's a lot of different ketogenic
diet versions uh the one I recommend is
the healthy version in fact I don't know
if gild knows this but I recommend 7 to
10 cups of vegetables every single day
which is a considerable amount of
vegetables I don't know if you knew that
or not but as I dug more into this true
Health Initiative site I found a link to
this other site called eat forum.org
it's called the eat Lancet commit
the planetary Health diet so as far as I
know this might be the diet that there
this group recommends I don't know this
for a fact but it's definitely mostly
plant-based and they want to put this
out to the entire planet so this is what
it looks like okay here's the
interesting thing about this diet
they're recommending 811 calories behold
grains okay what about gluten what about
the fates which block zinc and what
about the fact that very very few people
have just whole grains they have a
combination of whole grains and refined
grains I mean just take a look at the
grocery store they do recommend potatoes
and cassava uh fruits 126 calories but
this is interesting beef we can have 30
calories per day that comes out to a
half of an ounce per day that's like a
little little tiny bite but we can have
284 calories from legumes okay and 291
calories of nuts and 354 calories of
unsaturated oils would that be like soy
oil canola oil cotton seed oil corn oil
I couldn't find the specific unsaturated
fats and that you're allowed added
sugars 120 calories that's 7.5 tspoons
per day now why is that on the list of a
planetary Health diet why do you even
have to add sugars what is healthy about
those added sugars I would love to know
now another thing about this planetary
Health diet is the Strategic Partners
okay strategic Partners let's take a
look who that would be well we have
Nestle that's interesting Nestle
produces a lot of um refined Foods at
the grocery store don't they why are
they involved in this planetary Health
diet that's that's strange well I did a
little deeper dive on vegan
news.com and apparently Nestle is the
first major food company to get behind
la grown meat Incredible Dr Gil if
you're watching please tell us what we
should be eating and please educate us
on what is damaging about what I'm
recommending and also what is so
beneficial healthwise of what you're
recommending now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other
side
