hi guys I'm back in this video we're
gonna talk about the vitamin that can
actually help you lose weight can you
guess what it is well you're probably
looking over there and you're seeing
what it is but it's vitamin D did you
realize there's over a hundred and forty
clinical trials on the relationship
between vitamin D and obesity there is a
ton of research related to this topic so
let's talk about why vitamin D could
help you lose weight now as a side note
I remember this patient who used to come
into my office when I had my office he
had this gut this huge belly and he'd go
to Florida for a two-week vacation and
he would come back I swear it was
literally flat and at the time I didn't
know it was the vitamin D but it was the
vitamin D from the Sun because you'd get
all the Sun and his stomach would dish
shrink now this next point is very
interesting vitamin D deficiency occurs
when someone becomes obese it occurs
routinely in diabetics when you have
insulin resistance when you're under
stress
you're usually deficient in vitamin D
actually when you get certain vitamins
and I'm talking specifically the flu
you're usually always deficient in
vitamin D when you have asthma
you're usually deficient in vitamin D
high blood pressure you usually have a
vitamin D deficiency autoimmune
conditions and inflammation you have a
situation when you don't have enough
vitamin D now what's interesting if you
look at all these condition what would
be the common thread well right here
insulin resistance which is really
created by having too much insulin too
much insulin and type 2 diabetes
definitely an obesity or a stubborn
metabolism high insulin will cause high
blood pressure that will cause
inflammation and also when you're under
stress and you raise cortisol that can
then lead to high levels of insulin
which can then lead to insulin
resistance and diabetes now the reason
I'm bringing up the topic of insulin is
if you haven't seen my videos before and
you're new to my channel you're gonna
hear this a lot high insulin is behind
weight problems and when you take
vitamin D
you actually lower stress you decrease
insulin you decrease inflammation
especially back pain you've decreased
estrogen you increase the good bacteria
and I'm going to put a lot of references
down below so you can check this out and
also you decrease metabolic syndrome
which is behind this here this here and
this right here and so the ideal scene
is to get a lot of Sun but if it's
winter take vitamin D I would recommend
routinely taking 20,000 I use and if
you're actually taking vitamin D make
sure you take k2 with that guys thanks
for watching and definitely check out
the additional videos I have on this
page with vitamin D and also vitamin k2
