so today I want to talk about an actual
big problem that's occurring in India
and Pakistan
it's a micronutrient deficiency and that
micronutrient is zinc this is a major
problem with not having enough zinc
especially in pregnant lactating women
and small children and the reason for
this is that zinc is involved in so many
biochemical reactions in the body
it's a cofactor for more than a thousand
enzymes now and when I say a cofactor
for a thousand enzymes I have to define
what that means okay cofactors are
helper molecules and an enzyme is a type
of protein now when you think about
proteins you may think about enzymes
when you when you actually eat food you
also may think of hair nail skin but
proteins go way beyond that
proteins are involved in many many
things DNA repair detoxification
building your immune system so nearly
all the structural parts of our body
like tendons ligaments connective tissue
our protein but also the functional
parts as well
the little proteins that do the work of
the body that take food turn into body
tissue and then take tissue and recycle
it gets rid of waste it's involved in so
many factors so if someone is deficient
in zinc here are just a few things that
may occur
number one is diarrhea that's one of the
big symptoms a problem with this symptom
is that diarrhea also will cause a major
deficiency of zinc because you're going
to lose your electrolytes under weight
because zinc is involved in metabolism
stunted growth because zinc is involved
in a growing body cognitive defects
so memory lack of attention focus and
even IQ susceptibility to malaria
pneumonia and viruses this is why a lot
of people take zinc when they get sick
because it actually helps your immune
system and actually help support the
proteins involved in your immune system
skin problems that could be dermatitis
psoriasis dandruff all sorts of skin
problems stomach ulcers low testosterone
alopecia which is a loss of hair
different patches
that's an autoimmune condition by the
way zinc is involved in a lot of
autoimmune conditions
and if you're deficient in zinc you can
have a lot of inflammation in the body
as well and of course a low thyroid all
right so now the question is why is
there such a massive deficiency and by
the way two billion people worldwide are
deficient in zinc number one reason is
phytic acid when it's fine agate acid
this is a chemical compound naturally
found in bran in the rice and the grains
it's also in the beans it's in the raw
nuts in corn nuts being raw almonds and
especially raw walnuts okay because when
you heat it you can actually destroy
this phytic acid another name for
finding acid is phytates
so if you're consuming a lot of rice
especially brown rice by the way or
whole grains you're gonna have higher
levels of phytic acid and that is going
to bind the zinc and it's going to
create a zinc deficiency especially if
your diet is mostly these foods okay and
of course this relates to the next one
being a vegan now the best source of
zinc and I'm talking about
bioavailability is is animal products
like beef and it's also in seafood like
oysters fish lamb and if you are a vegan
or you just can't afford meat and you're
doing mostly grains or cereals you're
gonna get a zinc deficiency and diarrhea
I've already talked about that but let's
say for example you have an infection
that's causing diarrhea or a parasite or
a microbe that can set you up for a zinc
deficiency and let's say for example
you're doing white rice or you're doing
white flour products okay as in refined
grains well guess what refined grains
and refined sugars will actually cause a
zinc deficiency itself so not only do we
have the whole grains we have the
refined grains causing this zinc
deficiency creating a lot of problems
all right in summary if you know someone
who's pregnant or lactating make sure
they're taking a trace mineral or having
enough foods that are high in zinc I put
a link down below so you can get more
data on that also children make sure
they're taking a trace mineral to
include not just sink but all the trace
minerals very
important like iodine selenium and even
iron and lastly and most importantly get
them on a healthy keto plan to avoid
these foods that are not cute a friendly
and that way you don't to worry about it
in the first place
thanks for watching if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
