recently I had a question in my live
show why acne during my period every
other month the ovaries take turn an
ovulation so this month it might be at
the left ovary next month it might be
the right ovary and that correlates
sometimes with acne that develops on the
jawline and one side one month the next
month it's on the alternate side which
is actually quite interesting but let's
talk about what actually causes the acne
during menstruation when you're having
your period if we look at the entire
month we have several things happening
at day 14 when you're ovulating you have
the high spike of estrogen about a week
later you get the high spike with
progesterone but during menstruation you
have the lowest amount of estrogen and
the lowest amount of progesterone so the
question is why are you getting acne if
these two are alone well there's another
hormone involved and that is called
testosterone now testosterone is a type
of androgen and that is a male hormone
but even women have a certain amount of
it but if there's too much of it in a
female body you start getting facial
hair acne hair loss deeper voice things
like that now the ovaries produce
several types of androgens which can
then turn into testosterone or DHT okay
also your adrenal glands also make
androgens which can also turn into
testosterone but the majority or the
lion's share is produced by the ovaries
so what's happening with acne is you're
getting too much testosterone for the
amount of estrogen and progesterone
that's in your body so we have this
ratio that just shows too much
testosterone and testosterone and DHT
enlarges the sebaceous gland or the
sweat gland and that can then release
more sebum or more oil and there can be
bacteria involved and then that results
in acne so acne just occurs if there's
too much antigen you see this in puberty
you see this in another condition called
polycystic ovarian syndrome in that case
you have
much insulin that's converted to
androgen in this case it's a little bit
different because it's cyclic in other
words it doesn't happen all month long
it happens during this period of time so
we know there's just an imbalance
there's too little estrogen and
progesterone and just too much
testosterone now the big question is
what do you do about this there's a
really really good remedy that can help
you and it's called dim dim is a super
concentrated cruciferous product the
there's certain phytochemicals in
cruciferous vegetables and dim is like
consuming two pounds of these vegetables
in one pill so it is an androgen
antagonist so it helps lower and urgent
and it helps with acne and helps with
cystic acne on your back so it can be
very helpful now dim is also helpful in
balancing estrogen so it acts as a
phytoestrogen that can increase estrogen
and it also can eliminate excessive
amounts of estrogen too now it does not
give you more estrogen that you already
have it helps to balance the ratios of
good versus bad estrogen so it's very
beneficial for women that are fighting
breast cancer and sometimes they're
concerned about it being a phytoestrogen
that can increase more estrogen but it
really helps the ratio so it helps to
balance both estrogen and androgen now
there's two other hormones that may be
involved that you might want to look at
one is cortisol because cortisol is a
hormone produced by the adrenals and a
lot of times when people go through
stress that can generate more adrenal
hormones and more testosterone so you
want to monitor your stress level and
then of course we have insulin if you
were to help to normalize your insulin
levels that would also help to normalize
testosterone as well and that's done
with keto intamin fasting if you're new
to my channel I put a link down below
you definitely want to check that out
because that can help not just with your
skin but with weight and many many other
conditions anyway that's what causes
acne and this is the recommendation
thanks for watching
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know
hey that runs
