so today I want to touch on a chemical
called Bice phenol a BPA it's actually a
chemical that is an endocrine disruptor
and what does that mean means a chemical
that mimics estrogen in the body and it
has a cumulative effects it builds up
over time it's in plastic hands it's in
bottled water and sent baby bottles it's
all over the place it's crazy I'm just
kidding this was supposed to be a
blooper okay and this is BPA free by the
way
here's the thing it has a cumulative
effect and I think our bodies can deal
with a small amount but let's say for
example you're gonna you're gonna get
pregnant okay or you're you're just had
a baby and you're breastfeeding you
don't want to be using these plastic
containers that you're you stick in the
microwave and just pushing all this
plastic out use more glass porcelain
stainless steel when you cook and and
it's gonna be really hard to eliminate
this completely but you just want to
minimize the exposure to it as much as
possible the other thing you can do to
help the situation is consume
cruciferous vegetables on a regular
basis cruciferous vegetables have unique
properties of dealing with endocrine
disruptors they help to dismantle and
remove some of these endocrine
disruptors from the body so that would
be something you can be proactive about
now also this chemical can increase
androgens as in polycystic ovarian
syndrome as well so if you have PCOS you
want to minimize the exposure to
plastics especially there's also an
enzyme called aroma taste which will
convert testosterone into estrogen so it
makes more estrogen and this chemical
can stimulate this enzyme so if you have
more estrogen dominant symptoms this
could be the reason why and this also
creates the effect in men as you know
breast tissue low sperm counts low
testosterone that type of thing so the
important point about this is that
infants and children are more vulnerable
so some of the important takeaway from
this is that this chemical is
accumulative in the body so instead of
bond
a lot of water in plastic you know get a
filter in your house instead of buying
cans of water you can get one of those
machines and make your own carbonated
water that's flavored there are things
that you can do use glass porcelain and
stainless steel and also start consuming
more cruciferous but if you have an
infant in the house or you have small
children or you are pregnant or your
wife is pregnant I would highly
recommend being very cautious about the
exposure of plastic and cans and baby
bottles and sippy cups and that type of
thing
alright thanks for watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
