so welcome everyone we have another
great before and after success uh Victor
so hi Victor how are you hi doctor how
are you good where do you live now are
you in Texas I'm in Los Angeles
California okay great so Vic I wanted to
um talk to you a little bit about um
where you were before and what your
weight was and what was going on and
then how you transition over cuz you you
lost a good amount of weight the
pictures were amazing can you tell me um
when it all
started yeah um so
essentially um July of last year I was
diagnosed with type 2
diabetes um chronic sleep apnea high
blood pressure high cholesterol high
triglycerides um the whole deal and um I
realized at that point that I had to
make a change but I really wasn't ready
per se right um so I continue the
typical you know I call it the sad
standard American diet following the
doctor's um opinions and it wasn't
working wasn't doing anything so my
uncle he has been on ketosis um at that
point going on two years and he's always
mentioned it to me and I've seen how
he's um gotten better and re reversed
his pre-diabetes and all that and I'm
like well well I'm already screwed so
why what do I have to
lose it won't hurt did you have diabetes
at that time I'm sorry say it again did
were you actually diagnosed with
diabetes or was it a
pre-diabetic he was diagnosed with
pre-diabetes what about you I was
diagnosed with full-blown type 2 with
the A1C of 12
wow okay got it so at that point A1C was
12 I was 319 lbs I'm only 5'4 so it's
was bad wow my triglycerides at that
time where I believe on my lab work was
1350 or
1370 um it it was bad yeah wow so um
January 1st is when I made a commitment
as well as my wife to start keto um I
did a lot of research uh watching your
videos and as well as uh the large low
carb
community and um I wanted to do it by
the book strict so 20 grams total per
day um protein as a goal and then fat to
satiety you know don't go overboard but
as long as I'm satisfied um all natural
all organic I switched from grain fed to
grass-fed beef and butter pastur raised
eggs um no artificial sweeteners uh
right now we use um Stevia for our
sweetener and our coffee so we we just
made a huge change
um since then so we're now July I am now
I checked I weigh myself every Sunday
I'm 192 pounds um my last month my
doctor um advised me that my diabetes
has been reversed I have uh an A1C of
5.2 I believe or 5.4 one of those two my
triglycerides went from
1375 to um a little over 100 that's
normal um everything is just improved
all my markers have improved cholesterol
is level it's
normal dramatic change that's a that's
basically a miracle cuz in that period
of time that's like we're only talking
six months yeah you lost a
hundred more than 100 pounds in 6 months
that's that's a record that's amazing
yeah no
exercise well done how do you feel do
you feel more
energetic you know I'm 28 turning 29
this year and I've always even being so
young I've always felt sluggish
obviously with all that weight I I would
never get a good quality sleep uh you
know my wife would have to wake me up
because she was afraid because I would
stop breathing and I would be you know
gasping for air
now you know it's a blessing I mean I
have never felt as good as I feel now I
don't I I would even think when I was
younger I felt this way wow it's just
you know I can't even explain how how
grateful I am for my uncle um pushing me
to to learn about this and and me and my
wife being able to take on this new
journey and really opening our eyes as
to how we were initially intended to eat
right yeah you you uh you're kind of
like me you kind of waited till the last
minute didn't you exactly what was your
justifier did you just say well I'm
young I'll do it when I when I get older
I'm I enjoy foods like what what were
you was going through your
mind well um I do have three kids and
they are young I have a 12-y old a 9year
old and a one and a halfy old and that
was my biggest um motivation I realized
that you know when you're heavy and
you're sick you don't feel good you
don't have the energy to do things you
don't have you're always just tired and
so I wanted to be able to um get more
life get my life back you know with my
health and so that way I can be there
for my kids and for my wife and for my
family and I had to make a change and I
think um luckily going to the doctor
when I did and learning that I had all
these issues and my wife and my kids
were there listening to all this from
the doc from my doctor at the time is
what really made me think like man if I
I don't change I might not be here
longer and the doctor even said the only
reason why you're still okay is because
of your age you're a ticking Time Bomb
so if you don't make a change now you
might not be able to you know experience
all these um beautiful things in life so
that's that in conjunction with my
family is what made me wake up how many
kids you have
three see I had three kids when I was 28
as well I hit my bottom you're same
timing it was like I was I was exhausted
we'd go to the airport fly somewhere and
these kids would they were exhausting me
they were like we're going this way that
way I'm like I'm so tired read me a
story at night I'm like I'm too tired
you know constantly dragging but yeah
it's like at some point um you shifted
and now you need you wanted some change
a lot of people are not they're actually
below help you try to help them and
they're they're not ready so um and I
think probably if you didn't have a
weight problem and didn't have a
diabetes problem you probably just keep
going and just keep eating the same
thing and it didn't wake you up so give
me an example of um what you eat now
like how many meals you have and then
what do you
eat okay so um when I started keto in
back in January I started with three
meals plus snacking which now I'm
nowhere near that um now I only have my
uh coffee in the morning with um heavy
cream add a little bit of uh collagen um
protein grass-fed collagen in there um
because I do have you know with the
excess weight loss you know loose skin
and so I'm trying to tighten that up and
um a little bit of butter and that gets
me going from 5: in the morning when I
start work until I get home around 2:00
and I have my main meal I have a fatty
cut of meat um with some low carb
vegetables sauteed in some good quality
olive oil or grass-fed butter and I'm
done so technically one meal one real
meal and I I combine that with
intermittent fasting so that's it that's
your meal for the day that's it wow see
this is this is a really good this is a
really good example because um you know
guys like you you're 192 lbs and you're
doing one meal like see what people are
scared they're like oh my gosh I'm going
to be starving I'm in a starving well
your your body is using your own energy
that's stored it's using your fat energy
when you're not eating so you're not
starving you look pretty healthy your
face everything I mean it's
amazing wow well done so and I combine
with intermittent fasting I do the 168
intermittent fasting and really the I
mean 168 you're okay so your other meal
is really like the coffee with the with
the um um with the collagen right that's
it that's it
yeah so um that gives your body a
huge change to to reset now are you uh
are you doing fine with your hunger and
Cravings very little Cravings at all um
I I I'm really hungry for the most part
my energy is just it's crazy amount of
energy that I have with you know just
drinking coffee in the morning with
butter and full fat cream how I'm able
to go through the whole day and
sometimes I get home and I'm like I can
do more things and not I'm not even
thinking about food do you eventually
get hungry or you just eat because you
just have to exactly yeah yeah like I I
just don't get hungry anymore it's like
well that's right I have to go eat you
know it's weird but uh question I have
um do you have anyone PE anyone that has
like been watching you before and then
noticed you and like didn't even Rec you
like what the heck are you doing are
people other people surprised or
what you it's it's really amazing my
family um my my co-workers at work um
they can't believe you know in such a
short amount of time I went from I I'm
like a I'm totally a different person um
it's scary when when I look at those
pictures I didn't realize at that time
how bad and how unhealthy I looked and
when I look at myself now I'm a new
person and everyone asks me they can't
believe they see me eating the stuff
that I ate and they're like oh that's so
unhealthy you're going to clog your
arteries and they're there eating you
know typical sad food you know full of
carbs and processed and refined sugars
and you know that that's just what
they've been brainwashed to to eat
that's what they think is good because
that's what their quote unquote doctor
says because you know you know how it is
that that's that's the typical that's
the norm and so what I do is I just try
to I I give people the information I'm
like look this is all personal decision
you got to do what's best for you do
your research first and then you'll come
back to me later a lot of people are
like yeah well you know he's only been
doing it for six months let's see him in
a year well they'll see me in a year
they'll see me in five years no
medication living a good quality life so
this is a um a life that I plan to to
live for as long as possible so I'm very
very happy and I try to promote this as
much as I can and one other big
motivation is my dad he um he's been
type two diabetic um for many many years
and um thank God I was able to go visit
him um this uh Fourth of July weekend
and I was finally able to convince him I
cooked for him every single meal to
start ketosis and he's now going on two
weeks and he's already off of met
Foreman that's awesome you know his his
doctors you know did not want him to do
this they told him that he's crazy that
he's going to die that don't listen to
your son that he's not this and this and
that even though we provided them with
the scientific research and all this
information that's there they just did
not want to do it and he took the risk
and he listened to me because I am proof
that it works there is no uh a lot of
people think that oh well you're young
so diabetes can get reversed no there is
no difference you're when you're
diabetic you're diabetic it's not
Progressive disease like all these
doctors say it can be reversed with just
food so he is now getting regulated on
his own I am helping him every day I
send him recipes I refer to your
recipes and he's a a very firm believer
and so this is working for him as well
that's awesome
Victor I just want to say one last thing
um there's this there's this kind of
this movement
that's they're pushing they they they're
they're pushing the uh avoid saturated
fats as the culprit for all the problems
and they're not really emphasizing the
sugar that's false data unfortunately
some people are confused about it uh you
take
a I mean here's this another proof if
there's another guy who is eating
saturated fats but cutting out the real
culprit which is the sugar which is
behind so many problems insulin
resistance and uh yeah I think now that
you've experienced that like until I
think until a person experiences they
won't have the the true knowledge
knowledge comes from you have to do
something to get the knowledge you just
can't believe someone like and then they
go okay this did work and then enough
times it's like it doesn't matter what
someone says like I know that works you
know so you have the knowingness so
that's well done Victor I'm really
amazed at uh how well you did and uh you
stuck to it and you just decided so
awesome good job man thank
you well I appreciate that and uh thanks
for the interview and I think it'll
inspire a lot of
people that's the goal yeah all right
well have a great afternoon okay thank
you do you too take care you're welcome
okay
