hey guys Dr Burg here in this video
we're going to talk about how to fix bed
wedding so if your child has a problem
with this what I'm going to show you is
the fastest way to correct it okay
number one uh you have to realize that
the root cause of bed weding is the
exact same cause as adults getting up
through the night peeing and that has to
do with higher levels of insulin insulin
regulates blood sugars and I'm not even
talking being becoming a diabetic you
could be a pre diabetic for 10 years
before you have any symptoms but one of
the symptoms of insulin
resistance is excessive urination at
night because whatever what happens is
wherever the sugar goes the wa the
liquid goes the water goes and because
insulin regulate trigger it's pushing it
out through the urine and it actually
happens more at night now let's take a
look at the pancreas pancreas makes
insulin the insulin is there to regulate
sugars what happens over time if there's
if there's too much insulin coming in
here the uh cells start to resist it
okay they block it so what happens the
signals don't come back to the pancreas
as a communication it's like talking to
the child and he not listening to you're
not getting return communication so you
increase the volume right well that's
what your pancreas does too it increases
the volume of that communication because
hormones are communication and so then
we actually get more and more and more
insulin being pumped out because we're
not getting that turn communication
because we have resistance to insulin in
the receptor so cases with insulin
resistance have five to seven times more
insulin than normal uh people so one
test that you could do not necessarily
blood sugars that may be a good test to
do but that shows up normal check a
fasting insulin test if you really want
to figure this out or you can just go by
the symptoms which is uh tiredness
irritability can't go a long time
without eating when the when the child
eats feels much better and calms down
these are all symptoms of insulin
resistance I mean I had this when I was
a kid and no one knew what it was of
course I lived on sugar and that's one
thing you're going to have to get out of
the refrigerator and out of the house is
get rid of the sugar unfortunately
because that's what's causing this
problem um the key is doing three meals
a day no more snacks so what you're
going to have to do is you're going to
have to make sure those meals have
enough nutrition in them and also enough
healthy fat that will allow the child to
go longer I put some links down below
for these healthy fat treats that you
can make for the child and they're
called keto bombs so you make them
they're like little cookies they taste
really good and you can give those to
the child at the meal not in between the
meal and that way he or she is satisfied
for the whole between the meals okay so
then we got healthy fat no snacking lots
of greens you can't fix this insulin
problems without vegetables because
vegetables contain the potassium that we
need to heal insulin resistance and
that's one of the supplements that you
can find is some supplement with
potassium if you're having a hard time
but we really want to go with the
vegetables some kids will not consume
vegetables so what I like to do is do a
shake maybe we put spinach or kale I
like kale and I will for kids I'll put a
banana in there I'll do uh berries and
I'll blend it up as a shake so here they
have this salad in a drink so that's one
way to hide the vegetables and have them
consume that and it's pretty good if you
can get them to do that now and also
some protein 3 to six ounces of protein
with the meal so we have a combination
of vegetable protein and fat we're not
doing the starch we're not doing
potatoes we're not doing corn we're not
doing grains we're not doing breads or
pastas or cereal C cereal biscuits
waffles we're not doing that anymore um
because this is what the problem is we
want to correct it a good supplement is
to find something with chromium and B
vitamins nutritional yeast is a good
source and some supplement to support
healthy insulin levels why because with
kids uh sometimes that's an that will
actually speed up the process okay so I
just wanted to cover what to do if your
child has bed waiting and go ahead and
apply this and put your comments below I
want to hear the success thanks for
watching
