hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about blood sugar terminology there are
several people recently that mentioned I
don't really understand the terms that
you're throwing out there and so I'm
really confused so would you just back
up and explain these terms and I agree
with them that we need to have a video
to make it really simple so this video
is for those people number one the word
glycemic means relating to glucose or
sugar okay and when we're talking about
glycemic index we're talking about a
scale from high to low of the
measurement of how fast the body digests
in absorbs and raises the sugar in the
blood okay so right here if we ate jelly
beans for example it's going to spike up
and that would be very high in the list
if you ate celery okay it's not very
sweet it's going to be very low alright
so that's what glycemic index means how
fast you can spike your sugars alright
now what happens when you do spike your
sugars you have a hormone that comes in
they're called insulin and insulin is
basically gonna it does has one really
main purpose is to drop the sugar it
does not want the sugar to high so as
soon as you spike it it's gonna come in
there and remove it from the blood so
insulin is a hormone that removes the
sugar it lowers this sugar okay now the
next term going to talk about is
glycemic load okay so that would be a
combination of the glycemic index and
the carb carbohydrate content okay what
does that mean carbohydrate content well
if something was very high and this is
another scale - okay if something was
very high on the glycemic load it would
create a long duration of this spike
blood sugar okay something below on the
list
it would create a little spike and then
come right down really fast so it's kind
of like the duration okay the quantity
of how much carbon how much effect that
it's creating it's like it's really like
the true glycemic response because let's
say for example you eat carrots that are
hi in carbohydrate well they're so also
high in fiber so they're gonna have a
low glycemic load okay but a baked
potato that's gonna very have a very
high glycemic load because it's going to
create a longer duration than something
else with fiber so that's another term
and so we want to look at both of these
terms when we're measuring things
because there's some subtle differences
all right now let's talk about the
insulin index what is that
that's another scale of how much insulin
the body is going to release now the
difference between glycemic index and
insulin and X is the glycemic index
measures the blood sugar spike the
insulin index measures the insulin
spiked okay completely different
situation and so you could have non
carbohydrate things that can spike
insulin Europe mostly its carbohydrate
that will increase insulin but you can
have other things that can trigger
insulin too so the insulin index are
usually the it goes beyond just the
carbohydrates okay so you have protein
for example that can spike insulin now
it's interesting if you have low fat
protein like some type of fat-free dairy
for example that gives more insulin
spike than if you had a fattier protein
like a fatty or dairy like brie cheese
for example that would give a lower
response okay so that's interesting
because most people go for the low fat
so the insulin index is a really good
thing to look at and measuring your
insulin because the whole goal is to
keep the insulin low as possible to
normal so you can lose weight and get
healthy the higher the insulin the more
damage to the body okay the more you're
gonna get diabetes okay so that's what
that's all about then we have
carbohydrates proteins and fats these
are called macronutrients okay so
carbohydrates are going to be the thing
that's going to spike this
and of course this all right that would
be at the top of the list you're gonna
have all the refined sugars I for jenos
corn syrup and the refined grains and
corns and things like that and starches
it's gonna raise it but protein is a
little different protein how it has the
capacity to raise insulin if it's in an
excess amount okay so the main reason we
need protein in the diet is to provide a
structural material for the body parts
so the hair the nails the collagen the
bone all need and the muscle all need
proteins so we need these to build up
our structure when you consume excessive
protein it will increase insulin okay so
what does that mean well anything more
than 35 grams per meal of protein can be
converted into sugar okay or glucose now
this all depends too on your age and
your metabolism and all that but
generally speaking this is a rough
number so this is relating to about
three to six ounces of protein per meal
that's what I'm gonna recommend for you
just to be safe I mean a little bit more
is okay a little less is okay but right
around this range here just to make sure
that protein doesn't stimulate insulin
okay so but typically if you have a
moderate amount of protein you're not
going to raise insulin too much okay
then we have this thing called fat this
is what people are avoiding and what's
interesting is that fat has near zero
response of insulin okay so it doesn't
it doesn't have that response like
carbohydrates so so really when when you
talk about ketosis or a ketogenic diet
we're talking about a diet that is very
low in carbs moderate protein in higher
in fat why because the whole purpose of
the ketosis is to run your body and an
alternative fuel source when you go in
to a state of ketosis you're you're no
longer using glucose for your fuel
you're using ketones which is a
byproduct of
and the way you get into ketosis is by
reducing your carbs down to 20 to 50
grams per day so you've got to load the
carbs now the body is forced to use
another fuel system which is ketones so
it's going to start burning your fat or
the dietary fat that you're eating and
this is gonna give you another fuel
source right here which is ketones and
it's a much cleaner fuel source it's
better there's a lot of other health
benefits you're going to lose your belly
cognitive function there's a lot of
great things that are gonna happen okay
so we have that term next term we're
talking about is insulin sensitivity so
you have you know this huge population
and each person could be rated by their
sensitivity to insulin so the higher
sensitivity that that means the more the
insulin is working in the body the
better the control of blood sugars so
the people that have high sensitivity
insulin and it's working don't have a
weight problem they're thin and they're
usually healthy maybe for other things
or not but typically yes so then we have
the opposite scale which is resistant so
if insulin is no longer sensitive and
it's resistant it's not working its
dysfunctional we have the condition
called insulin resistance okay and what
happens with that condition is that the
body no longer absorbs insulin like it
should so it blocks it the cells block
it when that happens
it causes the feedback loop
overcompensation where your body's going
to make more insulin the pancreas is
going to make more insulin and it's
going to come in there to try to
compensate so now we have a situation
insulin resistance where we have a lot
higher amounts of insulin like 5 to 7
times versus a normal person so these
people are going to be fat
ok two thirds of the population have
this problem they don't even know it
okay so we have too much insulin and
there's a lot of issues that come with
that which I'm not going to get into so
here you have insulin resistance right
and then over time it gets worse worse
worse worse until now the body is going
to fail to compensate it's still going
to compensate and
to the insulin resistance so now it's
shutting down now you're going to get a
condition called diabetes so really
diabetes is failure to adapt to the
insulin resistance which is the
pre-diabetes okay so it's kind of like
it gets worse worse worse and then all
the sudden you now you can't control
your blood Sugar's because if you think
about it
insulin resistance is a spike in insulin
right so that should normally keep your
blood Sugar's low but when it starts
going higher higher and higher in the
blood then that means it's no longer
compensating it's out of control
now you're diabetic okay so and then the
way to fix insulin resistance is
obviously to go back here and cut out
the carbohydrates okay get into a
ketogenic diet apple cider vinegar
actually makes insulin more sensitive so
it's a really good thing to start
consuming as a remedy potassium is very
very important to consume from the
vegetable source or electrolyte powders
and then we have the B vitamins also can
actually reduce the resistance I like
the nutrition we use for that and then
we have exercise exercise also can make
the insulin receptors more receptive and
make instant more sensitive so that can
also improve that and then the the most
powerful thing is in intermittent
fasting okay so that's another thing we
are you're eating but you're not eating
this frequently and you're not snacking
between the meals and you want to give
your body a chance to heal the insulin
resistance because every time you eat
you spike insulin so with instant minute
fasting what we're doing was just giving
the body a break arrest so you can heal
the situation and so you can go from
being a diabetes and reverse backwards
to normal insulin okay so that's
generally how you do it and this is an
overview of the blood sugar terms hey if
you haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know
hey that runs
