I'm going to show you how to increase
your oxygen with a simple breathing
technique there is a lot of confusion on
this oxygen topic and one of the big
ones is if you deep breathe you're going
to get more oxygen that is absolutely
not true in fact if you want to prove it
to yourself just start deep breathing
right now and see how long it takes
before you end up passing out you're
going to start feeling dizzy you're
going to feel tired so yes when you're
deep breathing you're getting more air
but you're not getting more oxygen you
know we have this false idea that oxygen
is good and CO2 is bad it's a waste
product but if we take a look at what's
in air there's a lot of oxygen there's
not a lot of CO2 if we do a comparison
between oxygen and
CO2 in units it'd be like 160 units of
oxygen per given amount of air to 1/3 of
one % that's 3 okay CO2 so the question
is where is the CO2 coming from when we
exhale it's coming from our cells the
mitochondria takes in oxygen burns stuff
and releases CO2 so our bodies are CO2
Machines of course with plants it's just
the opposite they eat CO2 and they put
out oxygen but I want you to understand
uh something about CO2 and oxygen
there's something called the bore effect
that's
B and the bore effect kind of goes like
this the oxygen will not be released
from your red blood cells unless you
have enough CO2 the amount of oxygen
that's released from your blood into
your cells is dependent on co2 if you're
breathing a lot right and you're not
able to have enough CO2 in there you're
going to get too much oxygen too much
oxygen is very damaging to the body if
you gave a baby pure oxygen you can
actually cause blindness you can cause
an epileptic seizure you could cause
that baby to go in a coma there's a lot
of oxidation that happens with too much
oxygen and this is why like deep
breathing is not the best way to get a
lot of oxygen and relaxation anyone
that's in a panic state is going to be
hyperventilating they're going to be
breathing excessively trying to get more
air and it's very Contour inuitive
because they're going to get less air
you have something called acute
hyperventilation and chronic
hyperventilation where a lot of people
are in this chronic phase we know about
the acute hyperventilation when you're
in a panic attack and you're breathing
excessively and you don't feel very good
I want to increase your awareness on
another condition called chronic
hyperventilation another name for that
is called carbon dioxide syndrome this
is a really interesting book I'm reading
and I'm sharing some data from this book
so the carbon dioxide syndrome is
basically a lack of carbon dioxide
because the person is consuming too much
air and basically I think a lot of this
is triggered by stress and the stress is
constantly keeping us trying to breathe
more through our mouths and this
depletes the CO2 and now we can't absorb
oxygen into the cells and this causes
problems with the heart heart stress it
creates a condition of hypoxia which is
a lack of oxygen it creates fatigue
insomnia muscle twitching and this other
symptom which is an increased histamine
which is fascinating that a low amount
of CO2 will increase histamines which is
going to cause a stuffy nose also this
lack of
CO2 will create less carbonic acid and
the blood becomes more alkaline and then
we have a big problem removing calcium
from the cells calcium starts to
accumulate because you have this chronic
hyperventilation and a lack of CO2 is
actually another reason why you would
build up of calcium in the tissues and
then the nerves don't work you feel
tingling you probably notice that when
you blow up a balloon or something you
might see stars or feel tingling
throughout your body well that's what's
happening the pH of your blood is
changing so just just as a smoker has a
lack of oxygen in their cells when you
get too much air you also have a lack of
oxygen deeper in the cells now there's
enough oxygen that's stuck in your red
blood cells but it's not being released
which is going to cause you to try to
breathe more and the whole cycle starts
going around and around now there's a
very simple solution to fix this problem
and train your body to breathe in a
certain way to get oxygen deep into the
cells resolve a lot of health problems
that you might not even be connecting to
this problem of lack of CO2 so number
one relax breathing okay you want to
breathe very soft and gentle you want to
breathe through your diaphragm and your
stomach not your upper chest so you want
to breathe in slowly for 5 seconds and
then exhale for five seconds and then do
that consistently in a gentle way
without strain espe es before you go to
sleep at night uh especially when you're
driving in traffic or watching TV you
can start to train your body to breathe
correctly because when someone's under
stress they're kind of
like so this breathing method is one
thing that you can control and change
your entire physiology you can pull
yourself out of a sympathetic flatter or
fight stress mode and just so you know I
do this before I go to bed every single
night you can even get a free app that
helps you time your breathing so you can
actually visualize like a ball expanding
and Contracting or some type of uh sound
mechanism or some timing mechanism to
practice this breathing in and breathing
out frequency all right number two you
want to breathe through your nose not
your mouth okay the nose will condition
the air humidify it it cleans it it
filters out things every hour you're
consuming about 500 lers of air and if
you go through your nose you'll actually
have way better quality air than if you
go through your mouth because first of
all you don't filter any microbes out or
any particulates they all just go right
into the lungs whereas breathing through
your nose you have a chance to have a
good immune filtering mechanism you also
have restriction of air which by the way
will increase your Oxygen by 20% just by
breathing through your nose it's going
to feel like your air is restrictive but
you're going to get more oxygen and
three and four involve sleeping at night
you can get those nose strips those
nasal strips they go right across here
opens up the top of your sinuses you can
breathe a little bit better especially
if you have a stuffy nose and then you
can get some mouth tape okay that you
just put a little piece of tape right
here when you're sleeping at night to
train you to breathe through your
sinuses so you can filter the air all
night long you can get more oxygen
you'll have better sleep you won't wake
up with a dry mouth you probably won't
be snoring anymore and you wake up
feeling refreshed there's some
additional information on drinking
carbonated water which is basically CO2
and water that I think you'll find very
fascinating I am way more hydrated when
I consume carbonated water than if I
just drank plain water and for that
information I put this video up right
here check it out
