hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the hidden sugars in
so-called Health Foods okay first one is
granola there's six teaspoons of sugar
in one of those 100 gr uh little units
now not to mention that there's other
stuff in there too like the refined
grains turn into sugar pretty quick and
they also put other stuff chocolate and
things like that on it coconut water has
20 grams of sugar per bottle that's
pretty high yes it has electrolytes but
it has a lot of sugar it's not good if
you're in keto is uh Activia 18 G per 4
oz that's a tremendous amount of sugar
now Gatorade 21 gram that includes the
sport sports drinks the uh vitamin uh
water it is just sugar water incredible
Ure 15 grams of sugar actual sugar now
it's true these are not considered
ketchup flavored coffee iced tea are not
considered Health Foods I just threw
those in just for the fun of it Ketchup
one teaspoon of sugar per tablespoon of
ketchup it's like pure sugar flavored
coffee like from Starbucks 25 grams of
sugar it's probably all that syrup in
there iced tea 33 grams of sugar
incredible I mean I would just use
Stevia if I were you uh protein bars 30
Gams of sugar so if you're trying to
lose weight these these are for sure
going to stop you if you're trying to
get healthy these are going to block
your health okay thanks for watching
