hi guys i wanted to create somewhat of a
short video on EMF it's a very big topic
so this is just to increase your
awareness if you've never heard about
EMF before electromagnetic fields okay
it's basically there's certain waves of
energy that can damage our DNA some
people are more sensitive to these waves
than other people however your
smartphone Wi-Fi your router in your
house with your wireless microwaves
bluetooth computer and screen you
recharge or the one that you recharge
your phone right by your head of the bed
right when you're sleeping I'll give out
certain fields of energy that can affect
your body okay this is a little sensing
device right here okay that can pick up
electromagnetic fields okay so you can
get one of these if you want and I'll
show you cell phone you can see that it
goes off pretty intensely when yeah
right doing here so closer you are to
your head you can create problems the
problem is when you do research on this
you're gonna see that it says it's safe
science science that it's safe just like
asbestos was safe for 99 years and so
was trans fast for 60 years and smoking
was safe for about 46 years just a
matter of time but I see the problem
because if it was out there that this
created damage could you imagine like
all the different problems that could
happen with the manufacturing companies
and I'm not saying I don't want to scare
people I want to freak people out but it
can affect your sleep your energy it can
increase your risk of getting a brain
tumor glioma by 3 times if you're using
this over a long period of time very
close to your head so when you use your
phone use this speaker okay try to keep
this away from your head as much as
possible so when I talk to my phone I
use earbuds I don't like talking in the
phone very much
maybe if I have to but I don't like it
but make sure that you order the air
tube headset ok there's different kinds
you can get
so that way it doesn't have the EMF
connecting wire that's driving the
energy right into your head it's
actually hollow and it's much safer you
can find these online search out ones
that have good reviews and get one of
those
that way it can decrease the EMF to your
brain so I put some links down below so
you can minimize the damage in your
house and your office so definitely
check them out this is measuring EMF
magnetic fields
[Music]
so all at one-nothing
all-in-one
oh wow I think I think we need to
position you a little bit further back
Wow no but your hand
nobody no put your face right to that so
I want to know what you're interested in
as far as a video click the link down
below and share some ideas I want to
hear
