so um in a thumbnail sketch can you tell
me um a little bit not specifics but
you've uh pushed your adrenals for many
years right to the limits for 20 years
20 years and you were on a bit of
caffeine a lot of caffeine at your most
how much was it per day taking caffeine
pels 3,000 milligrams a
day I was really sick lost a lot of
weight had no energy no nothing only way
I kept going wow and what about your
sleeping before what sleep
and not good and uh you would you would
sleep in for um I mean you couldn't get
up in the morning and just jump out of
bed what was it like to get out of the
bed in the morning uh almost impossible
get out of bed 121
2:00 most time I get out of bed I have
to go back to bed for 30 minutes okay
whatever reason that is wow this can't
function and then what happened is that
um um you obviously got off the caffeine
which was a lifesaver you it took you a
while to get through that it wasn't easy
detox talk yourself and that's things
started getting better after that
because before that it was like it was a
lot rougher um also you um
your I want to talk about cognitive like
your um your focus and stuff that
definitely influenced your your
profession right yes excuse me okay okay
tell me about your how that influenced
your your work um your lack of focus I
couldn't work couldn't even pick up the
telephone uh when I knew that I was in a
really bad place was I would gauge it by
if I could pick up the telephone or not
and make a phone call or turn on the
computer and you're trying to look at
the computer don't want to see my emails
don't want to do anything and then the
next time I might feel good I can pick
the phone up I can sit at the computer I
could do anything but I forgot what it
was like to feel normal wow and you were
doing seminars right and that kind of
wore you out oh yeah big time and then
you were trying to look for what you're
going to talk about you would just kind
of run out of gas real fast run out of
gas it would hit me like the tank went
empty i' the been middle speaking on the
floor and I just knew my body body just
drained tank was empty it was over I
just could not go on did you before you
saw me did you know for sure you had
adrenal burnout uh I had been told that
by um some other doctors but no one knew
what to do about it okay so when you
came here um what was different did I
help you with some things that you
didn't know about or what did I do that
was differently uh when you worked to me
the things that you did it was
incredible
uh how I felt and i' even called your
office the next uh I think it was the
weekend a saw on a Friday and I called
on Monday or Tuesday just to have your
girls let you know how good I'd felt
been a long time since I'd felt that way
you slept better oh much better got my
eight hours awesome cool thank you very
much
