hey guys so today we're going to talk
about diatomaceous earth okay now some
people know this product as a bug killer
because when bugs consume it they die
but it's also something that we can
consume too you do not want to inhale it
by the way but taking a food grade
diatomaceous earth is actually a very
very safe thing and it's very very
healthy it can actually help detox
metals in the body it can help kill
pathogens you want to make sure you get
the food grade which is a non
crystalline form okay so it's not heated
because when you actually heat this
product it turns into a crystal and
that's not the form that you want to
consume so what is diatomaceous earth
it's basically prehistoric about 13 to
50 million years ago
fossilized phytoplankton okay phyto
meaning plant so it's like an algae and
this phytoplankton consumes on a yearly
basis 6.7 billion metric tons of silica
so it pulls in the silica and when this
plankton dies it leaves the shell at the
bottom of the ocean or sea bed so in
certain oceans there's about a half a
mile of this shell sitting there so you
can see that that these guys have been
around for a very very long time and
another interesting notice 50% of the
oxygen that you breathe on this planet
is created by phytoplankton
so the real big benefit of diatomaceous
earth is the silica okay and by the way
it's the second most prevalent element
on this planet other than oxygen so it's
all over the place but it's really good
for maintaining the structure of our
bodies
great for the nails strong nails if you
have brittle nails you need to take some
of this good for the hair it makes your
hair really shiny and healthy it
actually gives the skin more of a fuller
look so it's it's less wrinkly as you
age you lose silica so if you're over
the age of 50 taking some of this could
actually help you look more youthful
it's great for ligaments and tendons and
elasticity flexibility did you realize
that your bone contains more silica than
cow
so it's it's actually you need it for
the bone the aorta it supports the aorta
which is a main vessel that emanates
from the heart it supports the teeth in
gum so if you have a loose tooth this
would be good to take make sure you do
not inhale it okay it's not good for the
lungs but get a food grade I don't have
any specific brands find one with good
reviews and take about a teaspoon a day
on an empty stomach
thanks for watching hey if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
