so in this video I wanted to talk about
nutritional deficiencies there's some
hidden sources of why people have
nutritional deficiencies especially
despite taking vitamins now these
nutrients that you're supposed to be
taking to enhance your health usually
are supposed to be in the food but the
problem is the soils are so bad that
it's hard to find food that has enough
nutrients especially in the US so you
have this empty harvest okay so you have
that and then you have the other fact
that people just don't eat enough of the
right amounts of food to get the
nutrients but the nutrients help you in
many different ways they're kind of like
helper factors that help chemistry work
better through the body in the formation
of body tissue and the formation of
different body chemicals to allow the
chemical process to occur protection
against disease and like high sugar for
example so like for example vitamin b1
protects you against the symptoms of
high blood sugar so even though you have
give to people with high blood sugar and
someone and one of them is deficient in
vitamin b1 that's the person that will
exhibit more symptoms from high blood
sugar and this person might not so you
can kind of look at vitamins as birth
control pills for disease because they
actually protect yourself from further
damage so of course the most obvious
thing is just not getting enough
nutrients from the diet okay so we're
going to move beyond that we're going to
talk about some hidden reasons why you
might be deficient okay that goes beyond
just the diet one is you don't have
enough stomach acid now let me explain
what that means if you don't have enough
hydrochloric acid you're gonna have a
hard time absorbing minerals and trace
minerals which are minerals needed but
in much smaller amounts so the trace
minerals would be like zinc selenium
cobalt and the regular minerals minerals
would be like calcium magnesium
phosphorus so we need stomach acid to
absorb the nutrients also we need that
to help break down protein into amino
acids so amino acid is a nutrient a
micronutrient
protein is a macronutrient so if you
don't have the stomach acid then you may
have a problem with breaking down the
protein the acid actually triggers an
enzyme to break down the protein usually
it's not just 100 percent of the acid
dissolving it's the release of a certain
enzyme so you never get that release of
the enzyme and then you end up with
undigested protein and you get gas is
the common symptom and the way that you
know you have low stomach acid is that
you have heartburn or indigestion or
bloating okay that's very very common
but there's one more purpose of this
very strong acid which should be between
1 and 3 by the way which is very strong
and it's to kill off microbes if you're
not able to kill off those microbes you
you happen to develop a condition called
SIBO which is a small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth where microbes are
now growing in the wrong place in the
small intestine not the large you should
not have all this microbial action going
on in the small intestine and the
problem with that is that you get an
overgrowth in the wrong place and then
those microbes eat up all your nutrients
because in the small intestine that's
when you have 90% of the absorption of
nutrients happen so if these guys are
eating up all the fuel or the food
particles and you don't have enough
you're gonna have nutritional deficiency
just from that so one of the big causes
of SIBO is low stomach acid so these are
definitely connected ok and if you have
SIBO you're gonna have a lot of gas a
little tons of gas and you there's a
test that your doctor can do to
determine if you have it but you want to
not add a lot of fiber or probiotics in
there because that's gonna feed the
microbes more and we're not we don't
want to add more microbes to the system
we want to do more stomach acid we want
to do fasting and we want to do certain
types of vegetables ok you can look up
the video on SIBO and actually get more
data ok number 2 low bile so your
gallbladder is not working or it's
missing and you don't have enough bile
and you're not going to be able to get
the sufficient fat soluble vitamins
vitamin A D E K k1 and k2
is really important in driving calcium
out of the soft tissues out of the
arteries out of the joints but M&A is
for the eye so you'll be driving at
night and can't quite see in dark for
the immune system for the sinuses so you
might develop sleep apnea or have sinus
congestion vitamin D bone pain
depression immune problems vitamin E you
exert yourself and you feel tired really
quick so you have no endurance or you
might have angina pain that's a vitamin
E deficiency so you can have all sorts
of issues and also you won't be able to
absorb the omega-3 fatty acids and DHA
and that can lead to all sorts of things
but again if you don't have enough bile
you're not going to be able to absorb
the fat soluble vitamins and the
essential fatty acids okay despite
taking them as supplements okay three
low enzymes that's usually in the
pancreas because your pancreas produces
most of the enzymes in the body and it's
supposed to determine what you put in
your mouth you eat it it goes down here
your body releases enzymes to break down
those particles so you have this whole
chemical reaction going on well if you
actually consume a lot of the wrong
foods over many years and you develop
pre-diabetes or insulin resistance or
you just basically kind of used up the
enzymes because you're eating all cook
foods which is really bad
you don't have enough raw vegetables
then the pancreas isn't going to release
the enzymes people that have diabetes or
prediabetes or insulin resistance just
don't have the capacity of pancreatic
function anymore
so if they because the pancreas actually
regulates insulin and another hormone
called glucagon which is the blood sugar
thing it regulates when you eat and when
you don't eat but it also is another
function of releasing the enzyme so if
you don't have enough enzymes you're
gonna have all sorts of undigested
incomplete food going through particles
going through and it's going to create
bloating and gas other than that you'd
be totally fine okay see Bo we talked
about that it's basically thing we're
going to create deficiencies of
nutrients and then number five decrease
flora like your friendly bacteria it's
called microbiome and the large
Wow let's say it's not sufficient maybe
you took an antibiotic or you you know
you're exposed to glyphosate and all the
GMO food which is in the grocery store
which they don't label that's actually
classified as an antibiotic by the way
its patented by Monsanto it so it's
basically killing up the microbes and
you're wondering why you don't have the
digestive capacity you once had
so without the flora you can't recycle
the bile as well as you did before and
that alone can create a whole chain
reaction of things but the floor is very
important in breaking down fiber also
helping us make vitamins especially the
B vitamins a biotin is one really
important one so if you don't have
enough biotin you're gonna get hair loss
the quality of skin hair is gonna be
very poor so the flora gives you certain
healthy acids that help blood sugar
issues they help protect against
microbes and pathogens but they also
help make vitamins for you
number six raw vegetables nuts and seeds
there are certain compounds in raw foods
that are protective antioxidants that
protect the plant or not or seed against
developing into an actual plant okay and
so you have phytic acid you have enzyme
inhibitors phytic acid in all these and
even though that's an antioxidant it can
actually block the absorption of
nutrients so this is why for some people
when you actually just slightly steam
the vegetable or even you get rid of
that phytic acid or you soak these two
things in water overnight you germinate
them and it's much easier to digest and
you absorb more nutrients some people
can do do fine with this other people
can't but I just want to let you know
that this could be a problem especially
if you're trying to absorb minerals some
of these some the properties in some of
these foods block the absorption of
minerals kind of act as a key later
it's called phytic acid I did a whole
video on this you can watch it I'll put
a link down below this is a very common
reason why people have nutritional
deficiencies they
insulin resistance what happens is the
purpose of insulin is not just a regular
blood sugar it's to help you absorb
nutrients in the cell so especially like
minerals and even vitamins vitamin C
especially so if you're consuming higher
amounts of carbs and sugar and you have
insulin resistance that's like a big
problem for amino acids going into the
cell formation of bone preventing a loss
of collagen so you have this loose skin
and you're wondering why these vitamins
aren't working well your cells will not
absorb them if you have instant
resistance okay put a link down below to
learn about that number eight non food
based vitamins so you're taking this
synthetic commercial vitamin and you're
thinking oh yeah this is really really
healthy now it's all synthetic it's not
the real thing
there's no it's not based on food it's
made from chemicals so this is a
situation where you're getting a fake
bottom in okay don't buy the fact that
all vitamins are the same no it's like
where do they come from what's the
source of the vitamin I can see taking
some synthetic vitamins if you're also
taking a food based complex with it but
just so you know if it's not from food
it's definitely not the same it's from
food okay
bad diet how many people come up to me
and they go what vitamins should I take
but they haven't changed or addressed or
diet yet well I think they're wasting
your money so you have to fix the diet
first then you can add supplements
because taking supplements just it's not
gonna you're not gonna see the effects
because the actual cause of your
symptoms and the reason why you're
taking supplements comes from this bad
diet so anyway I wanted to cover all
nine of the hidden nutritional
deficiency factors so you have more
awareness all right thanks for watching
hey guys so there's a whole bunch of
people that really need this information
so press the share button and let's get
it way out there
