it's easy to look at stuff like this and
say it's kind of like medicine and so it
would be kind of regulated like medicine
tracked and vetted by our government's
health agency like medicine is but
medicine goes through a very different
process a super lengthy process with
tons of studies and clinical trials
paperwork it takes years and years and a
lot of drugs aren't ever even approved
they fail this process and never make it
on to the Shelf well there's something
about that that I think you should know
more about the thing about the FDA is
the FDA is is not a
full-time uh a career job it's a few
years on the FDA and then they're being
courted by the pharmaceutical companies
yeah and now let's take a look at the
next part FDA officials are supposed to
be Watchdogs over pharmaceutical
companies they're also constantly
courted by pharmaceutical companies
you'll have a Merc going in and saying
to somebody on the FDA oh I'll give you
$600,000 if you'll come and work on our
regulatory committee to go to go into
bat for us with the FDA and they'll say
okay well I'll think about that and then
there'll be like a fizer will come in
and say well we'll give you $800,000 a
year to come in and work on our
regulatory committee and so um it
becomes like a bidding war like that so
the FDA knows that their next jumping
off point to go from a lower paying
government job to be a very lucrative
farmer job on the inside in the
manufacturing side um they know that
that's part of their career path so that
I'm sure weighs heavily into their
decision-making process and so I'm not
saying that supplement uh industry is
not corrupt to a certain degree but if
you're implying that uh the drug
industry doesn't have a massive control
over the FDA uh well then you need to
dig a little bit deeper into that topic
I mean the rotation between people
working for the FDA and the drug
industry and then back to the FDA and
back to the industry this is a a
well-known fact and it's a well-known
problem too because certain drugs get
pushed through without real good safety
studies and did you realize that 60% of
medical reviewers that are in the
approval process for these drugs who
then leave the FDA go to not only work
for the drug companies but they consult
the drug companies well here's the
problem with the FDA regulating
supplements because of the ties to drug
company which is the direct competitor
you'd quickly see that a lot of uh
supplements would be off the market I
mean even when I was in practice for 30
years I don't remember a lot of people
being harmed by supplements generally
supplements are pretty safe and
supplements are in a whole different
League than pharmaceutical drugs and I'm
going to bring up one aspect of this
that might not relate directly but
indirectly it does it's called grass and
that stands for generally recognized as
safe this also relates to a lot of the
chemical companies that are allowed to
do their own testing okay without the
FDA and consider their ingredients safe
companies are responsible for ensuring
their products are safe and in fact can
often put new dietary supplements on the
market without even telling FDA that is
a big loophole right now with all sorts
of new chemicals that are coming onto
the market and putting into our food
supply there's no FDA approval process
for that and so the next time you hear
something that is uh gross generally
recognized as safe realize that that is
not through the FDA approval process one
of the supplements that gained
popularity was called L
tryptophan it was this health food
supplement made of amino acids that
claimed to help people sleep and lose
weight it sounded healthy enough until
doctors found that people who took the
stuff were developing blood and muscle
disorders so let's talk about this El
tryptophan because it's very very
interesting because in
1989 there was an incident where you had
uh a doen people die from apparently
taking elpan and just so you know what
El tryptophan is it's an amino acid that
can create some real interesting effects
helping you sleep it has an
anti-depressive Factor it helps to curb
Cravings because it's a precursor to
serotonin now I just want to let you
know before this incident 2% of every
single household was taking alapan
before this so they did a big recall
okay and the FDA banned the supplement
so to make a long story short they
eventually found out this problem was
related to um a batch of alptop that was
contaminated through using a genetically
uh modified bacteria so anyway it got
contaminated these batches got out and
it killed some people which is terrible
and what you should know about this is
about a year previous proac was released
in the market it deals with this
neurotransmitter called s ton in and
when this ban occurred which was all
over the news several days later there
was a huge promotion for proac and so
they banned El chip Defan for 16 years
which is roughly in the same period
where the patents tend to run out on
Prozac but actually I think the patents
ran out in 2001 where they lost the
Monopoly over that uh product I think
their stocks just plummeted by several
billion dollars but after that elf
tryptophan was allowed to be used in the
General market and I don't even think a
lot of people know the power chopan I
mean even if you think about this
outbreak of eoli from eating spinach are
they going to ban spinach for you know
16 years probably not but they
definitely banned Al tryptophan a
natural amino acid for a very long time
this metaanalysis which used 84 studies
and put it all together to find
conclusions found that vitamins and
supplements were generally quote
associated with little or no benefit in
preventing cancer cardiovascular disease
and death had a little bit of a benefit
on treating cancer if you already have
it they also found that people with a
high risk of lung cancer had an quote
increased risk of lung cancer and other
harmful outcomes by taking one vitamin
beta carotene yes there's several
studies that show that uh certain
antioxidants like beta carotene for
example certain vitamins uh increase the
risk of cancer but if you notice and you
read the study they always use synthetic
isolated compounds you see in nature you
never ever see one antioxidant okay
antioxidants are about donating
electrons to free radicals right so it
then borrows an electron from another um
antioxidant and so it all works out fine
of course when you're sest in a lab like
beta carotene that makes sense that it
would actually worsen cancer so what
this basically is saying is that
vitamins don't work for like the big
things preventing The Killers like
cancer and heart problems and they maybe
even hurt us in some cases depending on
the supplement a lot of people don't
even know what vitamins actually do in
the body like there's this extra thing
that we we may need and we probably get
from our diet you know so we don't have
to worry about them but if you look at
your biochemistry in order for uh that
to work you have what's called co-actors
and that's the vitamins and minerals
that allow these chemical reactions to
go from one point to the next to create
this biochemistry and they're very very
essential and there's new testing now
it's called metabolomics that allows you
to dig deep down and visualize what's
happening with these biochemical
Pathways one of the challenges in the
field of supplements okay is that you
have a lot of large companies that own
the good majority of the supplement
industry which I believe has a huge
interest in making big profits so in
other words when you buy synthe
synthetic B1 versus natural B1 it's
incredibly cheap and then you hear these
claims that well hey there's no
difference between synthetic and natural
they're both the same molecules they
work the same um I don't think so 2third
of all vitamins sold come from moral
materials from China and those are
purely synthetic okay those are
industrial made compounds ascorbic acid
thiamine all these vitamins right
they're made in a lab now even if it's
on the label it'll say made USA means
put together where does the raw material
come from it comes from overseas in
China I personally sell supplements and
I've been criticized by selling
supplements to say drberg you shouldn't
be selling supplements because you're in
the business well my viewpoint is would
you rather have a drug company selling
supplements a large junk food company
selling supplements a marketer selling
supplements when there's really no
individual Name Behind the brand I mean
check out these Brands and who owns
these Brands we have Nestle owning
certain brands fizer bear Clorox Proctor
and Gamble private Equity firms another
pharmaceutical company owns nature lab
Global investment uh firm it's called
the KKR and then you have like Kirkland
which is owned by Costco I mean what's
really bizarre is if you take the top
selling vitamins the
multivitamins uh the first ingredient is
calcium carbonate the majority of that
product calcium carbonate is limestone
you're dealing with like this rock and
you're going to put that as a supplement
from my viewpoint it's not the best type
of calcium you should put in a
supplement and so when you read this
label and you see all these chemicals
put in there and the synthetic vitamins
are they really focus on quality or they
focus on profits I spend a tremendous
amount of time sourcing the ingredients
of my products and making sure it
doesn't come from China I investigate
the soils that these certain products
are grown on in fact this is one of the
reasons I'm actually creating a very
large Greenhouse um to grow some of my
own ingredients so I'm going to create a
lot of videos on it so you can see the
soil and I wish companies were more
transparent about where their uh
ingredients come from I mean even like
my product with vitamin C to make sure
that vitamin C was natural it was a lot
more expensive than the synthetics
ascorbic acid it's made from corn starch
and sulfuric acid it doesn't even come
from any plants does our diet actually
provide all the vitamins that we need
some people will say oh no don't worry
about vitamins they're not really needed
well have you ever looked at the back of
a label of a product and looked at some
of the nutrients it'll say it provides
2% of the rdas for you know vitamin A or
vitamin B Etc did you realize that um
rdas are really just average numbers to
to potentially prevent a deficiency in
healthy people and then you also have
the dietary requirement intake so if our
food is grown on crappy soils or even
hydroponically where they're just adding
in 15 minerals right how can someone say
that we have enough nutrients and then
you have the factor of genetics we have
genetics that sometimes can interfere
with our ability to absorb a vitamin and
that's why when you test vitamin D for
example they always test the inactiv
version in the blood and they might say
oh yeah you're fine but what about the
conversion that has to happen through
your your kidney and the liver well and
what if you have a problem with the
genes what's the solution you have to
take more I mean when I was reading some
of these tests with people they have a
problem with um vitamin C they have a
problem with B12 and folate the point is
there's a lot of barriers for these
nutrients to go in our bodies from
absorption from genetics from the amount
needed let's say someone has chronic
inflammation they have diabetes or what
if uh they exercise a lot like I do yet
I was still deficient in vitamin C and
glutathione why because I exercise a lot
and then when we get to other nutrients
that are not necessarily vitamins like
the omega-3 fatty acids uh specifically
DHA which is an anti-inflammatory if
you're consuming all these seed oils
okay that's going to block your
absorption of omega-3 fatty acids and
then we also have potassium for example
the requirements for potassium are 4700
mg you'd have to consume a lot of
certain things a lot of people aren't
aware that they need that much and then
let's just take folate there's been
studies showing that if you're deficient
of folate it can mimic the same damage
to your DNA as radiation can cause to
your DNA let's also look at um the type
of food someone eats let's say they eat
a lot of grains well well guess what
phytic acid blocks certain nutrients
like zinc and then let's say someone is
a vegan and they're thinking that
they're getting all their vitamin A
because they're eating a lot of carrots
getting a lot of beta carotene you have
to realize beta carotene is a precursor
uh it's not the active form of vitamin A
which is like retinol which is very high
in egg yolks you'd have to consume a
tremendous amount of carrots I think it
was 45 pounds of carrots to get enough
vitamin A for one day and then you might
be eating like walnuts to get your
omega-3 walnuts do have ala that's the
precursor it's not the active form and
that has to be converted into EPA and
DHA and you have to consume a lot of
walnuts to have that happen and so I'm
not just picking on the a vegan diet I'm
just saying that if you do a vegan diet
you have to make sure that you take
certain supplements and then you have
fasting where you're not eating any food
and then you're on one meal a day well
maybe you need to take certain
supplements because you're not
necessarily eating the quantities of
food now your body will adapt and'll be
more efficient in your need for certain
nutrients will not be as high so number
one we do need nutrition number two I
don't think we're getting enough of the
right nutrition and number three the
supplements that are sold out there
sometimes might not give you the right
type of vitamins that you need because
the source of them are synthetic but
it's not just about vitamins minerals
trace minerals amino acids fatty acids
you also have
phytonutrients that I think in the
future we're going to find out they
create huge benefits for us when a
diabetic consumes more of these
phytonutrients they have less
complications but when I saw this video
on vitamins I wanted to correct a few
things add uh a few things because I'm
actually in this area I know a lot about
it and yes there is a lot of corruption
going on there a lot of hidden sugars in
these products and I've done a video on
that on the hidden maltodextrin you
should check it out I put it up right
here
