so I wanted to create a very quick video
on my most favorite anti-inflammatory
natural herb it's called stinging nettle
root hands down this has been the most
powerful thing to reduce inflammation as
far as a remedy goes now I I do suggest
that you need to do keto and inent
fasting and also take herbs that have an
antibiotic effect to actually get rid of
the source of inflammation but if you
wanted some relief in the mean time you
want to use stingy n root because it's
extremely powerful and here's why
because it has the capacity to inhibit
several inflammatory compounds uh
specifically something called tnf Alpha
okay tumor necrosis Factor Alpha it
decreases this
compound which then will decrease pain
decrease inflammation without any side
effects so it's a no-brainer so whether
you have arthritis uh some type of itis
you have hives sinus problems even
autoimmune type conditions this
potentially can give you a lot of relief
but don't forget you also have to
correct the cause of the inflammation
too which is usually high levels of
sugar in the diet and high levels of
insulin and if you want more information
if you're new to my channel I have a
link down below to get more data on that
also the source of your inflammation
could be microbial in nature in which
case I have a lot of video on that I'll
put one down to check that out but this
will give you some at least some
temporary relief pretty fast all right
guys thanks for watching hey guys I'm
not sure if you have my app yet drberg
app it's totally free you should
download it okay this is what it looks
like you click it it gives you all sorts
of great resources I have all my YouTube
videos on this app okay and it's
regularly um uploading the most recent
ones all the YouTube videos are also
converted to audio versions okay so you
can use it when you're walking
exercising driving your car I have a
mini course on there I'll be putting
additional courses I have a lot of
recipes on there this is new and also
PDF resources so there's various
downloads PDFs that you can get as well
and if you wouldn't mind after you
download it check it out give me your
unbiased review and tell me how you like
it I want to know
