let's talk about the benefits of taking
zinc for your sleep I've done a lot of
other videos on zinc it's incredible
mineral it is a trace mineral which
means that you need it in small amounts
it's in seafood shellfish red meat it's
in a lot of other foods but it's an
essential cofactor okay what does a
cofactor mean cofactor it's something
that helps in the activation of enzymes
which are proteins and I'm not
necessarily talking about digestive
enzymes I'm talking about the enzymes
that are protein machines that build
tissue that help you detoxify they do a
lot of things but zinc is involved in
over 300 different protein enzymes and
it's in over a thousand transcription
factors now one of those well it's
something that will turn your genes on
or off at the right time and in a
certain amount so zinc is involved at
the cellular DNA level for many many
things if you're deficient in zinc
you're not going to grow properly your
you might have stunted growth
hypogonadism which means you're not
going to produce enough testosterone you
could have cognitive deficits you may
not have the sense of taste or smell
your immune system is weakened and you
can be susceptible to infections viruses
especially of the lung and like I said
before zinc is involved in DNA big-time
but as far as sleep goes it plays an
essential role in neurotransmitters of
the brain especially an area of the
brain called a locus coeruleus that is a
part of the brain that's involved in the
sleep and awake cycle zinc is also
involved in the metabolism of melatonin
which is stimulated by darkness which
helps you fall asleep so zinc has a
calming effect on your central nervous
system and by the way so does magnesium
potassium calcium and b6 so if you're
going to take zinc make sure you take it
in the evening
not in the morning I would recommend
maybe a chelated zinc and it wouldn't
hurt to take some of these other
nutrients if you were gonna take zinc as
a supplement so and if you're wondering
what food has the most sink oysters
they're at the top of the list and I put
a link down below to show you another
video I did on zinc so you could see
what foods are high in zinc I'm also
gonna put a link of an interesting study
that talks about zinc the highest amount
of zinc is found in people who get
between seven and nine hours of sleep as
compared to people who get less than
seven hours of sleep which is
interesting and the last thing I'm going
to point out is that a lot of people are
deficient in zinc either because they're
doing a high carbohydrate diet or
they're doing too many grains with the
especially the whole grains which have
the fiber because that has something
called phytic acid which blocks zinc so
if you wanted to increase the quality
sleep and not get up so often you might
want to try zinc so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
