let's talk about the real reason why you
should be drinking lemon water every
single day the average person does not
know the true benefits okay with an S of
drinking lemon water because it's
actually quite amazing so let's cover
all of the key points number one by
drinking lemon water on a regular basis
you have the potential to reduce a fatty
liver now this is the phytonutrients in
the lemon water that have the ability to
greatly improve approve something called
hepatic steatosis now what does hepatic
mean liver what does steatosis mean that
means the infiltration of fat into the
liver so hepatic theosis means a fatty
liver lemon water has the ability to
dissolve the fat in the liver there's
other things as well like purified bile
salts choline a low-fat diet as an
ketogenic diet can reduce up to 50% of
the fat in your liver within 14 days but
if you add a little lemon to your water
you can actually speed things up all
right number two it can help reduce
cholesterol not that cholesterol is a
bad thing but let's say your liver is
sluggish and your gallbladder is
sluggish and you're not producing enough
bile and that's kind of backing up in
the system lemon water can help increase
the flow of bile through the bile ducts
and help remove some of the excess
cholesterol that's kind of backing up in
the system all right number three we
weight loss now lemon water does not
directly help you lose weight it can
indirectly help you lose weight now
quite a few studies on animals have
shown this but I want to help you
understand the mechanism certain phal
nutrients in lemon water stimulate
significantly lower blood sugars they
reduce insulin resistance so they lower
insulin in that is the reason why
someone can lose weight in fact if you
really want to know how to lose weight
what I would do is not try to research
how to lose weight I would research on
how to lower insulin because anything
that lowers insulin is going to help you
lose weight in fact the fat cells cannot
shrink it's impossible for a fat cell to
shrink without lowering insulin despite
your calories all right number four
lemon has an anti-aging effect fact now
yes the studies were done in animals but
most studies do start in animals and
then you progress to humans but in the
5we study they lived in on average three
weeks longer now you might be saying
well that's not a long time but that's
only five weeks think about if you
started drinking lemon water on a
regular basis for the rest of your life
it could add up and they also found that
lemon water extended the life of the
microbiome your friendly bacteria which
is pretty interesting all right number
five anti-cancer effects now I'm not
telling you that lemon water is going to
cure your cancer I'm not saying that but
it's something you can add to help
inhibit cancer in test tube studies it
was found that certain phytonutrients in
lemon water were able to kill malignant
cancer of the tongue of the lung and the
colon all right number six and this is
an important one the reduction of
kidneys Stones citrate in lemon juice
binds with this thing called oxalate now
the most common type of kidney stem are
oxalate Stones calcium oxalate stones
and so if you have citrate in your body
it can bined with the oxalates to
prevent the Stone from occurring and so
people that have a tendency to have
kidney stones are usually low in
citrates and if you're prone to kidney
stones I would recommend in increasing
the amount of lemon juice to roughly
about a half of a cup to a cup of lemon
juice every single day now number seven
it can potentially give you vitamin C
but only if it's from actual lemons that
have not been heated like in your lemon
juice that you would get in a bottle so
when you buy lemon juice at the store it
normally comes pasteurized and the
problem with vitamin C is that it's
sensitive to heat it gets degraded and
destroyed with heat so when you get
bottled lemon juice you're really
getting next to zero vitamin C but if
you can get your vitamin C from an
actual lemon let's say you just take a
lemon and you squeeze it into water one
lemon can provide up to half of your
daily recommended vitamin C or should I
say like almost half so it gives you
about 31 milligrams when you need like
70 to 75 per day and vitamin C is so
good for the immune system it's good to
prevent bleeding gums it's good to
prevent spider veins and helps form
collagen it helps keep your arteries
from becoming damaged and many other
things okay the last benefit of lemon
water is in its phytonutrients and
there's quite a few and in these three
phytonutrients there's benefit in
improving hemorrhoids leg sores
circulation spider veins and varicose
veins in fact one of the phytonutrients
nenen is being tested as a potential
treatment for all imer's disease it's
also very antibacterial it has antiviral
properties as well as antifungal
properties so start putting lemon in
your water on a regular basis definitely
add it with the apple cider vinegar in
your water I would recommend the amount
of lemon juice from a whole lemon or
just a couple teaspoons but be
consistent and include it in part of
your liquids on a regular basis now if
you haven't seen my video on apple cider
vinegar that's the next one you should
watch check it out right here
