hi guys this is Dr Berg live from
Virginia actually I lied we're not live
this is pre-recorded uh the first
version this morning was a disaster the
sound didn't work a lot of technical
difficulties so I'm going to re
basically recreate it with all of your
questions okay I hope you don't mind the
first thing I wanted to mention is that
you know I had some questions people
want to know how did I get involved with
health um actually I got involved with
health because of a lot of unhealthy
behavior and a lot of pain I was very
very very sick uh when I was 28 that was
a year ago you I'm just kidding I'm 52
but when I was 28 I hit bottom
healthwise I had insomnia so bad there
was nights I didn't even sleep one
minute I had chronic fatigue
fibromyalgia arthritis all down my back
and my fingers
constipation dark I mean just like blood
shut eyes I had like real dry eyes I had
that's why I can relate to people
because I pretty much had every single
health problem you can imagine you know
liver issues you name it so out of that
pain um forced me to look outside the
box box and research and get with every
Guru and try to get some help um but I
was the guy that I had to hit bottom I
was you couldn't teach me anything I was
a no best on steroids I pretty much like
had I just had to hit bottom because I
would like oh I'll do it later I'll do
it later I can eat whatever I want right
well anyway um I started to um get
better eventually and uh become became
obsessed about health to the point I
started studying early morning late
night and then started helping people
and so now I'm actually have a new
Addiction which is basically to help
people I love helping people and I read
all of your comments and I just want to
say I appreciate it I just love it it's
there to me and uh it's very enjoyable I
like researching as well now the second
thing I want to talk about is um in this
presentation um any thing that I say
claims promises cures diagnosis all that
I'm not trying to diagnose you I'm not
telling you you have this problem this
is done mainly for your research and
education so you can further research
with your doctor so don't take any of my
advice unless you thoroughly check with
your doctor that's my disclaimer I mean
it's quite interesting what they did the
I think probably the medical profession
was behind this um but if you look at
every single nutrition label uh they
force us to include this one statement
it says this statement has not been
evaluated by the Food and Drug
Administration okay the product is not
intended to diagnose treat mitigate
which means lesson uh cure or prevent
any disease okay so if you do that uh
you're breaking the law isn't that weird
like if you cure someone you you uh you
can get in trouble so and I just find it
interesting that we can't have that
intent uh so anyway we're forced to do
that okay all right so now let's get
right into the show we're going to the
first question was about fermented soy
uh this lady um had cancer okay and
she's she wants to know if fermented soy
is okay versus like soy protein iets and
all the soy product that you so soy milk
and things that are basically not
fermented versus like Tempe and miso and
things like that um I personally would
stay away from any any soy at all yes
there's some positive benefits with
non-GMO soy um but I would stay away
from it because it potentially could
increase estrogen and a lot of these can
caners especially of the breast and the
uterus um are activated by estrogen in
general so basically I would stay away
from soy if you have a potential to get
cancer okay all right when would I
recommend non-mo soy fermented soy
number one if you've never had cancer
and if you tried everything and your hot
flashes are not going away okay then I
would recommend it small amounts of it
yeah other than that no
all right next question is about the HCG
diet um in keto and ketosis like this
person did this diet before and now they
want to go into ketosis um first of all
what is the HCG diet that's a diet that
you're taking this apparently this
hormone which is interesting because
usually have to have that prescribed so
I don't know how they're getting that
hormone unless it's a some fake thing or
homeopathic thing I don't know but that
Diet requires that you go on 500
calories okay first of all you are going
to starve the body of nutrients you
cannot survive on 500 calories so
they're going to lose weight and it'll
work the first time but it will not work
the second or third or fourth time
you're going to find your metabolism
will shut down so tightly that no matter
what you do it's going to be impossible
to lose weight so really the only
solution is to go on a ketogenic diet
done correctly and why because your set
point is so stuck that's the that's like
the plateau point that we need to bust
that we need to fix that we have to heal
that and we heal that through healing
insulin okay so the whole theme of K
ketogenic diets is lowering insulin if
we lower insulin we can force your body
to burn fat and with you you may have to
do two meals a day only maybe even one
meal a day I mean I have big
bodybuilders that live on one meal a day
and they do fine so you might have to
work up to it but no snacks okay so yeah
it's the only diet that I would
recommend okay and you may only lose a
little bit but you should your stomach
should start shrinking pretty fast okay
next question vitamin K2 and
D3 um all of a sudden you're taking
vitamin 2 in D3 and your heartbeat was
raised okay and you're wondering if
there's a connection um not usually
however if you're taking D3 and K2 your
calcium levels could potentially
increase a little bit in the blood
potassium I'm sorry calcium is one of
the electrolytes and it does compete
with potassium so if you have too much
calcium you're going to have a little
lower potassium potassium is what keeps
the pulse rate lower so you have two
choices you can cut down the D3 and keep
the K2 in there or you can actually
raise pottassium because potassium is
all about lowering your pulse rate okay
you can take a supplement or take it
from food um I would use the electrolyte
powder because that has 1,000 milligram
per serving size that should bring the
pulse rate right down okay next question
you're new to the ketogenic diet and you
want to know the macros okay so you want
to know the percentage of carbs proteins
and fats okay um out of all of the
macros the most
important thing that you can do is
keeping your carbs between 20 G and 50 g
I would just keep it like 35 but you
don't have to worry about the leafy
green vegetables you don't have to worry
about the vegetables like celery and
dark leafy greens because those are not
going to contribute to your carbohydrate
insulin at all so you don't have to
worry about that okay secondly uh as far
as proteins go um rather than give you a
gram because I don't know how much you
weigh um I would do between 3 oz and 6 o
per meal okay three to six ounces okay
now how much fat
that's the variable and that basically
you'd have like number one don't go
lowfat anything don't be afraid to add
fat to your meal but maybe you want to
start out not doing too much fat but if
you do the right amount of fat you won't
have any digestive problems and you'll
be able to go from one meal to the next
without severe hunger so I would
actually start off small and you can
gradually increase it until you get used
to it and then you can decrease it but
the point is that that's the wild
variable some people need a lot some
people need a little so yeah okay I
guess that was a no answer but um all
right next question is about gout okay I
have gout what supplement do I use well
you want to use with gout we want to use
pottassium citrate you can use this or
get potassium citrate this just happens
I have all electrolytes in it but
potassium citrate uh helps gout and what
happens usually gout come from high
insulin if you have insulin resistance
or insulin problems or like diabetics
they have high levels of uric acid so we
want to neutralize that with this
alkaline potassium citrate that's what
you want to take and um keep your
vegetables very very high and the gout
should completely go away okay all right
and uh next question is garlic what form
do I use of garlic well I think you
should do a sauteed garlic you just
slightly sauté it and maybe a little
butter with some onions and you can put
your spinach in there or you can put
your vegetables in there and sauté that
I like uh zucchini and I uh shave that
little noodle noodle Shredder I shave
into noodles zucchini slightly sauteed I
put the garlic the
onion little non sugar tomato sauce I'm
good to go it's really good Parmesan
cheese all right so now another person
says um I have instead of right shoulder
paint I have left shoulder pain because
a lot of times with gallbladder I talk
about the right shoulder not the left
shoulder now there's two nerves that
come from your digestive system one is
the frenic nerve actually they're both
frenic but they come off the diaphragm
up through this way so even now the
gallbladder will get swollen and cause
pressure on that frenic nerve causing
right shoulder pain neck problems or
headaches on this side uh it could
happen on the left side too and if
that's the case that means that your
pancreas needs is maybe a little swollen
and that can happen so you just do
acupressure over the left uh off the
midline underneath the rib cage okay and
the headaches go away then we know for a
fact it was coming from your digestive
system okay next question is uh
migraines what do you suggest for
migraines well migraines can come from
several things the most common is a
digestive gallbladder issue so if you
have a migraine press underneath the
right rib cage and see if that lessens a
headache if it does and it should if
it's connected right away not like
tomorrow then we know it's the
gallbladder and you need to not consume
so many nuts rancid oils refine carbs to
really correct the gallbladder and you
probably need to support the gallbladder
with some nutrition okay the other thing
that you want to do look at for for
headaches migraines could be sinus could
be an old head injury things like that I
did a whole video on that you can look
it up but there's those are the most
common
ones okay so what about a four-year-old
son who had who went to the doctor and
had something called ketogenic acidosis
now what is that that is a condition
which usually happens when a person has
type one diabetes where he's not
producing enough insulin and what
happens is that the keto the acidosis
the pH becomes so high in the body and
this is completely different than
getting into a ketosis diet you it's
never going to get that high so it has
to be dysfunctional so so um if you have
ketogenic acidosis then we know there
has to be an insulin problem there has
to be I mean there are other reasons for
that but uh one is a side effect from M
Forin which for for diabetes but here's
the point the point is that uh and she
mentioned that uh they already checked
the the insulin but I think they checked
the glucose they checked the glucose
they did the breast fasting blood sugars
but they did not check the insulin that
fasting insulin I will guarantee they
didn't because they probably would find
a problem that's how you measure like a
problem with insulin resistance so I
would get that test and it's probably
going to be very low okay so in that
case then yes you need to instead of
doing grains do fruit do potato do red
potato do yam okay and then also have
potassium citrate to bring the PH down
and there's a certain water that I
recommend it's um with the great
bicarbonates I can't even pronounce the
name but it's uh starts with a g it's a
spring water from Germany and it is
really good to alkalize you if you
really need that so that's what I would
have him drink so yeah all right next
question is um a 59y old person that has
high blood pressure
constipation
um and so what's happening is that
getting chest pain okay getting chest
chest
pain and um wondering what the heck's
going on um other positive benefits but
we have on blood pressure medication
which anytime you have chest pain you're
on blood pressure medication you better
check for side effects because it's one
of the side effects from medication
could be chest pain but it could also be
related to the digestion because you
have constipation and that could be low
bile and that could back up to the
gallbladder and liver and put pressure
on the chest that's the most likely
thing and I would do a lot of massage on
the gallbladder and things like that um
so to lower blood pressure the other
thing there's two ways you can do the D3
and K2 okay or you can do the potassium
potassium a lot of potassium will lower
blood pressure and it could even
actually help your chest pain as well
and your
constipation
okay all right ovary removed how do I
Salvage the other ovary okay so if you
want if you have one ovy and you want to
make sure you keep the other one then
what you should do is you need to avoid
anything with pesticides herbicides
fungicides heavy metals chemicals in the
food GMO Foods you got to go organic
completely because these chemicals mimic
estrogen they're called endocrine
disruptors and the GM food GMO food will
also do it because it's loaded with
glyphosate and that leeches right into
your gland so you have to avoid those um
those things that mess up your ovaries
see ovaries are very sensitive to
estrogenic things so anything
environmentally that could be affecting
the ovary um you're going to have to
just go real clean okay now we're going
to take a little short a very short
break we're going to a commercial SP um
for my
sponsor um and then we'll come right
back
okay
okay all right
okay all right we're back from um we're
back and uh I'm I'm actually the sponsor
okay and I can't even see a darn thing
so um I'm doing a little commercial here
I'm taking a little break and I want to
give you guys a flash sale okay on a
couple products these are new products
and this flash special there's links
down below there's five products
on Amazon okay and these products um are
quite amazing I'll go through them but
here's the
deal uh on Saturday morning and Sunday
morning I listed down below there's one
hour between 9:30 and 10:30 Eastern
Standard Time where you can get 30% off
any of these four products on Amazon so
if you're interested you can pick the
one that you want okay and get 30% now
the only thing that I ask is to give me
a unbiased review
once you experience the results so it
might not be right away but if you could
promise to do that I would really
appreciate that okay so here's one of
the products it's the Hair Formula and
the Hair Formula basically uh has three
main cool things number one it has all
the B vitamins natural vitamins biotin
it has um B6 B3 all the ones that are
important for hair growth then it has
all the trace minerals it has a typ of
collagen that is from fish scales wild C
fish scales and that really builds up
the strength of the hair and nails and
skin and then it also has something for
Alopecia or hair loss which has to do
with um high levels of androgens okay
DHT which could burn out your hair and
so we put that in the handle any
possible reason for hair loss and I'm
getting amazing results so that's one
thing okay number two this one right
here this is really cool this is an
insulin and glucose support this is
something new and basically this is for
people with high insulin or insulin
resistance or diabetes it supports the
blood sugars and the glucose it's mainly
for weight loss because most weight loss
problems especially Plateau are high
insulin so this supports insulin to
lower insulin and it goes after 10 key
areas of the body and there's actually
10 different herbal and nutrient things
in there uh most people are taking met
Forin this has one remedy go through
which is actually mimics metformin
without the side effect so it actually
that's just one of the ingredients right
there so it's it's it would be really
good for polycystic ovarian syndrome
it'd be really good for someone that um
is plateaued and wants to take it to the
next level so um it has some really cool
things and the natural B vitamins and
the natural Trace mineral so that's
another product this one right here it's
called joint pain relief this is the one
that
I built for myself because I have so
many old injuries and bone on bone and
and a lot of issues with that so this is
like the ultimate joint pain relief but
it doesn't it has all the traditional
things glucosamine and things like that
natural vitamin C not synthetic but it
also has um something called tendog
guard which is a type of collagen that
repairs tendons which are muscle to Bone
okay it also will repair cartilage so it
actually repairs The Joint it also has
uh adrenal extracts in it so it's not a
vegan product but it's the adrenal
controls the anti-inflammatory so taking
the whole adrenal will definitely
support the anti-inflammatory process it
also has one of my favorite
anti-inflammatories called stingy
nettler root I love that product for
inflammation it works like a charm I
used to take that as an individual
product but now I take this turmeric
which is awesome uh basella and a whole
bunch of other things so this is really
good for inflammation and joint pain
this one here is estrogen balance this
not is not just for women it's for men
too and this is the one that helps
balance um estrogen dominance so this is
too much insulin this is too much
estrogen so estrogen if you're a male
and you have too much estrogen your
prostate might be an issue low
testosterone hair loss things like that
but for a female
cystic acne um and also half flashes and
heavy periods and anything with there's
too much estrogen and this is something
called dim which is a concentrated
cruciferous it's like 25 times more
concentrated than regular cruciferous so
this is awesome as well and then
lastly my favorite which is electrolyte
powder I'm loving this the feedback is
incredible um it has all the trace
minerals in a citrate blend and Trace
and the big minerals and trace minerals
as well but it doesn't have any
maltodextrin okay it tastes really good
it has Stevia and flavoring you won't
taste the stevia it's just really good
um it has 1,000 milligrams of potassium
now when you have potassium citrate
usually if you have a th000 milligrams
of potassium citrate um only 30% of that
is actual potassium and the rest is the
citrate okay well to get actually a
th000 milligrams of potassium I had to
put in here almost
3,000 milligrams per serving of
potassium citrate because it splits off
into the citrate so you get the benefit
of the citrate with things like kidney
stones and gout which also give the
benefit of the potassium for those
people that can't get all the vegetables
um that they want and want a a jump
start but it gives you a lot of energy
it's very hydrating great for workout um
and also good for dissolving kidney
stones so this is another one you could
try again if you go to Amazon 30% off
and look down below so you can actually
find out the times that you can get that
it's not all the time it's only a very
temporary one-hour window to get any of
these at 30% off okay all right so I'm
going to come back to my show here and
take off
my commercial
shirt Okay so next question is does kale
deplete iodine and should I avoid it
okay no you should not avoid it kale is
very very low in oxal oxalates so it's
not going to affect your Stones like
spinach is off the charts so it's not
going to create kidney stones and
there's so many benefits of kale for
detoxification of chemicals but it also
all you need to do is add some calp to
get that natural iodine to actually
counter any depletion of iodine from
from kale all right next
question um nose bleeds I've had nose
beds for a year wow that's an
interesting question so the nose beds
you need to
um consume a food-based vitamin C
because what happens when you lower in
vitamin C you get a version of scurvy
which is bleeding gums bleeding nose and
the capillaries and spider veins and
things like that so you need to find a
food based vitamin C complex acerola
Berry would be a good one Camu
Camu um and take a large amount of that
and make sure you're not eating any
sugar at all but if that doesn't work it
could be your low vitamin D okay and if
that doesn't work you need to get a
bunch of test because there's something
else underneath it okay next question is
I was in the ketogenic diet I lost 40
pounds in one month um you're a guy uh
one meal a day but it's a good balanced
meal now should I eventually go to more
meals to stimulate the metabolism well
here's the thing first of all you
probably lost a lot of water weight in
that first month and you're going to
probably start plateauing after that um
where you're not going to lose that much
weight because you've got rid of the
water weight now it's into fat burning
the maximum fat burning you can actually
burn per week is a little bit over 2
pounds per week yeah so that's 8 pounds
a month that's like the best you can do
um but here's the thing if you add
another meal you're going to actually
believe it or not you won't speed up
your
metabolism it won't you'll you you'll
increase your
insulin so if you're comfortable at this
I would continue it until you hit your
goal and then you maybe can add some
more meals if you want to add more food
um but just make sure your nutrition is
good and make sure when you're doing it
you don't have any symptoms like hair
loss fatigue things like that all right
next question is um I'm going type one
diabetic my blood sugars oscillate
between 80 and 120 is a ketos diet good
absolutely what is a ketos diet it's a
diet that keeps insulin low okay what's
a danger of high insulin oh my gosh
stroke heart
attack fatty liver so you have to take
insulin right now injection so if your
blood sugars go below 100 okay that
means that you're taking too much
insulin so a lot of times people do a
ketogenic diet and they're diabetic the
blood sugars come down down down real
low up with low blood sugars and the
doctor tells me they have glucose
tablets I'm like no lower the medication
lower the medication so you're so it
doesn't go too low because your body is
getting healed the need for insulin is
going down so you take less
insulin okay I'm not telling you not to
take the glucose pills I'm just telling
you to lower the insulin because it's
going below 100 you don't need to take
anything we the normal is 100 so I'm not
saying you're going to cure type one but
you can actually improve it greatly okay
and the side effects from too much
insulin next question can I do goats
milk on a ketogenic diet well goats milk
is wonderful for allergies to milk but
it does have some sugar in it I would
prefer you do the goats milk cheese on
the K ketogenic diet that way the
microbes the fermentation can eat up all
the bacteria and you can end up with a
higher protein and fat and low carb
program okay all right next question is
PCS polycystic ovarian syndrome how to
deal with it I don't want to take
Metformin okay well you need this right
here this is going to lower insulin
insulin turns into androgens which give
you the the acne hair loss and the the
other things that are associated with
PCOS uh this is another one that could
also be helpful but mainly this one but
you need to go on the ketogenic diet so
you can drop insulin and heal PCOS what
does metformin do it lowers insulin well
what do you think get gosu does it
lowers insulin just like it's like
that's I think that's how they made
metformin they actually came up with
metformin from some chemical that mimics
uh metformin all right so next question
is you're a female you have a flat butt
how do you make it round okay so that's
the that's the glutamate maximum that's
your muscle your butt muscle is
atrophied it's it's gone so it's hanging
flat so you basically have to build up
the glutes and that would be any type of
exercise if you're on all fource and you
bring your leg back up it's an leg
extensor so you have to extend the leg
back and start doing workouts with leg
extensions and squats U probably find
some videos on how to build up the
glutes and your butt will will start
forming but do it slowly because it's
going to be real sore and it's going to
take some time if you have atrophy of
the muscle okay all right next one is
what to eat when you're sick well when
you're sick you need to consume like
things like homemade soup with um a
little more fat in it maybe some butter
and maybe some garlic
onions um and if you have like you know
like a sinus stuff then you need more
oregano oil uh as in pills I would take
that but you actually when you're sick
you need to have no sugar you need a
little bit more fat and a lot more
garlic and onion okay that's what I'm
going to recommend all right uh Ginger
if your stomach is sick can steroids
cause insulin resistance absolutely
steroids are adrenal hormones they're
cortisol cortisol will release your
muscles turn your muscles into glucose
and sugar that's why a lot of adrenal
cases become diabetics so because it's
jacking up sugar if you ever see someone
with a gut and I used to talk about the
adrenal body type is the the gut that's
because the adrenal hormones trigger
insulin that causes the gut to Fat to be
fat so anytime you have a gut problem
you have insulin problem okay like a fat
stomach but yes steroids cause insulin
resistance for sure so so does stress
okay next question is you have a hard
time with the ketogenic you crave sweets
you're tired you're not sleeping okay
well then I know you're not doing it
correctly on my website under extras at
the top header I have a little course on
how the basic basics of Keto ketosis
watch that those series of videos it's
free and you can get a lot of
information on how to do it correctly
you got to add the greens and you have
to add intermittent fasting and yes you
might crave for the first four days but
the
whole um purpose of doing it is to lower
insulin if you do it correctly the
insulin should go down uh and you should
Cravings should go away so when the
Cravings go away you know it's working
okay if the Cravings don't go away it's
not working yet so you have to tweak it
and the fact that you're tired means you
probably need potassium and you probably
need something to help you
sleep okay all right I want to thank you
guys for watching I will see you next
Friday at 9 o' we'll work out the bugs
thanks for your patience I'll see you
see you tomorrow
