hey guys I wanted to create a quick
video on a simple fix for oily skin now
the absolute worst thing you could do is
use cleansers and start scrubbing this
oil on your face because you can end up
damaging it the skin is very delicate
and you want to understand what's
causing this problem what's underneath
it and it's actually an internal problem
there's all these little glands in your
face they're called sebaceous glands and
they're making the oil which is called
sebum okay so the sebum is the actually
oil that comes out so the question is
why are these glands overactive well it
has to do with in a production of a
hormone called androgens so antigens are
being produced too much and antigen is a
male hormone so in a female body there
are two glands that make antigens one
would be the ovary and the other is the
adrenal gland okay so now the quick fix
for oily skin would be to take zinc
because zinc lowers antigens but we want
to take it one step further and find out
why would your body be making too much
energy and there's really two main
causes one it's an overactive adrenal
gland now what is it adrenaline it's a
stress plant it sits on top of your
kidneys you have two of them and so if
there's stress involved if you're under
constant stress that's probably what's
causing an overactive adrenal gland
which is producing too much antigens in
that case you have to remove this source
of stress now the other reason would be
insulin insulin converts to androgens
okay now insulin is a carbohydrate
hormone and that's triggered by sugar
and frequent eating and especially if
you're a pre-diabetic and that's why
women that have polycystic ovarian
syndrome PCOS or pcod same thing have
facial hair oily skin belly fat because
of the antigen spike because the insulin
is too high okay so no in that situation
you would want to lower the sugar and
decrease the frequency of eating I put a
little link down below of how to do that
but there's another great remedy to help
balance estrogen and it's called dim I
put a link down below to get some more
data
this but dim is a super concentrated
blend of cruciferous vegetables that
would be like kale broccoli radish
cauliflower those type of vegetables so
not only does dim lower androgens but it
also balances estrogens now what I mean
lower energons I'm talking about
lowering it to a normal level not
extremely low or you don't have any more
because even men take Tim to help
support their prostates because a lot of
times that could be high level of
estrogen so Tim is just great to help
balance certain hormones thanks for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press the button below and I
will keep you in the know
hey that runs
