hi guys recently other question do I
have to do in a minute fasting can I
just do keto without doing in a minute
fasting okay the answer is yes you have
to do in a minute fasting okay here's
why there's a lot of people out there
doing keto that aren't losing weight
okay why because they allow snacking
between the meals even know it's low
carb which is a step up and much better
and a lot of people will lose weight
especially if they have a good
metabolism there's the great majority
will not lose weight because of the fact
that every time you eat you stimulate
insulin okay
frequent meals bad idea and the big
point about this is if you're over the
age of 45 or 50 or 60 menopausal you
have a slow metabolism kita will not
work for you unless you do in a minute
fasting okay Kido in an MS fasting are
equally important tools to help you get
healthy and lose weight okay so it's not
just about losing weight it's about
getting healthy so you can maintain it
you do it on a gradient you do it slowly
you start with 3 meals no snacks add
more fat at the meals and then you start
to push your breakfast forward and
forward until you don't have a breakfast
if you're not hungry in the morning
don't eat okay don't eat just don't eat
if you're not hungry any time just keep
going because your body is eating your
own fat alright so do them together and
it will work for you alright see you
later
hey before you go definitely sign up for
my free keto course I put a link down
below it's on messenger in Facebook but
it will give you all the basics it's
very quick it's like three or four
videos and it's free check it out
