so I wanted to create this video on a
comment that someone made relating to
cheeto putting your body in an emergency
State okay it's absolutely not true I
think what they were talking about is
when you go through keto adaptation when
you're initially transitioning from
sugar burning into fat-burning and you
might feel a little edgy irritable and
that comes from low blood sugars now
there's a way that you can transition
without going through that okay without
all the keto flu fatigue and all you
need to do is take a little more salt
sea salt potassium and electrolytes in
magnesium and vitamin b1 from
nutritional yeast and you really won't
go through hardly any side-effects okay
but to adapt to run your body on fat
24/7 you're gonna have to build new
enzymes new cellular machinery to
actually burn fat consistently it's
going to be really hard to go back and
forth if you're consuming carbs one day
and then you're going on keto the next
you have to be consistent over a period
of time so I think if you're gonna do it
halfway you're gonna have a heck of a
time because you're never gonna fix this
blood sugar thing you're never going to
fully adapt and convert over ketones and
there's three of them but we're going to
talk about beta-hydroxybutyrate
inhibits this sympathetic nervous system
the sympathetic nervous system is the
flight or fight mechanism the part of
the nervous system that adapts to stress
okay over here you have the
parasympathetic which is rest and digest
and the flight or fight mechanism over
here has to do with reacting to stress
but ketones
actually pull you out of this
sympathetic dominant situation which so
many people are in so many people are in
a stress mode they can't sleep
their pulse rates higher they got high
blood pressure during the state of
anxiety they have a very low tolerance
to stress if they did healthy Kido and
ran their body in ketones
they would feel a nice calmness their
pulse rate would come down and sleep
better at blood pressure coming down
much better mood much more tolerance to
stress there's two ways for your body to
make ketones number
through fasting or intermittent fasting
and lowering your carbohydrates so
basically when you go into healthy Kido
you're increasing your parasympathetic
nervous system this is your recovery
system you're gonna feel much calmer but
the truth is that high carbohydrate
diets put your body in an emergency
state when you do a chi carb diet you
deplete your b1 that is needed for the
autonomic nervous system to function so
locking b1 you're eventually going to
have a sympathetic dominant situation
where you're going to be in
flight-or-fight and then over time that
will burn out too and that condition is
called pots if you want more information
and put a link down below that's a
situation when you get up too fast and
you feel really dizzy because the body
no longer can tolerate stress even from
standing up this is why one of the
things I recommend when you do keto is
just to beef up no pun intended
you're be one from nutritional yeast so
you actually can transition to this very
very nicely and it will actually help
you with any side effects that may occur
when you adapt alright guys thanks for
watching so if you're enjoying this
content go ahead and share it with
someone that could really benefit from
it
