hey Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about the risks of calcium
supplements that's right primarily the
the supplement calcium carbonate now
calcium carbonate is a form of calcium
that is basically Limestone it's rocks
and that's in probably all of the most
popular
traditional multivitamins and calcium
supplements that you get on the market
from CVS and that's the most common
recommend calcium by doctors okay it's
pretty much it's rock stone you can
you'd be better off chewing on the
cement outside because it's not meant
for humans all right um there's been
some new research that even says that
when you take calcium carbonate and
vitamin D it does nothing for bones I
provided a link in fact it will increase
the risk of
cardiovascular accidents or incidents
now why is that because when you have
plaing that plaing is not just
cholesterol plaing it's calcium plaing
but you don't really hear any anti-
calcium movement it's more like anti-
cholesterol which is very interesting
because if you have coronary artery
calcification which is too much plaing
in those arteries uh your risk factors
for heart attacks go up by,
1600% and um I really I think I know why
uh number one it's the source of calcium
that you're taking which is the wrong
source and then the other thing is that
um every decade a person ages their pH
in their in their stomach gets weaker
and weaker and weaker now in this normal
stomach and and you could check on this
I created a a gallbladder video you
should watch if you want more
information on this but the stomach
should be between one and three that's
if you ever studied um chemistry um pH
neutral is seven and then it goes down
that's more acid okay so if it's a one
it's so a acidic it can dissolve a razor
blade so it should be between 1 and
three and that's very acid that's why
you need the stomach very acid but every
decade you age you lose some of that
acid when you get into your 50s 60s 70s
and 80s and 90s oh my gosh there's
hardly any acid in your stomach and
that's why you see a lot of people when
they get older to start having
indigestion gas heartburn that is not
too much acid that's not enough acid and
some of the waste acid is coming up
through the low
intestinal tract splashing up here and
that's why they're taking things like
prosac and Tums which is the exact
opposite thing you want to do because
now we're going to take out that last
bit of acid they had and they're not
going to digest and they're going to
just feel bloated and they have to keep
taking it so it's not very corrective
but anyway when you lose your stomach
acids your blood pH starts becoming a
bit more alkaline too okay so when it
comes to alkaline now you can't absorb
calcium calci calcium is very alkaline
in order to absorb it you need a very uh
acidic stomach and a very a um the
correct pH in your blood you don't want
it to alkaline it's called alkalosis
calcium does not absorb where does it go
if it's not absorbing in the bone of the
muscle uh it's going on top of the bone
as arthritis btis tentis uh on the
joints um is is calcium deposits heel
spurs cataracts on the eyes on the nerve
is twitching in the left eye get cramps
in the lower calves um you'll get uh
stones in the kidney stones in the
gallbladder uh calcification of your
arteries yeah that's all from pH
problems so we have also what could
cause alkaline U pH would be high levels
of stress or that high cortisol that
adrenal hormone again that can also make
your pH so alkaline that your calcium
won't be really reabsorbed properly it's
kind of like if you ever go outside and
you're um faucet outside you'll see that
little calcium ring around the faucet
that's because the pH is too alkaline in
the water and that calcium comes out of
solution and deposits around the little
ring and it's just a pH thing so again
on your bodies people are becoming
calcified and especially because you're
taking so much calcium uh carbonate all
right another cause would be excess
vitamin D and this is interesting
because how many people are taking
taking vitamin D now now I did create a
video on vitamin D and you should watch
it if you have not I think it's under
the um it's in one of the blog videos
you'll be able to find on the page but
um here's the interesting thing about
vitamin D vitamin D takes the calcium
from your stomach and puts it into the
blood it concentrates it into the blood
all right and then from the blood
vitamin F which is the helper vitamin
takes it into the tissues the bones
things like that so if you're not having
enough vitamin F which very few people
even know what that vitamin is and all
this vitamin D and calcium carbonate and
you're older oh my gosh you're just like
calcifying you're you're becoming a rock
you're going to get stiff you're going
to have all sorts of stones kidney
stones um what you need to do is take uh
vitamin F vitamin f is in the flax oil
cod liver oil
um but flax oil is a really good vitamin
F Source okay so that would help you
balance out vitamin F I mean s vitamin D
so they both work together another cause
of excess vitamin D would be uh stress
because that cortisol again depletes and
blocks the absorption of vitamin D these
are all just potential causes of
problems with with calcification on your
arteries that I want you to look at um
rather than just having a one Viewpoint
you know fixed idea on it um so we got
low vitamin F stress and low bile okay
now we got we're back to the gall water
again bile is the detergent that breaks
down the grease it's made by that liver
it comes with the gallbladder it helps
you absorb fats specifically fat suble
vitamins and that would be vitamin D
vitamin D is a fat soluble so if we have
a liver problem or a gallbladder problem
or no gallbladder at all you don't
really absorb vitamin D very well and so
you're going to be taking all this
vitamin D but it's not really going in
your body it's being stored in the liver
and the kidney and that's why too much
vitamin D causes more
stones and kidney stones things like
that um and just as a side note um
vitamin A helps protect against kidney
stones as well and that would be in the
kale okay remember that now there's two
types of minerals
uh you have Rock based minerals from the
soil and then you have plant-based
minerals the way nature is to intended
is the plant is designed to break down
the rocks in the soil and through
enzymes and break and pull them into the
plant and convert them into a
plant-based mineral that then we can
actually absorb in our bodies that's how
it's designed but people don't pay
attention to that they just eat the
Rocks like calcium carbonate uh I'm
going to recommend you get your calcium
from uh not necessarily milk because
it's pasteurized unless you have raw
milk because when you heat the milk you
you actually destroy the absorption of
the calcium but more in a fermented milk
source would be something like cheese
yogurt kefir or any of the greens like
spinach has a lot of calcium or almonds
or other nuts or
celp okay so I just wanted to again
bring your awareness up on this darn
calcium because if you think you're
getting your calcium from taking that
calcium carbonate which the bottle is
like a paper weight it's so heavy it's
it's a joke and now they're finding the
calcium carbonate actually
causes you know heart heart heart
attacks it's just insane so again we we
boil down to the problem where um if
you're going to someone they're not
trained properly in nutrition you may
get the wrong advice
