Dr Berg again so in this video we're
going to show you how to make the
cranberry shake out of my book chapter
10 and very simply we're going to add a
cranberry lemon and apple cider vinegar
as far as the lemon goes um you can use
the traditional lemon juice that you can
get from the heal store you can even use
the uh powdered version or even the um
any v um lemon juice that they have but
I have the organic right here you can
also substitute lime if you don't like
lemon I found this thing at the healis
store it's actually quite incredible
it's called Italian volcano lemon juice
and this is the juice from 40 organic
lemons there's no preservatives it's
grown in it um it's grown in Italy and
this stuff tastes a lot different than
this stuff over here if you can find it
I would definitely do it so it's very
very delicious now we're going to take
this right here just cranberry you can
use different versions it doesn't have
to be organic but the only thing you
have to make sure it says cranberry and
water it doesn't have I don't want it to
have apple juice or high fructose corn
syrup so you can also look if you look
at the sugars it will say n g but the
thing is realize it's very bitter it's
naturally bitter so that's the one you
want you don't want the sweet one so
simply you're going to add 2 oz of this
so we'll actually pour 2 oz in a little
measuring thing right
here perfect so we're going to add 2 oz
which are about that much right
there we're going to do a teaspoon of
apple cider
vinegar now all these ingredients here
are loaded with
potassium and very good things to clean
out the liver the liver um fills up with
all sorts of waste apple cider vinegar
is a great detoxer for the liver I mean
some people just lose weight on apple
cider vinegar alone so we'll take this
lemon juice and we'll take one t
spoon and then we'll take six o of
water and what you can do is you can
actually make this throughout the day
drink as much as you want and but don't
drink is when you're not thirsty for it
so you could make maybe like five of
these a day and just take them to work
okay so that's how you make this uh
little mixture and let's see if it's any
good
it's actually very delicious um it's a
little bit bitter it's an acquire taste
but you'll get used to it if you can't
stand the taste add a little Stevia and
if your children consume this you can
add a little bit of honey that would be
actually acceptable but we want to keep
the sugars down uh for weight loss so
bonana petite
