hey guys I wanted to tell you what
happened in a recent experiment we did
with coffee in my Quito closed Facebook
group it's called dr. Burks Quito and in
a minute fasting lab okay we have about
40,000 members right now so we're gonna
be doing all sorts of experiments this
is our first experiment I want to tell
you what we found this is a kind of a
general experiment I'm gonna do another
one to drill down less variables more
standard more people but I wanted at
least give you some of the results with
this generalized study and basically all
we did is we measured the key talents
before and after drinking coffee okay
and this was no food involved it was
just straight coffee some people added
cream some people didn't so basically we
just want to see what would happen with
ketones okay this is what we found which
is actually quite surprising
we found the ketones increased after
drinking coffee which is interesting and
there is some data that I found that
coffee can increase the free fatty acids
from the liver and that's probably
what's happening because this fat is
being converted to ketones now I'm gonna
do some more investigation on if that's
actually true or if there's some other
reasons but I also found some
interesting data because I have a
testing kit that measures both blood
sugars and ketones okay so I checked my
blood sugars which I was surprised it
went up a little bit so my blood sugars
went up and my ketones went up myself so
the blood sugars weren't even a part of
the study because I didn't tell people
to test their blood sugars but the next
test I will have people check both the
blood sugars and the ketones to see if
there was a difference and I'm sure
someone's gonna ask what device you
could find that will measure both
ketones and blood sugars there's not a
lot of them out there but I'll put a
little link down below of this one it's
called md6 bluetooth guess it's Bruno
high-accuracy blood glucose and beta
ketone monitoring system so you can
maybe get one similar to this but it I
think it's important to measure your
glucose and ketones just to see what
happens it's both ok so stay tuned for
more interesting results from the
studies
we're gonna be doing in the next coming
weeks hey if you haven't already
subscribed press the button below and I
will keep you in the know hey that runs
