hey guys had another question from
someone that wanted to know how can I
get the benefits of keto and intimate of
fasting without losing more weight
they're thin they have a fast metabolism
and they don't want to lose weight they
just want the benefits like better
cognitive function anti-inflammatory and
to aging improving your mood and
concentration and memory those things
okay here's what you need to do we have
net carbs are normally between 20 and 50
grams just go up with the carbs to 50
grams
stick with 50 grams just don't go over
that but that would be a good number
right here you can go up a little bit
with your protein so instead of doing
three to six ounces go up to eight
ounces now the fats going to be a lot
higher than someone trying to lose
weight
okay and I'm talking about at the end of
the meal a nut butter pecans other nuts
things like that a keto bomb would be
really really important let's say in the
morning because you're going to do two
meals okay you're not going to eat in
the morning let's say you're gonna do
coffee or an alternative coffee like
Ticino you definitely want to do
bulletproof which basically going to be
adding the butter or coconut oil or MCT
oil to that drink okay because we want
more fat you're going to be in ketosis
but you're not going to lose weight if
you do that because your body is gonna
be burning these ketones and it's not
going to burn your own fat okay and I
think a good ratio for you would be
eating at 12 o'clock and 6 o'clock for
your in a minute fasting and I think
that will give you the benefits without
the weight loss okay
and
[Applause]
[Music]
all right I handled the cleaning lady
okay ketta bombs awesome they're a fat
cookie I put a link down below this is a
great way to get your fat and make it
taste good
alright thanks for watching
hey guys so I'm doing a survey of a
future video and I wanted to find out
what your biggest body problem is so
that way the content is aligning with
something that you are personally
interested in so please click the link
down below fill it out and I will create
the video thanks
