I guess I'm we're gonna get any
trick-or-treaters this year I don't know
we'll see yeah geez last year was a
there's a wash no no I don't know why
they don't like lettuce oh we got
someone all right let's do it
all right let's let's check it out oh
look at this guy's Hey
thirty-five thousand international units
of vitamin A perk up pretty good
nummy isn't it all right have a good one
okay all right I'll give you kids would
you want sugar you wanted sugar here you
go enjoy we know this is what you want
you want sugar there you go handle the
sugar for you guys okay all right have
fun hey guys listen
I wanted to create this short video on
Halloween candy okay
give you a couple tips if you have kids
you know you have to realize that as
soon as that child starts eating that
candy they're gonna feel great you're
gonna stimulate a certain chemical in
the brain called beta endorphin so
they're gonna feel wonderful they're
gonna be happy as the blood Sugar's go
up and then insulin goes up and the
blood sugars come crashing down so the
next day like tomorrow you're gonna see
you know craziness so low blood sugars
and children they get kind of psychotic
they get very irritable very demanding
more sugar so a couple things you know
it's really hard to get a teenager to
change their diet and now that that was
our problem our kids already were you
know well indoctrinated with sugar and
they're my trying to get him off that is
next to impossible so we had to just
educate them until finally they they
shifted now we have a granddaughter Lucy
who we're not gonna even introduce her
to sugar until she's like 18 she's not
gonna even know what it is and that's
gonna be really good I wish I had that
opportunity because the amount of sugar
that went to my body literally created a
lot of inflammation going up and blood
sugar problems so you know there's over
90 million
excuse me 90 million pounds of chocolate
sold
a few days before in a few days after
Halloween 90 million pounds of chocolate
that's a lot of chocolate 35 million
pounds of candy corn remember that stuff
candy corn the ingredients it's like you
know corn starch corn sugar hyper just
corn syrup dextrose soy lecithin all
these are GMO the sugar is not even cane
sugar it's basically beet sugar which is
GMO so you're getting a lot of extra you
know pesticides and stuff that you don't
want so what I would do if I were you if
you have kids I would consume foods
I'm sorry candies that are low on the
list if you had to you know do with kids
demanding this sugar and if they don't
they're gonna be really upset you know I
have a little list here of all the the
candies that are real high on the list
and very low in the list so I'm just
gonna kind of rattle off a couple types
of candy that is pretty highs for our
sugar concentration number one is nerds
okay I've never like I've had one of
those and then we have Pixy Stix then we
have candy corn so candy corn is right
at the top of the list that is some
serious pure sugar that we have sweet
tarts skittles Jelly Belly gummy bears
Three Musketeers New York Peppermint
Patties so that's for real at the top of
list so I would have them avoid those if
they had to choose you know get them to
consume like peanut butter cups
Snickers actually is low in the list
tootsie rolls you know something like
that
almond joy butterfingers Twizzlers
they're lower on the list so what I do
with my kids one year I just said okay
pick a small amount of candy that you're
gonna eat we're gonna toss the rest and
they were able to do that and then that
way the next day when they were
searching around for the candy and
that's what happens they couldn't find
it so that was that's gonna be very
smart what happens when the blood sugars
are low you
want to give your kids more of a protein
and more than fat not carbohydrate not
starch okay keeps them b1 around bottom
b1 or nutritional yeast that's going to
be the thing that's going to counter
some of the side effects from the blood
sugar issues so what happens when you
consume the mature you deplete b1 and
when you're low and b1 you get that you
have nervous anxiety you have all sorts
of issues and somnium so b1 actually
will counter some of the effects and
also can make some great keto bombs or
keto friendly recipes sweep things
around the house so you could they can
have it as a kind of a go-to thing all
right all right guys have a great
Halloween I'll see you in the next video
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
