so I had a question from someone that
wanted to know what type of exercise
will help insulin resistance okay
insulin resistance is a situation it's a
pre-diabetic situation where insulin is
not working anymore and so you're gonna
have all these symptoms like tired after
you eat craving for sweets maybe your
nation at night belly fat all sorts of
things now the type of exercise that's
not going to work is the 45 minute
exercise on the treadmill that you see
when you go to the gym all these people
lined up that is not going to help you
so what is gonna work is something
called compound resistance exercise or
training which involves multiple muscle
groups or multiple joints to fatigue so
that means you're gonna have to add more
weight or do more reps until the muscle
just as completely okay I can't go any
more I hit my limit you want to make
sure you don't over train because this
can actually cause a spike in cortisol
the hormone that will prevent this from
happening but this will also really
stimulate growth hormone and it'll help
weight loss but it's really good for
blood sugar issues and what it's
actually doing it's improving insulin
sensitivity and so you're getting less
insulin resistance alright make sure
when you do this that you always add
something like a low carb Kido
program with in a minute fasting very
important as compared to doing high
carbs when you're working out because
that's going to just prevent you from
getting any results alright I'll see in
the next video hey if you haven't
already subscribed press the button
below and I will keep you in the know
hey that runs
