so I want to show you a real simple test
to see if you're dehydrated or not what
determines the volume of your fluid in
your body your extracellular fluid
volume is this one electrolyte
sodium now there's a lot of different
minerals involved but sodium is the
driving force to maintain this fluid so
if you have too much sodium in the body
you're gonna have a demon that's
swelling and you see this in
cardiovascular disease and then is a
condition called ascites this is where
your gut is just fluid filled it's like
a basketball usually the person is thin
and they get this huge protruding belly
that's fluid and what's happening is the
liver is filled with scar tissue
cirrhosis it's damaged and it's leaking
fluid into a sac around your abdomen and
you're gonna see edema when you have
kidney disease or diabetes but when
you're low in sodium you're gonna get
dehydrated you can have low blood
pressure low nutrients because there's
not enough pressure to drive the
nutrients through the body and you can
also have low oxygen because you're not
getting the circulation to the different
parts of the body so there's a very
simple test where you're just basically
pinching the skin and you're looking at
how fast it comes back okay to normal
you're measuring a decrease in skin
trigger which means just the fluid and
pressure right underneath your skin so
you just pinch the skin for a couple
seconds and it should come right back
okay so if it's not coming right back
let's say 1 to 2 seconds so the longer
it takes to come back the more
dehydrated you are so if you pinch this
for a few seconds and it's staying there
for a few seconds you are severely
dehydrated so I have a lot of videos in
the ketogenic diet and if you don't know
what that is I'm gonna put a link down
below for more information but when you
do a ketogenic diet the need for salt
goes up because before when you're doing
a higher carbohydrate diet you're
retaining sodium okay but now on keto
you're losing more sodium so you have to
consume more salt about a teaspoon a day
but let's say for example you had
diarrhea or vomiting or you're on
diuretics that could be another reason
why you're low in sodium now as a side
now that doesn't have to do with this
test another interesting point on sodium
is a condition called hyponatremia where
you you have a low sodium because you're
drinking excessive amounts of water now
remember it's the sodium that determines
the volume of fluid outside the cell
it's the driving force that maintains
this fluid so if you're drinking massive
amounts of water of course without the
sodium because you're not drinking
seawater you're gonna do loot the sodium
so in this situation you're gonna be low
in sodium you're gonna have a whole
series of other problems like heart
problems even actually swelling in the
brain but that's actually a side note so
let's say for example you're doing a lot
of salt and you're not drinking enough
fluid well you could be dehydrated from
that because you also need to increase
the fluid with the salt and it's a
combination of both of those so the most
common thing that I see when you start a
ketogenic plan is that you're not doing
enough salt but always use sea salt by
the way and in addition to that maybe
you're not doing enough water as well so
the combination is important now there's
one last point I want to bring up that
has to do with your adrenal glands if
you have a severe adrenal problem okay
where the adrenal glands are basically
shut down and the condition is called
Addison's
you no longer can retain sodium so
you're going to be losing sodium in
which case you're going to be very
dehydrated and people with Addison's
need to consume a lot of salt because
this goes right through them alright
guys so go ahead and do this test right
now in comment below on the results
hey guys I'm not sure if you have my app
yet dr. Berg app it's totally free you
should download it okay this is what it
looks like you click it it gives you all
sorts of great resources I have all my
YouTube videos on this app okay and it's
regularly uploading the most recent ones
all the YouTube videos are also
converted to audio versions okay so you
can use it when you're walking
exercising driving your car I have a
mini course on there I'll be putting
additional courses I have a lot of
recipes on there and this is new and
also PDF resources so there's various
downloads PDFs that you can get as well
and if you wouldn't mind after you
download it check it out give me your
unbiased review and tell me how you like
it I want to know
