hey Dr Burg here in this video we're
going to talk about vitamin
K2 now you may have heard vitamin K1
which is involved in clotting but
vitamin K2 is a completely different
vitamin and a lot of people don't know
about it because it's a very recently
discovered vitamin but I want to talk
about what it does um this is a vitamin
that is involved in the transportation
of calcium so it supports calcium
metabolism now when a postmenopausal
female or pretty much anyone who's
taking calcium and vitamin D or just
calcium and they're taking it to think
that it's going to help their bones a
lot of times it may help their bones but
in the last three clinical trials which
I'm going to list Below on this on this
page um they found that it increases
chances of getting heart attacks by 50%
now why is that because this is the
missing element to help trans transport
the calcium from the blood into the bone
so vitamin K2 helps support healthy bone
it also helps remove soft tissue calcium
and soft tissue calcium is just buildup
of calcium in the kidney in the artery
in the joints so I recommend this for
anyone that has any problem with calcium
metabolism in general um so you're going
to be hearing a lot more on vitamin K2
too in the near future because it's
something that's really missed but I
always recommend it in combination with
vitamin D so I listed the combinations
that you need below and really if you
have too much calcium buildup you don't
even need to take calcium you need to
take this one to help clean up the
calcium that you already have but I do
recommend a small amount of calcium if
you have problems with osteoporosis or
osteopenia but if you're eating fairly
healthy with maybe fermented dairy
products like cheese or yogurt or kefir
then you you're getting plenty the
calcium but what you're missing is
vitamin K2 so if you want to support
healthy bone metabolism this is the
vitamin that you want to get
