today we're going to talk about vitamin
D dangers which is very different than
vitamin D toxicity they're not the same
it's extremely rare to develop a vitamin
D toxicity which really involves Only
One symptom that's too much calcium in
the blood I talked to Professor Bruce
Hollis who is the Pioneer in vitamin D
research and asked him have you ever
seen a vitamin D toxicity problem and he
told me never and he was involved with
many vitamin D studies you would have to
consume hundreds of thousands of
international units of vitamin D3 for
months to develop any toxicity and a lot
of times people are afraid of even
10,000 international units it sounds
like a very large number but I want to
show you something right here see this
book right here this book is called the
pharmacological basis of Therapeutics
and I want to read something on page
1687 the maintenance dose usually ranges
between 50,000 and 250,000 units daily a
few years later if you look at the
textbooks it's down to between 400 and
600 IUS maybe it just worked too well
and they had to take it out I have no
idea in order for vitamin D to work it's
dependent on magnesium if you have a
magnesium deficiency and you take a lot
of vitamin D you are going to exaggerate
that deficiency because the more vitamin
D you take the more magnesium you need
both of them synergistically work
together even if we think about the main
problem with vitamin D toxicity which is
too much calcium in the blood take a
look at this research paper right here
magnesium prevents vascular
calcification magnesium is a natural
calcium channel blocker too much calcium
can cause clots and guess what magnesium
helps to control that process number two
zinc the vitamin D receptor is dependent
on zinc when you start taking vitamin D
and you're slightly zinc deficient that
deficiency can be exaggerated because
the requirement of zinc goes up when you
take more vitamin D3 what are the
symptoms of a zinc deficiency your taste
is not quite right or your smell you may
get acne or flaky skin or even lower
amounts of testosterone because zinc is
needed to build up testosterone vitamin
K2 this is another one you should take
what is vitamin K2 do helps to prevent
the buildup of calcium the other
function is to drive this calcium into
the bone and the teeth the last nutrient
co-actor for vitamin D3 is vitamin A and
I'm talking about the active form of
vitamin A called retinol The receptors
for vitamin A actually sometimes bind
with vitamin D receptors as a complex
they both work together if one of them
is lacking the other one won't work
optimally vitamin A also helps keep
calcium out of your arteries if you
become deficient in vitamin A you're
going to notice that it's hard to see in
the dark at night you potentially can
have dry eyes dry skin lowered immune
system maybe even some acne I'm going to
bring up three additional things on this
topic number one I always recommend to
take vitamin D3 not vitamin D2 it's not
as potent it's made synthetically I
would avoid it and I would definitely
avoid taking any synthetic vitamin D3
you want to get a natural source of
vitamin D3 and lastly many manufacturers
when they make their vitamin D have
hidden molto extran or they might put in
glucose syrup they put this starch as a
filler they use it because it's a very
cheap ingredient and most companies that
sell vitamin D3 use these fillers
there's a very simple way you can test
this you open up the capsule mix it in
some water Okay add a few drops of
iodine and if it turns dark purple
suspect a starch this is called the
starch test and you can detect hidden
maltodextrin and other starches in your
supplements if it doesn't have it in
there it'll just turn yellow or just
slightly clear let's go back to
magnesium what are the foods high in
magnesium anything leafy green because
green is chlorophyll and at the heart of
chlorophyll you have magnesium also you
can get magnesium in chocolate just get
the one that doesn't have the sugar if
you're going to do chocolate and also
magnesium is in certain nuts but I would
be careful about consuming too many nuts
pumpkin seeds have a lot of magnesium
and if you were going to take a
supplement I would take magnesium
glycinate magnesium glycinate is easily
absorbed and I would take 800 or more
I've known people who needed to up the
Magnesium like
2400 milligram to get rid of their
cramps zinc where do you get zinc from
red meat shellfish are two very good
sources and if you're going to take zinc
as a supplement make sure it's also in a
blend of other trace minerals just to
make sure that you don't create a copper
deficiency if you take it over a long
period of time vitamin K2 let's say for
example you're doing 10,000 IUS of
D3 then I would recommend you take a 100
micrograms of vitamin K2 for every
10,000 international units of vitamin D3
and the version of K2 I would take would
be mk7 you can get it from high quality
grass-fed butter kimchi sauerkraut
consuming grass-fed beef eggs and then
we get to vitamin A vitamin A is not
beta kerene beta carotene is in like
plants vegetables don't try to get your
vitamin A from vegetables it's not going
to work I highly recommend you try to
get your vitamin A not from a pill but
from food egg yolks liver but my
favorite source is cod liver oil why
because cod liver oil not only has the
omega-3 fatty acids but it also has a
nice balanced blend of vitamin A and
vitamin D together since I did mention
the word vitamin toxicity if you haven't
seen this video you should check it out
I put it up right here
