hello Dr Burke here in this video I want
to answer the question can protein harm
your kidneys and liver okay so the
answer is it can if you consume too much
cooked protein and what does that mean
cooked protein it means um overly cooked
the more raw the protein the easier it
is on the liver and kidney now I'm not
saying go to McDonald's and have a raw
Burger I'm talking about maybe Sushi or
some type of U um rare meat is better
than overly cooked meat now also when
you get up into the 9 10 to 12 oun range
that's a lot of protein to consume in
one sitting you're going to be straining
the liver straining the kidney uh
creating damage in the liver over time
if you consistently do this especially
if you're adding carbs to it um it's
going to build up amonia um and that can
affect the brain uh thinking Clarity um
affect your energy level could even uh
cause therosis that scar tissue of the
liver and even a fatty liver okay and
what happens when the liver gets damaged
and the kidney gets damaged it it can't
filter anymore so you build up a lot of
toxic waste in the body and you have all
sorts of conditions that can occur from
that alone so I recommend 3 to 6 ounces
per meal um depending on your size and
your activity level and your age if
you're younger you could probably you
know do 8 ounces not a problem the other
thing too is when you omit vegetables in
your diet you create a lot more stress
if you're doing high protein on the
kidney and the liver so vegetables add a
protective U effect on the liver and
kidneys so that's another reason why I
recommend large quantities so like today
for example I have this huge Bowl I'm
going to fill it with salad I'm going to
down that thing and I'll have some
protein as well but I have a lot of
vegetables and lastly if your stomach
does not have enough acid and it's not
strong enough uh that's going to create
a problem with the digestion of protein
you're going to get gas BL loading
undigested protein which is more strain
on the liver it takes a very acidic
stomach to even release the enzymes from
the pancreas and the bile from the liver
and gallbladder to help full get a full
digestion so how do you know if you
don't have enough acid well if you have
indigestion bloating acid reflux gird
that means you don't have enough acid so
it's very important to have apple cider
vinegar probably 1 to two tablespoons in
some water with each meal very smart IDE
all right thanks for watching
