in this next slide you'll see a image of
four bodies
it's called dr. Berg's body types in the
last 13 years I've been discovering
different unique factors about people
and their shapes and where they hold
weight and I developed a technology of
body types and in the first body type
you're gonna see the adrenal body type
that person holds weight in the
midsection and you probably see a lot of
people that you know like this they hold
it in this belly its belly fat it's
called the pendulous abdomen because it
sags and it hangs in the next shape
you'll see the ovary body type that's
the person with the saddlebag on the
side you'll see a lot of women look that
look like that not men simply because
it's coming from the ovary so it'd be an
ovary body type men don't have ovaries
so obviously women that produce excess
estrogen are going to develop that in
the lower pooj and and the side of the
thigh the next body type is called a
thyroid body type simply because the
person has weight all over not in any
one location why is it all over
simply because the thyroid hormones
innervate and control all of the cells
in the body and when the thyroid doesn't
work correctly the person starts
expanding at every part of their body in
the legs and the neck and the arms so
you can you can now differentiate there
are different body shapes and the last
body type you'll see more of a belly but
it's more of a protruding belly like a
basketball and you see that a lot of men
difference between that shape and the
first body is that it's a protruding
belly and it just you could put a plate
right at the top of it because it sticks
right out and you usually see that on
the guy on the beach with the speedo
he wears he has his potbelly and he he's
proud of his belly so you have the
adrenal body type which is the first one
which is sagging and that body type by
the way has very interesting
characteristics it's interesting to note
that if that person has a belly they
usually are under lots and lots of
stress because that's coming from a
gland called the adrenal when the
adrenal gland does not perform like it
should this person
developing sleep problems lower
tolerance to stress impatient low
tolerance to incompetent people mistakes
errors they're always thinking 24/7 they
can't turn it off they crave salty foods
they have calcium problems they can't
absorb calcium they might crave
chocolate they have problems with fluid
in their ankles if it's a female they
might get facial hair or acne
other than that they're perfectly fine
but with that body type they have very
specific characteristics in the next
body type you'll see the ovary now the
ovary type is mainly related to estrogen
because it's related to the ovaries in
and every month female goes through a
menstrual cycle so a lot of times in
this body type they have problems with
the cycle whether it's excessive
bloating excessive cramps irritability
extra weight gain that time of the month
anything related to cyclic problems they
might create ice cream they have
problems with excessive cellulite and
the side leg so that would be about that
body type the next body type would be
the thyroid body type that person has
cravings to carbohydrates specifically
refined carbohydrates like breads pasta
cereal crackers biscuits waffles
pancakes muffins sodas juice things like
that they have hair loss they have loose
skin underneath ur their chin underneath
their arms their nails are ridged
vertically ridge nails they have
problems with cold feet a lot of times
they're depressed they can't absorb
vitamins so they have a lot of problems
related to that thyroid they also have a
problem with depression the last body
type the liver is very unique in that
the person's belly many times is not
actual fat
it's fluid if you look at the definition
of the word ascites that comes from the
derivation latin which means fluid the
liver is leaking fluid into a sac around
the abdomen so instead of actual fat
they might have some fat but if you do a
body fat testing it's fairly normal
that person is filled with fluid
they'll have problems with the right
shoulder why because the livers on the
right side and you can refer to the
right shoulder
they crave fatty foods they like deep
fried foods they have little skin
problems they have little red dots they
had on their skin they have problems
with low back stiffness they have
problems with arthritis their whites of
their eyes are yellow they have bad skin
their their feet are hot so they're
always either scratching and they have
digestive problems bloating things like
that because the liver can create all
those problems so basically what I'm
saying here not all bodies are the same
each body has a different problem the
problem with me teaching you this now is
you're going to evaluate every one from
the standpoint of body type so just
don't mention my name when you're
observing someone walking on the street
that looks like a liver body type and
just don't mention oh you're a liver
body type or your thyroid body type but
the point is that bodies are different
and each body needs a different program
