hey I'm back and recently I had someone
come up to me and they told me that I'm
doing Kido but it's not working
okay so I've done a lot of videos on
this but I want to do something uniquely
to this person who came up to me hold on
one second just yeah okay what one
second I think he's busy let me take
over okay so when someone's trying to
lose weight
there are various indicators that you're
gonna look at to know it's working or
not so the first thing that we my
brother and I wanted to find out was if
she was doing it correctly okay so we
wanted to ask her several questions now
out of all these indicators right here
there are three things that are going to
be improved initially if you're doing
keto correctly your Energy's gonna go up
okay your cravings are gonna go away and
you're not going to be hungry and this
one is like really key so what we ask
this person do you have any fatigue she
goes yes I'm tired
especially after I eat do you have any
cravings oh my gosh do I have cravings
and then we asked her can you go a long
time without being hungry and she goes
no I cannot I get hungry so often so we
really know she's not doing it correctly
okay now there's some real common
mistakes that a lot of people make when
they're not getting results and simply
because they don't really know how to do
it correctly and they're usually doing
soon fruit they're eating when they're
not even hungry okay so you never want
to eat unless you're hungry very very
important you don't want to eat any
fruit because both of these right here
will cause a drop in blood sugars and
then you're gonna want food an hour
later so you'll never ever get into
ketosis snacking is deadly because she
was snacking she was doing lean protein
I'm like who told you you should do lean
protein instead of fatty protein so I
basically told her you need to get my
book and read the chapter where I talk
about what to eat the reason why you
want to do more fat is to be able to
longer in your in a minute fasting okay
greens vital she didn't like vegetables
so I I found out what vegetables she
does like she likes bell peppers I said
eat a lot of them very important to
improve insulin resistance because you
want to spike your potassium in
magnesium and then apple cider vinegar a
teaspoon in water with some lemon with
the meal that's gonna help her okay and
then I just I got a piece of paper and I
just drew in a paper this circle right
here like a plate just to show where the
simplicity of how easy this is half the
plate should be carbs a vegetable
carbohydrates leafy greens okay salad a
fourth should be protein and the last
should be fat usually these things are
together just to keep it really simple
for her so she can can conceive that but
she needed needs to add more fat okay he
needs just into lemonade fruit and never
eat unless she is hungry okay add more
greens and then give it a little bit of
time so healthy ketosis is a combination
of getting your macronutrients correct
protein carbs and fats we want to keep
our carbs 20 to 50 grams keeping our
protein 3 to 6 ounces and having the fat
basically 70% of the total calories but
if we're talking about volume it's
really only a quarter of the plate if
that it's not that much
okay that's your macros but healthy
ketosis is also getting your micros your
micronutrients in the macros so we want
to increase the quality of food so
salmon wild-caught salmon pasture-raised
organic eggs very important if you're
gonna do cheese make sure it's organic
cheese you're gonna do cream make sure
it's organic cream not commercial if
you're gonna do meats make sure it's
like wow caught or organic not just
processed meat okay so we want higher
quality of food if you're doing a salad
don't do iceberg lettuce do kale or some
really healthy leafy greens that are
organic so combining these two will give
you healthy ketosis and this will help
minimize any type of transitional
symptoms that you might have
happen and as far as these other
benefits with the skin with weight loss
with cognitive improvements with your
focus your memory your attention and
decreasing inflammation your overall
mood these things will come with time
but only if you do it correctly and do
it
healthily alright guys so see you later
yeah well this is all the EMF is kind of
irritating me so I got to keep this away
from my skull electromagnetic frequency
yeah okay I gotta go I'm doing a video
all right see you later okay bye bye
alright see you later okay oh you did it
already
great okay guys I'll see you next video
