hey guys I'm back in this video we're
gonna talk about something called GERD
gastroesophageal reflux disease I've
done other videos on this I guess this
would be part three and the reason why I
wanted to do this videos because I had
several people on my show bring this up
they were doing the usual things it
wasn't working so I guess this would be
a part three just to help people that
have tried the usual things and it's not
working okay first thing what is it what
is GERD it's a situation where you have
acid and that's going the wrong way it's
going up into this little tube right
here from the stomach into your
esophagus okay so it's it's it should be
staying down there but it's going up
through the little valve here so it's
really a problem with this valve the
valve is not staying shut now it'd be
nice if we can just call a plumber and
get developer placed in problem solved
but the usual thing that's causing this
is that there's not enough acid in the
stomach here you are you have GERD and
you have this acid reflux you're
thinking wow I have too much acid it
makes sense
that's logical but in reality if there's
not enough acid in that stomach this
valve which has sensors will pick that
up and it won't close properly so it's
kind of an open valve if the stomach is
between 1 & 3 which is very strong this
valve stays shut that's how it works now
there could be other causes as well
there could be a situation where you
have a problem with your part of the
nervous system called the autonomic
nervous system that does control valves
because your adrenals are really really
weak that's a potential cause but most
of the time it's just that you don't
have enough of the acid and it's not
strong enough so that's what's causing
this so it's very cognitive because
you're operating as if you have too much
acid when in fact it's just the opposite
and this is why it's very hard to fix
this problem because you're doing all
the wrong things now medically what
they'll tell you is number one lifestyle
changes which I'm not sure exactly what
they mean by that but you have to change
your lifestyle but they don't get into
specifics number two there's medication
number three if that doesn't work we can
do surgery
very low very low emphasis on the exact
right food so unfortunately if you look
up medically what causes this condition
it's kind of funny because they say what
causes GERD is acid reflux but like
seeing the cause of hypothyroidism is
low thyroid hormones you're just
describing the whole thing you're not
telling what really causes this problem
so they really don't know okay risk
factors they always say it's obesity and
pregnancy okay doesn't really give us
any good data but if you just go about
this as if you have not enough acid and
you add more acid you're going to be
shocked to find out that's actually
going to improve the situation greatly
and maybe even resolve it okay now I
just want to touch on anti acids for a
second in America alone
there's over 15 million people that are
prescribed anti acid medication that's
not counting all the over-the-counter
antacids so it's basically a nine point
five billion dollar industry okay so
what the problem is when you take these
any acids you never cure the problem you
have to keep taking them and keep taking
them and keep taking them and the
problem is there's massive side effects
there's one here for something called
PPI that's protein pump inhibitor which
has a purpose of lowering the stomach
acid but there's some slight minor
complications increase risk of death by
25% increase risk of dementia by 44%
increase risk of heart attacks by 20%
and you're also going to increase your
risk of stomach cancer by a 50% totally
insane and people are still taking this
and this is still being prescribed
alright so now that you know what this
is what do we do the first thing that I
would recommend is to start taking apple
cider vinegar in a pill or in liquid
with your meals
I would also then add something called
betaine hydrochloride it's an acidifier
it's a natural acidifier and you take it
before the meal and you can take it in
pills like three or four or five or even
six before a meal
what's gonna happen it's gonna start
building up your acids and by the way
one of the causes of low stomach acid is
low salt because sodium chloride the
chloride helps make the hydrochloric
acid so that could also be one cause now
if you take either one of these and you
feel worse you get like a burning
sensation that means either you have
gastritis which is inflammation of the
stomach wall or you have an ulcer
so you don't want to continue to add
acids to an area that's like sensitive
or you have this hole in your stomach so
you want to back up first and start
consuming something like chlorophyll
chlorophyll like from a concentrated
leafy green wheatgrass juice powder or
something that can actually heal those
areas for a while and it's going to
probably take a while for that to heal
could take months
licorice root in an extract form is
really good for that as well okay so now
if you take this and you don't get the
success of burning but you still have
the problem then you may want to start
working on the lower intestinal friendly
bacteria down here because if you have
enough bacteria which by the way makes
lactic acid it'll help sometimes balance
the acids up here and things will work
better so taking a good probiotic may
help you and the one that I recommend is
called effective microbes and I put a
link down below for more information but
probiotics can actually greatly help
this because it's it's actually
improving one part of the digestive
system to actually take the stress off
this area right here now one really good
food for gastritis or acid reflux or any
problem with the stomach is cabbage
sauerkraut is good but coleslaw cabbage
seems to be very soothing on the
digestive system so that's just an extra
little tip now the last thing I want to
bring up there is a situation where you
may have a condition called SIBO SI bo
small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
okay that's a situation where you have
too much bacteria from the bacteria and
your small intestine and it really
should be in the large intestine I put a
link down below for more data on that
but if you have that you're gonna notice
when you consume vegetables especially
in larger quantities you're gonna get a
lot of bloating and gas okay that would
be a good indication of that because
you're actually feeding those microbes
also if you take a probiotic you're
gonna feel worse alright so if that's
the situation you want to follow what
I'm gonna recommend in the video down
below which is avoid vegetables for one
month because the microbes consume the
fiber in the vegetables and you don't
want to keep feeding them because you're
going to make them grow and they're
already in the wrong place so we want to
avoid that and then we want to also add
the opposite of vinegar in the betaine
and the chloride because we want to make
this really really acidic that's going
to help the digestion of the stomach
level because if we have an incomplete
digestion here we'll get undigested food
down here and that's gonna be a mess
okay so if if there's a possibility you
might have SIBO we have to address it a
little bit differently of course it's a
given that you need to do healthy keto
cut your carbs down and many times that
alone will solve this issue and let's
not forget in a minute fasting an
average time period for food to travel
through the entire system is between 35
and 40 plus hours okay how often do
people eat very frequently right they
can't even go three hours without having
to eat or snack on something so we have
a lot of food that is in our intestinal
tract all the time and we're wondering
while we have GERD right so it's very
healthy to do intermittent fasting
especially for this condition because
you're allowing you digest a system to
finally for the first time rest and calm
down and after work so hard and actually
just clean it out you'll get great
improvements in in the healing if
there's a gastritis situation or an
ulcer in a mood of fasting is probably
one of the most powerful things you can
do to improve your digestion overall so
we don't want to forget that and then
that'll give you a system a chance to
reset and heal alright there you have it
this is this is more of a complete video
on what to do if you have GERD thanks
for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
