hey Dr Burg here again in this video
we're going to talk about this word
called
procrastination I'm sure you've heard
about it before um I personally was the
king of procrastination when I was 28 I
put it off until I get an ulcer
arthritis uh fatigue problems digestive
problems until I decided okay that's it
I'm done I have to do something so
there's always the timing uh situation
with people before they say you know
what I got to do something and sometimes
it's 28 sometimes it's 30 sometimes it's
40 sometimes it's 50 so we really have
to get you to decide that you're not
going to procrastin anymore and just
don't think about it and just do it I
had a patient come in who is
450 PBS just last week and I saw her a
year previously and she was 350 lbs so
that would be an example of someone that
procrastinate and just let their body
get to the point where it was out of
control so I asked her I said um when
you look in the mirror what do you see
and she told me first of all I don't
look in the mirror secondly I don't
really consider myself fat so that was
interesting but that explains why um
some people that are very very large
might not do anything about it because
they don't see themselves so I think
part of a good therapy would be just to
look in the mirror at yourself and
really look at it and uh remind yourself
so you can be more motivated I had
another patient who called me about 2
months ago and he was um he says Dr B
remember me I said no I met you uh
2002 and I said I was in a lot of pain
uh you told me you can help me but I
decided to go the medical route he took
Tylenol um xylocain which is a numbing
agent and then he got a morphine well he
got in kidney dialysis destroyed his
kidneys he's in a wheelchair now he has
arthritis I mean here's a guy that just
procrastinated and went the wrong way I
had another guy who literally kept
coming in and C coming coming in he was
a diabetic he had uh serious problems
with his vision and then he goes blind
so then he comes in so learn from other
people's mistakes um before you um put
it off any any any more time or don't
wait for some tragedy or a family member
to get sick um you need just to start
and not think about it so I just want to
give you a little pep talk uh today
we're going to send you a video on body
types in a couple days I hope you like
that so check out the site and also if
you have if you haven't started yet go
to the button on my website um called
ask question it's ask q and then click
FAQ and then on the left you'll see a
button called orientation in orientation
it'll have the diet that I want you to
start and it'll explain exactly what to
do so you have an open communication
with me so we can overcome any barriers
together I really really want to help
you succeed so you can ask me questions
we can communicate through the website
and in a couple days I'm going to send
you a body type video that will blow you
away it covers all about body types
exactly what it is I hope you enjoy that
I'll see you in a couple days
