you know I was at the grocery store the
other day
trying to find some food right sometimes
it's hard to find actual real food at
the grocery store
so I'm going through and I'm I just had
this thought on my mind
if we were to look at this grocery store
from the Viewpoint of what percent
of all these foods have sugar okay
pretty high it's sugar the really the
bad thing or is it maybe the refined
carbs or the starches or maybe it's the
seed oils right high in omega-6 so today
I'm going to kind of discuss different
types of foods in relationship to how
bad they are because a lot of times you
are in certain environments like grocery
stores and you have to eat something so
what would be better than others right
kind of focus more on differentiating
sugar versus these
omega-6
seed oils okay so before I begin I just
want to have you comment down in the
section below what do you think is worse
consuming sugar or seed oils and I'm
talking about the soy oil the corn oil
the canola the cottonseed oil the
safflower the sunflower oil I've done a
ton of videos on sugar and how bad it is
and it creates diabetes etc etc and I've
also done quite a few videos on omega-6
fatty acids and the importance of
getting your ratios of omega-6 to
omega-3 ideally I mean like one to one
would be awesome if you can go for that
on average we're consuming way too much
omega-6
omega-3 fatty acids I think it's like
we're consuming like 25 times more
omega-6 than we should in our diets yes
people will say that we need them
they're essential but we don't need as
many and we definitely don't need the
type of omega-6 that we are being fed
but an average person is as far as
looking at the ratio of Omega 6 to
omega-3 like a 15 to 1 ratio okay that's
the average person in the U.S now that's
very very conservative it's probably a
lot more like 30 40 50 60 I don't know
but it's high it needs to be one to one
these oils these fats okay they're
called polyunsaturated fatty acids
they're kind of like building blocks for
body tissue especially structural things
in our cell membranes and our brain and
when we have this imbalance we get all
sorts of problems especially in the cell
membrane when you consume sugar and I'm
talking about refined sugar like from
Candy you know added sugars and ice
cream and things like that they also
create some bad effects they don't tend
to go and Lodge into our cells like the
oils but they combine with proteins and
they kind of alter the protein and
that's called glycation which they it
makes this protein unavailable level
that extra sugar doesn't tend to
accumulate other than being converted to
Fat like the omega-6 fatty acids do so
if we just compare one aspect of
accumulation in the body we take a look
at omega-6 or seed oils industrial seed
oils versus sugar industrial seed oils
will accumulate in your tissues they
make up your tissues for a very long
time like 600 days okay so that's the
problem they're not water soluble like
sugar is they tend to accumulate in the
tissues
now sugar can be burned off okay when
you exercise you can burn off this
excess sugar now there's some other
points that I want to mention do these
refined oils deplete you of certain
nutrients they can especially the fat
soluble nutrients okay but what about
the sugar does that deplete any
nutrients I'm talking about refined
sugar
the answer is a big fat yes it does it
depletes your B1 big time the more sugar
you consume the more B1 that is needed
to metabolize that sugar if you're
eating a lot of sugar you're going to
deplete your B1 you're going to have a
lot of symptoms of a B1 deficiency so we
have B1 calcium magnesium we have
deficiency of zinc vitamin C the
chemistry of vitamin C versus glucose is
very very similar so if you're consuming
glucose or sugar same time with vitamin
C it's going to compete so the body's
going to pull in the sugar and and avoid
pulling in the vitamin C and so if a
person consumes a lot of sugar
especially through the day they have a
lot of gum problems right they're going
to start doing signs of kind of a
subclinical scurvy which is you have
bleeding gums fatigue they brush your
teeth and the toothbrush is red because
it's destroying the um the
vascularization and making the blood
vessels very very weak like the
connective tissue that's not happening
just in your gums it's happening
throughout the entire body so refined
sugar does deplete vitamins but what
about fruit okay well fruit has sugar
but it also has these vitamins so
chances are it's not going to deplete
any of these vitamins so that's a plus
point for fruit so if you were to
evaluate the sugar and fruit versus
refined sugar of course refined sugar is
much much worse plus the complications
for the side effects from this refined
sugar
can be countered or lessened greatly if
you have phytonutrients so this is why
fruit is much much better than refined
sugar because it has all the
phytonutrients that can protect you from
the complications from diabetes it's
very highly likely that you would ever
develop diabetes from consuming fruit
the reason I don't recommend consuming
fruit is just that there's too much
sugar and it bumps you a lot of ketosis
but anytime you're eating anything in
the whole form okay there's protective
factors in this whole form whether it's
a starch or a fruit now with these seed
oils wow you're getting a highly refined
over processed part of a seed which is
the oil part but nothing else you're not
getting the phytonutrients to protect
you against the the oxidation that that
oil is going to create on your body
especially with your like LDL you're
going to oxidate your LDL that's going
to affect the inside of the arteries
it's going to create inflammation it's
going to pull things out of your body
and also how do you think that they
extract this oil from the seed
they use a solvent it's called hexane
okay is it possible that some of that
hexane
still in that oil or does it magically
go away so you take this seed and you
turn it into this oil with all these
things that you do to it and then you
put it on the shelves as vegetable oil
right it sounds really healthy but it's
really not but the amount of this oil in
our diet
just tremendous and unfortunately all
this came from this huge push to replace
the saturated effects with the
unsaturated fats okay that's really why
it's in our grocery stores in abundance
right and you might say well we don't
consume any of that oil but what about
your salad dressing have you ever tried
to buy salad dressing without some of
these seed oils what about in hummus
right you're supposed to put olive oil
and hummus they replaced it with soy oil
and canola oil and even safflower oil or
sunflower oil so we have all the
condiments mayonnaise especially soy oil
we have the salad dressings and then we
have the restaurant Foods right I mean
wow I mean try to get some food that's
they don't use these seed oils to fry
something or cook something with at a
restaurant
especially if you consume anything fried
at the restaurant those appetizers
loaded with omega-6 fatty acids right
you might not make the connection but I
mean just see how you feel the day after
you go to a restaurant you just you
might feel bloated you know kind of
thick in your gut probably because of
those oils now I'm not even going to go
down the path of talking about like a
fast food restaurant or consuming french
fries or some of these obvious forms of
deep-fried Foods using Mega amounts of
corn or soy oil under this condition
where there's extreme High Heats
and how many times do they use that same
oil over and over and over again I heard
it's like weeks and months before they
change oil but all of that oil is going
to Lodge into our membranes at least
with sugar you can go and exercise and
burn it off now there's going to be
deficiencies so you'd want to take these
vitamins back into the body
but I just recommend avoiding them I
mean let's take a long distance Runner
right and they consume this little
glucose gel pack right filled with
you know glucose or maltodextrin right
it's going to deplete a lot of nutrients
they're going to burn off this energy
for sure
but they're going to also end up with
low blood sugar symptoms they're going
to end up with deficiencies the type of
deficiencies that you don't want if
you're an athlete right vitamin B1
vitamin C zinc magnesium
you don't want those if you're running
long distances I mean you need that B1
to handle the um the lactic acid
byproduct of the glucose metabolism so
you might end up with a lot of sore
muscles and uh a lot of other issues
like even lactic acidosis which it's
like affects your breathing now at the
restaurants if you ever want to know
um where to find the majority of these
omega-6 just look at the kids menu right
the deep fried foods they have the
french fries of course the deep fried
Hush Puppies the mac and cheese all
these highly processed foods with just a
ton of omega-6 fatty acids if we just
look at these two omega-6 seed oils and
sugars
omega-6 fatty acids are much much worse
than the sugars now the other really
important point to know is that
the ratios of Omega 6 to omega-3 they
should be one one like I said before an
average person has at least 25 omega-6
to 1 omega-3 so this is so far out of
whack so another hidden source of this
is the grains that are fed to animals so
when you're consuming the conventional
grain fed B for the grain-fed chickens
which produce the eggs the eggs would be
like if we're talking about omega-6 like
19.9 to 1 Omega-3
so heavy on the omega-6 but if we look
at the free range non-GMO non-soy fed
chickens that produce these eggs we get
like a much better ratio like a 1.3
omega-6 to a one omega-3 and they're
discovering all sorts of things that can
also improve this ratio
if a chicken is fed a fish meal Which is
higher at omega-3 okay it may be some
flax oil which has a precursor to
Omega-3
uh then that ratio comes way down to
like a 6.6 to a one ratio okay which is
much better down even to a a one to one
ratio so it really depends on what they
feed the chickens but if you're looking
for chicken eggs
I would really go for the pasture-raised
organic eggs okay not pasteurized
pasture raised and then of course you
get the beef right you have the
grain-fed beef versus the grass-fed
grass-finished beef I've done videos on
this and also a study that is quite
amazing showing
the difference between beef from a
grass-fed or a grain fed diet and there
is a huge difference typically grain-fed
beef
is like nine to one
nine omega-6 to 1 omega-3 okay whereas
grass-fed beef is like two to one now
when I submitted my B for my farm into
this
this study mine was like
um closer to like a one point I think it
was one point one to one ratio so it was
actually even better than most of the
other Farmers simply because my cows
don't ever get the option to consume any
grain at all because a lot of times even
though something is grass-fed they can
also be grain finished there should be
more transparency with what you're
really getting
and I think in the going in the future
you're going to see that more and more
because I want to know if I'm spending
more money for grass-fed I want to know
it's truly grass-fed now what about
other things like um nuts okay nuts are
high in omega-6 but nuts are also high
in these phytonutrients that can also
balance out all the complications from
the omega-6
versus US refined oils there's no other
anything in there that can counter all
that oxidation so even though nuts are
high in omega-6 they're not nearly as
bad so again we have to look at the
whole picture to evaluate levels of how
bad a food is versus something else now
if we refine that nut into like almond
flour for example now we've gotten rid
of some of these protective factors so
if you take these grains right and you
turn them into flour even if they're
whole grains you're still going to
oxidize them expose them to Air and
you're going to lose a lot of the
nutrients so even though something is
whole grain okay less refined it's still
a problem because it's refined other key
Point relating to these omega-6 fatty
acids has to do with
the competitive nature between an
omega-6 and omega-3 fat okay they do
tend to compete
so if you're consuming a lot more
omega-3 fatty acids from fish oils or
cod liver oil which you should be doing
and at the same time you're consuming a
lot of the omega-6
they're going to kind of cancel each
other out so you do need to reduce the
S6 and increase the omega-3 I think the
best way to do that is by doing the cod
liver oil because it's a little bit
better than the fish oils even though
you can do the fish oils caliber oil
also has some additional things in it
like vitamin A and vitamin D and then as
far as these other oils like cooking
oils you should use like butter or ghee
coconut oil lard Halo extra virgin olive
oil it's very important to have those
oils as your cooking oils now there's
one last point I want to bring up doing
a major Deep dive into DNA and I've been
looking at quite a few reports and out
of all the things that show up
as a common
denominator it's these polyunsaturated
fatty acids okay it keeps showing up as
an alteration in our genes now what do I
mean alteration in our genes it means
that our body has a great difficulty in
converting the precursors like the Ala
into the DHA or the EPA and DHA which is
the omega-3 fatty acids so we have a
hard time converting them okay so if
you're eating walnuts or flaxseed things
like that you're not going to convert
them as easily on top of that you're
going to have a hard time absorbing some
of the omega-3 fatty acids so this is
just another reason why these omega-3
fatty acids are so important the fish
oils or even eating while caught fish
having that in our diets or even
sardines huge as you can see if we
compare these two things
omega-6 seed oils and Industrial seed
oils are much much worse than sugar at
least with sugar you can exercise and
burn it off you can take phytonutrients
you can take about an to replace the
ones that are missing and of course the
phytonutrients can protect you even if
you have high levels of sugar in your
bloodstream because you're a diabetic so
I just wanted to make this important
distinction because you can't give
everything the same importance as far as
how bad it is there are certain things
that are much worse than others now if
you have not seen my video on the
results
of the study I was involved with
comparing brain fed beef grass-fed beef
you should check that out it's pretty
interesting and I put that video up
right here
