I wanted to create a short video to talk
about the association between fasting
and your appetite and your nutrient
levels now as soon as people start doing
fascinating their appetite goes away
they feel better less inflammation
better energy cognitive function and the
real big focus that everyone has their
attention on is weight loss the more
weight they lose the healthier they
think they are but just realize that
when you lose weight that's just one
part of getting healthy so what happens
is you cut you down your carbs you go on
a fast you're no longer burning up all
your stored sugar you're actually
tapping in your fat so you're running on
your fat fuel and because of that your
appetite is gone right so you work your
way up to one meal a day and this goes
on for months and months and months
until you achieve your goal now what I
noticed with some people is they start
dropping out the healthy version of keto
they start pretty much eating whatever
they want on that one meal a day the
problem with that is they could
potentially start developing nutritional
deficiencies not right away
but down the road now depending on what
nutrient deficiency we're talking about
it could take longer or shorter
for example b12 could be stored up to a
year so that might not show up right
away depending on how much you have in
reserve the B vitamins for example like
be one even potassium doesn't get stored
for very long so you can run out of
those real fast so if you're feeling
great when you start this and then down
the road you're getting tired
dizzy week you don't have any endurance
you have hair loss maybe your nails are
become brittle or you start getting mood
changes or even cognitive issues suspect
that you may have a nutrient deficiency
despite losing weight and having no
appetite
so the main point on this video is I
just want to put your attention on this
when you do fasting make sure that you
do that healthy version of keto ensure
that that meal that you do consume is
really nutrient-dense whether it's one
mil a day or
two per day or one every other day and I
would highly recommend also enhancing
your food with additional supplements
because it's really difficult to get
your nutrients even with three meals a
day now it is true that when you go on
one meal a day the requirements go down
however just to make sure I would
recommend that you're supplementing with
omega-3 fatty acids unless you're doing
salmon and fatty fish maybe every other
day also you want to make sure you get
enough protein if you're doing one meal
a day that might end up minimally eight
ounces maybe up to ten ounces maybe even
more depending on your age if you're an
athlete and how you feel some people
just need more protein also there's a
lot of people doing keto they're not
doing enough vegetables so that's the
case you better be taking minerals trace
minerals vitamin C and maybe even some
folic acid but the best thing to do is
to beef up your vegetables no pun
intended
vitamin E is also found in vegetables
and nuts some people especially women if
they're past menopause definitely need
more vitamin E to help them with the
transition and also to minimize side
effects like hot flashes for example if
you're going to do about them in e make
sure you find one that doesn't just have
to cough rawls but it also has
tocotrienols which is the other part of
the vitamin E complex and vitamin D is
almost impossible to get in your diet
nowadays so I would highly recommend
taking that as an additional supplement
alright so I just wanted to bring up
this point that over a period of time if
you start feeling any of these symptoms
right here it could be a nutrient
deficiency and despite losing weight and
having no appetite there's still issues
but I will say that if you're low on
vitamin b12 or low in vitamin d3 that
alone could actually also create a lack
of appetite but usually if you're doing
animal products you're not going to have
a problem with b12 but vitamin D is
definitely a common problem for a lot of
people especially if they don't get
enough Sun and also in the winter all
right there you have
thank you for watching so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
