so I'm reading through all my comments
I'm getting some great questions and I'm
creating videos based on the questions
so I had a question someone wanted to
know can a frail senior parent do in a
minute fasting okay so let's just answer
that there's some pros and cons of
course if they're very very thin the
concern is you don't want to know lose
weight but what about all the amazing
benefits neurogenesis you actually
regrow your brain cells increasing stem
cell extend your life it's real simple
you do a version of in a minute fasting
that doesn't restrict your calories okay
so if you actually calculate how many
calories your parent has okay and you
just push them to two meals less
frequent without reducing the calories
maybe even making sure that the fat is
high enough to prevent any actual weight
loss because then what will happen is
the body is going to start burning up
the dietary fat more than their own fat
and that would prevent this okay but
then we can get the benefits of this so
I would work towards having them eat the
first meal at 11 o'clock in the late
morning and the next meal at 6:00 and
absolutely no snacks in between or at
night that'll give you a nice fasting
period to see some really good benefits
and then go from there the key is
keeping your calories high or the same
as you were in the three meals and
snacks not dipping down which usually
means you got to keep the fat higher I
would also recommend fermented
vegetables okay very very important for
someone that is elderly just to start
reestablishing the flora and getting the
pH correct vitamin k2 is vital as well
because as someone ages they tend to
calcify
so they got calcification in the
arteries the joints and so we want to
remove that calcification vitamin k2 is
what you need to do so if you give them
vitamin k2 with the d3 together okay
I recommend a ratio of a
hundred micrograms of k2 mk7
version a to every 10,000 IU's of
vitamin D and that's what I'd recommend
and you can minimize the calcification
but here's the other thing about k2 it
improves the output of the mitochondria
it proves the cardiovascular output
it'll make them stronger they'll have
more endurance they'll feel more energy
and the last thing I would recommend is
make sure that stomach is acidic as you
age you lose the acid in your stomach
making it harder and harder to digest
the protein that they need a fat which
is which actually the acid and the
stomach triggers the gallbladder by the
way so if you don't have enough ass in
your stomach potentially you're not
going to release enough file so that
stomach acid is really really important
especially if we're trying to keep the
calories higher so what you have to do
is you have to give them the tain
hydrochloride and or outside of vinegar
pills right before the meal that would
be very beneficial alright guys so
that's the answer to this question
thanks for watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
