I wanted to cover an important topic if
you're an athlete and it relates to how
much potassium and sodium do you need
when you're actually sweating now the
problem is that most people think of
sodium loss when they're sweating they
don't think of the potassium loss so
this video is for that person normally
we need about 4700 milligrams of
potassium every single day now you can
get by with like 2,500 milligrams
if you're not exercising but that's not
completing all the functions in the body
you actually need at least 47 and if
you're exercising and you're stressed or
you have inflammation you have other
problems especially the Tour arthritis
this never probably go up to 6,000
milligrams per day now you need 2,300
milligrams of sodium per day that would
come out to I would say about a level
teaspoon per day but that's from someone
that doesn't exercise let's say for
example you are working out really
intensely outside where it's hot in the
summer and you're playing tennis
you could lose up to two pounds of sweat
now for those people there on the metric
system a little more advanced than us
Americans that's point nine kilograms
almost one kilogram of sweat every
single hour so if you're a football
player or you're playing tennis or
you're in at some boot camp or some type
of physical activity you could lose a
tremendous amount of fluid now how much
sodium loss well it's very difficult to
tell exactly how much but it's gonna be
between 500 at the very minimum up to
2,000 milligrams of sodium loss every
single hour that's like the almost the
entire recommended daily amount of
sodium but with potassium you lose a
hundred 50 to 500 milligrams of
potassium through the sweat okay but
that's not all you also have something
called glycogen glycogen is stored
glucose in your muscle and in your liver
and anytime you store glucose you
potassium so two things number one
you're using up your glycogen and when
you lose up your glycogen when you're
exercising and guess what you're losing
your potassium too so that's an addition
to this amount not to mention if you're
a long-distance runner you might be
taking glycogen or that GU every hour
people have been known to take a hundred
milligrams of that every single hour
when they're in a race when you're
taking glycogen without potassium you're
depleting your potassium reserves even
more because it takes potassium to store
glucose as glycogen
so that would subtract from this even
more now this is one of the reasons why
a long-distance runner could get cramps
bloating or fatigue because of the loss
of potassium even more than the sodium
because normally they're taking salt but
they're not considering sodium and here
are a few more symptoms of low potassium
nausea vomiting weak muscles muscle
spasm and increased heart rate and
lastly when you get a blood test realize
that the great majority of potassium in
your body like 98.5% is inside the cell
it's in the muscle it's not in the blood
so if you get a blood test it's very
likely that an actual potassium
deficiency inside your cells is going to
show positive by testing the blood I put
some links down below for more data on
potassium which i think is important so
you can check that out thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
