let's talk about how to stop a panic
attack okay now over the years working
with a lot of different people there's
been quite a few people who came in my
office with panic attacks and they are
always on the same diet which I'm going
to discuss but a panic attack is a
severe anxiety it's fear with volume
okay
it's the feeling that you can't breathe
suffocating and so here's some things
that you should do number one
slow down your breathing if you notice
someone in a panic attack
they're either hyperventilating or the
inhalation is different than the
exhalation they could be doing like the
exhalation is usually shorter so you
want to breathe in for maybe five
seconds and then breathe out four to
five seconds to keep that the same and
slow it down that's gonna actually pull
you out of this panic attack it's gonna
pull you out of what's called the flight
or flight mechanism because you have the
adrenals involved the adrenals of the
stress clan there's also something else
going on in your brain you have
something called the amygdala and it's
very similar to the adrenals because
it's involved in the fight or flight
mechanism they found that when you
remove this structure in the brain you
lose all your fear
so one purpose of the amygdala is
involved in fear and that's a survival
mechanism it's because if you see a big
snake that's gonna eat you you can run
away if you have no fear chances are you
might not survive as well to take long
walks about 40 minutes to 60 minutes
every single day get out there nature
gets tons and tons of space and lots of
oxygen
number three stop watching the news you
don't need that negativity at this point
you don't want anything to trigger you
you need a lot of lots of space and
probably need to watch a comedy and
before vitamin b1 is very necessary in
countering stress when you're b1
deficient you will have severe and
xiety and take a well guess what
depletes b1 refined carbohydrates people
that have either panic attacks or
anxiety attacks are always on a refined
carb diet they're consuming a lot of
sugar they might be doing a lot of
coffee tea and things with sulfates as
in wine and other foods that have
sulfites all deplete vitamin b1 casaba
will deplete vitamin b1 so you'd want to
take a good amount of nutritional yeast
if you had severe anxiety or a panic
attack also consuming the African
silkworm will deplete you of b1 I know
it's tempting but you want to make sure
that you cut down on the consumption of
silkworm also consuming the larvae of
insects high-end diamond ace could be a
problem as well so you want to limit
your consumption of that chu they may do
that in certain parts of Africa okay
number five
acupressure very powerful it can pull
someone out of that panic attack very
fast all right number six adaptogens
these are herbs that help you adapt to
stress they calm down the sympathetic
nervous system they lower cortisol they
help you just regulate stress alright
guys thanks for watching and if you
haven't seen my video on the stress
webinar or on the adaptogens I put both
of those videos on this page
