so today let's talk about a condition
called burning throat syndrome or
another name for that would be silent
acid reflux which is basically the same
thing that is a situation where you're
having acid coming up through this valve
up into the esophagus from the stomach
creating a lot of irritation in the
throat area but not necessarily in the
stomach area so this acid is extremely
acidic between one in three that's like
battery acid
now the stomach you have this protecting
liner but in the esophagus you don't so
there is some irritation up here so
you're gonna get damaged in the throat
that can lead to a sore throat the vocal
cords it's going to affect your ability
to speak then you have frequent sorry
throat clearings coughing pain in the
sternum which is that breast bone right
through in here so the medical name for
this is laryngeal pharyngeal reflex the
larynx is like the voice box right above
it you have with something called the
pharynx which is in the back part of the
throat area and it can affect both of
those areas because acid is splashing up
through here there's a condition called
GERD which is involving this valve not
closing that can also create these
symptoms so here's the thing this valve
is controlled by three things okay
number one the pH of the stomach so if
this acid is not a stood enough it's
relatively a little more alkaline than
it should be
the valve won't close correctly okay so
this is why I always recommend apple
cider vinegar pertain how to chloride to
help the situation number two it could
be a problem with the autonomic nervous
system because the nervous system
controls this valve so what happens when
you're diabetic is you get problems with
the vascular supply to the nervous
system so you have a problem with the
nerves and your feet causing peripheral
neuropathy you have a problem with the
nerve and your eye the retina okay which
you can go blind you can also have a
problem with the nerve in the ear which
can affect ringing the ears or even
deafness you can have a problem with any
part of the nervous system including the
autonomic nervous system and have a
problem with this valve as well but
there's one more mechanism involved and
it's involving this hormone called
gastrin
gastrin is the hormone that makes
gastric acid and if you have enough then
you have enough acid and just as a side
note gastric acid is not just
hydrochloric acid
it also has sodium chloride and
potassium chloride so you actually need
salt and potassium to make gastric acid
but there's one more thing if your
vitamin D deficient you could actually
have a lowered amount of gastrin lower
amounts of this hormone create lower
amounts of this acid and this is going
to affect the valve it's not going to
close tightly and the acid can go right
through here
so what do you do about it well one
thing is you take the chain hunter
chloride hop cider vinegar that doesn't
work make sure you're consuming enough
salt potassium from your diet but also
take some vitamin D you could be
deficient and that could be the reason
why you have this acid that's coming up
through here alright thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
