hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about how to improve loose skin whether
it's in the back of your arm or you
still have some sagging skin how to
tighten that up using your own human
growth hormone
now HGH is considered the anti-aging
hormone a real key function is dealing
with everything to do with proteins okay
preventing the loss of muscle mass
improving the building of proteins in
the matrix of the collagen that
surrounds the joints as well so it's
great for joint health skin beauty and
giving you that youthfulness and you
some people actually get it injected
it's like $1500 a month for human growth
hormone which I don't recommend because
it comes with side effects but you don't
have to buy it you don't have to get it
injected you your body makes it so
growth hormone is made by your pituitary
but it's activated through the liver so
this is why you need a really healthy
liver to make everything work fine but
let's just talk about what will decrease
human growth hormone
number one stress especially the hormone
called cortisol cortisol is a stress
hormone and that will inhibit human
growth hormone number two sugar will
inhibit human growth hormone high levels
of insulin will decrease human growth
hormone and that would be frequent
eating all the healthy snacks that
people eat protein whatever it is
consuming excessive amount of protein
can also stimulate insulin and decrease
human growth hormone being a diabetic or
a pre-diabetic you're going to have high
levels of insulin unless you're a type 2
that will also decrease human growth
hormone and that's why diabetics have a
lot of loose skin and loose connective
tissue and joint problems and
inflammation overtraining if you're
exercising too much without enough sleep
that can inhibit human growth hormone
because human growth hormone actually is
mostly activated at night alcohol will
inhibit this as well okay let's talk
about what will increase it exercise you
can spike human growth hormone by four
hundred and seven hundred percent just
with exercise alone but the key is short
bursts of high-intensity like Sprint's
would be the best or
maybe the spin bike or a full body
exercise using all of your muscles high
intensity short duration okay that's
really the key
the longer you exercise let's say you
you're going on long-distance running
that's not going to increase human
growth hormone human growth hormone a--
spiked with a high intensity short
duration exercise intermittent fasting
is the most potent stimulators of human
growth hormone okay the more you fast so
if you're going to work two three meals
two meals to one meal a day you'd have
the most human growth hormone with the
one meal a day okay
so fasting is a trigger for human growth
hormone and that can in females increase
it by thirteen hundred percent in males
up to two thousand percent so that's
really important especially if you
combine these going on Kido can increase
human growth hormone why because you're
decreasing insulin increase in your
quality sleep will also increase human
growth hormone and having a healthy
liver can increase human growth hormone
because if your liver is fatty or you
have cirrhosis that's going to inhibit
the full function I'm going to put a
link down below for specifically how to
improve liver function so you can get
that data if you need it but in summary
now you have it this is what increases
human growth hormone this is what will
inhibit it your next step is to go ahead
and apply this information talk to you
later
so I want to know what you're interested
in as far as a future video click the
link down below and share some ideas I
want to hear
