so commonly I get a question what type
of exercise will burn more fat aerobic
or anaerobic okay so let's just kind of
cover that low-intensity is called
aerobic that means with air high
intensity is called anaerobic without
air now this definition of aerobic is
differently than if you were going to go
do a type of exercise called aerobics so
there's two different definitions some
people have a confusion with that but
the low intensity type exercise would be
walking light swimming riding your bike
to the point where you're you're not
huffing and puffing you can talk to
someone you're not out of breath okay
the advantage of doing this is you get a
lot of oxygen you get lower stress you
get improvement in brain function it
actually will help regenerate brain
cells which is really good but when you
do low intensity of exercise that first
roughly 29 minutes or let's just say a
half hour you're burning up all your
stored sugar okay then after that then
your body is tapping into fat now it's
not a tremendous amount of fat because
it's low intensity but it's burning some
fat and that would be the time after
about a half hour okay so if you were to
work out 45 minutes you have about 15
minutes of actual fat burning okay but
there's other benefits of low intensity
now let's talk about high intensity well
when you're doing high intensity you're
burning up your sugar for sure you're
not going as probably as long the time
period that you'd want exercise would be
between 20 and 40 minutes okay don't go
over 40 minutes it's better to actually
increase your intensity make it more
difficult but work out shorter then to
go longer now what happens is that the
fat burning is delayed 14 to 48 hours
later when you're sleeping okay so you
don't see a lot of benefit during this
workout because it's just a stress it's
in the bodies adapt ation that you then
see the benefit of fat burning in more
strength more cardiovascular endurance
because you're actually increasing
growth
the key is not over training don't do
too frequently I've had people go from
exercising five years a week to one day
a week and get massive benefits just
because it gave your body a chance to
heal and recover it's something that's
not emphasized enough also you have to
make sure that you keep your carbs low
if you're working out and you're putting
all this effort out and you're doing
like energy drinks with sugar or protein
bars with sugar or whatever you're
pretty much nullifying the results that
you could have had okay so that's mainly
the difference between these two I
recommend doing both so do this a couple
times a week and do this on the off days
I think that would be the perfect
combination all right thanks for
watching hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
