so is there such a thing as a toxic
dosage of potassium let's talk about
that
now the first thing to know is that you
will rarely if ever have a problem with
potassium if you get it from food I'm
talking about seven to ten cups of
vegetables per day unless you have stage
5 kidney disease if the kidney is
damaged if you're having a chronic
kidney problem you're not going to be
able to filter out potassium like you
should and it can build up and create a
lot of problems with your body also if
you're taking a large amounts of
potassium and you're on an ACE inhibitor
which is a blood pressure medication or
a beta blocker or potassium sparing
diuretics trying to lower your blood
pressure or you have Addison's disease
which is rare but it's a complete
adrenal burnout and you're taking a lot
of potassium it can exaggerate the
symptoms there is a condition called
hyperkalemia which is a problem in the
blood where you have too much potassium
and the symptoms would be malaise
palpitations shortness of breath muscle
weakness now let's talk about the
extreme dosage and when the bee starts
becoming toxic when you go between 8,000
to 10,000 milligrams you're gonna start
feeling nauseous okay nausea is probably
the first symptom you're gonna get but
the real toxic effect of potassium
happens right around 14,000 milligrams
especially if you're deficient in
potassium and you take that much
potassium at one time it can be very
very dangerous but realize that to do
this you'd have to take a lot of
potassium even if you took straight
potassium and a teaspoon which is about
one thousand two maybe twenty five
hundred milligrams you'd have to take
about ten to fourteen of those before
this effect was achieved so basically
what I'm telling you it is very rare to
have a toxic effect of potassium if your
kidneys are healthy and you're not on
these medications
couple more points about potassium
potassium is not generally stored in the
body so when you do prolonged fasting
okay you can run out of it
and for that reason I do recommend when
you're doing prolonged fasting is you do
electrolyte fasting we're doing water
and electrolytes while you're fasting
that way you could prevent that problem
because you're not just taking potassium
you're taking all the electrolytes
another point if you are deficient and
b1 and you take a tremendous amount of
potassium that can exaggerate the
symptoms of course this is one of the
reasons why I always recommend healthy
keto because you're taking B vitamins or
nutritional yeast with your electrolytes
and you're never gonna have a problem
with that but on the flipside if you're
deficient in potassium and you take a
lot of b1 let's say five thousand
milligrams you're gonna have exaggerated
symptoms from that but the point I'm
trying to make with this is that these
nutrients work in a synergistic effect
any time you take a tremendous amount of
one nutrient and not the other ones you
can create a problem and that goes for
this the sodium and potassium ratio
which is a little more important than
just these minerals individually for
example if you consume a lot of
potassium without sodium that's going to
be a problem if you consume a lot of
potassium with the right ratios of
sodium problem solved
same thing goes with let's say you're on
a high salt diet and those symptoms from
going on a high-salt diet disappear when
you take more potassium so the point is
when you take one without the other
there's a problem so the more sodium you
take the more potassium you're going to
need the more potassium you take the
more sodium you're going to need but
realize that someone the four ratio so
you need four times as much potassium as
sodium and that's why they work together
and when you're going to the doctor for
blood pressure problems or heart
problems they're always putting you on a
sodium restrictive diet what they should
do is just simply add more potassium
that decreases the toxic effect of
sodium so in summary you would have to
consume a tremendous amount of potassium
to create a problem if you're consuming
one two three or four thousand
milligrams of potassium a day you're not
going to have a problem but when you
hire eight thousand ten thousand you
start experiencing symptoms and of
course if you're going even higher than
that you potentially could have a
problem as well but it's very rare
alright thanks for watching so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
