man I just need more carbs to boost my
energy really I've never heard that
before well it's actually just the
opposite I'm gonna explain why so I'm
gonna explain this in two different ways
the simple version and the technical
version for those people that want to
know about it when you eat carbs you
lose potassium and when you lose
potassium you get tired weak potentially
you can have paralysis if there's a huge
potassium loss leg cramps abnormal heart
rhythm even a palpitation could be a one
symptom high blood pressure and tremor
so that's a simple version let me
explain a little bit more technical
there's something called insulin induced
hypokalemia hypokalemia is low potassium
when you stimulate insulin because the
carbs are high you block this enzyme
okay
this enzyme is a pump and you have
millions of them in all of your cells
and this pump basically keeps the
potassium inside the cell and the sodium
outside the cell to form an electrical
gradient so it can act as a battery and
you need the battery to keep the muscles
relaxing and contracting as well as to
keep the messages flowing as well as to
keep the electrical signals through the
nervous system activated what's
interesting is 30% of all the energy
that you have in your body is allocated
to this specific pump so if your inhibit
this pump more potassium stays outside
the cell and you start losing potassium
okay and that condition is called
hypokalemia and you're gonna get these
symptoms right here so that's just one
reason why you get tired after carbs
there's other reasons as well so a spike
in insulin will cause a potassium
deficiency and of course not consuming
enough potassium foods can also be
another reason but there are more
reasons right here let's see the loss of
fluid diarrhea or vomiting okay that
could be one also if you're diabetic and
you're peeing excessively you can lose
fluid with that now if you have steroids
or you have a huge spike in stress or an
injury or shock to the body you
lose potassium and you also during
surgery lose potassium and this is why
many times they will put potassium in
your IV this is interesting
alkalosis could be the reason why you're
low on potassium there's a huge push to
make everyone alkaline right well if
you're too alkaline you're gonna have
alkalosis and you're gonna be deficient
in potassium when you take steroids or
you go through a lot of stress that can
also create alkalosis and so will a high
sugar diet and then you have certain
diuretics will also create a potassium
deficiency and also if you're low in
magnesium you're not going to be able to
have enough potassium in the body too so
these are other reasons why you may also
be tired due to this low potassium but I
wanted to emphasize the importance of
potassium with your energy and if you
want more data on that check out these
videos on this page
