if you were to instead add guacamole
every day to your diet you would be much
much better off so let's talk about it
so I just love avocados and especially
guacamole on my eggs on my burger on
other Foods put it on the salad I use
keto chips or keto crackers and that's
really the biggest problem with
guacamole is how do you consume it with
a chip that is you know it's not filled
with corn and corn oil and vegetable
oils that are highly inflammatory right
that's the problem with guacamole you're
at a restaurant and um what are you
going to eat it with a spoon well you
know people like those chips and then
they start feeling uh pain and
inflammation in their joints and so if
you consumed it with healthier foods you
would be actually in really good shape
but guacamole has some really good
things in it that I want to talk about
and I will put a really good recipe down
below exactly how to make it it's really
really simple so let's start with the
avocado why are they so healthy right
everyone keeps talking about this
monounsaturated fatty acid right it's
the same fat in olive oil and uh
apparently it's really good for insulin
resistance and supporting a healthy
heart so avocados have like
71% monounsaturated fatty acids and
olive oil has roughly about the same but
just FYI lard is about 50%
monounsaturated Tallow which is beef fat
is about
50% mono unsaturated and butter has
about 29% of it monounsaturated fatty
acids without getting too distracted I
just want to mention one thing about
saturated fats every single study that
I've seen that state that saturated fats
are bad for your heart etc etc um are
not differentiating between the high fat
diet and the high carbohydrate diet
uh they all come with high carbohydrates
so how can anyone say that it's the fat
that's causing the damage and not the
high carp or even the combination of
both which creates glycation which is a
kind of The Binding of your uh fats with
your proteins creating a big problem
with your heart and your eyes and it
plugs everything up there is a a very
huge study involving
135,000 Canadians okay and they looked
at
the difference between what happens when
you eat a low carb versus a high fat
diet and which one of those is more
significant in relationship to mortality
and this is what they found it's the
lowering of the
carbohydrates not the lowering of fat
will extend your life I mean significant
like 23% lower risk of dying and also an
18% lowering risk of getting a stroke
which is pretty significant but
consuming avocado and other fats on a
healthy Keto Plan with intermitted
fasting uh does several things it helps
make you more satisfied it allows you to
fast longer which will then really get
you into ketosis much better because
it's that frequent hunger and frequent
eating that really kind of raises
insulin so this is one of the big
reasons why you want to add fat to your
meal so you can fast longer and avocados
are a great way to do it avocados have a
lot of other things as well
phytonutrients they also have
glutathione which is a very powerful
antioxidant for your liver they have
carotenoids that help your vision and
also to prevent macular degeneration
avocados are good for inflammation uh in
your arteries in your brain and so
overall it's a very healthy food next
ingredient is lime or lemon okay I've
done a lot of videos on this first of
all if you actually have a lime or a
lemon and you just put that on it
instead of the juice you get a good
amount of vitamin C okay so that's one
thing number two you get citric acid
that can actually prevent kidney stones
if you're on the ketogenic plan that
could be a potential problem for some
people who are at risk but not if you
drink enough water like 2.5 lers per day
as well as having citrates citrates bind
with the oxalates and prevent those
stones also vitamin C uh is good to
prevent fat from accumulating in your
liver it's good for the liver in general
and it's also good for overall weight
loss okay we have avocados lime or lemon
and then sea salt right sea salt has
like at least 84 different minerals all
the main minerals plus a lot of trace
minerals that are hard to get in our
foods and if you're on the ketogenic
plan you definitely need more sea salt
if you're deficient in salt you'll feel
weaker okay that's one of the common
symptoms if you're concerned about too
much sodium there's a great type of salt
that is lower in sodium but higher in
these other minerals I'll put that link
down below and then we have the Tomato
you know there's a lot of different
varieties or types of tomato um nowadays
unfortunately in the grocery store
they're just basically you know
tasteless but if you get a good tomato
and put it in your guacamole it can
really help you with many different
things and one being lopine lopine is a
phytonutrient that's really good for the
heart it's an
anti-inflammatory it's good to protect
your skin from ultraviolet radiation it
can act as a sunscreen it also has
anti-cancer properties and is good for
your bone and then we get to the onion
and if you can get a red onion it's a
little bit better because it's going to
be higher in this main phytonutrient
called quatin catin or curatin however
you pronounce it is a very interesting
compound uh especially for allergies
lowering
histamines but anything related to
allergies it's really good hay fever
things like that it's also good for
lowering blood pressure it's good for
gout it's really good for your immune
system and it can even decrease your
risk of certain types of cancer and if
you can't get red onions just do any
onions because all onions have this uh
compound but red tends to have more and
also onions are really high in vitamin C
this is why the used to way back when
they had scurvy the sailors used to
consume onions uh to get their uh full
vitamin C complex onions also with this
next ingredient garlic really help your
liver complete this phase one phase two
detoxification right which is really
important in converting poisons to
harmless particles so they go from fat
soluble chemicals and toxins to water
soluble chemicals the main phytonutrient
that a lot of people know about is
allisin and this compound does a lot
garlic is the heavy hitter with so many
things especially antimicrobial so if
you have um you know parasites or too
much of the wrong unfriendly pathogens
in your body whether it's virus or
bacteria or fungus or Yeast or mold or
candida boy garlic is what you need to
take garlic uh could be considered a
natural antibiotic but without the side
effects garlic also is great to act as a
natural blood thinner so it's really
good for the heart it's really good to
lower your blood pressure it's really
good to uh prevent cancer and it's also
good for your gut microbes it's also a
potent anti-inflammatory so if you can
just stick that in any different types
of foods that you're eating the more the
better and then we come to another
ingredient in guacamole called cilantro
cilantro has some really interesting
things as well uh specifically to
protect the liver against heavy metals
okay so it can act to bind with these
heavy metals and act as a natural keator
which means to claw or to bind and to
pull out these heavy metals uh cilantro
also has been studied for uh seizures
because it has anti-convulsant
properties which is interesting so as
you can see guacamole is a great heavy
hitter of something that can improve
your health so if you were to consume
that every day on your Foods uh this is
what would happen number one your blood
sugars would be much better because you
would be able to fast longer you would
have an improved cardiovascular system
you would have less pathogens in your
body you would have a stronger immune
system you would definitely have more
energy and less inflammation and all of
this on top of the benefits of being on
the healthy version of Keto and
intermittent fasting I think hands down
guacamole is something that you should
include on a regular basis so please
comment Down Below on your thoughts
about guacamole in general if you like
it and since I talked about putting
guacamole on a burger you should really
check out this video I did on one of the
healthiest foods which happens to be the
burger I put it up right here
