hey it's me again I wanted to talk about
the detoxification effect of something
called bile bi le okay now bile is made
by the liver it gets released down a
little duct called about duct it gets
stored in a little sac called the gall
bladder so the purpose of the gall
bladder is to store and concentrate bile
okay so when you eat it it gets
extracted and the purpose of bile is to
help extract nutrients from the fat that
you eat like fat Seibel Biden's vitamin
a de ke k-1 k-2
those things essential fatty acids so it
basically breaks down fat and helps your
body use those fats but it will also
help lubricate the colon so if you don't
have enough bile you can get
constipation so it's involved in that
but another huge effect is the
detoxification affect the liver at its
maximum healthy effect can detoxify 99%
of all the microbes bacteria chemicals
drugs alcohol that's going through the
liver okay
but when the liver becomes damaged and
it can't make it can't work anymore and
you get cirrhosis or a fatty liver or
have some type of destruction of the
cells that make bile and now you're
deficient or either C of a golf stone or
we have a Slugger scroll bar and you
can't make enough vial the ability for
you to carry out these toxins can go
down to you know 88% 70% and go down
from there and out so now you're
building up the toxin so you have all
this toxic effect just because you're
detoxification system is not working so
in your mind you go well I'm gonna go on
a cleanse right I'm gonna go in a detox
and you do it for two weeks and you
think your your liver is fully
detoxified no not even close but you
have to think with is that this whole
system is there to keep you alive long
term to help you survive and
takes literally about three years to
really create a healthy liver three
years of eating healthy to create a
healthy liver you can't do in two weeks
so these temporary cleanses really don't
do anything at all the the colon
cleanses or that and I've done them all
where I'm doing the gallbladder flushed
with olive oil and laying on my right
side it's really a waste of time so you
want to think long term you want to
think about correcting your eating
because what triggers all these problems
is not not just junk food but high
levels of insulin form eating too much
sugar chemicals taking medication and
all that so what we want to do is you
want to understand how it works we want
to consume a lot more greens vegetables
we want to keep insulin down you want to
go light on the alcohol because alcohol
destroys the liver cells and especially
if you already have a liver problem and
how do you get an oh well if you have a
beer gut if you have this belly you have
a liver problem either fat around the
organ or something called ascites which
is fluid around the inter abdominal wall
which is coming from a bad liver and yes
you could take purified bile salts to
help dissolve the fat around your liver
and help the liver detoxify but you
really got to think long term what's the
big picture how am I going to actually
fix the liver and it has to be done with
foods so I put some links down below so
you can get a full plan and how to do
this alright thanks for watching hey if
you haven't already subscribed press
this little button down below okay
thanks
