hey guys we're gonna talk about an herb
called gymnema gymnema is the type of
herb that you can crush and put on your
tongue and it blocks the sensation of
sweet and I created a little
demonstration for you that I want to
show you right now so check it out
so what I did is I crushed up a tablet
and then we're gonna first experiment on
on wine so a shame we have our victim I
mean our demonstration here why don't
you just take a little sip and tell me
if you like that wine pretty good okay
good so now we're gonna actually give
him a little bit of just let's put this
in your hand let's put this in your palm
of your hand all right good now go ahead
and put it in your mouth and just kind
of yeah it's a little bitter yeah not
too bad so now what I want you to do is
go ahead and can take a little sip of
that wine and just tell me what it
tastes like now
so we just basically ruined your
pleasure for wine now
now what did what did it taste like like
vinegar vinegar yeah tell me what that
tastes like
tsch interesting a lot different weird
weird I mean is it less pleasurable
definitely okay so gymnema is called a
sugar destroyer herb because it has
potent anti-diabetic properties it also
creates a hypoglycemic effect or it
lowers the blood sugar by making insulin
more sensitive so it's really good to
give someone who has insulin resistance
so it neutralizes the sensation of sweet
but it also can reverse the damage to
the beta cell that's the cell that makes
insulin so if you watch one of my other
videos you realize that the purpose of
insulin is not just to feed the cell but
to protect the body against excessive
toxic sugar okay now we know an average
person consumes between 31 and 50
teaspoons of sugar a day not to mention
the frequency of eating and so so many
people have insulin resistance and
they're pre-diabetic they don't know it
this is a great herb to take if you're
in that state then you get it anywhere
you can get it online you can even get
it in a tea all right check it out
thanks for watching hey thank you so
much for watching keep spreading the
word and share this video
