hey Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about vitamin D in
relationship to why everyone all of a
sudden is deficient in vitamin D so I
going to give you the basics of it and
then I'll get into the why so here's
some Basics number one our bodies need
about 1,200 international units of
vitamin D per day okay that's a general
amount it might go up or down depending
on several factors one is your stress
level because obviously if you're more
sick or more stressed you're going to
need more um the foods that have vitamin
D would be cod oil that's why your
grandmother recommended that uh fatty
fish uh butter cheese cream uh raw milk
very high in vitamin D but most people
get it from the
sun because what happens is the UV
lights convert cholesterol on your skin
just turn that cholesterol into um a
chemical reaction that occurs to your
liver and kidney that then eventually
makes vitamin D so your body will make
vitamin D from Sun in the inneraction of
the cholesterol on your skin okay so
that's how we get it vitamin D is used
to support bone so in a child you could
have if you're very deficient you can
have this thing called rickets which is
very weak Bones the Bones start bending
so there is a connection between vitamin
D and Bone I'll get into the specifics
in a little bit the immune system highly
uh sensitive to vitamin D so if you're
vitamin D deficient you can have immune
problems um but vitamin D is is not
really like a vitamin it acts like a
hormone it is a hormone it's a
prehormone so it turns into a steroid
it's a type of steroid a lot of times
when you get vitamin D from the pharmacy
they'll give you the wrong kind and they
they make it synthetically you want a
more of a natural
form all right so now why all of a
sudden is everyone deficient inde D
that's that's weird well there's a
couple reasons for it number one MDS
only recently have been testing vitamin
D previously they haven't really looked
for it so that could be one reason um
number two people don't go out in the
sun as much especially as you get older
you're going to stay away from the sun
because of the scare of skin cancer and
things like that so people are not going
out in the sun kids don't go out in the
sun as much we're mainly in an office
behind a
computer um also low cholesterol diets
remember Sun converts the cholesterol
into Vitamin D so we need cholesterol so
if you're on low cholesterol medication
or you're going on a lowfat diet or low
cholesterol diet it could be that could
be a culprit you don't have any raw
material to build vitamin D or it could
be a lack of something called bile I've
done videos on this bile is the
detergent that breaks down the grease it
is a fluid from your liver that breaks
down fats specifically fat soble
vitamins vitamin D is a fat soble
vitamin without bio you can't absorb
vitamin D so it could be a digestive
liver issue okay and that's why if the
doctor gives you so much recommend so
much vitamin uh D per per week like I've
had people come in there taking
50,000 milligrams like way more than you
would need once a week not every not
spread out but once a week and if they
don't have bile they're going to get uh
vitam uh it's called vitamin hyper um
hypervitaminosis vitamin D that's
actually vitamin D
toxicity that's too much vitamin D and
the symptoms for vitamin D toxicity
would be the calcium starts clogging up
your heart your lungs the kidneys you
get kidney stones you get all sorts of
weakness in the muscle you get really
you have a lot of fatigue so just
because you are deficient doesn't mean
you need to go overboard and go the
other direction and go way over the edge
so you need bile to absorb vitamin D and
make it work and the last thing is not
very known but stress specifically the
stress hormone called cortisol
cortisol is the adrenal hormone the
stress hormone that competes for other
steroid steroids like in other words
this stress hormone goes in the body and
it's received in a receptor um and if
there's too much stress hormone there
won't be enough receptors for vitamin D
so now vitamin D doesn't go in there
because vitamin D is a steroid so is
cortisol they're both steroids they're
almost hormone like so when you have a
lot of cortisol or stress you block the
ability to absorb vitamin D and honestly
I think this is probably the more the
most common reason why people have low
vitamin D levels is stress um so we have
that and also the flight or fight mode
um the adrenaline rush lack of sleep oh
my gosh it's incredible so no wonder we
have low vitamin D levels so that's
that's some Basics on What vitamin D
does and now I want to show you some
interesting data about the opposing
hormone now very few people know about
this but in nature all vitamins are
synergistic they work with other
vitamins vitamin D has a synergistic
vitamin called vitamin F in other words
they work together as a teeter to totter
type mechanism when one goes up the
other one goes down but the function of
vitamin D is to take the calcium from
the stomach and put it into the
blood the purpose of vitamin f is to
take the calcium from the blood and put
it into the skin tissue
okay and that is why vitamin f is a
protective mechanism against all types
of skin problems uh maybe you have never
heard of vitamin F it's the
polyunsaturated fatty acids so that
would be um like the safflower oil the
flax oil the Walnut and walnut oil
sunflower oil pumpkin seed oils or
pumpkin seeds fatty fish there e there's
some actually even some vitamin F in in
butter too there's also vitamin F in
cive oil and there's there's one type of
food that you have a 50/50 split of
vitamin d and vitamin F and that would
be codiv oil which your grandmother was
correct um so so those vitamins work
together now vitamin D is the sun milk
products cream cheese raw milk and then
we have the vitamin F this is more
saturated fats these are unsaturated
fats okay so they work together now if
if you're deficient in vitamin
F you will get hives you will get thick
skin like a farmer that's out in the sun
so long his uh skin becomes very very
very thick and that is because you're
getting all this vitamin D vitamin D
toxicity which automatically reduces
your vitamin F which automatically drops
your calcium in the skin and leaves you
vulnerable for sunstroke uh sunburns all
sorts of skin problems
um
so here's here's the
problem what you want to do is you want
to consider that they always have
vitamin f with vitamin D um hives muscle
cramps sunburn um it would be difficult
to get sunburn if you had enough vitamin
F in your bloodstream so if you actually
do have sunstroke go ahead and go in the
house and start consuming more FL black
oil or something like that to get more
of that vitamin F and that will help you
heal that sunburn very very fast but
it's just a depletion of of calcium to
the skin um canker Source viruses come
out of remission when you're low in
vitamin D because vitamin I'm sorry
vitamin F okay so vitamin F goes down
viruses come out of remission because
there's no calcium there to keep the
virus in check and keep it back in
remission so viruses come out of
remission when you're deficient vitamin
F uh that would be canker source so
that's why the immune system is very
highly linked with this um the other
interesting point is that um polio which
is a virus always tended to come come
out outbreaks in the late fall or the
early uh no the early fall late
summer um what else papala viruses come
out in the late summer the flu comes out
in the fall which is right after summer
a lot of virus outbreaks occur after the
summer months when you have all this
vitamin D and that's all it's doing is
depleting your vitamin F making you
susceptible for these viruses to come
out the virus is already in there it's
just coming out um the other thing is
the cervical cancer which is viral
related uh cancer of the cervix that
those outbreaks come out in the late
summer which I just find that being an
interesting connection um I don't know
if that's a fact but sounds like it
correlates so this is the relationship
make sure that you balance it out and
understand this because you don't just
need Vitamin D you need Vitamin F to
keep the whole thing working and now you
understand how it all works and so make
sure that you consume a lot of these
omega-3 fatty acids in your diet and
that will kind of keep you out of
trouble so the other thing I want to
mention is that it's not as simple as
just taking vitamin D it could be you
don't have any bile so if you don't have
bile you need bile salts to be able to
digest the the vitamins the fat CYO
vitamin so you can start pulling in the
vitamin D in the bloodstream and there's
really nothing wrong with being being
out in the sun as long as you have
vitamin A to protect you and that way
it'll keep the calcium in there as well
so you want to take all this data and
look at the whole picture not just like
this like through a little microscope
and so that's kind of the holistic view
I hope you enjoyed it it and write down
any comments about it below and I will
see you in the next video
