today I'm going to share some really
important information on how to get rid
of your belly fat the easiest way
possible and primarily the exercise you
need to focus on I've talked about the
contribution of exercise to belly fat
loss being about 15% and diet being 85%
but the question is what type of
exercise would be the best exercise to
help you lose this belly fat so I do
want to share some new information on
this topic that I stumbled on on a
research paper that involved 54
different studies number one they're
operating off this information on
calories in their mind they think that
body fat equals calories in versus
calories out so the lower amount of
calories they intake uh the greater the
body fat this is known as the energy
balance equation which has been proven
false so many times so I have a question
for you if you lower your your dietary
calories what happens to the rate at
which you burn those calories well
unfortunately it adapts it adjusts to
your calories so as soon as you start
lowering your calories let's say for
example you lower your calories by 20%
right well guess what happens to your
metabolic rate it too lowers by about
20% now I'm not saying that calories
don't matter because obviously if you
cut down your calories low enough you
will eventually lose weight in fact if
you don't eat you're going to lose
weight but the question is is it
sustainable can you do it for how long
eventually you're going to need to eat
and let's say you do lose your weight
and hit your goal then what uh do you
keep doing the same thing over and over
again how do you maintain this weight
and the other question is are all
calories fattening and the answer is no
you have to look at calories from the
Viewpoint of how your hormones influence
these calories the next problem is
something called the set point so let's
say you lose weight right and you go on
a diet and you lose the weight and for
some reason you can't seem to get below
a certain weight let's say it's 155
pounds no matter what your body will not
go below that regardless of what you do
effort being put out exercise dieting
you tend to lose weight but not below a
certain point that is a person's
individual set point and unfortunately
too much dieting can raise that set
point up to the point where every time
you start another diet you become
further and further away from your goal
and then we have the problem of exercise
what is the best exercise that will
maximize and be the best strategy to
leverage the maximum fat loss from your
midsection if you end up doing the wrong
exercise it can be devastating you're
going into the gym week after week just
spinning your wheels not really getting
anywhere so before we get into the first
exercise that we need to get you
into the most important thing that you
need to know is that we have to first
switch your body to burn fat okay as
your primary fuel source there are two
fuel sources one is sugar the other is
fat and so many people end up mistakenly
just burning sugar Fuel and their body
is running off the calories of the meal
that they just ate and so they never
have a chance to tap into their actual
fat we want the body to run on fat not
just when you're sleeping but between
your meals as well and whether you burn
sugar or fat really depends on one
hormone and that is called insulin if
insulin goes up you will not burn fat
you're only going to burn sugar if it
goes down your body will then burn fat
you have to realize that the fat on your
body is a survival mechanism and it's
very unnatural for your body to actually
burn fat in the first place it doesn't
like burning off this fat it likes to
retain fat especially in your midsection
but you can leverage certain pieces of
knowledge to get your body in fat
burning by simply understanding the
hormone influence over certain calories
so if we take the type of calories you
have carbohydrate calories you have
protein calories and you have fat
calories so out of all three of those
type of calories there's really only one
type of calorie that increases insulin
believe it or not the fat calories do
not influence insulin of any significant
degree but on the flip side it doesn't
mean that you can just start eating
unlimited amounts of fat and lose the
weight that's not going to happen if you
lower the very specific type of calorie
called
carbohydrates your body will then be
forced to burn fat Fuel and from that
fat fuel you will also develop a more
available type of energy called ketones
okay so ketones are the byproduct of fat
energy that your body can use as fuel so
to get your body in fat burning we need
to lower insulin by number one lowering
your
carbohydrates and number two and this is
actually more important okay lower the
number of meals that you eat okay eat
less frequently this is called
intermittent fasting so I had a friend
who did the ketogenic diet right and uh
he said it doesn't work and I said what
what are you doing well I went on low
carb right I'm eating all this fat I'm
eating all these keto fat bombs which
are these cookies made out of fat and
I'm eating them all day and I'm actually
gaining weight so obviously you missed
the other key component which is
intermittent fasting it's necessary
because of this very important
information that a lot of people don't
understand so if you've checked out I
want you to check back in right now
because this is very very very important
in addition to the carbohydrate
increasing insulin
eating in general will increase insulin
so that little snack that you had eating
between meals is very very very bad so
to make this successful you must not
only lower your carbs you must eat less
frequently this is called intermittent
fasting you want to do them together if
you do that you'll get in the fat
burning and between the meals and at
night you will be burning fat fuel so
you'll be eating your own fat between
the meals and what's really cool about
that is that your appetite goes away you
will not be hungry between the meals
which will make it very easy to do long
term plus you won't have cravings versus
the other way it's going to be torture
because you're going to be hungry you're
going to want to eat every hour and a
half you're going to want to snack it's
disastrous now there's one more thing
that you need to know and this is
another really really important piece of
information when you start adapting into
this fat burning or ketones it takes
about 2 days well if you eat a tiny
amount of carbohydrate calories guess
what can happen that piece of bread or
half a glass of wine can literally pause
this whole program and stop fat burning
for two freaking days so this could be
very very depressing especially if
you're doing mostly good but you just
have a little bit of certain things too
frequent like every other day and so the
second most important thing you need to
know is
consistency okay staying very very
consistent with this program this means
doing it 100% if you do this
consistently your body is going to get
in this very interesting State called
the fat adapted state where your body is
very very efficiently now a fat burning
machine this is very important because
if you get into this state which by the
way does take some time it can take up
to a month to get into this state it's
going to correct something called
insulin resistance which most people
have and it is the real root cause
behind stubborn weight especially in
your midsection so you're going to
actually correct a bad metabolism or a
slow metabolism by getting into this fat
adapted state but to do that you have to
be consistent correcting insulin
resistance is going to be huge because
now things are going to get easier and
easier so then when we add the exercise
which is the next point it's finally
going to be something that really works
for you as a side note since we're
talking about insulin resistance there's
a couple other things that you can do
very simply just add one tablespoon of
apple cider vinegar to your water and
drink that two or even even three times
a day put one tablespoon and then drink
that with the straw apple cider vinegar
greatly improves this insulin resistance
that one little tiny change can actually
create a big effect on not just your
weight but if you have any liver fat it
can help reduce uh fat off your liver it
can help balance your blood sugars
number three let's talk about the
exercise and this is based on the study
which I'm going to put down below but
it's not really just one study it's just
a kind of like a um a review of 54
different studies on this one topic
which we're going to call walking
walking actually can help you burn more
fat off your midsection than doing this
higher intense exercise but I need to
explain the details of this I'm not
saying not to do high intense exercise
but you're going to get more benefit out
of doing walking than the higher
intensity Tu exercise even though I do
recommend doing High intensity interval
training okay with the walking but the
high-intensity interval training tends
to improve certain hormones it tends to
spike growth hormone testosterone it's
essential for growing muscle but as far
as fat buring you're going to be more
successful from the walking now when you
walk you're doing a type of exercise
that is lower intensity okay and the
first 30 minutes you're going to burn up
kind of the stored sugar in your body
that's called glycogen and then after 30
minutes you are going to be burning pure
fat so obviously we want you to walk at
least an hour maybe even more than that
up to two hours per day now I'm just
talking about going for a walk I'm not
even counting all the other steps that
you're walking through the day which
could add up to a lot but typically
walking only really burns like 200 to
300 calories per hour and that doesn't
seem like a a lot but when you are
walking you are reducing cortisol which
is stress you're clearing out cortisol
and adrenaline which is a huge barrier
to losing weight walking greatly
significantly improves insulin
resistance and I highly recommend that
you get a pedometer to measure how many
steps that you walk in a day because you
want to increase those steps to around
8,000 to 10,000 steps per day here's a
number of ideas that you can do to
actually increase more walking through
the day number one take your dog on a
walk go on a walk with a friend usually
that can help motivate you and push you
to walk more when you walk try to speed
up a little bit more so you're not
walking too slowly if you have a chance
to take uh the stairs or walk up a hill
take advantage of that when you walk try
to find something in nature that you can
actually you know look at and get your
attention ention out and look at things
that will accelerate the process because
you're improving What's called the
parasympathetic nervous system which is
all about reducing stress versus just
getting on a treadmill and watching some
screen or your cell phone which you're
not having a chance to get more space by
looking around you in your environment
make a game out of it make it fun don't
get too serious about it start recording
your numbers and each time try to build
on that and getting a little a little
bit more if it's raining outside you
know walk in your house what what I do
is I can kind of walk downstairs
upstairs walk downstairs upstairs walk
around the rooms come around I've done
that in the winter when it was snowing
and because I go I couldn't go outside
it's not a bad idea to also walk after
you eat with each meal especially if you
feel bloated or you have digestive
problems walking can greatly improve
that now I want to tell you a recent
experience that I just went through that
I think you'll find very interesting um
I decided to do what's called stem cell
therapy okay and stem cell therapy is
where they take some of your fat okay
and then they siphon it down pull the
stem cells out put it into a vial inject
it back into your body to help circulate
and heal certain things and I did it
mainly for old injuries and arthritis
that I have in my spine so I've been
looking at this for a long time and I
decided to bite the bullet and get it
done but they have to do lipo section
and when they evaluated me I didn't have
enough fat so I had to gain more fat
around my midsection so they can lipo it
out and have enough fat I needed five
pounds more fat in my midsection now
that might not seem like a lot but it's
a lot in order to gain 5 pounds of fat I
had to gain more weight than that right
because you don't just gain fat you gain
some muscle and fat so I BAS Bally went
from 183 lb to 197 lb now the question
is how did I gain this fat number one I
ate more carbs but I didn't eat like the
Breads and pasta and cereal and crackers
and stuff like that okay because that
creates a bit more
inflammation I had things like certain
fruits like apples with peanut butter uh
between the meals especially I had
things like blueberries and I'm talking
a lot of blueberries I even ate things
like potatoes but I had the purple
potatoes from the Peruvian potatoes that
had more antioxidants and I also had
some red potatoes and I ate more
calories for sure and I also ate three
meals plus snacks and I gained a good
amount of fat in my midsection so I live
on a farm and there's nothing flat
there's all sorts of hills and I'm very
used to walking everywhere all day long
and what I noticed when I started to try
to gain weight um I wasn't gaining any
weight because I was walking all over
burning all these calories so what I
basically had to do is slow down not
walk around so much and that was very
hard to do but it was a really key thing
to help me gain weight so after the
procedure I'm back on my original
program I'm doing two meals a day okay
I'm not doing potatoes anymore I'm not
doing any more fruit especially the
apples and then we'll create a video on
the stem cell uh therapy and the results
of that in about a month because it does
take some time for it to work now that
you have these principles the next thing
you need to know is the details of
exactly what to eat and for that
information you should check this video
out right here
