hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the nutritional deficiencies
from gastric bypass now when they do a
gastric bypass they bring your stomach
lining or Surface area down to 10% of
what it should be so thereby
automatically putting you a situation
where you're not absorbing as many
nutrients not just from the stomach but
from the small intestines so we're going
to go through and just talk about that
but you know they talk about gastric
bypass is a healthy thing because
they're going to go off the calorie
reduction but um unfortunately it comes
with a package number one your calcium
levels are going to usually be low um
and the problem with that is that if
this if you don't have enough acid in
your stomach um because you're only
operating off of a smaller pouch then
it's really hard to absorb calcium
especially any type of calcium carbonate
it's almost impossible so um you might
have to get this in an ion form and
electrolyte powder that dissolves but
the point is that calcium needs an acid
stomach to be absorbed okay number two
iron deficiencies well the same thing
the pH in the stomach should be acid to
absorb some of the bigger minerals iron
calcium magnesium potassium things like
that so when you're deficient in Iron
you get brittle nails you also get
what's called Pika which is craving uh
ice or clay or ashes or uh you know some
other you know something of the Earth
you start like liking to eat dirt um so
that's an iron deficiency not everyone
gets that but that could happen and then
decrease uh zinc in the body or other
trace minerals so zinc is a trace
mineral and so are other uh minerals uh
like selenium and iodine and manganese
and all these trace minerals are needed
to build the enzyme structures to digest
protein and have all sorts of chemical
reactions in the body but specifically
to build body proteins that's like a
real important thing so if we don't have
enough uh zinc you start getting you
know acne white spots on the nail right
there um also hair loss now white spots
in the nail are not
necessarily only coming from gastric
bypass it could come when you ate a lot
of sugar which depleted your zinc that's
another cause but the trace minerals are
U you're just having a def efficiency of
Trace mineral so we have a lot of issues
with that and then vitamin B1 so you
don't absorb B1 um and you don't get the
full B1 so your stress level might go up
you might have sleeping issues memory
issues that's a B1 deficiency and also
vitamin B1 is um necessary for
neurological development even the ocular
uh muscles of the eye so if you were to
have someone you probably see this if
someone looks this way and one eye goes
this way one eye goes this way that's a
vitamin B1 deficiency okay like the eyes
just are not in coordination and then
B12 that's anemia that's chronic fatigue
syndrome that's neurological issues um
it just goes on and on and on um and
then protein in general so you don't get
the full absorption and digestion and
simulation of amino acids so there goes
the neurotransmitters goes your mood
your hormones and then your collagen of
your skin the ligaments the tendons I
mean here you are losing this weight but
how you going to get the toned uh
muscles or the the skin that's sagging
off your body uh and then we have fat
CBO Vitamins
because in order for the gallbladder to
release you need these other organs in
place to all work in coordination so
without enough bile you can't pull in
vitamin A D E K2 and that leads to a
whole chain reactions of things with the
vision problem especially at night the
skin my dry out vitamin D is calcium
bone pain vitamin E is heart hormones
and vitamin K2 is calcium extraction
from the body and putting it drives it
into the bone so you might have a
problem with uh some thinning of the
bones and also calcification of joints
in the arteries other than that you'll
be fine uh and then we have folate which
is really uh an interesting vitamin that
has a lot to do with uh um an enzyme
that helps uh in in a lot of different
functions proteins and also blood sugars
and digestion and it affects
neurotransmitters um and so you might
get depressed just from having this one
deficiency right here so you're going to
have to just be um very aware of what's
going on your body and take some of
these nutrients in forms that absorb
easily uh you might get dissolvable U
trace minerals and minerals okay and you
might have to get certain B vitamins
like in the nutritional yeast I think
that would be a good thing the problem
you're going to run into is trying to
find something natural because most
people take synthetics especially if it
comes in a liquid and they don't really
realize the synthetics are very
different than food based or natural
ones so they might get the synthetic
version which doesn't really uh act the
same as the natural food base in the
complexes so I put a couple links down
below of some ideas if you have the
situation some good ideas that you can
um look at to start taking some real
nutrition that you will be able to
absorb to minimize the damage from that
but um unfortunately what they're
recommending when you get gastric bypass
is usually some shake that's filled with
synthetics and chemicals and a bunch of
other crap that you don't need so you
need the higher level of like a quality
type thing all right all right so I hope
that helps and thank you so much for
watching Press the subscribe button
press it forget it forget it I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
