now why is it that most people that
start a diet cannot stick to it and why
is it that those who lose the weight
regain it back and then some our bodies
tend to resist when you start
restricting food and calories and going
on a low carb diet you know most diets
out there do involve lessening of the
calories I don't know of any diet that
increases your calories but when I was
in practice I would always ask a person
who has difficulty losing weight what
happened in your history when did it
start and this this is what they told me
over and over and over again they would
start a diet lose the weight gain it
back and one for one those people who
did the most diets have the most
difficult time losing weight in other
words the more diets that they do the
slower the metabolism or they might have
this apparency of a slow metabolism and
I've never had an overweight person tell
me that they can lose weight easily they
just need to do the right things the
great majority of the time that they
don't attempt to lose weight is because
it's very difficult they don't see
results that's where the problem is so
is it actually true that diets slow your
metabolism well this is a very
interesting topic because when you
restrict energy from the body in
calories and you lose fat the body will
compensate and the metabolism becomes
more efficient what does this word
efficient mean it can run on smaller
amounts of fuel just like a car you have
different cars that are of a different
efficiency those cars that can take the
same amount of fuel and go longer are
more efficient they're not gas guzzlers
well in the body it's the same thing if
you have a difficult time losing weight
because you've dieted for many many
years your body is probably compensated
for survival purposes because dieting is
similar to famine or a little bit like
starvation and I'm mainly talking about
the lowering of calories but what's
really going on if we want to isolate
the real problem a person that is
struggling with weight loss doesn't
really have a slow metabolism they have
an enhanced metabolic efficiency problem
they don't waste energy very easily they
can run just on a little bit of energy
so is this really a bad thing well yeah
it's kind of a bad thing from the
person's perspective but from a survival
standpoint it's really an enhanced
survival capacity those people that have
a slower metabolism have more survival
long term and it's interesting to me how
so many people are you know pushing well
you have to lose weight you have to lose
weight this is just a side note and I
don't want to get into this but it's
really interesting those people that are
overweight actually believe it or not
might not be as unhealthy as you might
think now I'm not talking about the
person eating a lot of junk food I'm
talking about those people that eat
healthily and they still overweight if
we compare those to a skinny person who
eats poorly that skinny person has less
of a survival capacity so many times um
people don't change their diet because
they say I don't have a weight problem
so we always associate weight with being
unhealthy we don't associate being
overweight with a very efficient
metabolism so that's the topic for today
I want to talk about it I want to do a
deep dive into this because if you end
up solving the wrong problem slow
metabolism with things that maybe might
stimulate your metabolism you might end
up burning your metabolism out but I
think for the majority of the population
it's not a slow metabolism it's just a
very efficient metabolism so I want to
focus on calorie restriction I want to
talk about that there's a lot of data on
calorie restriction but I'm going to
give you a little summary on what it
talks about people that restrict the
calories are more susceptible to being
deficient in nut nutrients which can
then affect the hormone system I mean
just let's take one example The Biggest
Loser uh years ago they had the show The
Biggest Loser and uh these people very
very dramatically lost a ton of weight
and they had to do some serious calorie
restriction and exercise well we know
now the bad effects that that created
every single one of these people gained
the weight back and and more but uh
those people who lost the most weight
had the lowest metabolism so it kind of
screws everything up it's like it just
makes it really hard to lose weight from
then on out another term for this is
called adaptive thermogenesis where your
body is adjusted or adapted to this uh
these lower amounts of calories and now
just burns fat less because it's more
efficient now there was another uh
interesting experiment called the
Minnesota starvation experiment okay I'm
going to put the link down below for
that as well but this experiment
involved um a group of men going on a
very low calorie diet so they had 32
normal men uh went 24 weeks on a semi
starvation diet and then 12 weeks on a
restricted refeeding diet and then 8
weeks they can pretty much eat on
anything they want and the results were
similar to the experiments on mice where
you're forcing the machine to conserve
energy uh as it's trying to uh deal with
this starvation and found that the
metabolism was suppressed by like
15.5% but they had rebound hunger they
regained the weight quickly and some had
a higher level of weight gain than
others beyond the original starting
weight so now what about intermittent
fasting okay how does that compare with
calorie restriction well when you lower
calories uh the person usually has more
hungry and they have more cravings when
you do intermittent fasting correctly
you're less hungry and you don't have
the cravings and when we're talking
about intermittent fasting I mean the
problem is there's so many different
types of intermittent fasting but the
bottom line is that if you do intermid
fasting without restricting the calories
you're going on a period where you're
eating nothing for a while versus just
going on a period where you're eating
lower amounts of calories and there's
some very unique benefits to just doing
intermittent fasting and not doing
calorie restrictive type programs so out
of the 27 trials that I looked at 18
were randomized control trials and
pretty much in all the studies they all
lose weight there were no serious
Adverse Events most of the weight which
was lost was actual fat loss most of the
people lost weight in the midsection
five the studies which included not just
obesity but also diabetes had
improvements in blood sugars now I will
say that some of the studies involving
calorie restriction uh did not show
negative effects okay because again
there's variables with that as well and
I think it has to do with what type of
calories you're consuming and if you
have enough nutrients with those
calories because when we talk about
calorie restriction it doesn't
necessarily Define the quality of those
calories which make sense from Pure
logic is that if you're consuming um
less nutrients you're going to create
more negative effects with you know
health and body function but what if you
did calorie restriction with all the
nutrients
okay I'd like to see that study probably
show a lot better results but regarding
intermittent fasting okay periods of
time where you're not eating and then
you're eating um I always recommend with
that doing the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet so we don't create
imbalances in the body because one of
the problems with calorie restrictive
diets as well as inin fasting is are you
getting enough requirements in your
fatty acids or your amino acids if you
are you're going to have a lot less
problems but here's the big thing about
intermittent fasting that's different
than calorie restrictive diets and I'm
speaking in a generality when you do
intermittent fasting you adapt your body
to running on ketones which is basically
a situation where you're burning your
own fat so even though you might be
indirectly reducing the amount of
calories by eating less the meals
because you're going from three meals to
two meals or even one meal it's hard to
eat all those calories in one meal what
you have to realize is a portion of that
fuel that you get in those dietary
calories is not coming from the diet a
portion of that fuel is coming from the
person's own fat fuel whereas if you do
calorie restriction without going on low
carb that could easily be a situation
where you you're not able to tap into
your own fat you're tapping into your
own muscle because your carbs are too
high and your insulin's too high in the
presence of insulin you can't tap into
the fat so if you were to do a low
calorie diet I would highly recommend
you go low carb you have to also look at
how much of your own fat is being
mobilized and just so you know there are
are nutrients in your own fat that are
stored that then are released like even
vitamin D anything fat soluble like the
fat soluble vitamins can be released
into the system to provide for more
nutrition as well as energy fuel but I
don't even look at the combination
of the healthy version of the ketogenic
diet within a minute fasting as a diet
because you can easily do this as a
long-term lifestyle change where it
doesn't even feel like a diet there's a
lot of flexibility with the types of
food that you're eating but the main
thing is you're not hungry going into it
you don't crave anything which makes it
very sustainable and it even helps your
sympathetic nervous system so you have
less stress and another big thing that
it will help you with is there's
something called a set point which is
kind of a a very comfortable weight that
your body tends to settle in that you
can't seem to go below it likes to
gravitate into that range let's say for
example it's I don't know 1 170 or 165
or 180 whatever right that's where
you're at and you just can't seem to get
below it you might lose weight but you
always kind of hit this Plateau they
call it there's some interesting data
that relates to the amount of insulin
that you have in your bloodstream and
that set point so this relates to
something called insulin resistance so
if you have insulin resistance chances
are you have greater amounts of fasting
insulin insulin is a fat storing hormone
and if you have diabetes for example or
some people that are overweight that
aren't eating healthily they usually
have a higher fasting insulin right
which is rarely tested that can be the
thing that is controlling your set point
and not allowing you to go lower and I
think the set point does relate to this
very efficient metabolism adaptation a
problem and when you're in ketosis by
the way initially at least your body
Wast a lot of fuel you're peeing out
ketones you're breathing out ketones
those are chunks of fat your body is
wasting it's less efficient with the
fuel and also in the little mitochondria
the factories that make energy you're
producing more energy from those ketones
I also want to mention this other new uh
diet out there it's called the metabolic
confusion diet what is that it's not
necessarily um a calorie restrictive
diet as much as you're going on a low
calorie diet you are lowering your
calories to a certain degree maybe 1,700
but usually it's not really really low
maybe it might go down to 1,200 but
you're doing that for a few days okay
and then you're actually increasing the
calories higher so you might be in like
4 days of 1,700 calories right and then
you go on 3 days of
2700 calories that's called the
metabolic confusion diet now what's
interesting about that diet and just
from the research that I saw there's
doesn't seem to be the same bad effects
as a low calorie diet it doesn't seem to
slow down your metabolism and people
like it because it's more flexible it's
not as restrictive so some people kind
of do this for the whole week they go on
a l lower calorie but then in the
weekends they kind of do what they want
now for some people that may work I mean
it's a step up and if if you're starting
out and you look at the ketogenic diet
and this inent fasting is being very
difficult and you can't do it why don't
you try the metabolic confusion diet and
it's not intermittent fasting but the
problem is that there's not a lot of
long-term data to know if it does
eventually cause your metabolism to be
um downgraded but at the very least I
think it's not restricting nutrients you
won't end up with a nutrient deficiency
and it's probably enough calories where
it doesn't send signals to your brain to
slow down the metabolism and maybe you
do that for a while until the point
where you can graduate into the healthy
version of the ketogenic diet with
intermittent fasting or even one of
those two and the big thing I want you
to get out of this video is that it's
not that you have a slow metabolism you
have an enhanced metabolic efficiency
and once you get the right problem then
you can come up with the right solution
so if you really want the what I think
is the best solution for this I would
recommend learning how to do the basic
Keto Plan from this video right here
check it
out
