hey guys have another powerful tip for
you this is faster fat loss for a slow
metabolism let's say for example you're
on keto you're doing in a minute fasting
you even got to one meal a day and
things are still slow what do you do to
speed things up so this video is not
really meant for the new person starting
keto if you if you're that person watch
the video down below
I wouldn't recommend doing this this is
mainly for the person who is done keto
for a while they're plateaued they're
stuck and things are slow and they're at
one meal a day and now they're like what
do I do
okay so the first thing you need to do
is figure out are you really in ketosis
and yes you can check the urine the
blood to find out if you're you're
showing ketones but this one other thing
I'm going to tell you is like the most
important thing to know that you're
really in hardcore fat burning and that
is this no hunger your hunger has
completely gone away so if you're
craving things or you're hungry then
chances are you're probably not in
ketosis so you're maybe eating too many
carbs or you're doing something wrong
you're having snack your proteins too
much it could be any number of things
so once the hunger goes away then we
know you're burning fat you're burning
your own fat and you're living off those
calories okay that's a good thing
alright this next thing is very very
important you don't want to eat food
unless you are hungry ok why would you
want to eat if your body is actually
eating already so you're actually living
off your fat you're releasing your fat
cells your body's running fine you feel
energetic you feel good and then you eat
even if it's one meal a day you're
eating and all of a sudden now we spike
insulin and then we stop our fat loss
okay that's really what's happening
especially if you have a slow metabolism
so if you're not hungry
okay don't eat alright ride the wave let
your body tell you when to eat your body
may be in a situation you have a lot of
excess energy to use up and when you eat
you stop that fat burning so you
basically want to stay in the fast until
your body dictates
you should eat now the other very
important point is to make sure you're
consuming enough sea salt and I'm
talking like one teaspoon of sea salt
per day you can dissolve it in water and
then spread it out through the day I
wouldn't recommend drinking the whole
thing at one sitting but because you're
not eating you have enough food to put
it on so spread out through the day and
consume at least one teaspoon of sea
salt per day okay electrolytes are
essential just because we want to keep
the potassium the magnesium very high in
the body so we can run the organs and
we're we're using our reserve to provide
nutrients but we don't know if you have
those nutrients plentiful in the body or
not so just take a little bit of lecture
lights B vitamins I recommend you take
these two these three things will
greatly help you when you're fasting I
also recommend you get a good green tea
to actually help you do this comfortably
as well it's going to make it easier so
also realize that you're not starving
fasting is the depletion of glycogen
that's sugar reserve and then the
burning of fat okay so you no longer
have your glycogen reserve you're living
off your fat starvation is when you
deplete all your fat reserves and now
you're eating your organs and your
muscle so when you're fasting you're
tapping your fat reserves so if you have
a lot of excess fat you're not going to
starve okay it's gonna be a long time
before you starve but the benefits are
fasting are huge and they go way beyond
weight loss so stem cell enhancement
that's the cells that replace your cells
and actually give you like it's like an
anti-aging effect you get new cells
growth hormone enhancement you can
stimulate growth hormone which is the
anti-aging hormone way more than even
exercise growing new brain cells I mean
who couldn't benefit from a couple of
extra brain cells right your mood starts
coming up your inflammation drops you go
into a tapa G which is the body's
ability to clean itself from old damaged
proteins okay and also clean up the the
microbes and enhance the immune system
so the main point of this video is to
let your body dictate when you need to
eat and practice some prolong
fasting and who knows it could be 40
hours it could be 30 hours it could be
72 hours it could be longer just ride
the wave keep going so your body is
actually happy now it can burn off the
fat and if you feed it too frequently
it's going to stop that process thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
