we're going to talk about a very
powerful anti-inflammatory
that you've never related to being an
anti-inflammatory before in fact you
probably think of this thing I'm going
to talk about in a negative light like
something you should avoid but it is a
potent anti-inflammatory and the cost of
it is pretty inexpensive in fact it's
free ultraviolet radiation but I even
say the word UV radiation you probably
immediately think wow skin cancer avoid
this radiation it's something very very
bad but you have to realize this UV
radiation which is a
part of the spectrum of energy from the
Sun I mean human beings animals and
plants have coexisted with these Rays
for a very long time so we have
developed all sorts of adaptation to
survive
this radiation and use it to our
advantage in fact when we're dealing
with the sun's Rays ultraviolet
radiation is the only part of that sun's
energy that you can make vitamin D and
you know how important vitamin D is it's
the most important
uh vitamin for your immune system it's
the most potent anti-inflammatory but
it's created from ultraviolet radiation
now before you disagree and click off
hear me out because we're really talking
about the dosage Okay small amounts of
UV radiation now I'm not gonna lie too
much of it chronic exposure to UV
radiation is really bad it can increase
your risk of melanoma it can produce a
lot of wrinkles it can take the water
right out of your skin and make your
skin very dehydrated it's all about the
dosage of this radiation but a small
amount here and there not the amount
that it would create a burn but maybe a
very slight tan could be very very
beneficial so let me first explain what
makes up ultraviolet radiation you have
UVA UVB and UVC let's first talk about
UBC and get that on the way because it
doesn't really pertain to what we're
going to talk about because you're
really not exposed to UVC UVC is
generated by the sun and it gets trapped
in the ozone layer so it never ends up
on Earth but they do make UVC
artificially in different wands that
they use to kill certain microbes and so
it can definitely create some problems
believe me but you don't have to worry
about it from the Sun so now that leaves
us with UV a and UV beads what are the
differences very simply majority of this
ultraviolet radiation is in the form of
UVA like 98.7 and it's the least
damaging energy but if you are exposed
to much of it it's the one that gives
you the wrinkles loss of collagen it can
even give you the Aging spots which by
the way if you have enough antioxidants
in your skin that can protect you now
let's talk about UVB radiation okay
that's really only like 1.3 percent so
that can give you a moderate amount of
damage like a little bit more than the
UVA but not if you're exposed to it in
smaller doses it's a UVB that makes the
vitamin D by interacting with
cholesterol on your skin
so right there we have two things that
are like a negative right people think
oh my gosh I need to protect myself
against ultraviolet radiation and
protect myself against cholesterol well
if you combine those two things you get
vitamin D which is very very important
especially since the majority of the
population is deficient in the vitamin D
in fact there's some reports which I
think I agree with it's virtually
impossible even to develop an autoimmune
disease if you have sufficient vitamin D
simply because how Vitamin D is so
intertwined with every part of your
immune system now UVB radiation also is
the one that triggers the melanocytes to
make melanin okay melanin is the the
pigment that makes your skin darker okay
and so people that are more fair
complected have less melanin versus
people with darker skin and this pigment
is interesting because it acts like a
sunblock it protects you against the UV
radiation the damaging rays that can
affect your DNA so it's similar to a
sunscreen or a sunblock and so when
you're exposed to the UVB you trigger
that cell that makes the pigment so now
you've adapted and you've actually
become more protected against that
radiation so that's called a hermetic
effect where you're adapting to some
small amount of stress to then be
stronger than you were before the UVA
does penetrate deeper than the UVB it
penetrates into the dermis whereas the
UVB only penetrates superficially into
the epidermis now again both of these
Rays can produce DNA damage they can
produce cancer they can produce a loss
of collagen and wrinkles
Etc but it all depends on the dose and
your level of antioxidants in the skin
but let's just go through some of the
benefits to ultraviolet radiation in
general okay that type of energy can
give you an anti-inflammatory effect now
in large doses it can create
inflammation but in smaller doses it can
actually reduce the cytokines that
produce this inflammation cytokines are
involved in the inflammatory process the
UV radiation can trigger a certain T
Cell It's called the T regulatory cell
which is involved in decreasing your
risk for autoimmunity which is very very
interesting because there are a higher
risk of developing autoimmune diseases
the higher you live away from the Sun
like in higher latitudes like in the
North if you live away from the Sun
you're more at risk for developing
autoimmune diseases you're more at risk
of getting cardiovascular problems
you're even more at risk for developing
certain types of cancer which is pretty
wild
now this partly has to do probably with
the creation of the vitamin D but
there's other factors that go beyond
this vitamin d a fact but just realize
that the further away you are from the
sun's Direct Energy okay like higher
latitudes the less ultraviolet radiation
you're exposed to ultraviolet radiation
also decreases the risk of getting TB
and their Associated skin disease that
comes with it in fact the sun was
considered the antidote for TB way back
when they had the sanitariums now
there's some other effects from UV
radiation that are not even associated
with vitamin D in suppressing the
symptoms of eczema
psoriasis dermatitis
Vitiligo which is the loss of pigment
and even Scleroderma there's a lot of
different type of light remedies using
UV radiation
photobiomodulation therapy that they use
in these skin disorders and they use a
very narrow band UVB radiation to help
in these conditions but again they're
they're not exposure for a long period
of time they're very small short doses
to create these interesting effects
there's even an anti-pain or they call
it an opioid effect of this UV for pain
so the next time you're in pain get out
in the sun and see if it doesn't help
you the UV radiation also has an effect
on the HPA axis that's the hypothalamus
pituitary adrenal axis in that it can
help regulate cortisol which is a
positive thing when you have stress and
you can't live without it it's a very
important hormone but UV does affect
your endocrine system in a positive way
if you have these small doses UV
radiation also increases nitric oxide
I've done videos on that of helping the
inside of your arteries but nitric oxide
also can be very beneficial to your skin
and act as a protective mechanism
against the UV radiation UV also in
short doses gives you reparative actions
probably because of the Hermetic or
stress effect and then the adaptation
that comes after UV radiation can
elevate your mood this is probably why
people feel better in The Sun Also it
can increase and help balance serotonin
in the body so I just wanted to create
this video to kind of show you the other
side of ultraviolet radiation it has a
lot of positives if you don't overdo it
it's not all bad we don't just need to
avoid the Sun and use a lot of sunblock
and wear hats and glasses all the time a
little bit can help you and of course
out of all of these factors that are
related to UV I think vitamin D is
probably on the top of the list as far
as the most important and I want to give
you some more information on a vitamin D
itself in relationship to the Sun so I
put that video up right here check it
out
