hey guys dr. Berg here in this video I'm
going to give you some good tips on
growth hormone the ultimate joint healer
okay a lot of times you might associate
growth hormone with weight loss
anti-aging bodybuilders to grow muscle
but it has another important important
function in that it actually helps heal
the joint because it can it controls a
lot of the repair of protein body
proteins in addition to helping you grow
especially after you get the age of 20
so it's really intimately involved in
repairing things like muscle repair
tendon repair ligament bone repair so if
you have osteoporosis and you were to do
things to increase your growth hormone
you could actually improve osteoporosis
that's the mineralization of the bone
and the strength of the actual bone
itself collagen repair cartilage repair
that's the joints like bone on bone
generative joint disease or disrepair
degenerative disc disease so when you
actually have let's say your l5 disc is
flattening or your joints wearing
tearing you want to start to increase
growth on them now I'm against taking it
as a synthetic or injecting it I'm very
much against it but let's take a look at
some natural things you can do to
improve growth hormone sleep is the
number one thing you have to start
improving your sleep whatever you have
to do to improve your sleep focus on
that that will help number two exercise
high intensity exercise full-body
resistant exercise very important to
stimulate growth for them so the
combination of those two are very
important moderate amount of protein
yeah moderate amount of protein will
also stimulate growth hormone and then
we have number four which is called
colostrum and you do not need a
prescription for this this can be gotten
as a nutritional supplement but
colostrum is amazing because it gives
you growth hormone and growth hormone
factors it's the only natural source of
IGF in some like growth factor C growth
hormone is made by the pituitary and it
works at the liver and basically it
triggers insulite growth factors
so it's insulin-like growth factor is an
extension of growth hormone so it really
does the same functions and you can take
colostrum to get more of this so it's
you're just like you're getting more
natural growth hormone it also has other
things like fibroblast growth factor the
fancy name for a certain factor that
helps repair blood vessels and helps
form new blood vessels and helps heal
ulcers helps damaged tissue epithelial
growth factor this is another factor
that helps skin repair again formation
of new blood vessels tissue remodeling
so like let's say your joints are just
bone and bone this can help with the
with the repair of building back some of
that cartilage back and lastly we have
joint pain colostrum is hands-down the
most powerful thing for inflamed joint
and a painful joint so really taking
this will help repair a lot of
musculoskeletal issues that you might
have and especially if you have bone on
bone or a thinning disc this is what you
need to take and it will help you
