so I wanted to do a quick video on
pitching and hives there's someone that
want to know what they can do and what's
behind that what's interesting about
hives and itching whether it's in your
feet or your hands or your body is
there's always associated either acid
reflux or GERD or the removal of your
gallbladder or liver dysfunction or high
cholesterol or gallbladder stones okay
what do all these have in common low
bile salts it drains down from the liver
into this little sac called the gall
bladder and it's concentrated so it
concentrates by 20 times and so every
time you eat it releases it contracts it
releases into the small intestine and
the combination between the bile and
then enzymes from the pancreas help
dissolve the fat and extract fat cyber
vitamins and essential fatty acid from
the food that you eat so that's
happening all the time and then the
liver dumps down more it concentrates
and then the bile when it goes down to
the small intestine and the large
intestine hits the microbes the microbes
recycle it a lot so like 98% of the bile
is recycled so it's a very efficient
system and the bile is a detergent that
helps you break down the grease sort of
speaking and each one of these
conditions is associated with low bile
now it takes a certain amount of acidity
in the stomach certain pH to trigger the
release of bile as well so if there's
not enough acid in the stomach what's
gonna happen is the valve on the top of
the stomach is not gonna close
efficiently and the essence gonna splash
back up okay so another name for acid
reflux is actually good so these two are
really the same thing gallbladder
removal if you don't have a gallbladder
you're also going to be deficient in
bile - okay if the liver because the
liver actually makes bile if it's not if
it's dysfunctional or if it's fatty or
if it is something like cirrhosis scar
tissue you're not going to have enough
bile production another function of bile
salts is to break down cholesterol so
you'll have a tendency to have high
cholesterol when you don't have enough
bile and gall stones are created when
you don't have enough by
so that's why all of these are connected
to the low bile salts now they don't
know the exact mechanism of why people
eat it's either a waste product that's
backing up through the skin that's
creating a histamine reaction or it's
bile itself that backs up in the tissue
so don't really know if it's the waste
product or it's the bile but they do
know that low bile salts do cause
itching in certain places in your body
so if you're having problems with
itching what you need to do as a
short-term effect would be takes and
purified bile salts I put a link down
below for more information on that the
second thing you need to do is do
something more long-term correct the
cause get the diet corrected and what do
I mean by that healthy keto and in a
minute fasting I put a link down for
that if you're new to my youtube channel
thanks for watching hey guys I want to
introduce you to my new doctor Berg app
it's right here it's I'm really excited
about it you need to download it it's
free it has a lot of great data it has
all my videos it's updated on a regular
basis I also have the audio version of
the videos audio episodes I also have a
mini course that you can take I also
have a button for new content so you can
really know of all the recent content
that I'm downloading and I also have
something called PDF resources which
gives you additional cool little
one-page PDF documents on all sorts of
health things so download it check it
out and tell me what you think about it
and don't forget to give me a review
it's dr. Berg app
