so I had another question from someone
that wanted to know is honey a better
substitute for sugar let's talk about
that
well regular table sugar refined sugar
is a 50/50 split between fructose and
glucose honey
is 60% fructose and 40% of glucose so it
has more fructose and the rationale that
people use that honey is better than
sugar for a diabetic it's not going to
affect your blood sugars is because it's
high in fructose and fructose on the
glycemic index is 19 so it's very very
low so you're thinking well it must be
okay but here's the problem that glucose
goes directly to your liver and your
liver is the organ that has to deal with
it all the other cells in the body can
metabolize glucose but the liver has to
metabolize fructose and this is the
problem so fructose is very damaging on
the liver and it does create insulin
resistance and it does cause a fatty
liver and so no honey is not a good
substitute for sugar the benefits of
honey have to do with the antioxidants
and some of the vitamins and the
phytonutrients that can help people with
allergies and also it can decrease the
complications from diabetes because
vitamins protect the cells but it's not
an alternative substitute for sugar and
I don't recommend it and as a side note
because our environment is becoming more
polluted especially with insecticides
okay like glyphosate as in GMOs okay
you're seeing a decrease in honeybees I
mean recently it's like 40% less than it
was several years ago and the problem is
one-third of all of our food is
dependent on bees for pollination and
pollen is a fertilization agent to allow
the plant to become more fertile and
give off seeds so we need these bees but
we don't need the honey all right thanks
for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
