I want to talk about vitamin
waters which basically is just sugar
water with a bunch of synthetic vitamins
um they don't use natural vitamins and
Vitamin Water they use synthetics which
come from petroleum and col tar and then
they have the drink mixes which have
multi dextrin which is just basically
corn starch so it goes from your
digestive tract to your bloodstream
really really fast so it spikes insulin
so if you're going to use vitamin water
or some type of powdered drink mix you
want to use something that is very
healthy I just came out with a cranberry
drink that I want to demonstrate to you
but first let's go to the grocery store
and show you some of the other things
that are out there that are not very
healthy here's another one Gatorade uh
Gatorade has 21 g of sugar per serving
size okay and that's 1 and 2/3 teaspoon
so remember that's that's just a small
amount so it's pretty much basic sugar
with really
no natural vitamins or synthetic
vitamins and modified food stars to make
it taste good here's another one vitamin
water this has 33 g of sugar synthetic
vitamins okay another high sugar low
nutrient or artificial nutrient type
drink let's go to my office and show you
a real energy drink or a real vitamin
drink hey we're back so I'm going to
show you a drink that I've been working
on for the last six months I used a farm
called vrum Farms which is probably one
of the highest quality organic farms in
the midwest but we came up with the
cranberry drink which is a really good
electrolyte drink just to recap what an
electrolyte is an electrolyte is an
electrically charged mineral like
calcium potassium magnesium that allows
fluid to travel through the body it
allows the nervous system to work it
allows the heart to pump so we need
electrolytes and that's what hydrates US
and so if someone has edema or a fluid
uh in their ankles they would want to
consume electrolytes Water by itself
does not hydrate and that's why I
created this because usually the waters
that you drink are dead most uh vitamin
waters are made from synthetic vitamins
and sugar so I wanted to come up with
something that's a a high quality
hydrating drink and so this is the
cranberry drink um it has um cranberry
it has lemon it has Apple has Ginger
Stevia and arrol it has no sugar
whatsoever and it also is very rich in
nutrition without the maltodextrin
artificial flavoring and all the other
stuff so it's slightly sweet not too bad
a little bit tart but it's very very
hydrating so if you want a high quality
energy drink or a vitamin drink I would
highly recommend trying one of
these
okay we're back at the office and I want
to show you probably one of the hardest
things that I had to do
okay so I wanted to show you some of
some of the things that are in the U
Crystal Light we have MRA
sugar so we're going to talk about the
cranberry juice and the
cranberry hold on just turn it
off hi Dr Berg so in this video I'm G to
talk
about didn't you turn off the phone
please turn off the phone this is not
going good here guys oh my goodness
gracious okay unplug all the phones okay
I got to do this video
