so could you deliver actually be causing
too much ammonia in your body let's talk
about that
what is ammonia well in your body it's a
byproduct of protein metabolism so
normally in the digestive tract you
break down protein starting in the
stomach okay and then it's supposed to
turn into amino acids those amino acids
then are supposed to go through the
liver and there's certain byproducts
that occur with those amino acids one
being ammonia and the other one is urea
urea is a less toxic form of ammonia so
normally if everything's working
correctly this ammonia which is toxic
should break down into urea and the
kidneys should get rid of it but if
there is a problem of ammonia breaking
down into urea the ammonia starts
backing up into the blood and that's
very toxic and here's some of the
symptoms that can occur confusion mood
changes personality changes nerve damage
brain dysfunction and possibly even a
coma so let's talk about all the
possible reasons why ammonia could build
up in the body cirrhosis that's scar
tissue of the liver this occurs after
you get a fatty liver or your livers
inflamed as in hepatitis and eventually
it fills up a scar tissue and it just
can't filter anymore and so that could
be one of the causes another cause could
be hepatitis hepatitis causes damage of
the liver and then now you can't filter
out this ammonium drinking too much
alcohol over time will then affect the
liver and that can cause too much
ammonia also something called carnitine
deficiency carnitine is a protein that
is like a carrier that delivers fat to
the mitochondria for energy so if you
have a carnitine deficiency you can
actually build up too much ammonia as
well and by the way carnitine is in red
meat dehydration can also spike ammonia
in the body next one is SIBO so if
there's too much bacteria growing on the
small intestine and not too large that
can also cause it because the microbes
themselves have the capacity to make
ammonia
they're overwhelmed with too much
protein this can occur as well all right
so what is some things that you can do
if this happens to you number one start
cutting down your protein number two you
can take glutamine I would take
l-glutamine that actually helps break
down ammonium higher potassium foods as
in more vegetables chlorophyll as in
wheatgrass juice powder a probiotic can
help as well
garlic is high in sulfur cruciferous
vegetables apple cider vinegar why
because the pH of ammonia is 11 it's
extremely alkaline so we want to acidify
the body and celery or celery juice can
help detoxify this out of the body and
one last thing I want to mention if
you're smelling ammonia in your urine
when you're peeing don't assume is
cirrhosis or a fatty liver or hepatitis
it could be you're just dehydrated it
could be you might have SIBO so it's
it's not always something like this in
which case you just might want to add
more fluid and that could solve the
whole thing all right guys thanks for
watching I'll see you in the next video
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird
well I'll just remind you on a daily
basis how about that
