I wanted to do this video based on a
question someone had about low back pain
when they started keto okay is it coming
from the kidney well probably is so
there are several reasons for this
number one you're consuming too many
oxalates and your body is sensitive to
them those are certain compounds in
certain foods and when someone does keto
a lot of times they start doing a lot of
almonds or almond flour and some of the
keto desserts this is loaded with
oxalates and that can aggravate the
kidney and even the joints causing pain
anywhere in the body also spinach is
very high in oxalates so it's rhubarb
but a lot of people don't consume a
rhubarb but they definitely do spinach
and then chocolate is really high in
oxalic so if you're combining chocolate
with almonds we could have a problem now
I did put a link down below to give you
a lot more information not other foods
that have this but if you start to
change your diet and eliminate these and
the back pain goes away then we know
that was probably it the problem with
oxalates is this is related to number
four stone formation kidney stones
some people are stone formers they make
kidney stones very easily so if you're
in this boat what you need to do is to
consume more water two to three liters a
day okay and add some electrolyte powder
in there
why because stones can only develop in a
super saturated state so if you're
drinking this much fluid the stones
cannot form okay so right there that
eliminates the possibility of forming a
stone number two lemon gives you the sit
rates sit rates inhibit the oxalates
okay so you can actually also with this
one avoid these foods and also consume
lemon water okay next one is decrease
oxalates we talked about this and I put
the link down below you can check that
out and also you want to do a moderate
amount of protein potentially too much
protein could stress the kidney and set
you up for getting them stone too much
salt because the more salt that goes
through you the more calcium goes
through you so calcium tends to follow
sodium you want to do the normal amount
of salt you just don't want
do excessive amounts if you're a stone
former okay number two you're doing way
too much protein and that constrained
the kidneys that can strain the liver
and cause back pain right from there so
if you were to have kidney pain it's
usually gonna be right up in here it's
not gonna be right down here it's gonna
be a little higher up its isolate where
the pain is draw a circle on the front
and press into the front of your abdomen
and hold pressure exactly where the pain
is on the opposite side and once you
hold that for 30 seconds the pain should
disappear and that's just a quick
technique to help you temporarily get
rid of the pain as you find the source
and correct the source of it all right
next one is this your urine is too acid
now this could also relate to stones
because let's say for example you get
uric acid stones one way to correct that
is to alkalize the body a little bit if
you to acid because ketones are acid and
you're in some hardcore ketosis that
could potentially raise your uric acid
level and that could create the pain but
not if you're doing enough vegetables
which will very easily counter that
acidic state because these are alkaline
okay another reason to consume a good
amount of salad or other vegetables
during keto also you can take potassium
citrate which is a type of an
electrolyte which will also help
neutralize the acid so these are some
things to narrow down to help you get
rid of the back pain if you have it when
you do keno so if you want to get
notified with all my content click the
notification bell next to subscribed
