had a question from someone that wanted
to know about laxatives are they
dangerous or they okay well I guess they
would be dangerous some people might get
addicted to them for some reason or if
you have diarrhea when you take them
that could potentially you know cause
the loss of electrolytes in which case
you'd want to just add them back but I'm
just gonna say this the danger of having
constipation having your body in the
state where it's Auto intoxication we're
having toxins being reabsorbed is way
worse than the slight minor problems
with any type of laxatives so if you
have constipation definitely as a coping
mechanism take an herbal laxative one
good one would be cascara Sagrada
there's many others but definitely take
the herbal laxatives
instead of having constipation as you're
figuring out what's really causing the
constipation it's much easier to correct
constipation if it happened recently
because there's usually been a change in
the diet maybe you added too much fiber
well you took fiber away and you
consumed higher protein in that case
just make adjustments to revert that
change but if you had constipation
chronically it is more difficult there
are several things that I always
recommend to help this condition one is
MCT oil that will loosen up your bowels
all right taking bile salts will give
you a laxative effect it could be the
very reason why you have constipation is
that you're lacking bile so by taking it
you can actually correct the cause let's
say for example you don't have a gall
bladder or you have gall stones or
there's some problem in your liver in
which your body is not making these bile
salts if you're in vitamin b1 deficient
that can cause a constipation if you're
low in potassium and magnesium and that
can cause constipation and the foods
that are high in magnesium and potassium
are vegetables so if you're not
consuming any vegetables you might want
to start because that could help you and
that relates to this one right here
adjusting the fiber so either increasing
the fiber from vegetables or decreasing
the fiber because I dunno some people if
they overload the system with too many
vegetables that
can cause constipation because they
don't have the microbes there to deal
with that fiber then we have probiotics
it could be very simple that you just do
not have the quantity of microbes in
your large intestine maybe you've had a
series of antibiotics early on and
that's what created the problem but
taking these could greatly help you and
then fasting is also important because
if you have constipation and you fast
it'll allow your system to have a chance
to reset especially if there's stress
within the digestive tract alright
thanks for watching if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
