hey guys in this video I want to share
with you some great information on using
the ketogenic diet to get rid of
migraines okay first thing about
migraines they don't really know what
causes them there's many theories out
there some people say it's a Vaso
dilation other people say it's a lot
more than that I believe it it is a lot
more than that um it's definitely
something involved in um um inflammation
and vasil constriction and Vaso dilation
and uh uh inflammation and pain but
let's just talk about some things that
we do know as triers many times um these
migraines are triggered by a blood sugar
situation hypoglycemia which could also
come from high insulin and other things
usually it's high insulin or insulin
resistance and whereby the insulin is
dysfunctional it doesn't allow the fuel
to go in the cell causing the pancreas
to produce more insulin so we have a
situation with a high amount of insulin
in the body responsible for this right
here and the connection is this um
if you have high levels of insulin that
is going to really mess up the neurons
the synapses because if you actually
lower insulin on a ketogenic diet you
can greatly improve the brain the brain
uh runs on something called ketones much
more efficiently than it would on sugar
or glucose so it's running your body on
a state of ketosis would dramatically
reduce the stress on the brain make uh
help you make less weight waste products
sugar is very dirty it's like diesel
fuel um the cells the neuron cells would
be more efficient with this fuel produce
more oxygen so as far as uh anything
related to cognitive um epilepsy memory
issues mood all improve and when you
reduce the stress on the brain itself
especially the synapses and the nerve
cells and even the milein sheath that
surrounds the nerve which is I mean
there's I did a whole video on them um
using a ketogenic to help um Ms which is
a whole bunch of research on that now
any anything that you could reduce
stress in the brain is going to take the
uh intensity out of the out of the
migraines I put a study down below also
that shows this relationship between
doing this and also uh the decrease in
frequency of migraines the decrease uh
medication you need to take by being on
this for migraines and even the complete
resolution of migraines itself but I
would combine both the ketogenic with
intermittent fasting if I were you and I
put some links down below more on that
if you haven't heard about that um but
what you're doing is you're going from
you're adapting your body running on
sugar fuel to Fat fuel it takes two to
four to six weeks to do that so it's not
something you can do like in one minute
and as you do this you may just find
that your migraines go away they don't
come back I would also do this for
headaches as well um but put your
comments below try it out and let us us
know how you do hi guys Hey listen I
created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you report
