hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about how to kill candida using
keto and intive fasting okay one of the
big things I see or the big mistakes
people do when trying to deal with
candida is they either use some powerful
drug or a lot of different herbs that
end up detoxifying them and they get
really really sick so that's not good
because the immune system is already
compromised so if we try to pull this
candid out maybe too fast uh it could
really make a person really really sick
now in other videos I've done I talked
about using thme oil um I still
recommend that because it's very very
safe on the body and it actually tends
to kill candida and other types of
microbes I would recommend also adding
grapefruit seed extract with it because
these two will help in the elimination
of yeast fungus and mold in general okay
so this is very valid um the other thing
is that when people take antibiotics
what they have to really realiz is that
those antibiotics kill off bacteria they
don't kill off yeast candida fungus and
mold so they kill off the bacteria but
they also kill off the good guys and
then the yeast fungus mold starts
growing in the body because of the
lacking of the defense of the immune
system so that's one of the reasons why
people get candida in the first place
they destroy the immune uh building
properties so if you already have
candida you know and the symptoms would
be a whole long range of things from
achiness joints fatigue uh itchiness in
the body um I mean digestive issues the
list goes on and on and on I'm going to
recommend two additional very powerful
things number one we have to avoid the
sugar we want to go on a low carb diet
keeping the carbs below 20 grams per day
okay that's a keto program because that
way we won't feed this candida which
loves sugar this microb loves sugar we
want to just cut without the food and
definitely milk sugar too so I wouldn't
do a lot of dairy that's one thing but
the second thing I would recommend which
is the most powerful thing you could do
is intermittent fasting for candida now
why because if you get your body in a
state of fasting for at least 18 hours
which means that you would maybe eat at
12 and then at 5: that's a 6-hour window
of eating and then you would have 18
hours or more you'll put your body in a
state of what's called autophagy
autophagy is a condition where the cells
are recycling old damage parts and
that's really cool but not only that
it's dismantling and
eliminating bacteria pathogenic bacteria
yeast fungus mold virus and candida it's
cleaning it out of the cells
intracellular microbes
it's the best way to eliminate that and
it's a very powerful mechanism to pull
these microbes out of the cell and
through the little garbage disposal
called the lome so if you have candida
you definitely need to be doing it in of
fasting the worst thing to do is to eat
six meals a day because you're just
going to you'll never actually get into
a fasting state but people with candida
usually have blood sugar problems
because they think they have to you know
eat eat every hour or every hour and a
half to keep the blood sugars up well
they have blood sugar issues because of
the insulin issue and because of the
microbes are creating an imbalance so
you want to do this gradually but I put
a link down below of how to do it but
you definitely need to focus on this is
the most important thing this is the
second most important thing adding these
into the mix will also speed things up
and then lastly um just realize that
birth control pills can also accelerate
the growth of candida and so can
cortisone or prednizone that's a steroid
or type of synthetic cortisol um and
also stress can actually make it worse
too all right okay so go ahead and apply
this and give me some feedback on how
you
do hey tell me what you think about this
video go ahead and comment below and
give me your feedback
