so the question we're going to resolve
today is why do most Indian men have
this protruding pot belly Indian women
also are getting larger midsections as
well why is this and what could be done
about it when I was in practice a good
portion of my patients were from India
and the reason they came in is to get
rid of this belly fat but it's not just
belly fat there is a huge component of
digestive problems anytime someone has a
belly they're also going to have a fatty
liver and then when you do a deep dive
into the topic of digestive problems in
India well we don't really know it's
unknown it's probably stress it's a lack
of exercise but they're missing the
obvious what's the elephant in the room
let's dive into that topic right now if
you understand the word omnivore that's
a specific diet that involves plant-base
as well as animal products like Meats
then you have the word herbivore um who
eats plants and if we look at a gorilla
which is an herbivore and they're
grazing all day long to get enough food
they always have a protruded huge belly
sometimes even wider than their
shoulders now if we compare that to a
chimpanzee who is an omnivore they will
eat other animals and meat as well as
plants chimpanzees have flat stomachs we
have a goat named Billy Ken was gone for
a few days so I was looking after the
goats and I noticed baby Billy had this
huge protruded stomach and I was
concerned and so I drove Billy in my car
over an hour to go to the vet to see
what was wrong and the vet took one look
at Billy and said this is normal goats
are supposed to have a belly and I'm
like oh okay I had no idea so what's
going on there and how is that similar
to humans well in an herbivore situation
they are fermenting fiber but it's
actually the microbes in the gut and so
the animal gets its protein from the
bacteria that's eating the fiber okay
because bacteria is like 60% protein
which can then be absorbed by the
herbivore because these animals cannot
digest the fiber directly out of all the
countries in the world India consumes
the least amount of animal meat they're
getting way too much f fermentation in
the small intestine and there's a
condition called sibo small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth and that's a
situation where you're getting
fermentation in the wrong place because
you have the stomach then you have this
long small intestine and then you have
the large intestine the way it should
work is that you should digest the fiber
in the large
intestine if you look at the history of
what an Indian ate 5,000 years ago 100
years ago they were not big meat eaters
however they did eat meat here and there
and occasionally they had goat and sheep
but not beef in the current diet the
three primary ingredients that are in
pretty much all Ultra processed foods
are the sugar this is glucose syrup okay
so it's not even like real sugar cane
it's synthetic sugar then you have the
seed oils right here highly industrial
processed highly
inflammatory and then of course we have
the
starches in the form of maduin food
starch we're not talking about potatoes
we're not even talking about like
unrefined rice we're talking about
refined starches so we have all of that
in their diet especially when someone
doesn't have the money and can't afford
higher quality foods and so if we add
that into the mix now we start to really
break down the stomach lining to the
point where you can get ulcers something
called G rtis and it's when we start
eating junk foods and we weaken the
system that that microb comes out and
starts creating a wearing of that mucus
lining in our stomach suspect that's
hpylori and hpylori has a very
interesting strategy to help it survive
decreasing your stomach acid so it
starts making ammonia and so that
changes the pH of your stomach so now it
can survive and here you are having a a
stomach that's no longer acid so now try
to digest right and now you can't kill
off the microbes not to mention a lot of
people take ant acids which weaken the
system even more and that can even
increase the risk of getting the hpylori
and then when a GI doctor looks at you
they're not finding anything so they
just treat you they're not trained in
diet or food therapy that's the big
Omission that being said how do we
correct this problem anything that's
bloating you is not good for you mark it
off the list don't eat it again and this
could involve fiber vegetables it can
also involve fruit and a lot of these
grains also are very high in Omega 6 so
it's going to create inflammation now
the other thing I would do parallel to
this is I would not do snacks between
meals I would do intermittent fasting
because that's going to instantly give
your digestive system a break a chance
to heal now what's interesting about
meat there's something called the carore
diet I'm not telling you to do it I'm
not telling you not to do it but a lot
of people do the carnivore diet to heal
their gut because you eliminate all
these other fibers that are irritating
the inflamed stomach meat is loaded with
glutamine that seals the gut I tried to
be a vegetarian and um I got too much
bloating because in my mind I thought
that oh wow you need fiber to eliminate
and that is absolutely positively not
true now whether you're going to do a
carnivore or not based on religious
reasons or whatever uh you do want to
start introducing more protein and that
can be fish eggs things like that and
typically animal protein is much easier
to digest so what I'm telling you to do
is clean up the refined carbs okay see
how that goes and if you still have
bloating you're going to have to start
eliminating some of these other Foods
there's a couple other things I would
recommend one remedy is called ban
hydrochloride
the only time I wouldn't take it is if
you have an ulcer or gastritis it's
going to increase the acid of your
stomach and so when you take this ban
hydroch chloride you take like maybe
five or six of them at a time before you
eat your stomach's going to start
feeling better and better and better
because you're reestablishing that pH so
when you eat food if there's pathogens
in there they'll be killed and then they
won't end up in your small intestine and
start to ferment and all these other
issues so I think this is a really good
start to turn things around but for a
more
detailed understanding of the digestive
system and what to do for various
situations I put that up right here
check it out
