so this video is for those people that
are new to keto that are considering it
maybe you had a friend tell you a little
bit about it you're not sure about it
you're doing some research this video is
for you now there are several reasons
why you need to do the ketogenic diet
and one of the reasons is longevity
anytime you do a diet you have to think
long term is this sustainable okay
most people go off diets because of the
cravings and one of the most powerful
things about the ketogenic diet is it
will get rid of your cravings if you
have no cravings you'll be able to do it
long term we live in an environment that
is so tempting with the breads and pasta
and cereal and crackers and biscuits and
all these things and if you're craving
these things forget it you're not going
to be able to stick to it
the next major point is does it get
results does it work yes it does work
and it gets results in a big way because
it corrects the very reason why you're
overweight in the first place people are
overweight because they have too much
insulin in the body okay and doctors
never test this hormone they're checking
your blood sugars if you were to get a
fasting insulin test you would find that
this would be too high insulin is a fat
making hormone in the presence of
insulin you can't burn fat so what keto
does is it finally corrects this hormone
so you can get in fat-burning speed up
the metabolism and get rid of that a
stuck set point which is that weight
that you can't seem to get below no
matter what alright next point is it
actually safe maybe you've heard that
ketogenic diet is a high-fat diet right
and eating all the fat might clog your
arteries and cause a heart attack but
the ketogenic diet is not a high-fat
diet what makes a ketogenic diet work is
not the higher fats
it's the lowering of the carbohydrates
I'm not talking about vegetables I'm
talking about the sugars there is a
version called dirty Kido which pretty
much you could eat whatever you want as
long as you keep your carbs low now let
me just touch on that one point when you
lower your carbs okay your sugars you
lower insulin you're normalizing insulin
the benefit of this alone is huge
because it's going to strip off the fat
from you
liver it's going to get rid of the
visceral fat around the organs in your
belly it'll make your belly flat it will
decrease your inflammation it's going to
increase your oxygen levels that's
pretty wild you're actually going to
breathe better when you keep your carbs
low and you eat fat and you're burning
fat you're releasing less co2 and you're
actually having more oxygen in your body
people that consume more carbohydrates
have more co2 carbon dioxide and less
oxygen so this is a really good plan
just to increase your oxygen alone it's
going to increase your exercise
performance it will decrease something
called free radicals okay this is like
the oxidation of the body think about
oxidation is rusting out a car but
you're rusting out the inside of your
body so diets that are high on
carbohydrates literally rust the inside
of your arteries the brain the eye and
the kidney Kito lowers the free radicals
that caused this damage in the body
number six it improves brain cell
function cognition focus memory
concentration as well as uplifting you
mood so as you can see the benefits of
keno alone are huge but if we add the
healthy version of keno we'd take it to
the next level and what does that mean
well it's all about getting healthy to
lose weight not losing weight to get
healthy if you're trying to lose weight
to eventually get healthy and you do it
unhealthily you may end up not looking
very good okay you might look older you
you've probably seen people who lost
weight they don't look good when they
lose weight well when you do the healthy
version you actually end up looking good
as you lose weight because healthy
implies providing all the nutrients
healthy also implies doing it with
higher quality ingredients okay doing
the healthy version of keto is really
really important for longevity and also
keeping the weight off these nutrients
are vital with the repair process with
the recovery process with building body
tissue using quality material food and
the nutrients which allow this material
to turn into
body tissue now the next question is
will the food taste good realize that
any food that you really really desire
that might not be healthy you can do a
keto version of it whether it's pizza
pasta cake cookies you can do a keto
friendly version of that so it's
low-carb so you get the pleasure of the
food just without the added sugar and by
the way if you don't know this already
but keto stands for ketones and ketones
are the byproduct of not burning so if
you want to lose weight wouldn't it make
sense to focus on fat burning well this
is what keto is all about it's the best
way to lose weight now if you're not a
reconvince taquito let me explain this
last slide with the problems with other
diets the reason why other diets don't
work is they allow too many
carbohydrates and the carbs keep you
from getting into fat-burning if we take
the average blood sugar which should be
about 80 let's say 85 okay on a fasting
blood test this amount of sugar really
is one teaspoon of sugar per all of your
blood
did you realize an average person in the
u.s. consumes 31 teaspoons of sugar per
day this is why most people are
pre-diabetic and diabetics it's just way
too many carbs another big problem with
diets are their ingredients they're just
so unhealthy
soy protein isolates that's not a
natural food it creates a lot of damage
on your liver and soy is GML which means
and has the chemical glyphosate dextrose
is a synthetic sugar and they put on a
lot of diets same thing with multi
dextran which is even worse than sugar
and then milk proteins these cows are
fed GMO grains like soy and corn cows
are meant to consume grass and then you
have all the other hidden sugars in
these diet shakes in these bars and
things like that
the next problem with diets is they
provide too many snacks between the
meals but they omit this very important
additional thing that we always want to
combine with keto and that's
intermittent fasting so when you're
doing in them in the fasting all you're
doing is you're
not eating so frequently it works not
because you're lowering the calories but
because you're lowering the frequency
and if you're not eating so frequent
some magical things happen with repair
in the body inflammation drops your
metabolism starts restoring all sorts of
magical things happen and this is why we
always want to combine in a minute
fasting with the healthy ki tell plan
next point is proteins a lot of diets
are high in protein with the added sugar
which is very very deadly anytime you
add sugar with protein you create sticky
blood the name for that is called
glycation so it's kind of a combination
of sugar with a protein molecule that
starts plugging up the cells the lens of
the eye causing cataracts and cause
diabetes Alzheimer's creates a lot of
problems in the body the same thing
happens when you combine sugar with fat
the cool thing about the ketogenic diet
is that you're doing higher amounts of
healthy fat but without the sugar so you
don't get the side effects
all right last two points when you do a
low fat diet it's not sustained upon
first of all you're depriving fat
soluble vitamins number one but number
two it's not going to allow you to do in
a minute fasting because you're going to
be hungry all the time
the same thing with a low calorie diet
you deprive the nutrients that you need
and also it makes it almost impossible
to do in a minute fasting so the healthy
version of keto with intermittent
fasting is your best option I put a link
down below of exactly what to eat and
how to do this step by step enjoy if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
