so this person should definitely be
doing
cruciferous why because cruciferous type
vegetables are help balance estrogen
they balance estrogen they balance the
good estrogens and they get rid of the
bad estrogen um they protect you against
cancer too which is good because if
you're actually eating to prevent cancer
um you're G you're going to get healthy
you're going to get healthy a lot
faster so we have that body type and
then we have this body type which is
the your
husband this is the um liver body
type have you ever seen a guy like this
on the beach with the
speedo
um now what happens the stomach what's
the difference between this stomach
here and that stomach
there hard it's hard and it protrudes
higher up like a pot belly type thing if
you take your hand in one side and tap
the other side other side It'll like
have like a
ripple that's called
aites aites comes from the Latin which
means fluid that's a fluid belly the
liver is leaking fluid into a sack
around the
gut so here's a book on liver disease
diagnosis and management okay um what
does this say right here it says um $215
$215 so you know this is know this is
truthful
[Laughter]
information so right here it says Uh
there's three types of liver problems
therosis at scarring of the liver that's
like years of eating bad foods or or
drinking or um having some virus okay
and then you have fatty liver which a
lot of people have fatty livers and then
you have um inflammation which is like
hepatitis that type of thing so those
are the three things that will do that
however the problem is that you can have
a bad liver but not show up on blood
test luckily though the liver is one of
the only organs that can completely 100%
regenerate it can take a beating but you
have to create enough Health it does
take three years to create a healthy
liver now this person will have uh right
shoulder pain stiffness they are grouchy
in the morning how many of you know
people are grouchy in the morning okay
that's liver and
uh so shoulder pain right shoulder pain
cuz liver's on this side so when you go
to work on Monday just go up to the
grouchy guy and go uh rub his shoulder
hey John
listen I've been holding a grudge on you
lately because your grouchiness but now
I forgive you because I know it's just
your
liver so this person usually has
insomnia the last hour that they should
be sleeping so that they're trying to
get that last hour of sleep but they
can't get it because they can't maintain
blood sugars most diabetics are really
liver problems but this person has their
whites of their eyes are yellow or dark
or um kind of
bloodshot um they have stiffness in the
lower back when they get out the bed in
the morning sometimes if they eat the
wrong Foods their fingers get a little
bit stiff they have a lot of digestive
issues bloating and they have a low
tolerance to fatty foods so they have
digestive bloating with a lot of fatty
foods but they deep fried catfish or
anything deep fried they like the fried
foods obesity is a health risk right
because it causes what heart disease
heart disease diabetes
diabetes
stroke blood
pressure bad luck death death right and
and and who tells you that who told you
that
they told you right I don't I don't know
who they
is right so that is totally not true
it's not true I had a patient came in
she was 365 PBS she did my probam
program exactly for one month she had
better energy she um sleeping better
better skin but she lost no weight
absolutely none second month she lost Â£
21b third month she lost 63 lb
so what we found was something
remarkable you're going to lose weight
in direct relationship to your level of
how much health you can create in your
body obesity is a symptom of an
unhealthy body not the cause of it it's
one of the many symptoms that you have
so just let that sink in a little bit
because this is 5 lbs of fat and the
purpose of fat is not a cushion to sit
down on it's not an insulator to keep
you warm
it's a protective mechanism that
protects you against um starvation and
illness there's three things that we do
one is we craft an eating plan that's
based on your body type to help um put
the nutrition back in that's missing and
get rid of the cravings and the second
thing we do is a Technique we do an
evaluation to
measure the reaction to stress and the
recovery from stress to find out if you
should be exercising and what's going on
inside your body to see if this is a
barrier that's stopping you and then we
do an acupressure technique to get rid
of the stress it's a very cool technique
that extracts the stress and it uh it
gets people to sleep a lot deeper
because it gets rid of the old stress
the third thing we do is we find out
what exercise you should do exactly so
that way you're never doing something
incorrect so that way when you actually
uh exercise you recover you recover you
recover and you're actually burn burning
fat every person is different as far as
the workout when you actually test them
what's good for you might not be good
for you and uh there's a lot of
different combinations that occur but if
you get it just right you can really
help people a lot a lot quicker because
you're getting fixed on the inside of
the body as compared to trying to focus
on the outside the philosophy um is get
healthy lose weight keep it off and for
those of you that never have gotten
check before um what we do is an
evaluation the cost of evaluation is 95
for all the different testing we check
the fluids we want to make sure you're
not you want to we want to know if
you're full of fluid or full of fat fat
and then we check to see if you should
be exercising or not and then we want to
find out about your old injuries and we
can check you out if you need the
acupressure great if you're not then we
give you whatever you need to do to get
the right plan to help you we also give
you the eating plan that's tailor made
to your body um also if you do want to
make an appointment we give you the book
this is my book um if you want to
autograph it's a little bit more but
no this um book has 149
images and it gets into a lot more
detail than I talked about but it also
um gives you the understanding behind
how to get a healthy body it's called
the seven principles of fat breing but
really it should be the seven principles
of how to get healthy
yeah how many have ever experienced
sustained
stress for many years okay let me tell
you what happens I'm very interested
that because we we have something very
Advanced that I've been playing around
with and uh we finally um are going to
officially just adopt it right as part
of the treatment it works on something
that's very specific sustained stress
like what happens is when you get hit by
stress there's a circuit that goes up to
the brain and comes down to the adrenal
that over a period of time gets stuck in
the position of
on where the problem is there's certain
points in the in the brain called the
hippocampus
the hippocampus in the brain actually
shrinks with sustained stress it gets
smaller and if it gets too small you get
allers
so I just found an acupressure point to
that point to that area and I started
working on it I'm like people are like
they're like feeling very different like
wow I just feel very calm right now like
something just turned off regards to AC
pressure if I hurt on my left side is it
has to do with wiring you work on the
other side
yes it depends because there's a whole
technology to it I mean if you want I
can I can actually do some samples I can
work on some people if does anyone have
like pain right now anyone have pain
okay you have pain uh who else has pain
you have pain your pain well maybe I
could do some I could do some so bad she
can't even raise her really really it's
not my arm it's my neck okay she married
a
pain well I what I'll here's what I'll
do
I'm going to officially end the semar
and then I you guys can stick around and
if you want to stick around I'll do some
demonstrations of how the stress
technique works on pain and U just to
kind of give you a little reality if you
want to show that um so for those of you
have to go um you can you can leave now
of course you're going to miss the best
part no I'm just kidding but anyway I
want to thank you guys for coming I hope
you enjoyed something learn something
spread the word we'll see you next time
and have a great afternoon
thank you thank
you e
