in this video we're going to show you
how to deal with sinus discomfort there
are certain acupressure points that you
can work on to help someone breathe
through your sinosis so put my glasses
over uh over there okay so let me just
wear these so I can see what I'm going
to do to you all right so when you fix
sinuses oh sorry I'll get these over
here I can't see see those things uh
we're going to use this acupressure
device and the way you're going to do it
is this is like a tripod and you I'd
like to use the widest ones and we just
place it right on the back of the chair
and she sits back and there's six
actually there's seven vertebra on your
neck and you're going to push this at
the one the second one not the first one
so this little device underneath here is
not going to necessarily lean back all
the way is not going to be right
underneath the ox uh the skull keep
laying it's going to be right down
probably a half an inch down right there
so we're going to hold that pressure
right here and then she's going to like
lean back on a tall back chair you can
do this um on your bed you can do it on
the couch and you want to put pressure
at the second vertebra and the longer
she holds this the more that she's going
to breathe and it's going to open up the
sinuses I would recommend doing this for
like 2 minutes depending on the size of
your body you may want to use a slight
uh more narrow one so try that how was
that is that better or worse it's better
better okay so because of her neck being
a little bit smaller we're going to go
ahead and use the the
smaller um
with and that's how you would do the
sinus acur pressure
