so today we're gonna talk about vitamin
b6 okay
vitamin b6 is a cofactor it's a helper
nutrient in so many different
chemistry's of the body I'm just going
to talk about the main ones right here
there are seven different forms of
vitamin b6 the active form of vitamin b6
is called paradox well 5 phosphate you
usually see it on vitamin label as P 5 P
now what does b6 actually do well it's
involved in making neurotransmitters
like gaba dopamine adrenaline so it
affects your mood so if you're deficient
you're gonna have anxiety depression and
you might be Moody you might have this
thing called PMS I mean not you but you
probably know people who do it can
affect your focus your attention as an a
DD in order to make b6 work you also
need vitamin b2 and zinc okay which is a
trace mineral several things that cause
a deficiency of b6 would be diabetes or
blood sugar problems in general like
let's say you're pre-diabetic or you
have insulin resistance which majority
of population has liver damage or a
fatty liver could affect the absorption
if you had a history of any colon
problems like some type of inflammatory
conditions that you end up having scar
tissue in your gut or let's say you have
IBS or Crohn's that could affect your
absorption if you had gastric bypass
surgery that could affect your
absorption or your taking birth control
pills or your taking steroids like in
cortisone shots things like that that
can affect the absorption but usually
you're not going to be deficient from
the foods in your diet because it's in
so many different foods it's in
chickpeas pork liver tuna salmon other
fish eggs beef and it's in a lot of
vegetables so chances are your
deficiency could be coming from these
other things right here now if you're
deficient the classical symptom would be
dermatitis other symptoms anxiety
depression like I said red irritated
eyes neuro
which is a destruction of the myelin
sheath which v6 is involved in you also
have vitamin b12 and b1 as well
impaired glucose tolerance so you're
going to have blood sugar issues if
you're deficient in b6 b6 deficiency is
also involved in edema and swelling
especially when you're pregnant
as well as carpal tunnel syndrome
alright guys I'll see you the next video
so you know my viewpoint on this topic I
want to know your viewpoint what do you
think about this video go ahead and
comment down below
