so is coffee okay on a ketogenic diet
that's the question okay now there's I
don't think you're going to have a
problem if you do one small cup of
coffee in the morning as compared to
five pots of coffee through the day
right because the excess caffeine really
stimulates adrenal function and people
drink too much coffee nowadays um I used
to do it in the past and that's why I'm
doing these videos because I got really
sick heartburn I would drink so much
coffee just to stay awake and um it C up
with me okay so anyway um the problem
with coffee is the third most sprayed
crop in the world they use 250 pounds of
chemicals per acre so there's a lot of
pesticides okay so if you're going to do
coffee just do the organic coffee okay
that's really important if you're going
to put cream in it make sure it's
organic if you're going to put butter in
it make sure it's
grass-fed and also when you sweeten it
don't use sugar use zat
GMO free zotol tastes just like sugar
you won't know the difference okay so if
you're going to do decaffeinated you got
to be careful too because sometimes you
use even more chemicals um so you want
to do a water processed type method to
pull the caffeine out and I think it's
going to be okay all right thanks for
watching
