This is a master class on how to perfect
your sleep and wake up feeling really
refreshed. I don't care what diet you're
on, what supplements you take, what type
of exercise you do, all of that is not
going to work unless your sleep is good.
We sleep to detoxify our brains. If you
notice when you don't sleep, it feels
like your brain is toxic. Let's first
talk about the diet, especially if
you're doing refined sugars and junk
food. If you snack late at night and you
go to bed loaded, that stress in your
gut is going to prevent you from going
to sleep. If you want better sleep, eat
earlier in the day. If you really want a
good sleep, have your last meal like 4
or 5:00. If you have urination problems
at night, just do intermittent fasting.
Cut out the snacks. Go low carb. If you
eat inflammatory foods like the grains,
that will also keep you up. When you eat
a lot of carbohydrates, it takes a lot
of vitamin B1 to break down those
carbohydrates and utilize them. When you
don't have enough B1, your legs start
just feeling so energetic. Vitamin B1
helps reduce nervous anxiety and
tension. One thing that is really good
to consume to help you sleep at night is
kefir. Kefir has probiotics which will
then build up things like serotonin
which then turns into melatonin. And
melatonin is a sleep hormone. Even
better probiotic to take is the L rutery
yogurt. Super beneficial for sleep. Just
need a half of a cup of that per day. It
doesn't have to be before bed. It could
be anytime during the day. What about
the environment that you sleep in? Let's
talk about the temperature first. If you
ever try to go to bed when it's too hot,
just won't work. Turn down the
thermostat down to between 65 and 68Â°.
Some people that have cold feet sleep
much better if they warm up some socks
and at least keep their feet warm.
Plants in your room, that oxygen from
the plants can help you sleep. The
darker it is, the better. Any light
inhibits melatonin. If you're staying
inside all day, sitting behind a
computer getting all this blue light or
you're on your cell phone and getting a
lot of blue light. Blue light stimulates
energy. This is why even in the early
morning when the sun rises, there's a
lot of blue that will wake you up. In
the evening, you'll see these yellow,
purple, reddish type colors. Now, we're
going to get a little bit more infrared,
which will actually help wind us down.
Over 50% of the the sun's rays are
infrared. It can penetrate several
inches into our body and help you make
vitamin D, which is crucial for sleep.
One thing it does is it increases
something called melatonin. Fortunately,
since the 80s, when we've been avoiding
the sun, we've been having a lot of
sleep problems. Also, alcohol. Alcohol
will make you feel like you are tired
and want to go to sleep, but it doesn't
really give you the quality of sleep. It
actually prevents the deep sleep. And
then we have caffeine. Caffeine, coffee,
tea, chocolate can also act as a
stimulant that can prevent sleeping
because your liver doesn't have a chance
to really detoxify those stimulants.
Also, the more exercise you do, the
better you're going to sleep as well.
The next thing I want to talk about is
old injuries. If you injure your lower
back, one of the things that I do every
single night is stretching to help
myself sleep. You'll notice when you do
a lot of stretching, your body goes into
this relaxed mode. One of the things
that you can do is lie on your back with
your arms stretched above you and just
do these stretches from your lower feet
trying to push your feet going this way
and your arms going this way. I'm going
to put a video down below to show you
how to do that. This is a little device
that I invented and developed. It's a
plastic device. It's modeled after my
hand and I will lay back on it and I
will hold pressure from the top of my
midback to the lower part of my midback
until the muscles relax. Now, there's
another area of your body. It's in the
brain stem. I'll take this on the back
of a tall back chair or my couch and
I'll place it right underneath my skull
and lean back pressing underneath the
skull. That really helps as well. I also
use it and actually press up underneath
the rib cage to take tension out of your
abdomen. Because if you've ever noticed
when you have problems with sleep,
there's going to be a lot of tension and
muscle spasm in your stomach area and
underneath your rib cage, probably
because you have a lot of bloating. So,
this is a great way to kind of take the
bloating out. Another thing to help
yourself sleep is to start sleeping on
the right side. Why do I do that? I just
find that when I sleep on the left side
or at least starting out, if there's
some type of congestion in my liver, it
kind of presses on my heart and it
doesn't help me sleep or feel relaxed.
The other thing that I focus on is nose
breathing. You will get more oxygen if
you breathe through your nose than from
your mouth. You're going to put your
body in a relaxed state really quickly,
slowly in and a little bit slower out.
Sometimes people ask me my opinion on
meditation. The best way that I think
you can get rid of your stress is to get
yourself out of your head and not do
more of that thinking. This is why like
hobbies are really great. Bird watching,
hiking, woodworking, painting. Another
key part of sleeping is getting enough
sodium. When you are low in sodium,
salt, your cortisol goes up. An average
person needs more than even a teaspoon
of sea salt per day. If you start adding
more sodium to the diet, whether you put
a little pinch of sea salt in your
coffee in the morning, you're going to
sleep better. And that brings up the
other mineral because if you're low in
potassium, you're also going to have a
problem with sleeping because potassium
is a physiological relaxer. If you're
deficient in potassium, guess what? Your
pulse rate goes up. Another thing that I
do about an hour before bed is take some
magnesium glycinate powder. Magnesium
helps with muscle tightness and muscle
spasm and muscle cramps. Magnesium also
helps calm your body. I'll take this
magnesium glycinate in a warm glass of
water and I might add some tea to it.
And there's several teas that I might
use like chamomile tea is a great one to
also help wind you down. What about
sound? you can get a machine that kind
of gives you this background static.
I mean, when you think about it,
complete silence in nature is very
unnatural. This is why I always sleep
better if I'm camping, for example.
There's also something called uh
binaural beats where you're putting two
different beats in each ear. Two
slightly different sounds, but that
definitely has been shown to help you
sleep. There's one last really cool
thing that can help you sleep. certain
essential oils that have kind of a
seditive effect, but they're natural and
you don't have to consume them. You just
breathe in the vapor. The first one is
called spikenard. It's a seditive and
it's going to calm you down. If you get
that, I recommend you pair it with
another essential oil, vetr. Viviver
helps induce a deeper sleep and you
don't have to consume it. You can just
breathe it in or rub it onto your
temples or even on your chest. Fixing
your sleep is super powerful, but if
you're still waking up tired, you are
missing out on something that is
incredibly powerful, and it's salt. I'm
about to flip everything you've ever
been told about salt completely upside
down. You've got to check out this video
right here.
