hey guys today we're going to talk about
vitamin k1 I've done other videos on
vitamin k2 which is involved in the
transportation of calcium out of the
soft tissues out of the arteries into
the bone but vitamin k1 is just as
important for different functions but
they both work together so a vitamin k1
is a cofactor which is a helper nutrient
to make something called prothrombin
sometimes people think wow I don't want
to take vitamin k1 because I don't want
to have a clot and I have a heart attack
but realize that vitamin k1 also has
other proteins there's many different
types or subtypes of vitamin k1 kind of
in a complex there's a protein C and an
S which are anti-clotting so it's not
just about clotting it also helps you
break up clots and vitamin k1 is really
really really important in making bone
in fact if you don't have any vitamin k1
it's going to be very difficult to make
bone even if you have calcium or other
minerals there are certain things that
block the absorption of vitamin k1 one
is if you're constipated number two if
you have a liver problem a fatty liver
you have cirrhosis of the liver
you have insulin resistance gallbladder
problems because you need the bile to
help you break down this fat Seibel
vitamin IBS any type of damage within
your colon let's see of Italy itis which
is inflammation in the part of the ileum
or Crohn's diverticulitis can block the
absorption of vitamin k1 if you had a
gastric bypass that can inhibit the
absorption of vitamin k1 as well realize
that k1 also helps make k2
it's kind of like a precursor so your
body also has microbes that make the
vast majority of vitamin k2 in fact 75%
of the k2 you have is made by your own
microbes so that means if you take an
antibiotic or you destroy the microbes
you're gonna make a lot less k2 and one
of the symptoms you're gonna get you can
get calcification in the arteries you
can get calcification in the joints you
can have bone loss all sorts of things
now the unique thing about vitamin k1
which is a fat side of a vitamin that is
different from the other fat soluble
vitamins is that it doesn't get stored
so you actually need quite a bit alright
so next one vitamin k1 is very very
essential for bone we talked about that
and also if you're on coumadin okay you
can't take vitamin k1 because you have a
blood thinner and you're trying to
prevent strokes because that's going to
create a problem because where you get
vitamin k1 belief he greens all those
salads that I've been recommending right
7 to 10 cups of salad per day right but
if you're in a blood thinner you know
you're told not to consume that but by
the way if you're uncommon 10 and you
can't consume a lot of leafy greens I
did put a video down below of what
vegetables you should be consuming but
another option would be to talk to your
doctor about this medication called
Eliquis okay which would allow you to
consume leafy greens because it works at
a different mechanism alright there you
have it now you know what vitamin k1
does so if you want more knowledge on
how to create a healthy body subscribe
now and get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
