unfortunately in the medical profession
they don't do this they don't look
deeper basically I'm taking one symptom
and I'm going to show you how I find out
what's underneath the symptom because
you never want to just treat the symptom
without finding the root cause for
example the ridges on the nail are the
tip of the iceberg they don't ask why do
I have ridges on my nails there are
several connections between Ridge nails
and a nutrient deficiency you have to
kind of know the potential causes but
the question is how do we know which one
of those potential causes is the cause
there's really only three deficiencies
that are going to create the vertical
ridges number one an iron deficiency
number two a zinc deficiency and number
three a biotin deficiency biotin is a B
vitamin basically what I do with to
figure this out is I'll will start with
iron and I'm going to ask them questions
to find out if they are iron deficient
and if that's the problem if they're a
female are you menstrating too much do
you have symptoms of an you're like are
you tired a lot do they get weak easily
of course I'll get into the diet too are
they a vegan because vegans never eat
red meat and red meat is loaded with
iron and when you consume plants like
spinach there's iron in there but it's
not very bioavailable I also know that
someone could actually have a genetic
problem with iron where they have too
much iron this is interesting because if
they have too much iron they're also
going to be anemic because it's
dysfunctional ask them questions about
their liver do they they have a history
of curosis of the liver do they feel
better when they donate blood have you
ever had a genetic test where they said
something about iron I'm looking for
iron deficiency or an iron excess I
might ask a question like do you crave
ice and even people that crave dirt are
deficient in iron and then I also might
ask them are they cold do they have cold
feet cold hands and that just would kind
of give me a clue if it's more of an
iron deficiency based on those questions
but of course I'm not just only going to
ask them those questions I'm going to
shift also to some other questions to
rule out is it a zinc deficiency do they
ever have a problem with getting sick
frequently and taking a long time to
overcome an infection I'm going to ask
them about testosterone because zinc
definitely helps increase testosterone
and let's say they have a liido issue or
rectile dysfunction or a loss of muscle
mass that could help me kind of
associate those symptoms with the cause
I will also ask them when they're
driving at night do they have a
difficult time seeing in the dark night
blindness is usually a vitamin A
deficiency but zinc is also necessary
for vitamin A to work and this is all
related to a certain pigment in the eye
that allows you to see in dim light as
far as hair goes alopecia would be One
symptom of a zinc deficiency I'm also
going to ask them about their skin do
they have any skin rashes inflammation
of the skin is definitely related to
zinc I might also ask them do they drink
a lot of alcohol or do they eat junk
foods which will really deplete you of
zinc then I also might ask them about
the foods related to zinc because you're
going to get a lot of zinc if you have
red meat but also shellfish uh Seafood
things like that after I have those
questions I'll shift to the biotin
deficiency questions what's unique about
biotin is that a good percentage of your
biotin is made by your own microbes I
will ask them do you have a history of a
lot of antibiotics because that's going
to destroy the microbes that make biotin
then I'll ask them about their hair does
their hair break easily is their nail
thin that's going to give me a huge clue
on if it's a biotin deficiency sometimes
when people just bang their nail on
something and it just breaks could be a
biotin deficiency as well if someone's
very severely deficient in biotin
they're going to have neurological
problems it's called peripheral
neuropathy in their feet so that would
be something I would also look for but
what you need to know is biotin zinc and
iron all control collagen and if you're
deficient in those you're not going to
make the collagen necessary for the nail
to be formed correctly after assessing
all these questions it's going to be
very easy for me to isolate the real
underlying cause or the most likely
cause which then I will either recommend
eating more of that food or I will
recommend consuming it as a supplement
as far as iron goes I never like
recommending an iron supplement because
it's very harsh and I don't like the
types of iron that they give people I
might uh recommend grass-fed liver pills
or spleen extract pills they work great
or just consume more red meat that's for
iron then of course with zinc the best
source of zinc is shellfish oysters are
the top of the list but you can also get
a good amount of zinc and grass-fed beef
as far as a zinc supplement I would
recommend taking probably 50 milligrams
of zinc in a blend of other trace
minerals that include copper because
anytime you take zinc in higher amounts
over a long period of time they can
deplete you of copper I like my zinc to
be in a blend of trace minerals with
copper you always want to have 10 times
as much zinc as copper so it would be
like a 1 to 10 ratio and this is a very
rough estimate so if you're doing 10 Mig
of zinc you have 1 milligram of copper
then we get to biotin if we need more
biotin I would recommend taking a
supplement but here's the problem you
don't necessarily want to buy the
supplement that has the most biotin
because there's bottles of biotin that
have like
30,000 times the the RDA so you don't
need to go that extreme but I do know a
lot of people take B
boy their nails get really super strong
as far as reestablishing biotin in your
body like consuming Foods it's not
necessarily going to be adding certain
foods that will increase biotin because
biotin is in so many different foods as
it is to build up your gut microbiome
and for that you want to take a good
probiotic or consume foods that are
fermented one other interesting thing
about biotin is if you consume raw egg
whites you can become biotin deficient
because there's something in this all
white of the egg that blocks your
ability to absorb biotin I just wanted
to give you a simple example of the best
way to figure things out is not to treat
this tip of the iceberg to find out
what's deeper really understand that for
every effect or symptom there's a cause
all 5700 videos that I have are all
about making these connections and this
is a huge gap within our health care
System they don't make these connections
they just treat the symptom as a problem
and it covers up the real problem thank
you for watching and I will see you in
the next video
