so the question is should you do 'quite
L if you have hypoglycemia take a look
at this low blood sugar comes from high
blood sugar and the spike of insulin
pushing it down so in reality
hypoglycemia is high insulin because
it's actively pushing you down into a
lowered state the next question is well
don't we need sugar to balance it to
bring it back up well the problem is the
actual cause of hypoglycemia is high
insulin by adding more sugar to balance
it we raise more insulin to lower it so
why would you want to do that
now insulin resistance which you see in
diabetes all the time especially type 2
and also in type 1 as well
is caused by too much insulin or chronic
exposure to insulin as well but when you
have insulin resistance which so many
people do your body is actually making
seven times the amount of insulin that
you need than a normal person so it's
not just about you meeting candy but
your body is actually making it by
itself without eating any carbohydrates
you're just making tons of insulin
creating more insulin resistance and
that high level of insulin is just gonna
drive it down and cause the hypoglycemia
in certain people some people never get
hypoglycemia they get hyperglycemia or
high blood sugar so the real question is
how do we keep your insulin normal to
then normalize hypoglycemia well we just
want to focus on keeping insulin normal
we want to keep our Sugar's low we don't
want to eat frequent meals we want to
consume magnesium potassium and b1 these
are the two minerals and the vitamin
that you need to really support insulin
resistance and help this condition but I
think what we should do is we really
need to go to the experts for this
because
murk's manual is the authority on
medical pathology let's go to chapter on
hypoglycemia and see what it says page
1056 diabetic patients taking insulin
should always carry sugar lumps or candy
with them and the patient's family and
friends should be instructed to
recognize the symptoms of hypoglycemia
which is dizziness lightheadedness
irritable Ness even fainting spells and
in giving the emergency treatment
mentioned above okay
so we want to give them sugar right so
I'm trying to find out what you need to
do to correct this problem so I'm going
to go right to the chapter where it
talks about the diet for diabetes let's
let's see what they say about that what
is the diet for diabetes diet
composition there's no need to
disproportionately restrict the intake
of carbohydrates in the diet of most
diabetics Wow flexibility in diet design
helps many patients to adhere to an
effective program so in other words we
can keep it flexible we can pretty much
tell them what they can eat what they
want because that way they'll stick to
the junk food diet makes no sense
whatsoever if you do that you're gonna
raise insulin you're never going to
correct this problem if you eat the
sugar same deal very simply what you
need to do is healthy keto and
intermittent fasting on a nice gradual
level start with three meals a day and
then no snacks add protein electrolytes
B vitamins and then go to two meals a
day what's going to happen you'll
transition over to burn fat and the need
for insulin will go down the need for
running and blood Sugar's will go down
and you won't have this anymore it's a
very effective all right thanks for
watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
