so there's a lot of very interesting
information relating to vitamin D and
cortisol that relationship so let's talk
about it under stress especially chronic
stress what happens is the vitamin D
gets less absorbed in your gut so
anytime you have high stress your
vitamin D level goes down okay that's
one thing that happens but there's
something else as well the building
block of vitamin D is the same building
block as the stress hormone cortisol
and that building block is cholesterol
they're both made out of cholesterol in
fact even vitamin D as itself is really
considered for many reasons more of a
hormone than a vitamin especially the
steroid hormones in the family of
cortisol the chemistry of cortisol which
is the stress hormone is very similar to
vitamin D as well but they're both made
from cholesterol so as you go through
stress the cholesterol is allocated as a
pre cursor to build more of that stress
hormone and away from other things like
vitamin D this is another reason why
people end up with low vitamin D when
they have high levels of stress and very
unfortunately the cortisol tends to
paralyze the immune system it lowers the
white blood cell it makes you more
susceptible to getting infections
especially viral infections not to
mention Compound on top of that a low
vitamin D level that's so important with
your immune system in immune protection
and even controlling an overactive
immune system and then another
interesting thing about this is when you
go through a lot of stress a lot of
times that can be the trigger of an
autoimmune disease whether it's Ms
rheumatoid arthritis
Hashimoto Graves disease type 1 diabetes
all of these conditions can be triggered
by some type of stress so then once you
get the autoimmune disease what is the
treatment the treatment is prazone what
is prazone it's a synthetic form of
cortisol so that's interesting that this
stress might have triggered it but then
now you need prazone as a treatment to
get rid of inflammation so apparently
cortisol is an anti-inflammatory and if
you have too much of it in your body
then why would someone even have
inflammation in the first place and
probably my guess is that when you have
a lot of a certain hormone in the
bloodstream that can create a bit of a
resistance just like insulin resistance
you could have that cortisol resistance
that's just my guess but it could also
have something to do with vitamin D
since vitamin D is a very potent and
Powerful anti-inflammatory in fact
vitamin D is what I always recommend for
autoimmune conditions there's a lot of
research on that um but the problem is
you can't just use the the smaller
amounts the rdas uh for vitamin D is
what like 600 I use that was is all
based on research for your bone to
prevent bone loss but not necessarily to
have this therapeutic effect on
autoimmune inflammatory conditions for
those conditions you need a lot more you
might need 10 20 30 40 50 thousand iuse
of vitamin D to create the effects
especially with other barriers from
absorbing vitamin D uh you have genetic
barriers it's called a polymorphism
where you have this Gene that doesn't
allow you to uh convert vitamin D into
the active form it doesn't allow you to
absorb vitamin D in the vitamin D
receptor when I did some DNA testing
with um I think 20 over 20 people okay
it wasn't a lot but it was 20 people
100% of those people all had at least
one gene that was inhibiting either the
conversion into the active form of
vitamin D or just the activation of the
vitamin D receptor so in other words
from that it just led me to the idea
that a lot of people are just not
absorbing enough vitamin D another
reason is is if you're older you don't
absorb as much vitamin D if your skin is
is darker you're not going to absorb as
much vitamin D from the Sun anyway and
not to mention people aren't out in the
sun very much and you have the winter
time then you have also insulin
resistance can block the absorption of
vitamin D and so there's a lot of
barriers the cards are stacked against
you with vitamin D so an average person
has high cortisol and low vitamin D but
they both have similar properties and
what they can do especially when we get
into the area of inflammation and
autoimmune conditions and other
conditions too like even uh type 2
diabetes which is not an autoimmune and
even with adrenal concerns okay adrenal
problems whether someone has too much
adrenal hormone or not enough vitamin D
is going to be important there's an
interesting paper I read that if you
give someone vitamin D that has high
levels of of cortisol it can help bring
it down which is interesting so I think
uh The more stress someone has the more
vitamin D they need to counter maybe
this reallocation of the cholesterol
problem because they don't have enough
precursors especially if they're on a
low-fat diet and also especially if
someone goes through menopause because
what happens in menopause is you have
this U loss of ovarian function and now
we have this backup organ from the
adrenals which now has to make up for
these loss hormones and if there's a bit
of stress in this process or the
adrenals are weak then cortisol is going
to be stressed and so is vitamin D and I
think the solution is not just adding
vitamin D but also adding cholesterol
making sure that you have enough fat
maybe consume more grass-fed butter uh
or Meats things like that another little
side note about vitamin D is when you
get it tested um they always test the
inactive form because that's more stable
it's more difficult and not as reliable
to check the active form so they check
the inactive form which doesn't really
tell you what's happening inside the
cells as well you have to be able to
take all the information and and look at
it let's say for example someone has a
problem with the receptor absorbing
vitamin d whether they have a genetic
problem with the receptor
or let's say they have a viral infection
certain viruses trick the vitamin D
receptor to downgrading them it's a
whole survival mechanism which is pretty
sneaky and pretty evil and the solution
to that is to take more vitamin D to
overcome that but the point is that you
can't always put all your eggs in that
one basket like testing someone's blood
level for vitamin D especially if they
have some of these other problems and
maybe you want to do a genetic test just
to see if that's one issue as well
especially if you're going through
stress and especially if you vitamin D
deficiency symptoms I want to give you
several things to improve the situation
of low vitamin D and high cortisol okay
uh number one take more vitamin D okay
get it from the Sun uh eat fatty fish uh
or just take a good vitamin uh D3
supplement and probably minimally uh
take about 10,000 IUS but if you have a
problem you might need to take more now
number two I did a video on this
magnesium is essential for vitamin D to
work as well magnesium also helps lower
cortisol so make sure you also at the
same time either consume magnesium foods
which are in the leafy greens spinach
it's in almonds as well but make sure
you you have like maybe some cheese with
that spinach or with your almonds just
to get the calcium to prevent the um
oxalates that could be an issue with
those two things especially if you're on
keto people consume a lot of these foods
that are high in oxalates chocolate
spinach almonds you can start to do
other leafy greens and salads and dark
green vegetables but believe it or not
it's it's not as easy as you might think
to get magnesium but the point is that
more magnesium will help vitamin D work
and it also help cortisol be lowered
magnesium glycinate is the one that I
like all right number three zinc I also
did a video on that in relationship to
vitamin D the vitamin D receptor needs
zinc as an essential thing to allow that
vitamin D receptor to work and absorb
vitamin D so we need zinc and we need
magnesium without those two you're not
going to be able to absorb as much
vitamin D another uh key factor is to
maybe take some adaptogens I like
ashwagandha but there's other ones as
well but adaptogens help to bring
cortisol to a normal level they're
interesting because whether you have too
much cortisol or not enough cortisol
that help balance that they increase
your tolerance for stress they also will
help with adrenaline too it help balance
adrenaline of course exercise would be
at the top of the list long walks hikes
things like that very important to
reduce stress and cortisol especially
just make sure you don't overtrain and
of course the next one is going to be
sleep right sleep helps lower cortisol
and that will help you retain more
vitamin D as well right you'll never be
able to bring your cortisol levels down
without also fixing your sleep but of
course magnesium will help that zinc
will help that exercise long walks will
help that and vitamin D will help that
as well especially if you have a
circadian rhythm problem whether it's
from jet leg or your sleep cycles are
off or whatever another one that you
might not know about is sea salt when
you are sodium deficient cortisol tends
to go a little higher so sometimes
especially when you're on the ketogenic
diet you may need a little bit more sea
salt in the diet and that can help you
sleep faster and better and give you
more quality of sleep but it can also
reduce stress as well and so there's
other ways of ending up with not enough
sodium as well drinking a lot of water
um that you're diluting this salt and
just not putting on the food getting
more sun that Spectrum infrared can come
in it penetrates the body it's a great
antioxidant and isn't melatonin good for
sleep as well it can be right next one
is vitamin B1 that can help reduce
stress and cortisol anxiety and nervous
tension uh from a different angle I
always like B1 as the stress reducer um
it works like within three minutes
nutritional yeast has a good amount of
B1 but make sure you have a B1 that is
from a natural source and just as a side
note what creates a deficiency of B1 is
consuming a lot of refined sugar and
refined carbohydrate the more you do for
that the more B1 is needed the same
thing with stress The more stress you
have the more vitamin D you need and the
more cortisol or stress you have also
the more cholesterol you might need to
build not just your Dr hormones but the
vitamin D as well now there's one last
remedy I want to talk to you about that
I can't really talk too much about it on
YouTube because it handles a really
interesting problem I will put that on
my website but the remedy is called
ahcc and this remedy does a lot of
things but one of the things that it
does it has a very unique effect on
calming down the sympathetic nervous
system and also improving your
parasympathetic and that's why it's
really good for sleep you take this
right before bed and that can help you
greatly and if you are on my email list
uh you will get a video on this of all
the other things it does but that being
said I do have a a very long list of all
of the actions that you can do and all
the things you can take to lower
cortisol which goes Way Beyond what I
just gave you right here if you want a
free copy of that it's a onepage summary
I put a link down below where you can
download it right now
