hey Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about fat thighs and a fat
butt all right so if you know of anyone
that has that have them watch this video
because as you age you're going to find
out that it's harder and harder to get
lean especially in the lower part of
your body and let's first talk about
some facts in the body okay some these
are physiological facts number one um
the most that you can burn as far as
actual fat per week is to pounds okay so
you can't burn 5 pounds of fat a week
it's impossible if you are losing more
than 2 pounds a week it's just water
weight so just realize that okay so 2
pounds is the most and that's for a good
healthy body with a good metabolism so
if you're not burning two pounds don't
get frustrated it could be just that
your your metabolism is kind of broken
and you might only burn one pound or
less as you build up your health but the
fact is that that's the most you can
burn per week all right now number two
in order to burn fat your body has to be
energetic it has to be sleeping it can't
be burnt out if you're tired and you're
not sleeping chances are you're not
going to be a burn fat because it takes
a lot of energy to get the metabolism to
start burning this stuff off so you
really have to get healthy first before
you can start losing weight third in
order to burn fat you can't have
cravings when you're craving breads
pasta cereal what you're running on is
you're running on sugar fuel you're not
burning fat the way you know you're
burning fat is when you don't have the
cravings and the way you get rid of
Cravings is we increase the greens and
the potassium in the body by a factor of
7 cups a day and the Cravings should go
down but the point is that you there's
no way you're going to burn fat when
you're having these cravings and you're
starving and you're hungry all the time
that's not going to work okay next thing
is the body will always build back the
muscle if it the muscle is wasting away
before the fat okay now what is that
that brings us to our next Point there's
a huge difference between
fat um on your body and maybe cellulite
let's just call it cellulite and atrophy
now atrophy is the wasting or or sagging
of your muscles in other words when a
muscle's atro atrophied it's sagging
it's weak it's hanging there and that's
really what a lot of people have and
they think that it's all just silite and
fat when in fact it's just an atrophied
muscle okay so because the muscle's
breaking down why because of the stress
hormones of age will tend to make
everything kind of droop and and it's
hard to get it lean okay so when we're
trying to lose weight we want to
identify what the real problem is
because if you think it's fat and you
start trying to burn this off you're
going to be very frustrated when it
doesn't work so let's take a look at
this atrophy a little bit more and how
we can undo it in the body there's two
things that happen you have a breakdown
of muscle and then we have a build
building back up of muscle okay so when
we exercise when we go through stress it
breaks things down there's a name for
that it's called
catabolic like a cannibalistic your
body's eating itself up so it breaks
things down it's a breaking down
catabolic and that happens during the
day and then at night when you're
resting you should build things back up
and so that's when you're burning fat
but that's when the muscle starts
building back back up and that's called
anabolic and you maybe heard that from
like anabolic steroids or something like
that your body makes certain hormones
that build things back up so really a
person as they hit the age of 50 during
menopause and they get atrophy they have
a problem with this anabolic catabolic
thing they have too much breakdown but
not enough building back up okay why
because the hormones are messed up so
what can we do to improve that number
one we do not want to exercise every day
you don't want to
overtrain you want to take less frequent
workouts and space it out and get more
recovery so we want to recover longer we
want to rest longer we don't want to
exercise over soreness why because when
you're sore that means your body is
still in a catabolic State okay now to
speed up the anabolic phase where we
build back up the muscles there are
certain amino acids that you can consume
at the health food store and you can get
these even as a One supplement you have
to find them but the one that you need
and I would buy this as a as a single
source of three different amino acids uh
Lucine Lucine is an amino acid that
helps restore muscle tissue isol leucine
is another recovery amino acid these are
proteins and veine uh which will also
increase the muscle repair so find a
supplement with all three of these and
I'll I'll type them out down here in the
in the blog you can just click read more
and get it and then also you want the
co-actors because there's also
Associated things with these amino acids
that help them work better and that's
called a co-actor It's associated
vitamin like B3 you need B3 B6 and
vitamin C so find a supplement with
Lucine isoline veine B3 B6 and and
vitamin C and start taking that before
you go to bed every night even when
you're not working out to speed up the
process of recovery that will help the
workouts work better and then you want
to work out less so I recommend just
work out until your disordes goes away
and it could be once a week it could be
once every two weeks when you start out
but as you do this more it'll get better
and better and better the other thing
you want to take is omega-3 that's that
flax oil because the flax oil is really
good to repair not just the muscle but
all the little uh structures in the
muscle to help you like um the energy
factories the metabolism factories so we
want those omega-3 fatty acids to take a
little flax before you go to bed and
these amino acids you can get them from
the heal store okay so the body will
build back the muscle first before the
actual fats burn and that is why people
get frustrated because they think it's
not working but it's really working
their muscles are getting leaner or
stronger but they're heavier so the the
scale doesn't move but shrinking in size
that's a good thing and that actually
must happen in the beginning especially
if your body is broken down so don't
take that as a loss just go by size me
measurement and also go by um um maybe
how you look less sagging muscles but
and that's why people don't necessarily
lose the weight right away it could it
take six weeks it could take eight weeks
to be before you start losing weight on
some cases because the muscles are so
atrophy that it takes time okay so don't
give up apply this information and send
me your success stories
