today we're going to talk about the
relationship between hepatitis C iron
and cirrhosis what are the symptoms of
Hep C and by the way hepatitis E is the
most common type of hepatitis and we're
talking about a specific virus so the
main symptoms would be fatigue flu-like
symptoms darker urine abdominal pain
yellow skin eyes and there's many many
more now what's interesting about Hep C
is that there is a high rate of people
with Hep C that also have high iron and
when you have hepatitis C it makes it
more difficult to get rid of iron so
usually you're gonna have iron overload
and that iron creates oxidation and a
lot of free radicals and that's what's
going to lead to inflammation and
cirrhosis and not only that iron is
needed to keep the virus that's causing
the problem in reproduction mode so it
actually thrives on iron so there's
three things that I would recommend
there's something called lactoferrin you
can get it from the health food store
probably online but it's in breast milk
it's also in something called colostrum
which is in breast milk but it can be
extracted from colostrum and cow's milk
and you can get it as a supplement based
on certain studies which I'm going to
put a link down below you don't want to
take less than 3.6 grams to create the
effect because lactoferrin is a very
powerful antimicrobial it also
suppresses the replication of the virus
in hepatitis C it binds to the virus it
helps lower liver enzymes it helps lower
inflammation it also increases
phagocytosis which is part of the immune
systems so it's a really good immune
booster but what's fascinating is how it
works it works by preventing iron to be
available to the virus so it's like
starving off the food for the virus
which by the way it's not even alive
it's actually just leeching off your
cells so
affarin can go in there in effect the
DNA and the RNA and prevent the iron
from being used by the virus and this is
also beneficial to people with HIV
cytomegalovirus epstein-barr virus and
others I'll put the link down below the
next thing that I would recommend for
Hep C would be vitamin D there's a very
high rate of people who have Hep C that
also have a vitamin D deficiency now
whether that's coming from a lack of
sunshine it could also be because they
have instant resistance or they could
have a defect in the vitamin d receptor
and the last thing I'm going to
recommend is fasting okay why because
fasting strengthens your immune system
if you do periodic prolonged fasting
like 48 hours within 72 hours you'll
stimulate stem cells and that will help
you grow a new immune system also
fasting stimulates the tapa G which has
a function of cleaning up microbes
including viruses now if you haven't
seen my videos in vitamin D and why you
would be deficient I put this video up
here check it out
