here in the suburban areas of wildlife
we see a co V of young females they're
taking a break from their day-to-day
grind and enjoying food companionship
and the communal salsa Bowl it appears
that one of the females is practicing a
ritual only seen in this part of the
world and known as fasting the goal of
it being to abstain from eating for as
long as possible this young female hopes
to change her physical shape in order to
better attract a mate in other words and
in more colloquial terms she's getting
rid of that junk in the trunk although
this female is fasting it doesn't mean
she doesn't want food these tasty
morsels can still stimulate the saliva
glands with their aromatic fuels we will
now see if she can conquer a desire for
those jalapeno poppers and Bagel Bites
one of the females introduces a popular
treat known as taquitos a delicacy in
the American culture taquitos happen to
be one of her favorite meals hormones
and factors that stimulate under
increase and the only thing she's had in
the past six hours is water with a
squeeze of lemon juice will the young
female continue her fast or break it
she's at the tipping point she's done
well on this far but confronted with a
greater adversary
a self-discipline seems to be waning she
breaks
unfortunately this young female will now
have to begin her fast again
sometimes nature's greatest threat
doesn't have to appear violent or
dangerous but instead he under the guise
of precooked jalapeno poppers and other
advertises why struggle on you're lost
when you don't have to fast longer with
keto fasting not this time pockets
