I'd like to talk about the science of
inflammation unfortunately a lot of
people have inflammation they go to the
doctor they get put on a certain
medication and that's pretty much it but
they're covering up the root cause
dealing with inflammation goes Way
Beyond just taking some fish oils and
I've been very lucky to be in practice
for over 30 years to really see the
underlying root causes of inflammation
because some of these causes are not in
the medical literature inflammation is
an immune reaction it's not just about
treating a pathogen or some virus or
bacteria the problem is when
inflammation goes on too long that's
when we get all sorts of problems like
cancer cancer tends to invade areas of
inflammation and anytime we have
inflammation we also have a lack of
oxygen and both inflammation and hypoxia
causes cancer to grow more aggressively
let's start with the first one
fibromyalgia which is inflammation that
spreads throughout the entire body now
one time when I was in practice I
reached out to my patients to find out
who had fibromyalgia 100% of all of
these patients had fibromyalgia only on
the right side of the body as I was
digging in further I found out that they
all had problems underneath the righted
rib cage that's where you have the
little tubes that are called bile ducts
and sometimes the bile that's supposed
to flow from the liver into the
gallbladder becomes thickened and it can
create a backup of bile into the liver
and that bile is like a detergent it can
irritate the liver and it can cause pain
that radiates up into the right shoulder
up into the neck from something called
bile sludge I did something very
interesting I had them massaged
underneath the right rib cage and just
to hold that pressure for about a minute
and then I would re-evaluate the pain
and it was like it went down to almost
zero I put them all on a remedy of
taking bile salts with their food and
also on an empty stomach one type of
bile salt is called tutka and that just
kind of really opens up that flow and a
person can see huge results very quickly
if someone has fibromyalgia through the
entire body it's usually not coming from
the gallbladder it's usually coming from
a virus that has come out of remission
Epstein bar virus is chingles another
one is the herpes viruses and all those
viruses come out when your immune system
is weak what happens with stress is it
activates cortisol and cortisol
suppresses the immune system the next
thing that can cause pain is lime
disease lime can create a lot of
inflammation in your body it downgrades
your ability to use vitamin D vitamin D
hands down is the most important vitamin
for your immune system vitamin D does
two things it'll increase the immune
system or bring down the immune system
if your immune system is overactive so
it's the ultimate solution for both
problems next one is old injuries as you
age you get things like arthritis
stiffness I am the poster child of old
injuries I broke my left elbow in 30
places my left shoulder I broke my neck
other than that I did pretty good you're
going to have to constantly work on
stretching not just your ligaments and
muscles but something more important and
that's called your FASA my worst enemy
and your worst enemy if you have this is
being sedentary you have to keep moving
keep stretching next one is inflammatory
enot taxis that is a situation where
cancer spreads into areas of
inflammation for example if you are a
smoker you'll have inflammation in the
lungs from damage cancer will spread
into that area a lot easier I will get
to some really powerful strategies in a
minute next one is food allergies if
you're eating something that is
irritating your colon whether it's
gluten or a peanut or soy you're going
to get constant inflammation this is
basically the gut brain axis whatever's
going down here it's going to affect up
here like grains especially wheat pretty
wild how whole grains are really
promoted as a health food and we should
eat more of them not if we don't want
gut inflammation when you have leaky gut
or bleeding gums what happens is certain
microbes can get into the body go into
the bloodstream and create a lot of
problems one of the things that can
create gingivitis is a severe vitamin C
deficiency because you're eating too
much sugar or carbs and then you start
getting a breakdown in the collagen the
microbes are there to help build up this
mucus layer to kind of create a barrier
if those microbes are missing because
you took an antibiotic now we don't have
that protective layer and now we have an
imbalance between the good bacteria and
the bad bacteria we get an overgrowth
and then we have all sorts of issues
with the gut next one involves cortisol
people that have high levels of cortisol
have a lot of inflammation because they
have developed something called cortisol
resistance where you have too much of a
certain hormone and then all of a sudden
The receptors don't work anymore now we
have the opposite effect if cortisol is
an anti-inflammatory now we just get
more inflammation another big one is
just consuming junk food I'm really
talking about sugar and I'm not talking
about just regular sugar I'm talking
about the junky industrial synthetic
sugars and then we have something else
which is interesting it's a hidden sugar
it's actually a starch modified corn
starch modified food starch maltodextrin
and an average person consumes over50
pounds of this stuff every single year
it will spike your blood sugar super
high and it will keep you inflamed I
said sugar starch and Seed oils it's the
worst of the worst these seed oils are
fats that don't really provide energy
here's a cell right here these seed oils
get locked into the membranes and they
affect the function of the cell it's
very hard to get these seed oils out of
the body if you stop eating them it'll
probably take a year and a half to
completely get them out of the system
and I highly recommend you do that and
an average person consumes between five
and eight gallons every single year next
one is having too much visceral fat
that's the fat around the organs if you
consume too much sugar starch or seed
oil is you start developing insulin
resistance insulin is not going in the
fat cell all that fat now is stored
outside the fat cell and that's all the
fat in your liver around your organs
next one autoimmune diseases are even
more common than heart disease and
cancer normally you have certain tea
cells it's part of the immune system to
prevent that from happening and when
that cell becomes diminished or
dysfunctional a person will develop an
autoimmune disease we have an
overreactive immune system another one
is soy protein isets it's in protein
powders fake meats and even certain
diets and then you're going to use that
as a protein to help your body I know
people that came into my practice
consuming a lot of that protein and a
large percentage of them came in with a
lot of inflammation around the liver I
took them off that product and it
cleared up next one is EMF
electromagnetic fields if you do a lot
of talking like this you're going to get
uh a lot of electromagnetic fields into
your brain that can create inflammation
I had someone come in my house and scan
the entire house for EMF radiation at
the time I had palpitations and I was
trying every nutritional remedy and I
also had insomnia soon as this
individual came close to scanning around
my bed the meter just went off the chart
it just started buzzing like it was
behind the headboard in the wall where
my bed was and there were wires that
were crossed creating a magnetic field
that extended 8 ft from the wall I was
literally being bathed
in a magnet as soon as we fixed that all
my palpitations completely went away and
I started sleeping like a baby next one
certain medications I'll guarantee
you're going to have more inflammation
as a side effect that will lead to a
problem and that'll be treated with
another medication and it just keeps
going there are people that I know on 15
different drugs 20 different drugs and
I'll guarantee some of the side effects
from one drug is being treated by
another drug their body is in a massive
confusion I recommend finding a good
doctor to see what actual medications
you absolutely need to take and I would
also ask them to help you wean off
certain medications that you could
potentially find another remedy to treat
it for like a natural remedy next item
to talk about is too much iron iron is
very inflammatory to the point where you
could develop sosis of liver just from
having too much iron never take iron in
a supplement if you donate blood and you
feel better then you know you have an
iron problem one antidote is to increase
your copper which actually allows the
iron to be more protected next one if
you have a fibroid that can refer a lot
of pain to the back well one simple
remedy is to up your vitamin D to 30,000
I use every single day next one one
really important clue for heart is if
you exercise and you get winded too
easily get your heart checked out a lot
of times that's the only symptom you're
going to have with a heart problem if
any let's now talk about some common
remedies that you want to add to these
problems let's first talk about
autoimmune diseases you need to add
vitamin D3 anytime you take vitamin D3
always take magnesium zinc and K2 that
way you'll have less side effects and
things work a lot better if you have
autoimmune disease you want to do this
Dairy probiotic using Al rudari it's a
dynamite remedy for many things I will
put that link down below if you have
autoimmune of your gut highly recommend
you do the carnivore diet for a few
months and then maybe slowly reintroduce
something like sauerkraut go on a low
carb diet cut down your sugars starches
and Seed oils what's really important is
intermittent fasting I would do two
meals a day if you can go to one meal a
day that's even better that's
automatically going to reduce your fat
on your liver your visceral fat there
goes inflammation I do want to mention
omega-3 fatty acids cod liver oil is the
best and of course with any inflammation
at all you always want to take vitamin D
I personally have been taking 40 maybe
50,000 I use of vitamin D every day and
don't forget about the sun the sun will
give you vitamin D for free last thing I
want to mention and this is fascinating
I develop a technique I call it the
opposite technique anywhere you hurt on
the body you can press on the opposite
side and get rid of the pain it's pretty
wild this is something they don't teach
you in school I will put a couple links
down below so you could kind of see if
you have any pain or inflammation
anywhere in the body you might want to
try that technique as well and and
you'll be very impressed thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
video
