hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about Omega 6 fatty acids and
inflammation now as you may not know or
you may know Omega 6 basically will
increase your inflammation omega-3 fatty
acids decrease inflammation they're
anti-inflammatory okay now in America
the
ratio is 1 to 20 Omega 6 in other words
people consume way way more Omega 6 than
omega-3 okay ideally it needs to be one
to one and what does that mean it mean
it tells us what we need to be eating uh
because look at these are the Omega six
fatty acid foods poultry nuts vegetable
oils like corn oil grains flax oil
pumpkin seed oil canola soybean cotton
seed sunflower but you know some of
these here uh do have omega3 but they're
heavier on the omega-6 fatty acid so
these will tend to create more
inflammation if you don't have these
right here fish oils Civ oil sardines
fish
anchovies uh grass-fed uh eggs uh
grass-fed beef beef things like that or
even some Dairy so basically we want to
balance these out now the problem is
like flax oil for example can convert to
omega 3 DHA which is a a certain type of
essential fatty acid but it only
converts in smaller amounts so what I'm
saying is animal food or fish has a lot
more
bioavailable um omega-3 DHA and EPA
those are very specific types of fats
than these other ones because the other
ones have to convert so it's harder for
your body to convert uh like grains or
even uh flax oil or sunflower to the
thing that you really need so again
here's just like something that you want
to if you want to know what would be the
ideal um food that we need you know just
look at what's out there and what's
absorbed and apparently our diets our
bodies were designed to consume some of
these Foods right here now the problem
with fish oils especially if you buy it
at probably these the you know at the
local grocery store you're going to get
in bulk you're going to get a lowquality
fish oil it's probably going to be
rancid it's probably worse than not have
anything at all so I would not recommend
consuming
inexpensive fish oil what I do recommend
is going out investing more in something
like virgin cod liver oil something very
raw and fresh it is more expensive but
it really works now sardines are really
good you can even get the benefits from
the can but see the larger fish like
shark or swordfish are higher in Mercury
but it just so happens that a lot of
these fish and even the cive oil are
very very high in a trace mineral called
selenium and the relationship between
selenium and Mercury is interesting
Mercury tends to inactivate the enzymes
that have selenium that make them up so
that's why you want to consume some of
these high quality um fish oils
especially the cive oil to get more
selenium to be able to De dismantle any
Mercury that's in there so basically
more selenium the less Mercury effect
that you'll have on the body and it just
so happens the other thing that has a
lot of selenium is weak grass juice
especially um the Kut I added in the
recent one I added a little Kut in there
which is 25% Kut which is the type of
weak grass which is low to with selenium
which is a really good mineral to uh
support the enzymes that have
detoxifying powers on the liver if you
have inflammation in your body you just
need to start increasing the omega-3
fatty acids go with quality I suggest
you get the cive oil get the uh wild
caught cive oil that would probably be
the best but you can also do some of
these other things too and make sure
that we balance these two right here all
right thanks for watching hey guys thank
you so much for watching please click
the Subscribe button and I will see you
in the next video
