hi guys Dr Berg here listen I wanted to
answer a question will fasting slow your
metabolism okay I'm not talking about in
minute fasting talking about actual
fasting during a period of time now some
people fast for religious reasons some
people fast for weight loss some people
fast for health benefits so regardless
of your reason we just want to look at
two main variables one is what has been
your history your past history of your
diet do you have a strong Nutri ntional
Reserve have you been eating good over
the years or not do you have insulin
resistance all these factors are going
to set you up to have easy nutritional
deficiencies as soon as you start this
fast but if you've been consuming Good
Foods over a period of time you have
enough stored fat cable vitamins let's
say in your liver like vitamin A and
vitamin d and vitamin E and vitamin K2
and other vitamins like B12 to be able
to to use when needed over a period of
time when you're not eating but if you
have a deficiency in those already going
like a subclinical deficiency and then
you go in a fast it's all going to be
magnified the first uh system in your
body to be affected uh when you do
fasting would be the endocrine system so
you're going to uh if you start seeing
signs of hair loss um problems with
vision uh blood sugars and general
overall weakness then we know the
endocrin system uh needs some support
support there uh and then also the
thyroid a lot of people that go on fast
over a long period of time and they're
doing it too frequently they end up
really slowing their metabolism down so
we just want to look at what has you
been your past history do you have
enough Reserve left to be able to do
this and number two are you when you're
eating are you consuming enough
nutrient-dense Foods when you're
actually eating okay um you have the fat
salable vitamins water salable vitamins
all the B vitamins vitamin C those are
um those are needed uh like almost every
day so you have to have somewhat of a
reserve now then you have trace minerals
are you consuming any type of sea
vegetables or uh Seafood uh seaweed
things like that because that would give
you your iodine your selenium your
manganese all those little minerals
needed in smaller amounts and then you
have essential fatty acids um if you're
on a lowfat diet that could create a
problem if you're fasting because all
these essential fats are needed for
cellular membranes for the nervous
system for the brain for the heart so
you need these healthy fats and then you
have amino acids that's all your
proteins okay so uh if you're a diabetic
or you're a pre-diabetic and you go in a
long-term fast you may end up with a lot
of U problems with your muscles
atrophying loss of muscle hair loss skin
issues that type of thing so you just
want to make sure um and I'm talking
about like a fast that goes longer than
four or 5 days so if you're doing
anything shorter than that it should be
okay but longer faster not good that
that's why I recommend intermittent
fasting for 99% of the population
Because unless you know your body's
really healthy uh adding fasting could
create some issues so you have to be
pretty healthy too fast but then fasting
does get you healthy too so start out on
a gradual intake start out with
intermittent fasting you three Mees
without snacks and then two meals
without snacks and then maybe even one
meal without snacks and then graduate to
more fasting if you really want to do
that all right so thanks for watching
and give me your comments
below hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you report
