foods that put you at risk if you're
over 50 years old i also want to extend
this to things that you could be
drinking as we age our bodies become
more vulnerable to certain things the
older you get the healthier you should
eat let's start with number one water i
want to show you something i just tested
my water i want to show you what I found
there is one chemical called
perloroctinoic acid that's a forever
chemical widely used to make products
more resistant to water and grease this
chemical has been used in non-stick
cookware cosmetics and cleaning products
the level of this chemical in my water
supply exceeds the acceptable level by
98,650% literally I'm poisoning myself
by drinking the water what is my concern
about that chemical cancer liver
problems kidney problems when my
grandkids come to the house you know
exposing them to this water in the water
system you have forever chemicals that
just don't break down for a thousand
years you have plastics most of the
plastic in your body is accumulated in
your brain which can affect your
cognitive function and keep your brain
inflamed the solution to that is to find
a good filter you want to get a filter
that filters out forever chemicals as
you age your liver has less ability to
detoxify things your kidneys can't get
rid of things like you used to when
you're 18 years old the next thing I
want to talk about is anything that you
eat that depletes you of zinc zinc is
really important to have enough of when
you get older zinc supports testosterone
which tanks as you get older in men and
women testosterone is not just about
libido it's about your muscle mass your
thymus which is above the heart that
controls your immune system zinc is
involved in making hydrochloric acid and
when we get older our hydrochloric acid
decreases so we can't kill off microbes
we can't digest protein and we can't
absorb nutrients the question is what
foods are depleting zinc any of the
refined carbohydrates starches
malttodextrone modified food starch even
wheat flour all of that depletes you of
zinc of course refined carbohydrates
also deplete you of vitamin B1 which
will create a whole set of other
problems especially related to a blood
sugar issue if your blood sugars stay
high as in diabetes or you're
pre-diabetic or you just eat a lot of
carbs there are four different tissues
that are going to age a lot faster than
they should that's because of a
deficiency of B1 but it's also because
of something else when sugar gets stuck
to protein in your body and makes sticky
protein and then it builds up in the
body and it creates all sorts of
problems especially to the lens of the
eye as cataracts it really ages your
skin so you get wrinkles and then you
lose the elasticity this is why as
people get older they can't sprint like
they used to they don't have that bounce
in their step some other foods that you
want to avoid barbecued anything where
they're adding this sugar sauce to meat
and then they cook it deadly think about
how many restaurants add sugar to meat
or even sugar to fat deep fried donut or
a deep fried French fry this is going to
really aid you it also affects the
cognitive function as well as the mood
and then the last one is the heart and
also affects the elasticity so the
arteries get hardened i just want to
mention one additional mineral silica if
you want strong bones strong hair uh
really strong elastic skin silica is
something you don't want to become
deficient in so what foods are high in
silica bamboo shoots are really high
horset tail spring water or just a
silica supplement another food if you
want to call it that that ages you is
seed oils seed oils tend to get stored
in your membranes in all the cells they
start to replace your membranes in your
brain in your nervous system and it
takes like a year and a half to get it
out once you stop eating these seed oils
but you don't want these industrial
refined rancid fats being stored in your
membranes they create inflammation of
your brain it's in all the deep fried
foods it's in a lot of the junk foods
but do not cook with it use butter
tallow lard or olive oil and consume a
lot of fish oil to replace that lower
quality fat in your brain and your
nervous system the next food I'm going
to tell you to avoid is the refined soy
products especially the soy protein
isolates it's in a lot of protein bars
it's very refined but it's not that
clean because we don't know this for
sure but there's uh reports that there's
residue of hexane because in order to
make that you have to use a solvent and
you don't want to be consuming such a
refined unnatural protein when I was in
practice a lot of people were doing
ideal protein i noticed when they lost
weight they also looked really old and
unhealthy and dried out their hair was
bad and brittle and breaking their skin
looked older they had a lot of
gallbladder liver problems i really
think it was that soy protein isolate so
you want to avoid that one day I was at
Whole Foods and uh I was looking in
their deli part and it looked like they
had some chicken wings so I ordered some
and I'm like "Wow these are really good
but they're all the same shape." And
then I'm like "Wait a second these
aren't chicken wings." So I called the
store and I would been eating soy wings
i took a nap probably for 3 hours i woke
up my eyes were bloodshot like I felt
sick i don't recommend consuming refined
soy another thing that you want to avoid
is anything low fat because one really
important nutrient especially as we age
is vitamin K2 and that's in the fatty
cheese it's in goose liver and when you
go low fat you're depriving yourself of
this really key nutrient that can make
your bones really solid by taking the
calcium out of the arteries and keeping
your joints free of calcium so you don't
have arthritis if you have those
problems with calcium in the artery and
you also have calcium in the joints and
you have a lot of stiffness you maybe
want to take a vitamin K2 supplement and
I would find a company that sells it in
higher amounts another really important
nutrient that you want to make sure you
get enough of when you get older is
something to really support the deep
sleep because as we age we lose the
sleep the absolute best nutrient for
that is magnesium yes you can get true
magnesium from salad and things like
that but that might not be enough you
might need to take a supplement i
recommend magnesium glycinate you want
to try to get it in a powder because
it's easier to to consume especially
like an hour before bed but if you took
a scoop of that before bed boy you sleep
through the whole night it relaxes you
and of course the things that block
magnesium are all the refined foods the
junk foods also it's very important not
to necessarily just focus on restricting
your salt as you age but instead having
more quality salt like Himalayan sea
salt and then increase your potassium
because you need salt and sodium as you
age to build your hydrochloric acid it's
much better to increase potassium so you
can handle that little bit of salt and
you'll feel much much better because the
RDAs for potassium are 4700 milligrams
and most people don't even get close to
that i wanted to give you a list of
things to focus on to put your attention
on as you age so you can extend your age
thanks for watching and I will see you
in the next
