hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about subclinical vitamin b1 deficiency
now subclinical means that it's not
necessarily showing up on a blood test
it might be deficient but not enough to
show up clinically okay I mean you don't
end up with a major b1 deficiency
overnight it's a gradual thing which
becomes worse and worse over time so I
wanted to show you some of the symptoms
some being subclinical some being more
advanced okay so nervousness like a lot
of nervous tension that's a b1
deficiency forgetting too often that's a
b1 deficiency you can't concentrate b1
deficiency feeling cold b1 deficiency
unsteady gait missed Ignis which is
basically more advanced where your eyes
are kind of dancing back and forth also
if this becomes really bad the muscles
on the outside of the eye become
atrophied to the point where you lose
your control of looking to the left or
to the right okay you can't look this
way anymore that's a major b1 deficiency
higher pulse rate cataracts which is a
major b1 deficiency edema that's
swelling in the ankles it's like a baker
cysts would be a b1 deficiency and
normally when you see b1 deficiency is
you also see the person either having
insulin resistance or a diabetic because
too much refined sugar or refined flour
or refined grains like in breads and
pasta and cereal deplete b1 well so
let's talk about some of the other
things that can create a b1 deficiency
alcohol will do it being an alcoholic
will do it in a major way
taking dextrose which is in a lot of
products chemotherapy HIV kidney disease
like I said refined carbohydrates and
fructose as in high fructose corn syrup
so I really believe a lot of people have
a b1 deficiency without really knowing
it because it's subclinical it's not
showing up on a test so way to correct
this is to of course avoid what's
depleting it and also add in there B
vitamins so the challenge you gonna run
into is a lot of the B vitamins out
there are made synthetically and I don't
recommend that I only recommend it if
you're doing a detox temporarily but not
as an
maintenance or a way to correct your b1
deficiency nutritional yeast is
hands-down one of the best sources of B
vitamins especially b1 and it's natural
unfortunately a lot of times they enrich
it with synthetics so you want an
unfortunately yeast and also you can get
it in a pill form but make sure you get
the one that's non fortified thanks for
watching hey tell me what you think
about this video go ahead and comment
below and give me your feedback
