so I was at the summit this last weekend
we had a great time and some lady came
up to me and one of her friends told her
it was kind of discouraging her and was
telling her listen you gotta forget that
Kido thing and nutrition you got a guy
of something might as well enjoy
yourself so I want to talk about that
for a second because that really doesn't
make a lot of sense this assumes that
eating healthy is not enjoyable talk to
any person on keto they are very
satisfying eating wonderful foods
they're just not doing the refined
carbohydrates anymore but they're doing
eggs and fish and and they can do bacon
they do meats they do vegetables they
can do a lot of different foods and they
can also do keto friendly desserts so
they're not deprived plus they're not
craving and they're not hungry between
the meals so what this person is missing
is actually trying it to see for
themselves that they would enjoy it if
they tried it alright next one
pleasure foods when you start eating the
pleasure foods I remember in college
eating a lot of pleasure foods it was
great
I did get pleasure from them for a while
and then they started turning into
painful foods okay
started getting ulcers and heartburn and
bloating in gas and constipation all
sorts of gallbladder issues so pleasure
foods actually end up being very very
painful if you keep doing them next
point is pleasure foods increase
dopamine dopamine is a neurotransmitter
and it's kind of a trap because dopamine
gives you the sensation of wellness
stress reduction pleasure when in fact
it's kind of an artificial sensation
sugar will do that so when you're doing
these refined carbohydrates and sugars
you're kind of faking your body out and
then every time that you do it you need
more and more of this to create the same
dopamine to the point where now you're
addicted to them they need quite a bit
of it until eventually the pleasure
foods no longer give them any pleasure
because it's no longer triggering
dopamine and the last point I want to
mention is the way people die nowadays
is actually very slow okay we've got
really good at keeping people alive you
end up in a nursing home but it's
actually
because you have the view of the pond
out there you have an all-you-can-eat
buffet
someone changes your diapers each day
you get to be washed by someone you
don't even have to get up and use the
bathroom you have bedpans there's
shuffleboard in the weekend you actually
have sing-alongs it's a great time and
of course I'm just being very sarcastic
because the way it really goes is the
person starts getting dementia
Alzheimer's and they're trapped in a
body and they don't die quick they're
kept alive for years okay so in summary
your longevity has everything to do with
what you eat and healthy eating is
enjoyable if you know how to do it right
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
