hi guys in this video we want to talk
about synthetic vitamins uh 95% or
probably 98% of all vitamins sold are
synthetic okay some people say there's
no difference between synthetic and
natural um but there is a big difference
okay so in nature vitamins always come
in a complex of co-actors co-enzymes
like helper vitamins helper minerals
trace minerals um enzymes things like
that they never come as one individual
fractionated part of a vitamin they
don't work like that uh also the
synthetic versions are the DL forms
they're just a different rotation uh and
then the natural ones are D form but I
don't even recommend getting natural
vitamins I recommend getting food based
vitamins okay coming from some
food-based versus some individual
fractionated natural vitamin itself I
mean that's better but the food based
ones are much better the the reason why
people don't buy them is that they're
usually lower dosages but they're
actually more potent because they're
more
functional I mean if you ever take
vitamin B a synthetic vitamin B complex
you're going to be peeing a lot of it
out because the body is rejecting it and
that's what it is excreting it if you
get natural B vitamins or in the complex
in nature like nutritional yeast you'll
never have that because the body will uh
use it all so it's more efficient it's
more functional it's more effective now
when you take nutritional yeast that's
enriched with synthetic vitamins you
will see some yellow in your urine
because of the synthetic and a lot of
these Foods especially grains are
enriched with synthetic vitamins you
don't want that and why do they enrich
it because the refined grains are
depleted of vitamins so they have to put
it back but they give you the wrong
version let's just take Vitamin C
complex vitamin C in nature comes with
different parts it has the ascorbic acid
protective shell small amount and by the
way most people when they get scorc acid
they they think they're getting vitamin
C that's only the antioxidant protective
piece of it it's not the complete
complex in nature you have the P factors
that's the bof flavonoids the Rootin uh
that helps all the capillaries you have
the J factor which is vitamin J which
which you probably haven't heard of but
that's the anti- pneumonia vitamin then
increases oxygen carrying capacity let's
say for example you're deficient in
vitamin C and you go upstairs and you
get out of breath easily it's because
you need this and vitamin C is stored in
the adrenals so there's a connection
between vitamin C and the adrenal health
and then we have Vitamin K Vitamin K is
really important in clotting so what do
people get when they have vitamin C
deficiencies they get uh bruising they
get bleeding on the teeth spongy gums
scurvy pink toothbrush syndrome all that
and then we have copper but copper is
not just in the elemental form it's in
an enzyme for form called tyrosinase and
basically what that means is that this
Trace mineral is needed in the vitamin C
complex and this actually helps build
collagen and um connect a tissue so you
can see vitamin C is a lot more than
just ascorbic acid the only time I would
recommend taking synthetic vitamins is
when you're doing a cleanse let's say a
detox a SAA treatment because that way
you can use the vitamins to help
facilitate the depletion of chemicals
but not long-term maintenance um because
if even if you look at some of the
studies with synthetic vitamins you'll
see um a lot of body problems they
actually worsen the situation especially
fat cable synthetic vitamins like
vitamin A d e and K okay those can be
mixed synthetically because those
vitamins can get stored in the fat cell
they can inate the cell wall because the
cell wall is fat go into the DNA and
infect your genes I mean there's even
studies that show that synthetic
vitamins create cancer so anyway um
that's another point you need to
realize um col uh B vitamins are made
from colar colar that's like that's
petroleum they can actually make B
vitamins from petroleum do you want your
vitamins made from petroleum yeah see
some people say oh a molecule is a
molecule it's the same thing it's kind
of like saying artificial sweeteners or
artificial flavorings are the same as
natural flavorings no they're not
vitamin C synthetically is made from
corn which is GMO and sulfuric acid I
mean corn has very little vitamin C if
any but they can make it synthetically
vitamin K2 has a synthetic version
called
MK4 uh in my product I use mk7 which is
natural I don't use this
synthetic the vitamin waters that people
buy it's all synthetic they think
they're getting something really great
um why do people sell synthetics well
it's really really really cheap uh and I
priced it uh even like Biotin for
example if you buy synthetic biotin uh
you can get it for pennies if you buy
natural biotin it's like $800 per
kilogram it's incredibly expensive so of
course there's a lot of profit in
synthetic vitamins especially the the
big name brand vitamins you'd get at the
drugstore the GNC or and some of the GNC
not all of them and then also the CVS or
the Walgreens most of those are just
purely synthetic and they can sell them
so cheaply okay so read the label make
sure that the uh dosages the milligram
doses dosages are not all the same like
100 100 100 100 or 50 5050 because in
nature uh the milligrams would be varied
and also look at the actual ingredients
where it says that it it'll say um you
know from wheat grass from cruciferous
vegetables from certain uh like
nutritional yeast versus vitamin A blah
blah blah or certain minerals or calcium
carbonate you don't want to put that in
your body okay so I just wanted to bring
this up because uh I have other videos
about this but sometimes it's hard to
find them so I wanted to create one in a
new unit time um go go from actually get
your vitamins from food and concent ated
food in food based vitamin complexes all
right thanks for
watching hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
