hey guys this will be a really quick
video but I want to answer the question
how do you handle that jittery feeling
from drinking too much coffee or
caffeine well first of all maybe you're
drinking too much coffee and caffeine
you need to cut down I would recommend
one small cup per day simply because all
that caffeine can throw off all sorts of
things in your body but it also will
increase adrenaline to a certain degree
so too much caffeine or too much soda
whatever which you shouldn't be drinking
gives you that jittery feeling now how
do you get rid of it it's very very
simple okay it's vitamin b1 take some b1
I recommend nutritional yeast as the
best source make sure it's unfortified
you can get it in tablets I'll put a
link down below for more information but
but don't be one we'll take that jittery
feeling out of your body within about 3
to 4 minutes it's so simple if you look
online on this topic you'll see all
these articles like the 8 ways to get
rid of jittery from caffeine etc no you
just need one thing and it's vitamin b1
any type of nervous tension build up in
your body even anxiety and stress
you take be one from nutritional yeast
within 3 to 4 maybe 5 minutes you just
feel calm and relaxed go ahead and try
it and you'll see so if you're enjoying
this content go ahead and share it with
someone that could really benefit from
it
