had another interesting question that I
want to talk about what's more important
testing your ketones or glucose very
good question so let's first take a look
at glucose when you test your glucose
realize this the lower the blood glucose
the higher amount of ketones that your
body is going to run on okay the higher
the glucose the lower amount of ketones
that your body can produce so really
what controls ketones in the amount of
ketones is this glucose level so if you
just had glucose as one way to monitor
this and everything was low then you're
pretty much going to be in ketosis okay
now when you start out you might have a
blood sugar of 80 okay
some people have higher some people have
lower but as you do ketosis you're gonna
find that it goes lower and lower okay
so you might think that oh my gosh am i
developing hypoglycemia no especially if
you're feeling great now if you have low
blood sugars and you feel kind of funky
and your blood sugars are low then
probably you have that condition but
there's a really good video that I put a
link down below on that topic just if
you have a question because I think
that's a real important one but yeah you
can have normal blood Sugar's at 60 and
feel great because you're doing keto and
your body is running in ketones not
glucose anymore so there's not that huge
need to run on glucose but here's the
problem
there's something called a dawn
phenomena and that happens for a couple
reasons
usually it's because you're a
pre-diabetic or you have insulin
resistance which is very common and as
you go on keto and you lower the carb
and you do intimate fasting you're
lowering your carbohydrates you're
lowering your glucose you are actually
going to decrease your insulin levels
right well because you have insulin
resistance your insulin is already
dysfunctional okay and it takes a bit of
time to correct this so if you lower
your insulin and you already have
insulin dysfunction which means it's
just not it's not working anymore it's
not pushing the blood sugars down guess
what the sugar might
come up for that reason alone and this
is why over time this gets healed okay
so that's one reason the next reason is
cortisol that's a hormone by the adrenal
and it grunts in a wave and the highest
spike of that is at eight o'clock in the
morning so right around a it could be
like seven it could be nine in the
morning you might have a spike in
cortisol and cortisol has the tendency
to release glucose which then can spike
spike the glucose which then will come
down but if you have high levels of
cortisol from stress that could be why
now there's a thing called gluco neo
that means new Genesis so it's the
body's ability to make new glucose your
body even if you don't eat any carbs can
easily make glucose out of ketones out
of fat and out of protein so that's
really what happens when you have this
higher blood sugar in the morning if you
have it it's like it wasn't something
that you ate yesterday necessarily it
may have been but if he had no carbs
it's because your body's making it out
of other things it's not a problem it
will go away over time but these are the
explanations of it so let me just ship
two ketones so when you actually check
your ketones you can check them in the
blood through your breath to the urine I
always recommend starting out checking
your urine ketones simply because it's
less expensive and it's a good thing to
start out with but as you start doing
ketosis and your body's more efficient
and it's using up the ketones you're not
wasting them in the urine or the breath
anymore
then it won't show up anymore in the
urine or the breath it will show up in
the blood though so these are good in
the beginning but blood is the best one
long-term so realize that ketones
provide like 30 to 38 percent of the
fuel in the body 50 to 60 percent of the
fuel is going to be from fatty acids
that you're not going to test through
your testing methods through here so
even though sometimes your ketones are
low it doesn't mean you're not burning
that okay it's just you're not able to
test it and if your body needs glucose
which it does need a small amount for
different parts of the brain the eye and
the blood and the red blood cell it can
very easily make what it needs and the
reason I'm bringing it up is that if you
have the dawn phenomena and this sugar
is a little higher that could actually
lower the ketones but it's not from
carbs that you're eating it's it's
actually called endogenous your body's
making them from other things so I
wouldn't necessarily worry if you're
doing keto and then fasting and your
ketones show low it's because of this
reason right here and you have instant
resistance so my long-winded answer is
that I think if we compare these glucose
is a little more important to test than
ketones but I'd like to recommend
testing them both just to kind of
understand what's happening and the
significance of each one but this will
give you a good picture but if it goes
high and you're not eating carbohydrates
realize you're getting this stuff right
here one last point let's say for
example you're trying to do I don't know
ketosis in a minute fasting because you
have Alzheimer's or Parkinson's or some
problem with the brain or your heart
okay it's important to know how high
these ketones are going and you might
want to take ketones in which case like
like MCT oil your ketones are going to
be very very high so by taking more
ketones obviously when you test it it's
gonna be off off the charts it's gonna
be a lot so you're not going to be able
to evaluate if your body's making those
ketones or it's coming from MCT oil the
only point I'm making with that is you
want to differentiate the two and if you
have a brain problem or a heart problem
diet wise you want to get your carbs as
low as possible maybe even close to zero
and also do fasting as long as you can
to really max out the benefits of
ketones alright thanks for watching so
if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
