I'm gonna talk about what to do if you
get sick when you exercise now some
people they get sick if they over train
or if they're doing some type of an
endurance type exercise like a triathlon
they actually get the flu or they get a
cold now there's quite a bit of research
on this I put some links below but it
has to do with the deficiency of
l-glutamine it's the most abundant free
amino acid and it's needed by the white
blood cell the leukocytes at very high
levels it's also needed to support the
gut immune mucosal layer which is
basically the barrier to your immune
system so if you don't have enough
l-glutamine and you're overtraining or
you're exercising too much your immune
system will be suppressed and you'll
have less ability to fight infections
and this can also occur if you're very
very deficient and you just do a little
mild exercise I've seen that happen to
where as soon as you start working out
you start getting like the flu symptoms
you just need to take some l-glutamine
and I would recommend take between five
to ten grams per day and it's not just
the exercise that can exaggerate the
need for glutamine it could also be a
systemic inflammatory condition or a
chronic infection which a lot of people
have this and they don't know even have
this or a post surgery or some type of
trauma from a burn or an accident so
just realize that there's a connection
between your stress and immune system
and this is the food that feeds the
immune system to keep up with this
increase demand on your body so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
