today I'd like to discuss the myth
around metabolic syndrome they call it
Syndrome X and that's a combination of
several conditions
central abdominal fat blood pressure
glucose levels are starting to go up we
have high triglycerides with insulin
resistance for sure and also we have a
higher levels of insulin in the blood
it's called hyper insulinemia an
association with an increased amount of
uric acid we automatically associate
metabolic syndrome with something really
really bad it's a disease that you get
and doctors are going to put you a lot
of medications there's going to be a lot
of testing and it's very complex and no
one really knows what causes it but
today I'm going to give you a completely
new viewpoint on metabolic syndrome
as it relates to a type of sugar called
fructose now what I believe metabolic
syndrome really is it's a protective
mechanism now if we look at our history
as a hunter-gatherer Down The
evolutionary Trail humans did eat fruit
and they did eat honey not very often
which has a really good amount of
fructose okay so I want to just talk
about fructose for a second it's a
unique type of sugar and when you
consume glucose there's receptors all
over your body that can metabolize
glucose but fructose is different the
liver is really the only place where
your body can metabolize fructose and
there's some very unique things about
fructose that relate to this topic that
I'm going to talk about number one it's
a lot more lipogenic which means that it
produces more fat than other types of
sugar also fructose enhances the fat
genes much more than glucose and other
sugars if you just think about fructose
for a minute and what would be this
survival benefit of consuming some
fructose you know infrequently in the
past as we're trying to survive in our
environment
food did not come very easily and
anytime that you had some fruit or honey
it was a survival thing and so this
really aligns with what fructose does in
the body number one it retains sodium
now what would be the survival mechanism
for that well way back in time we did
not have a lot of salt available in our
diets we had animal meat there were some
plants we pretty much ate anything we
could and apparently if we look at some
interesting differences between way back
then and now
we ate a lot less salt back then or
sodium because it just wasn't available
and so sodium does help retain fluid and
water and prevents dehydration and so
one thing that fructose does is it helps
you retain sodium and sodium chloride
salt which connects to sodium so way
back then when we had fruit and honey we
could retain more fluid and prevent
dehydration in fact fructose stimulates
this hormone called vasopressin which is
called the antidiuretic hormone so it
prevents the loss of fluid from the body
it helps you retain fluid so this is a
survival mechanism now if we take a look
at what else we did way back then
compared to now we consumed a lot more
potassium from just vegetation plants
things like that compared to now the
average person consumes about one and a
half cups of vegetables so that doesn't
give us much potassium so nowadays we
have a lot of sodium and very low
amounts of potassium very different from
in the past another interesting thing
about fructose is it causes sodium
sensitivity what's the advantage of that
survival wise well if you can make
sodium more sensitive you can absorb it
more it goes in your body it can be
retained more and another benefit of
holding this sodium is to help you
increase blood pressure because one of
the really important things in the past
was you don't want to end up with low
blood pressure because you don't have
enough sodium because we need to
maintain the same amount of pressure to
push the nutrients and the oxygen
throughout our body including our brain
next thing is abdominal obesity what
would be the survival mechanism of that
well we're storing fuel for another day
that's what fat is it's a survival
mechanism and we have a lot of extra
space in our bellies right it's almost
an unlimited amount of space well it's
not completely unlimited but you can
store a tremendous amount of stored
energy in your midsection so that would
be a survival mechanism during lean
times now of course nowadays we consume
a bit more fructose than we did in the
past right I mean fruits are available
24 7 every day of the Year honey is also
available and also other types of
fructose in the form of high fructose
corn syrup we're actually drinking our
fructose now well I mean even table
sugar is like 50 fructose so fructose is
pretty much everywhere now what about
this other thing with insulin resistance
is there any survival mechanism with
that
there sure is number one insulin
resistance helps protect against the
toxicity of glucose because it makes
receptors for insulin very resistant so
you can't absorb as much glucose into
the cell because if there's too much
glucose that's going to be toxic and
it's a way to protect you against both
glucose and insulin and along with
insulin resistance
there's another thing that happens that
helps you survive and that's called
gluconeogenesis that's production of new
sugar that doesn't involve a
carbohydrate so when people are a
pre-diabetic and they have insulin
resistance they actually make more
glucose okay but it's not coming from
the diet it just their liver is just
making more glucose from other sources
and this is behind the dawn phenomena
this is where you wake up in the morning
and all of a sudden you have high blood
glucose but maybe you didn't have any
glucose tonight before it just means
that you have insulin resistance and the
liver makes more glucose because of it
and this is what you see in diabetes as
well you have a diabetic with high blood
glucose a certain portion of that is not
coming from the sugar they're eating
it's coming from the liver producing a
lot of sugar what is the survival
mechanism of gluconeogenesis well number
one it helps you protect against
hypoglycemia because your brain depends
partially on glucose which can be made
by your body and in times when there's
not a lot of glucose available this
extra added gluconeogenesis can help the
brain during survival modes but of
course nowadays it's gotten out of
control right because we're having way
too much sugar and we have way too much
gluconeogenesis now the next point I
want to bring up is uric acid you
probably already know that when you
consume fructose you spike your uric
acid now what is a connection survival
wise with uric acid well number one it's
a potent antioxidant okay so from that
Viewpoint it protects you against
oxidation oxidation of what well
fructose which is a type of sugar that
kind of oxidizes the inside of the
arteries and it creates a lot of damage
unless there's some protective factors
that are connected to it one being uric
acid but uric acid is a good predictor
of high blood pressure and heart disease
so uric acid tends to increase blood
pressure what's the survival mechanism
of that well like I said before when you
don't have enough sodium okay we're
going to end up with low blood pressure
and that is not a good survival mix
so the uric acid comes in there
to help increase the blood pressure
under conditions of low sodium
okay so in the past uric acid was one
way to raise the blood pressure of
course nowadays when you have a lot of
fructose and a lot of salt
that creates a huge problem with uric
acid very pathogenic uric acid also
directly makes salt more sensitive
nowadays when someone's salt sensitive
we tell people to restrict their salt
but what they really should do is
restrict their fructose and increase
that other mineral that I mentioned
called potassium potassium is something
that our body has evolved with way back
in the past we used to eat a lot more of
it than we do now and so as long as you
have higher amounts of potassium
you can handle
a lot more sodium and it just happens
that more potassium lowers blood
pressure very very nicely so when we
talk about blood pressure you know we're
not necessarily avoiding fructose what
do we do we avoid salt diets right so
very simply just understanding these
mechanisms
you can very easily control your blood
pressure by increasing potassium
getting rid of the sugars especially
fructose
and as far as sodium goes as long as you
have enough potassium you have like a
two to one ratio twice as much potassium
as sodium you're going to be totally
fine another thing about uric acid it's
involved with the immune inflammation
reaction as it can help fight off
infections things like that in the past
we use that as a survival mechanism
nowadays if we have too much uric acid
we get inflammation throughout our
bodies especially in the big toe and
that's called gout now another really
interesting survival thing is just the
storage of fat and the storage of
glucose as glycogen right glycogen is is
stored glucose what's interesting about
this as it relates to water
in times of survival when we didn't have
enough water believe it or not as we
burned our fat glycogen can make water
in fact just a little over one gram like
1.1 gram of fat when it's burned
produces one gram of water which is
interesting so that's going to be a
survival mechanism to help against
dehydration but also glycogen so if you
envision these string of glucose
molecules connected together they're
connected together with a lot of water
so for every one gram of glucose that
you burn you release a 3.5 grams of
water so you're releasing a lot of
available water when you burn up this
glucose as glycogen now in the past when
we consumed fructose
um it always came with a bunch of
antioxidants because we ate fruit
and of course the fruit wasn't as sweet
as it is now but fruit generally has
antioxidants and antioxidants protect
against the oxidative damage of the
fructose it gets rid of the
complications of just high sugar and
this is why a diabetic will have much
less problems if they actually also have
the antioxidants connected with that
sugar versus the refined sugars where
you're just doing high fructose corn
syrup and you're drinking it related to
antioxidants
I'm going to just touch on vitamin C
which is interesting vitamin C has a
very similar chemistry
to both glucose and fructose and so the
more glucose and fructose you consume
the more vitamin C is required one is it
helps protect the immune system another
is it helps to get rid of oxidative
damage from the high glucose vitamin C
can even inhibit the burning of fat as
well so it can actually
help you survive because it slows down
to a certain degree fat oxidation or fat
burning now what I'm not saying is
avoiding vitamin C because it's going to
help you lose weight that's not how it
works the point I'm making is the
vitamin C in the fruit is protective
against that fructose so when you study
metabolic syndrome and you look at
what they say is a cause they said
overeating it could be obesity stress a
lack of exercise age and when you really
understand this you're going to be less
susceptible to just going oh let's just
treat each part of this with a different
drug which makes no sense whatsoever so
if you have problems with sodium if you
have problems with your midsection if
you have problems with high blood
pressure if you have problems with uric
acid
fructose is what you need to avoid and
in all forms as well now if you want a
complete diet to know exactly what to
eat to reverse a lot of the problems
that you might have I put that video up
right here check it out
