hi guys I wanted to create a video to
ask you a question when do you actually
stop eating on the scale of being full
okay so I did a little scale here to
kind of show you typically what happens
you stood up let's say you're doing
intermittent fasting and you're
literally starving you're so hungry or
you're just hungry and then now you're
gonna eat okay so at this point most
people will feel somewhat full in their
digestive system but they might not feel
satisfied like they need to keep eating
it's like they're filled up but they
don't have a sense that they're fully
satisfied okay and that usually happens
because they have insulin resistance
definitely at first okay when you start
this out because insulin is the key it
opens the door and here you're eating to
try to stimulate insulin but you have
instant resistance so the nutrients
don't really go into the cell like they
should in the right quantity so you're
gonna just feel like you know what I
need something else so you'll keep
beating okay till eventually you feel
satisfied but mentally sometimes with
people doing it a bit fasting which is a
process whereby you're restricting your
tons of eating so you're like oh my gosh
I'm not gonna eat for the next 16 hours
sometimes people go well I better really
stuff myself because I don't want to be
hungry like an 18 and 8 hours from now
whatever so they either stuff themselves
or they really stuff themselves so
they're painfully stuffed so the
problems of overeating is that you may
not even be hungry at the next meal okay
or you might feel nauseous or bloating
very uncomfortable that could affect
your sleep you can be tired after eating
and it's just just more stress on the
digestive system a couple things you can
do if you accidentally overeat is start
to do apple cider vinegar you can do it
in a powder or in a drink with a straw
I used to recommend to my clients take
the combination of betaine hydrochloride
and apple cider vinegar powder together
because taking that will greatly speed
up the ability to digest because your
acidify in the stomach you're really
more enzymes and you're also releasing
more bile from just the acid alone so
that can actually really help you
especially if you're sitting in a
Thanksgiving meal and you're just
picking out and if you consume some of
that product you can just keep eating
not that I would recommend that but it
definitely takes the pain away from
being stuff because it actually speeds
up the digestion so it's really a
balance of just having confidence to
know that you can fast for the next 16
to 18 hours and you're not going to be
starved okay because you've done this
over and over again so if possible you
want to go right here okay you want to
consume food until you're full and
you're satisfied and not to this point
right here to avoid the added stress so
go ahead and type down below at what
point do you usually stop eating is it
here here here or here
now I always love getting feedback from
you on these videos so comment below and
tell me what you think
