so today we're going to talk about the
quality of eggs sometimes when you break
this egg open you see this darker deep
rich orange color and sometimes it's a
pale yellow what's the difference well
generally speaking when you see the
darker orange it's usually from
pasture-raised
organic eggs and the factory farm eggs
are going to be yellow unless they add
something to change the color which
sometimes they do now the reason why the
egg yolk is a deeper orange is that
these chickens are pasture raised okay
not pasteurized pasture-raised they're
out in the pasture they're eating the
grass or eating the insects they do have
grains but if you're getting the organic
it's at least GMO free and the
combination of being outside getting the
Sun and what they eat change the
composition of the carotenoids
carotenoids are plant-based chemicals
they're pigments they're antioxidants
they're vital nutrients that have
additional health properties there's
about 1,000 100 different carotenoids
and they prevent the effects from
oxidation for example they can improve
macular degeneration
which is a problem in the eye so when
you see this deeper rich orange color
you're getting more antioxidants versus
the factory farm eggs which you you'll
see in the label it says vegetarian feed
well yeah they're actually using grains
soy corn it's gonna be GMO there's no
Sun so even if it says cage-free they
may be outside the cage but they're
still in the barn so they rarely get to
go outside so because of that you're
gonna see more of a pale yellow a
lighter yellow now realize that even
though it's pasture raised it may not
always be orange
it could be yellow but the color is a
deeper richer yellow it's not going to
be pale
alright thanks for watching if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
