this is going to blow you away to be
able to look inside your foods to
identify the source of most chronic
health problems so check this out let's
start with some granola bars do a little
scan WOW 28% sugar 15% seed oil and 41%
starch let's go with Cheetos do a little
scan boom oh look at that zero sugar but
35% seed oils and 52% starch let's see
what's in Coca-Cola the little scan it's
all sugar no surprises there and of
course high fructose corn syrup sugar
let's try some healthy cereal Lucky
Charms do a little scan on the barcode
and wow 40% sugar 40% starch and by the
way starch is hidden sugar let's look at
mayonnaise do a little scan yeah I'm not
surprised 82% seed oils let's check out
Nature's Own white bread do a little
scan 57% starch 4% seed oils and 6%
sugar the biggest realization I had in
this project was that the great majority
of all junk food this stuff right here
mostly is three simple ingredients sugar
right here okay sugar then we have the
starches right but not just any starch
highly industrial processed corn starch
and then my favorite is seed oils these
are the three ingredients and we're not
talking like really healthy seed oils
we're talking about seed oils that are
so rancid so oxidized they're going to
go into your cell membranes and create a
lot of inflammation and if you were to
eat this right now this disgusting
mixture you would probably vomit what
they had to do was they had to add
artificial flavors then they would have
to add Hollings to it and then they have
to put some chemicals to preserve it and
then more chemicals to make you keep
eating it called MSG and what's
interesting about this slop is there's
barely any protein and one reason they
don't put protein is that protein is
satisfying so without protein it's going
to make you want to keep eating it over
and over and over again to get you to
buy this we have to create incredible
packaging look at how amazing look at
the colors look at how beautiful that is
beautiful rainbow colors look at Little
Debbie right there wow that looks good I
used to live on these in order to be
food it has to be able to sustain life
the big problem with processed foods
Ultra processed foods junk Foods is that
they're just basically dead there's no
longer any phytonutrients or vitamins or
minerals they have to add some of those
in later and they're basically synthetic
they just put a couple more vitamins in
there because if they didn't you would
develop all sorts of diseases like a
vitamin B3 deficiency is called pgra
where your skin looks like leprosy jungk
food does not fit the definition of
actual food there's another thing that I
think a person needs to put on the radar
and that has to do with starches starch
is a chain of sugar molecules and when
you process it it heating it grinding it
putting chemicals in it that starch now
that it's become severely altered or
manipulated will act worse than sugar in
this app that you can download for free
you'll be able to quickly identify not
just the sugar but the hidden sugars and
just to point on this heart healthy seed
oils the problem with these oils is they
actually get lodged in your membranes in
the organs it's in your brain the
problem is is now it's going to take
about a year and a half to get that out
of the body if you to use this app to
identify these three things in your
pantry and your refrigerator and avoid
them your health benefits would be
amazing the average person consumes over
a 100 pounds of starch refined starches
in the form of modified food starch
maltodextrin modified corn starch they
feed this stuff to babies in infant
formula it's in your pet food it makes
up a huge percentage over 60% of your
teenagers calories and when we talk
about seed oils an average person
consumes 70 lbs of seed oils every
single year unfortunately it's the last
thing to be evaluated when you go to the
doctor they don't look at what you are
eating it's the missing piece of the
puzzle yes we have alcohol and smoking
but when you get into the quantity of
sugar starches and Seed oils the
magnitude of what that does to our
bodies compared to everything else is
off the chart simply download this free
app start using it give me feedback tell
me how you like it we're going to be
doing phase two and phase three we're
going to add a lot of cool things to it
there will also be a link to another
page that'll allow you to see the
substitute foods of the junk foods that
way you can replace them I gave you a
lot of options that you can get at any
grocery store so check this out the
single worst advice that I think were
given is this concept of everything in
moderation there is no one bad food that
was like the absolute worst advice
because there's certain foods that are
much worse than others we're going to
help you understand the three terrible
foods that you must avoid to get healthy
I did this video with a neighbor from
friend named Bill which I did not
release yet where I went inside his
house and evaluated all of his food we
then looked at every single ingredient
on each food item and I had to manually
teach him the difference between junk
food and real food which took a very
long time I mean memorizing every single
ingredient is just overwhelming for the
average person so I created this
intuitive app that makes the process
super simple almost like having me Dr
Berg in your pocket at any given time to
help you figure out what to eat and what
to avoid the goal with this app is to
make everyone aware of the three deadly
ingredients and to get people off
industrial processed foods and get them
on Whole Food download the app right now
sign up start using it share it with
your friends this is a really important
tool to help people identify the root
cause of a lot of health problems and if
you wanted to see a good video on some
really basic important foods to eat you
should check this video out right here
