hey Dr Burke here in this short video
we're going to talk about a product
called organic
seelp um organic seelp is made from the
the ocean in Iceland so it's probably
one of the purest places on the planet
that you can grow calp and it's a 100%
certified organic so there's no
pesticides or anything like that in it
but um it's a highquality um iodine
product that is a plantbased has a lot
of other things in it like selenium and
uh Boron and a lot of the other trace
minerals that are in the sea but it's
all plant-based um it has 500 milligrams
so I recommend this to support a healthy
thyroid gland um I also use this to
support a healthy ovaries uh support
healthy breast tissue so it's good for
all the female organs and um it's very
very high quality so if you're looking
for a calp and you want something uh
more vegetarian this is the one to try
