someone recently wanted to know what my
opinion on adderall is and is there any
alternatives okay adderall is a central
nervous system stimulant used for ADHD
narcolepsy increasing wakefulness
increasing cognition increasing
cognitive function like focus and memory
at least temporarily but there are some
side effects okay
insomnia dry mouth loss of appetite high
blood pressure low blood pressure
Raynaud's phenomenon which you're
basically losing circulation of your
fingertips they're turning red
especially in the winter time increasing
heart rate as tachycardia erectile
dysfunction abdominal pain constipation
nosebleeds tics as in certain twitching
and body motions that are not under your
control and loss of bladder control now
if you do higher dosage it could put you
in a coma and even worse cause you to
die other than that it's perfectly fine
and I'm being very sarcastic okay and
I'm not telling you to get off any drugs
check with your doctor this is just for
you to do research on alternatives your
brain is highly sensitive to nutrition
and the fuel that you put in it you can
create some really amazing effects by
changing your diet especially when we
get into the area of the brain called
hippocampus which is part of limbic
system the number one most dangerous
vitamin deficiency for the brain is low
vitamin b1 and this comes from high
carbohydrate diets so here are some
alternative things that I think could
greatly help you start taking more b1 in
the form of nutritional yeast it's a
natural form especially if you get the
one that's not enriched with synthetic B
ones you don't want to start using
synthetic vitamins so you use
nutritional yeast maybe four tablespoons
a day if you get it in tablets take six
or eight tablets a day you can chew them
or swallow them that will start giving
you b1 and the brain will be very happy
from that and you definitely want to
drop the carbs that's called the
ketogenic diet I put a link down below
if you're new to my channel
DHA is the next most important thing
that you can give the brain it's it
forms this the physical structure of
your brain shellfish and fish vitamin D
which is not in a list is very important
as well I would start taking at least
twenty thousand international units of
vitamin D you want to take k2 with that
as well that's good for depression but
it's also good for the brain in general
zinc very very essential but guess what
if you're doing shellfish several times
a week you'll get the zinc but you can
also just take sink as well you can also
get zinc in seaweed as in roasted
seaweed or sea kelp intamin fasting will
greatly improve the brain in the
cognitive function and actually you can
even regrow brain cells that way and by
the way if you're in ketosis ketones
themselves are very beneficial to your
brain cells and so this is why you maybe
want to add some MCT oil to boost the
amount of ketones to the brain to help
the brain function better this will
provide the fuel that the brain needs
versus the glucose which is probably not
working now there's also a great remedy
which I really like it's called lion's
mane mushroom and it's good for focus
and concentration and you can start off
taking one per day and increasing two
day until you achieve the focus that you
want so these are the things I would
recommend if you're transitioning off
adderall under your doctor's supervision
thanks for watching if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
