I'm GNA talk about seven surprising
reasons for an iodine deficiency now the
reason I said surprising is because you
may have already known that if the soils
don't have iodine in them if they're
poor in trace minerals you're going to
end up with a iodine deficiency now
that's very true especially if you're
getting food more Inland from the ocean
since iodine is normally from ocean food
if you're buying food like in America
from the Midwest chances are it's not
going to have
iodine not to mention the farming
methods where they're using just NPK
that's nitrogen phosphorus and
pottassium they don't put the trace
minerals back in the soil unfortunately
so if it's not in the soil it's not in
the plant if it's not in the plant it's
not in the animals so poor soils is
number one and also dietary you you
don't consume enough Seafood shellfish
you never consume crab Lobster you don't
consume uh clams or muscles and also you
don't consume enough fish from the ocean
nor seaweed as in seelp and so typically
I think most people know about this one
and this one but they definitely don't
know about this one right here number
one selenium deficiency if you're
deficient in selenium you're going to be
deficient in iodine and both selenium
and iodine do work on the thyroid um
selenium is very important in the
conversion from T4 to T3 the active form
of the thyroid hormone and iodine is
there to actually be a part of the the
molecule which is like T4 T3 what T3 and
T4 represent is the number of Iodine
molecules attached to that hormone a
brazilnut has a good amount of selenium
number two radiation okay so if you're
exposed to radiation um there's
something called iodine 131 which is
radioactive and that can Lodge right
into the thyroid thyroid receptors and
so there is a remedy or shall I say a
preventative measure that you can do if
you are exposed or know that you're
going to be exposed to radiation okay
and that is pottassium
iodide you don't have to get my brand
you can get another brand but you should
probably have it around your house just
in case there is some type of radiation
problem because if you take it between
24 hours before exposure or up to 4
hours after exposure you can protect
your thyroid from the radioactive iodine
that is in the environment it's in the
food it's in the water but I wouldn't
recommend taking potassium iodide as a
general supplement and so you really
only want to take it when you need it so
you can just store it away and so if you
happen to need it at some point it's
available because I will guarantee if
there is some type of threat of um some
type of radiation problem you won't be
able to find it because everyone's going
to buy it up real quick all right number
three goitrogen foods these are foods
that have certain things in them that
have the potential to deplete iodine and
cause a goer okay which is an an large
thyroid gland okay the thyroid gland
swells up what's interesting about this
out of all the things that can do that
cassava is at the top of the list not
only because it binds iodine directly
but because it also has two additional
chemicals that can potently block iodine
okay these two chemicals right here and
unfortunately there are certain
populations certain groups around the
world that consume a lot of cassava and
even if you're getting enough from your
diet from seafood or fish if you're
consuming a lot of this you can end up
being deficient in fact it's like 1.88
billion people worldwide are deficient
in iodine all right another set of foods
would be soy corn and canola okay
there's also large populations that are
consuming soy corn and canola in fact
probably the entire world is consuming
soy in corn not to mention being fed to
the animals and so if you're trying to
get iodine from animals if they're
consuming a lot of this it's going to be
somewhat difficult because it's going to
be deficient cruciferous vegetables okay
now I have videos just on this one topic
and there are a lot of health benefits
from taking cruciferous vegetables okay
cruciferous vegetables have a mild
effect on binding iodine it's not as
strong as cassaba and it's definitely
not as strong as these two but also when
you steam or cook cruciferous vegetables
that will reduce this effect right here
also if you're consuming an adequate
amount of iodine and you're also
consuming cerous it's not going to be
the reason why you're deficient in
iodine you probably would only be
deficient if you consumed large amounts
of cruciferous with no Seafood no fish
no seelp and also other foods that might
have iodine now just on that note you
might consume a lot of vegetables and
fruits right well guess what vegetables
and fruits are low in iodine okay eggs
are a good source of iodine and meats
and nuts will give you like a moderate
amount of iodine so the best source of
iodine is seafood like shellfish things
like that very high iodine and also fish
from the sea as well as seelp now seelp
is a vegetable in the sea but I'm not
talking about vegetables on land okay
that's a whole different thing
vegetables on land do not have a lot of
iodine now there is also some iodine
binding effects from peanuts and pine
nuts and Millet and definitely rice okay
rice soy and corn in cassava are at the
top of the list this is why we have an
Iden efficiency in parts of India
southeast Asia South America and Africa
this right here because even though
you're getting iodine having some of
these uh things can actually uh make you
deficient all right number four bromine
okay now what is bromine well it's a
chemical that they put into um certain
breads okay and um it's a do conditioner
okay and it's called potassium bromide
okay so this can block your iodine okay
and then you have
fluide both of these are in the same
family and elements but fluoride also
can block iodine now you're saying
probably well I'm not really exposing
myself to fluoride okay well do you ever
get your teeth whitened well do you ever
take a shower do you ever drink your
water without a filter City water has
fluoride in it right and so you can
expose yourself your skin to it it can
be absorbed or you can drink it so it's
very important to have a filter that can
filter this out as well as number five
perchlorate what is perchlorate it's a
chemical they put in city water that uh
kills bacteria and it has the effect of
blocking iodine and this is another
reason why you need a filter on your
house a water filter both on the shower
and uh on the sink all right number six
oral contraceptives okay how many women
are on birth control pills right that's
going to block iodine as well as certain
medications and there's even a chemical
in cigarette smoke that can block iodine
is as well so if you're a smoker
consuming a lot of these Foods right
here and being exposed to this and this
chances are you could be deficient in
iodine the other thing about iodine is
that your body doesn't have any
mechanism to prevent excretion of iodine
so it gets stored to some degree but it
doesn't store for a long period of time
your body uses up a lot of this iodine
so it's not like other minerals that
your body can actually slow down and
regulate the release of it and you can
go through it pretty quickly now that
you know the reasons why you might be
deficient and iodine let's talk about
the unusual symptoms that you might get
if you're deficient and that video is
right here
