I wanted to talk about this ingredient
called betaine hydrochloride what is it
I have this in my
digest formula and a lot of people keep
asking like what is it and what is it
doing it's basically a natural compound
it's a natural amino acid found in beets
spinach beef and shrimp it's in other
foods as well it was originally found in
beets and that's why they call it B team
or a betaine okay hydrochloride but it's
a combination of betaine and
hydrochloric acid really really really
important if you have SIBO small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth because
because one of the functions of this
strong acid in the stomach is to prevent
pathogens and unfriendly microbes from
going from the stomach through the
stomach into the small intestine so very
important so what this ingredient is
meant to do is increase the acid in your
stomach and when I say increase the acid
and talking about lowering the pH the
lower the pH the more acidic and the
stomach pH should be between one 1.5 and
3 which is extremely low and extremely
acidic that's going to improve the
absorption of vitamin b12 minerals trace
minerals and protein what the acid does
if it hits this this level right here is
it activates a very powerful protease
which is a enzyme that breaks down
proteins thereby breaking down protein
into amino acids and if you don't have a
strong pH you will get undigested
proteins and that creates a big problem
and then also we talked about this it
kills pathogens so anything that you're
eating that's a pathogen that's kind
that goes in the stomach should be
killed in this ph right here so it's
going to protect you there's even a
condition that you can look up called
hypo chloride riah that's basically low
stomach acids it's actually very common
in anyone over the age of 50 and at each
decade that you age you actually have a
lower amount of stomach acid what's
fascinating is if you look this up
on Wikipedia you'll see the first
symptom is GERD gastroesophageal reflux
disorder which basically is a fancy word
for heartburn and this is the confusion
you have heartburn but under low stomach
acids low stomach acids cause heartburn
they do because unless you have a really
acidic stomach you're not going to be
able to close the valve on top of the
stomach and the acid is going to splash
up into the esophagus and burn that area
and irritate it so this remedy is really
good for GERD okay and acid reflux make
sure that you don't take calcium at the
same time as you take this because it
kind of will neutralize the acid I
recommend taking this before the meal
and a lot of times you would need quite
a bit like maybe five six tablets before
the meal and then you can start eating
it'll assist in making more acid and it
does take some time to build up because
potato chloride is not like extremely
acid it just gives you the building
blocks for your own body to make more
acid to the point where it's made enough
acid and then you don't need any more of
this so it's kind it's not a long-term
product the other point I want to bring
up is antibiotics and two acids tend to
destroy the stomach acid making you more
dependent on more medication and more
antibiotics alright there you have it
that's what betaine hydrochloride is
thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
