hey it's me again we're going to talk
about evaluation again here's another
example um we're going to take a look at
uh this 35-year-old female uh just like
U you would a mechanic would look at an
engine dysfunctioning or a engineer
would look at a problem uh only in
medicine do they separate everything out
and they're over specialized they treat
each thing separately they treat it they
don't take all the data they don't look
at the body as a whole they don't
understand what symptoms mean in the
body they're just like suppressed so
medicines become the management of
symptoms so we're going to just dissect
her data number one she has daily
headaches high pulse rate high systolic
blood pressure that's the top number uh
of the blood pressure is high rash can't
tolerate sun dry skin fatigue uh and
then we put all the symptoms in this
digestion uh bucket here irritable bow
uh bloating needs magnesium to eliminate
burping pain on the left side of her
shoulder back and neck nausea floating
stool gallbladder removed uh then we
have libido is down uh she took estrogen
or she's taking estrogen for
fertility and uh Hashimoto kale makes
her hair fall out it's thyroid drenal
red cheeks puffy eyes sleep allergies
nervous all right so now let's just look
at this thing um the thing that I that
that jumps out to me is the most
problems are in this digestive thing now
bloating
burping that's gallbladder symptoms but
she had a gallbladder removed so it's
still a deficiency of bile so we know we
have a deficiency of bile okay but
typically that problem is going to cause
pain on the right side of the shoulder
and neck not the left so she has left
sided shoulder and it come wraps right
around the back and
that would mean that's pancreas so
that's a pancreatic problem so let's
write this
down pancreatic
insufficiency that's a kind of a that
would create these symptoms because the
pancreas uh if it swells up or if it
works too hard it will irritate the
tissue right around the pancreas
which there's a there's a little nerve
called the phenic nerve it's on both
sides but on the left side and it goes
right up to your right shoulder right up
through here so the pancreas now let's
take a look at pancreatic insufficiency
what does that mean the pancreas makes
enzymes so it also regulates insulin but
if it's not making all the enzymes which
makes sense because if she has a
gallbladder problem she's not going to
actually have a really really healthy
pancreas they both work together in the
digestive tract so whatever she ate in
the past that destroyed that gallbladder
is probably also made the pancreas weak
as well and depleted the enzymes but the
symptoms for pancreatic in insufficiency
are very similar to low bile very
similar
so right here nausea that could be the
pancreas the flute the uh the stool that
floats that could be a pancreatic
insufficiency because you're not able to
release enough lipase that's uh fat
enzymes um so when bile comes in there
and breaks down the fat lipase from the
pancreas dissolves that fat even further
down
to a stage where you can digest it so
this could easily be pancreatic
insufficiency right here and so could
nausea so it could paint on the left
side and irritable bow because you're
going to have a lot of inflammatory
issues as well if you don't have the
enzymes um so um that's one thing now
let's just take to look
at uh let's see here rash that could be
another
symptom um can't tolerate some well this
is really um a low vitamin K deficiency
because see Sun gives you a lot of
vitamin D but if you don't have vitamin
K that can create a symptom of vitamin D
toxicity okay which is like almost like
it's like sun is toxic to you but
because she doesn't have a gallbladder
we know that she doesn't have enough of
the bile to absorb some of these fat
cyal vitamins so she's getting um you
know she might just basically get all
the sun on the skin and go in but she's
not getting all the other vitamins to
balance it out so this could relate to
this bile thing right here dry skin well
that just indicates that she's not
absorbing some of the oils and the fats
in the skin because she doesn't have the
bile um
so that's interesting and then right
here hashimotos let's try to figure that
out hashimotos is an autoimmune and
autoimmune there is some data
on enzyme deficiencies and autoimmune
but I don't know if that relates but I
do know that if the adrenal is too
stressed they can get autoimmune of
pretty much any organ um but I would
like to before I evaluate this I'd like
to get a history of when that started
what happened just before it was there a
stress event or was there something was
it that they took the gallbladder out so
I can't really know that kale makes her
hair fall well that's too much kale and
some people can block um um it can block
iodine and that can affect especially if
she already has a thyroid issue she
probably needs to be taking iodine but
look at this she's taking
estrogen decrease thebo this is estrogen
dominance see the thyroid it's very rare
to have a primary thyroid the thyroid
um is usually influenced by three things
one a lack of bile because T4 is
converted to T3 through the liver that
would make a lot of
sense or it can come from high
estrogen so see we have two things that
can cause that or it could be the
adrenal as well so it could be any one
of those things so what I would do with
this case is I would just take one thing
I would support the pancreas
first then the bile and then see how
many of these things clear up because um
for example High puls rate that's the
heart working harder probably because
she doesn't have the fat CYO vitamins to
transport the minerals and calcium
around and see if that doesn't just
clear these things out right here um so
that's the first thing I would try and
then I would support the adrenals
and then I might you know recommend that
she does an alternative for this
estrogen thing because that there's too
many side effects with estrogen so I
would just take the most likely thing
first address that and then the next one
boom boom boom to see what's going to
really clear out most of these issues
but it looks to me that if her digestion
is better she'll be converting more
thyroid hormones she'll be able to
detoxify estrogen better from her body
and she'll be able to absorb more
nutrients um she's going to have to take
some bile extract for the rest of her
life because she doesn't have a
gallbladder purify bile salts but to
support the pancreas and get rid of all
these things that would probably give
her a huge relief and allow her to sleep
take the stress off the adrenals so
that's where I would start first all
right so that's just kind of a I'm just
talking out loud but that's how I would
take a look at this case
