hey guys today we're gonna talk about
what to do if you have ketoacidosis okay
there's a lot of confusion on what
ketoacidosis is versus ketosis are they
the same
sometimes people scare you and say like
don't do ketosis because that's
dangerous what they're talking about is
ketoacidosis they have the same word ki
tell like ketoacidosis is very different
than ketosis so let me explain the three
different types of ketoacidosis you have
alcoholic ketoacidosis which we're not
going to talk about in this presentation
you also have starvation ketoacidosis
which would occur let's say if you're
really starving not fasting but starving
okay you're you have no food and your
body is eating up your own muscle and
fat and you're very thin like maybe even
you have anorexia so we're not gonna
even cover this because these two are
completely different we're going to talk
about the diabetic ketoacidosis
condition okay mainly type one you can
get it with type two if you're taking a
certain medication but it's rare but
type one it's more common okay so let's
talk about that there's there's about
five five abnormal things about diabetic
ketoacidosis number one there's
hyperglycemia there's high levels of
blood sugar okay why because the type
one doesn't have any insulin so let's
say you forgot to take your insulin
sugar goes really really really high
okay so the other characteristic is low
insulin or at no insulin so we just have
very high blood sugar what's gonna
happen is that's gonna drive a lot of
electrolytes and fluid out of the body
because you're peeing out glucose and
wherever the glucose goes the water goes
and the electrolytes go so you have low
blood volume okay low blood pressure you
can feel weak so this is another
characteristic right here you're gonna
have major potassium loss okay
now you're also going to get acidosis
and this is the danger of diabetic
ketoacidosis is the acidosis part
normally the blood is between 7.35 and
7.45 it's slightly alkaline and a very
tight narrow band so you have if you
have a mild problem it'll be between
seven point two five and seven point
three you can see it's just slightly
less than this it's not drastically
moderate problem be seven to seven point
two five and a severe acidosis would be
below seven it gets really dangerous so
this is really the danger of
ketoacidosis
okay now realize too that the potassium
is alkaline and that's supposed to
buffer this condition but there's loss
of potassium so we don't have those
minerals including we don't have
magnesium either so if you have this
condition you should go directly to the
hospital and they're gonna give you an
IV and start putting back in fluids and
electrolytes and then they'll gradually
put in potassium because if you don't
want to add too much potassium too
suddenly if you're completely in this
situation because it can affect the
heart but the point is that you need
electrolytes you need fluid now this
condition usually happens when you
forget to take your insulin because if
you don't have insulin and then the
blood sugar goes high and things get out
of control if you have someone that
tells you you shouldn't do keto because
you don't want to risk ketoacidosis well
what should you do should you go back to
carbs well why would you do that you
have to high blood sugar why would you
want to add more carbohydrate to high
sugar that's gonna make it worse
and people will say well because they
don't understand they'll say well
because if I had sugar I'm gonna
increase my insulin well no you're not
not if you're a type 1 diabetic you
don't have any insulin you're just gonna
add sugar to a body that has too much
sugar you're gonna make things worse so
you don't want to eat sugar if you have
ketoacidosis or even want if you want to
prevent it it's really about insulin
because you really want to monitor your
insulin and take just amount to keep
your sugars in check okay and realize
the more sugar you have the more insulin
you're gonna need
and you want to always make sure and
this is why I recommend a healthy
version of ketosis it's called healthy
keto by consuming enough vegetables that
are mineral dense that are potassium
rich in magnesium so you have the
electrolytes that you need to prevent
this problem right here now some of the
symptoms of ketoacidosis are this thirst
frequent urination exhaustion can't
breathe that well when you have acidosis
if I could traps the air confusion dry
mouth so if you're doing healthy ketosis
by cutting out carbs you can see very
clearly that you're not going to start
developing this condition because you're
taking your electrolytes
you're making sure that your blood
sugars are not too hot because you're
not eating sugar now you're bringing
your inste low but you're not bringing
it down to zero you're by still making
it it's just like you don't require as
much because you're running on ketones
and so you don't need as much insulin
and that's a good thing we need some but
we don't need excessive amounts now I
wanna shift gears over here to talk
about ketones ketones testing you can
check your ketones with your urine or
the blood all right so if you're testing
things and I'm gonna be talking about
mili moles per liter and bhp which is
beta hydroxy butyrate this is a type of
ketone and this is the units right here
so if you're measuring your urine normal
ketones would be 0.6 or less beginner's
keto point roughly around 0.6 advanced
deeper keto that would be point six to
three you're starving will be between
three and five risk of diabetic
ketoacidosis would be greater than five
then actual diabetic ketoacidosis is
above ten okay so I mean look at the
difference between like how many ketones
versus what most people end up is this
range right through in here okay maybe
even right up here too so if you're in
this range and you feel fine
I wouldn't even worry about it now if
you're checking your blood it would be
normal would be like less than 0.6
beginning kitto 0.6 roughly advance
kitto 0.6 to 1.5 and then starving 1.5
and then risk of it would be 1 point 5
to 3 and then diabetic ketoacidosis is
greater than 3 so you can see that the
values do change when you're checking in
the blood now the real big point about
this video is I wanted just to clarify
any confusions you had and also really
talk to those type 1 diabetics you don't
want to not check your blood sugars
because you can actually not take enough
insulin and create a problem and these
are the symptoms right here but for
everyone else you know now you can
actually understand what your values are
and to make sure it doesn't get out of
range but again you're not gonna have to
worry about it unless you're type 1 or
type 2 taking insulin and other
medications alright guys
talk to you later so if you're enjoying
this content go ahead and share it with
someone that could really benefit from
it
