so I wanted to talk about the topic of
sleep and certain things that may
indicate that you're not getting enough
sleep and there's a lot of people out
there who think they're getting enough
sleep but in reality they're not really
getting enough sleep or the quality of
sleep so here are some other factors
that may indicate that you need better
sleep or a longer sleep number one
losing your creativity so at one time
maybe you had this incredible
imagination and creativity and now you
just lost it you just don't have that so
that would be one factor number two
you're losing your ability to focus and
follow through your attention is kind of
stuck over here over here over here
you're excessively thinking all the time
so your focus is not long-lasting okay
this is gonna affect your ability to get
things done
despite thinking a lot okay which is
completely non-productive sometimes
number three you're losing that
sharpness in problem-solving and
learning now you might have all these
problems in your mind constantly but
you're having a hard time completing
problems learning about problems and
this is also related with creativity and
imagination because you need creativity
when you solve problems to come up with
bright ideas so they are related so when
you're tired because you haven't slept
your ability to solve problems goes down
despite the excessive thinking about the
problems going on in your mind 24/7
while you're trying to sleep all right
number four afternoon tiredness so let's
say it's three o'clock four o'clock and
you're you're just ready for a nap
okay now some people say that if you
sleep poorly you can't make it up with a
nap I disagree I believe that you can
make it up if you take a nap or multiple
naps if you're not sleeping at night
because I've talked with hundreds of
people who've done that and they
actually do very well next one is
increase appetite sometimes when people
are tired they tend to eat to get energy
okay so and it is true that when you're
tired your insulin does go up and your
blood Sugar's go down and you are more
hungry this is why a lack of sleep can
increase even your risk for becoming a
diabetic because it worsens insulin
resistance so that's is why people maybe
might snack more than they should
because they're tired all right next one
is anxiety this is because when you
don't sleep you have a spike in cortisol
cortisol is an adrenal stress hormone
and when cortisol increases too much you
get the sensation of anxiety nervous
can't relax kind of fearful sometimes
even panic attacks okay this could be
related to a lack of sleep when you're
really well rested normally you don't
have anxiety and by the way the B
vitamins really help in this especially
if you're taking a nutritional yeast
okay number seven depressed it's very
difficult to be depressed if you have
lots of energy and you slept well but
when you're tired it's very easy to get
depressed and sometimes that depression
is not even depression it's physical
tiredness and exhaustion so you want to
differentiate am I depressed or am I
just tired
maybe you just need to sleep poor sleep
also can't like I said before increased
your risk of getting pre-diabetes I mean
did you realize this connection there's
an interesting study of people getting
four hours of sleep for six days in a
row and becoming a pre-diabetic now it's
only temporary but the point is that
lack of sleep really destroys your blood
Sugar's so if you're trying to get into
ketosis make sure your sleeping is a
really important point also your sleep
affects your immune system people that
don't sleep tend to get sick more often
like I said it increases cortisol so
it's going to increase stress cortisol
also breaks down muscle protein and
turns that into sugar this is called
gluconeogenesis so it speeds up that
process this is why people have too much
stress or too much cortisol or even from
taking too much prednisone one of the
side effects which is a synthetic type
of cortisol the side effects are belly
fat so too much cortisol can
to weight gain just from lack of sleep
interesting and by the way you burn most
of the fat while you're sleeping if
you're sleeping also a poor sleep can
increase the risk of heart problems
especially if you're exercising too
intensely okay so if you're doing a
marathon or you doing something CrossFit
and you're not sleeping very bad idea
for the heart it can increase your risk
of getting a heart attack so the days
that you don't sleep do the long walks
go light don't do the hard core exercise
I would only do the intense exercise if
you had a good night's sleep
and lastly poor sleep can lower your IQ
and that can affect your ability to
problem-solve big time so we need
between six and a half and seven and a
half hours of sleep if it's quality if
it's not quality if it's light if it's
not deep you're gonna need a lot more
hours maybe eight or nine hours so for
those of you that think you might have a
sleep problem I put some excellent
videos down below so you can watch on
sleep and that will tell you exactly
what to do
thanks for watching hey if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
