in this video we're going to talk about
hair nails and skin um there's many
different um causes to a problem with
loss of hair brittle nails or a skin
that becomes um let's say extra dry or
you start losing your collagen U but I'm
going to talk about the probably the
most common thing that I find and you
may want to try this okay so the first
thing I want to tell you is that the
majority of people addressing these
three things are doing it from the
outside side in they're using lotions
serums creams on the face hoping that's
going to go into your body and make the
skin all real nice or they're using
different types of shampoo uh that will
make your hair more lustrious and uh uh
with filled with collagen hope hopefully
that collagen will sink in there and go
into the hair but that never works um of
course then they have the nails that
they fake nails right so how do we make
the nails really really strong and hard
and and the and the uh skin really nice
and uh also the hair so it doesn't fall
out well we want to apply the philosophy
of uh inside out we want to start
building up our body from the inside out
and doing things to improve the health
but you probably are already eating
fairly decent if you're watching my
videos um you're eating probably foods
with vitamins and minerals you proba
taking vitamins and minerals and you
might still have a problem with this and
that is because there's a certain
nutrient that's very deficient in a
problem with this and that has to do
with trace
minerals now why trace minerals first of
all what is a trace
mineral trace minerals are those
minerals needed in very small tiny
amounts and trace minerals function to
um help uh make enzymes work what do
enzymes do that's the Workhorse of the
body there's like thousands of enzymes
in your body doing the work to building
up protein and breaking protein down and
that's what enzymes do in fact uh
enzymes without enzymes you couldn't
even grow your hair um so you have a
hormone component part and then you also
have a trace mineral component part that
activates the enzyme so you can actually
build protein in the body because if you
think about it it's not necessarily that
you're not eating enough protein you're
probably eating enough protein and
you're eating collagen in that protein
because that's what collagen is a type
of protein but it's the activation of
that protein to make it available
through the liver and up through the
skin and through the hair so this is uh
something that
I've I've tried in a lot of people and
it's it's work you may want to try it
yourself consume more trace minerals
trace minerals are probably the number
one deficient thing in our in the United
States now because the soils are so
depleted um they only the farmers only
put three minerals back into the soil in
some cases they don't put all the trace
minerals one is there's no real
requirements uh that are listed like the
rdas for trace minerals even though we
need them and it's necessary so they
help fortify our hormones like even
iodine you need iodine it's it's try to
find some food with iodine unless you
consume calp so trace minerals are very
missing in our in our environment and
it's very essential into build uh
protein hair nail skin now if you go to
the store or online and get trace
minerals you're probably going to see a
lot of different versions of trace
minerals and that are salt-based
um or um something like colloid um
colloidal minerals uh salt-based
minerals from the sea those are all fine
but you really only absorb 5% of those
and uh they are different form of
chemistry they're harder to absorb um
I'm going to recommend you do
plant-based trace minerals now what is
plant-based trace minerals they're
basically plants that were grown on
soils with the trace mineral mineral so
that way the plant pulls them up into
the plant and then you consume the plant
and now it goes right in like a rocket
ship plant-based trace minerals have
they're 15,000 times smaller than
regular uh trace minerals that are from
the sea so they're very tiny they go in
like a rocket ship and they create some
cool effects and so you don't need as
much so now where can you find trace
minerals if there's really no soil left
well you can go next to a volcano where
they have the soils have been for
fortified with the Deep parts of the
Earth from the volcanic ash and they
have volcanoes in Italy and Hawaii and
just move there and live off the land
you can do that and you're going to get
all the trace minerals that's probably
why those people their skin looks a lot
better uh or you can get a plant-based
Trace mineral uh from a
prehistoric time so I want to show you
the one that I I have it's called trace
minerals this is basically 70 million
years old it's still still works and
this was captured in a layer of the
Earth 70 million years ago where they
had all the prehistoric plant vegetation
and they had all the trace minerals back
then and those minerals have been
protected for a long time so there's a
company um uh that um that captured that
material and made into a water soluable
product and that's what I use because
you just need a dropper full or two in
some water a day to help get those
plant-based trace minerals so um
unfortunately we can't go back in the
time but the prehistoric minerals are a
good way to get the plant-based um
unless you have your own garden you can
start fortifying the
soils so trace minerals are probably the
the number one single thing that you can
do but there's something else as well
and that has to do with um certain types
of fats now a lot of the remedies for
hair nail skin involve fat cber vitamins
vitamin A vitamin D vitamin E all these
are really good for the skin if you're
consuming those and it's not working uh
there's something else you want to look
at and that has to do with one more
thing and that has to do with uh this
thing called bile not enough bile from
your gallbladder so if you have a
digestive issue you say you're bloating
and you're uh burping and you have
belching and all that or your stomach's
distended when you eat then you could be
deficient in bile because bile helps you
digest fats so if you don't have enough
bile your gallbladder will be stressed
and bile helps you absorb all the oils
essential fatty acids all the fat cyal
vitamins to start helping the skin it's
just another uh thing that I find with
people with dry skin or collagen
problems so the combination
of some extra bile and trace minerals
are probably number one thing that I
would recommend to enhance your hair and
nails and skin and you may want to try
it out hope you enjoy this video I'll
see you in the next one
