okay so today we're going to talk about
kidney cleansing on in a minute fasting
or just a regular fast there are certain
people that when they do the ketogenic
diet or intermittent fasting they become
susceptible to getting stones kidney
stones so this would be a great thing to
do for that situation so we want to
combine these two T's this is called
chakra Piedra tea and dandelion tea okay
this is really good for the kidney and
also stones
it's from the Amazon it's called stone
breaker or stone crusher even though it
doesn't really crush the stone or break
the stone it softens the stone so it can
loosen up and then come right out very
easily dandelion tea is really good for
the liver and the kidney it's a
detoxifier that's very gentle it doesn't
it's not gonna make you feel sick or a
detox sickness but I would consume about
16 to 20 ounces and when you make boil
the water I would take the teabags and
let them sit for about 20 minutes to
make it a little bit more concentrated
drink it during a fast and do this every
day for about one to two months and it
should take care of any sludge or kidney
stones and it's great to strengthen the
kidney alright thanks for watching hey
thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
