you know when we're dealing with
creating health and fighting off health
problems it's not just one food It's a
combination of foods So today we're
going to talk about one additional food
that I think you should add to your
daily salads and that is the lonely
carrot now I've done past videos on
carrots relating to the ketogenic diet
uh but not necessarily the health
properties of carrots and I recently
stumbled on some data that is quite
fascinating uh carrots can actually do
more for your health than you might
think now the first thing that usually
comes up with a carrot is that it's
generally sweet so people are avoiding
those because they're trying to avoid
carbs on the ketogenic diet and it is
true that the glycemic index of a carrot
is about 72 so uh high is starting at 70
so it's 72 so yeah it's a little bit
high but because it's so filled with
fiber okay and the net carbs for one
medium carat
is only 4.3 carbs and you're allowed
like 50 carbs it falls in the category
of something is pretty safe uh because
the glycemic load which is a little
different than the glycemic index it's a
different formula it's basically the
amount of carbs because we're deducting
all this fiber brings the carrot down to
like 2.8 on the glycemic load scale I
mean think about this anything less than
10 is low it's pretty low on on the
glycemic load so you're not going to
bump yourself out of ketosis by eating a
carrot a day carrots typically are
thought of improving your eyesight
because they're loaded with the
precursor to vitamin A and beta carotene
which is the precursor is not a retinol
the active form of vitamin A even though
they call it vitamin A it's a precursor
it has to be converted and there's a
small percentage that can convert to
retinol uh it's not that high but it's
something now there are a lot of other
things in carrots you have all sorts of
phytonutrients that help as a gent
antioxidant so let's get into it uh
number one the fiber in carrots that we
can't digest but our microbes can can
greatly help you detoxify estrogen okay
and so if you're estrogen dominant it
can help balance that now what are the
risk factors of estrogen dominance well
problems with your menstrual cycle heavy
periods awaking in a lower section of
your body increased risk of cancer and
so anything that can actually buffer
this estrogen is a good thing number two
it lessens the activation of
procarcinogens those are things that are
like carcinogenic things that can cause
cancer well they lessen the activation
of that number three it's an antioxidant
number four it's anti-angiogenic what
does that mean well when a cancer cell
grows it needs blood supply and so there
are various vegetables um definitely the
cruci vegetables but also carrots that
can inhibit these new blood vessels to
tumors that's are called
anti-angiogenic carrots also have
anti-clotting properties they also have
properties that can help fight uh
microplasmas which are uh bacteria
without the cell wall but I think one of
the biggest uh benefits of carrots is
related to this other phytonutrient and
it's called fanol now there is some data
that shows that it's not just this one
phytonutrient there's some other related
synergistic compounds but nonetheless if
you eat a raw carrot a day you're going
to get a good amount of this uh
falcarinol and falcarinol is a natural
pesticide and fungicide falcarinol is
also in fenel it's in celery it's in
ginsing it's in parsley but there's a
lot of it in carrots now even though
it's a natural pesticide it's not
harmful to our bodies so you don't have
to worry about it in fact it may help
you if you have any pathogenic funguses
growing in your body but the big thing
that fall caranel does is what it can do
for cancer apparently the research shows
that it can significantly decrease the
risk of cancer especially breast cancer
and prostate cancer and gastric cancer
and maybe even other Cancers and this
other function May relate to cancer or
just in general it just may help you
with with inflammation because
falcarinol is a potent inhibitor of
intestinal inflammation even more than
sulfurane and I've done videos on this
where I talked about sulfurane uh
helping with gastritis and all sorts of
inflammation in your gut and sulfurane
is in broccoli and broccoli Sprouts but
we don't want to forget the carrot too
okay so I would recommend eating one at
least one medium siiz Raw carrot Organic
Raw carrot in your salad or or just in
general each day and one of the ways
that it can do this is through
stimulating the tumor suppressor genes
and these are things that can actually
suppress the genetics that relate to
Growing tumors in some of these studies
which I'll list down below you get a
slower development of the cancer you get
inhibition of the aggressive cancer
cells you also get induction of
apoptosis what does that mean it means
that it triggers the cancer cells to die
now since we're on the topic of cancer
okay in Foods uh you should definitely
see this video that related to other
foods you should be eating to lower your
risk of cancer and I put that up right
here
