hey guys dr. Berg here I wanted to
create a short video to answer this
question will sugar-free help me lose
weight okay the answer is yes and no if
you use sweeteners that are like
artificial aspartame Splenda sweet'n low
apparently they there's certain studies
that are mixed mixed on this as far as
increasing insulin some say they do some
say they don't however I did find some
interesting research I'll put a link
down below how these things affect
microbes which then worsen your blood
sugars cancelling out the effect of the
no sugar okay so but I would recommend
consuming more stevia xylitol or we
throat all these are sugar alcohols this
is an herb make sure the stevia doesn't
have maltose dextran or dextro in it
okay just make sure it's a straight
stevia seed is good for some things not
all things has a little bit of an
aftertaste but it's like 300 times
stronger than sugar xylitol it's from
birch bark but make sure you get the one
from birch bark don't get the one from
GMO corn so make sure they're non-gmo we
treat all also make sure it's non-gmo
these are good these are not good
alright thanks for watching hi guys hey
listen I created a pretty amazing
evaluation quiz down below that actually
analyzes your symptoms to find the cause
the root cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause
so take the quiz now and we'll send you
report
