today we're going to talk about some
weird symptoms of Lyme disease that you
may need to know about now here's the
problem with Lyme in general when you
get a test the antibodies that are
developed that show positive on your
blood test take several weeks to develop
so if you got bit yesterday they're not
going to show up so right there that's
one big problem of identifying if you
have it or not
now Lyme disease comes from a tick that
tick is infected with a certain bacteria
it's called a Spiro Chi because it's a
little spiral it can Barrow in you and
it can create a lot of problems that go
beyond just your blood it can go into
the organs it can create a lot of
collateral damage because your immune
system is trying to kill it off and
there's all these inflammatory reactions
now there's some classical symptoms
fatigue headache joint pain from the
collateral damage of your own immune
system by the way attacking trying to
kill it off chills fever foo like
symptoms achiness aching this and the
muscles swollen glands and a bullseye
rash but only 50% of the time so
wherever the chick bit you you'll see a
little white spot with a red ring or
like a rash around that now personally I
had Lyme I put a link down below so you
can get the full story of it and what I
did there's some natural things but I do
want to mention this video and that
video is not meant to diagnose you or
substitute for your medical care just to
give you some additional information
about some things that you might want to
research now the other point I want to
bring up is that there are other
symptoms that extend this list that you
need to know about twitching okay
tingling could be in your fingertips it
could be in any part of your body
tremors okay where you're you're
actually shaking like this anxiety or
mood disorders like depression sleeping
problems and even migrating pain where
the pain is moving around not any one
location it just tends to rotate and by
the way these symptoms
also can come and go as well so anyway I
just want to expand your awareness of
Lyme disease so you can look at the big
picture and realize that just because
you get a blood test a few days later
and it shows negative doesn't mean that
you might not have it so check out the
video below so you can get the full
picture of what I did to address mine
line problem thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
