hey I'm back and we're going to talk
about the three main causes of dizziness
now there's a lot of different causes
okay but these are the main ones number
one
low blood sugar when the blood sugar
drops too low you can be very dizzy okay
in that case you need to add more fat to
your meal to go longer without crashing
your blood sugars or not go too fast
within a minute fasting gradually go
into it starting with three meals no
snacks and gradually go to two where
else you might feel symptoms of low
blood sugar there's a whole bunch of
things you can do to improve low blood
sugars I'll put a link down below rather
than do it in this video so you can
study that but it's temporary when you
do keto eventually you're gonna
basically burn fat and not have this
problem number two low blood pressure
this can come from just doing the keto
dumping all this water and just not
having the volume of fluid to maintain
the blood pressure you need more salt
sea salt that's the best thing to bring
up low blood pressure and actually start
making you feel normal again
number three low adrenals if your
adrenals are weak you could actually get
very dizzy especially if you get up too
fast when you climb stairs because the
adrenals help the body to adapt to
stress like positional stress if you
stand up too fast the adrenals aren't
strong enough to help push the blood
pressure up to your brain and you can
have a little bit of a lag time before
the blood gets up to your brain and feel
a little dizzy so that's what that is
I'll put a link down below if what to do
if you have adrenal issues there's
solutions for everything alright so in
summary what you want to do is you want
to narrow in on what potentially could
be your problem and then learn more
about it and I have solutions and videos
down below thanks for watching hey guys
I want to personally invite you to a new
Facebook group that I just started
called dr. Berg's keto and in a minute
fasting lab ok so I created this so we
can share our successful actions what
worked what didn't work the results so I
put a link down below so go ahead and
sign up and I'll see you inside
