so I get this question a lot can too
much protein actually make you fat let's
discuss it and guys I'm not talking
about like a couple days of eating a lot
of protein I'm talking about
consistently consuming too much protein
week after week what would happen
alright so a couple things about protein
there's a hormone called insulin okay
insulin has several functions insulin
converts what you're eating to fat it
also prevents the release of fat so it's
a fat making hormone that prevents you
losing weight an excessive amounts of
protein will trigger insulin but the
question is there's a lot of people
doing large amounts of protein and
they're not getting fat
why is that it's because protein also
triggers another hormone called glucagon
glucagon does the reverse of insulin
it's produced by the pancreas by the
alpha cells this is produced by the beta
cells so they're very closer
relationship and they do an opposite
function okay so glucagon helps you burn
fat so if you're consuming lots of
protein you're going to be triggering
both of these hormones at the same time
you may not gain weight but it can
potentially prevent you from losing
weight because this prevents the fat
burning effect it depends on what else
you're eating with that protein okay if
you're adding carbohydrates you
definitely going to gain weight on that
especially if it's like me and potatoes
and that type of thing also it depends
on how often you're consuming this
protein if you're doing in a minute
fasting for example and you're doing one
meal a day you may still lose some
weight but if you're doing three meals a
day large amounts of protein you're
gonna have a hard time losing weight so
it's the carbohydrate that triggers
insulin and does not trigger glucagon
okay so this is why carbohydrates cause
weight gain more than just protein does
because of this extra hormone right here
the big problem with excessive amounts
of protein consistently too frequently
over a period of time is that you're
going to overload the stomach because
you need a certain amount of
hydrochloric acid to break that down and
you make
excessive amounts of beautification body
odor indigestion you might get tired
after you eat you could potentially
overload the kidney and liver because
you have too much nitrogen byproducts
okay then that can lead to more your gas
in the body and gout and all sorts of
issues so how do you know if you're
consuming too much protein well you're
getting tired after you eat your urine
is actually foaming okay that means
you're doing too much protein or maybe
even you get constipation so these are
just some points to think about when
you're consuming protein I typically
recommend between 3 to 6 ounces of
protein per meal but some people leave
more so it really depends on your
fitness level your metabolism and your
ability to digest that protein
all right guys talk to you later hey
guys I'm not sure if you have my app yet
dr. Berg app it's totally free you
should download it ok this is what it
looks like you click it it gives you all
sorts of great resources I have all my
youtube videos on this app okay and it's
regularly uploading the most recent ones
all the YouTube videos are also
converted to audio versions ok so you
can use it when you're walking
exercising driving your car I have a
mini course on there I'll be putting
additional courses I have a lot of
recipes on there and this is new and
also PDF resources so there's various
downloads PDFs that you can get as well
and if you wouldn't mind after you
download it check it out give me your
unbiased review and tell me how you like
it
I want to know
