so we're going to create a comprehensive
video on kidney stones so I have a lot
of videos out there right now on kidney
stones but they're just focused on one
aspect of kidney stones so this video is
the more the comprehensive version one
of the ten people will get kidney stones
and out of all the people that get
kidney stones
50% of them will get reoccurrence of
kidney stones so it is a big deal and if
you're a stone former you need to know
about this video right here okay the
first thing you need to know is
something called super saturation when
the concentration of fluid in your
kidney becomes too concentrated that's
when the stones form and this video is
mainly on the most common stones that
form called the calcium oxalate stones
okay so one way to prevent the super
saturation is to drink enough fluid okay
so 2 to 2.5 up to 3 liters of fluid each
day a fluid that will prevent any stones
reforming right there and of course if
you're going to do that much fluid I
recommend also adding electrolytes in
there especially potassium citrate more
fluid will prevent even the formation of
these stones excellence okay what are
oxides
well ox let's are a byproduct of your
metabolism your body makes oxalates
oxalates are also in your foods they're
mainly in plant foods and then when they
combine with calcium they form a crystal
and they start developing in kidney
stone there are some people that are
sensitive to oxalates and they can
experience a lot of pain and
inflammation if they consume foods high
in toxins and you also only absorb a
certain amount of oxalates from the food
like 10% if you're a stone former you're
gonna absorb a little bit more than that
now what can you do to reduce oxalates
okay there's there's a couple things one
would be to start cutting down the foods
that are high in oxalic okay and it just
so happens these foods are usually eaten
in larger amounts when you're on the
ketogenic diet almonds and almond flour
spinach and chocolate now I put a link
down below to give you a little more
data on oxalates so you can actually see
the list of foods from high to low
for example almonds are at the top of
the list at the bottom of the list are
pistachios alright so now you can reduce
the foods of the Box 'lets but what are
some other ways to reduce the oxalates
okay number 3 calcium now you would
think if you consume more calcium you're
gonna get more kidney stones but that's
not how it works
because when you consume foods high in
calcium as in dairy they're talking
about cheese and I recommend like goat's
cheese or sheep cheese which is a lot
better than cow's milk cheese that
calcium will bind with the ox le'ts and
the other foods that you're eating at
the same time okay they'll bind in the
digestive system so there's less
oxalates to be absorbed in through the
blood and filtered through the kidney so
if you're consuming foods that have
oxalates which a lot of people do if you
add a little cheese that will protect
yourself probably why certain cultures
will add cheese when they cook spinach
so the calcium will bind with the
oxalate sand will be less auklets that
end up in the kidney if you have what's
called fat malabsorption let's say for
example you have irritable bowel
syndrome or you don't have a gall
bladder or you're deficient in bile or
you have damage in your pancreas or some
type of damage in your colon where you
can't absorb fats that well okay and the
fats go through you that excess fat can
also bind with the calcium which can
leave more oxalates to get absorbed into
your blood into the kidney so people
that have this condition should actually
consume a little more calcium because
the fat can actually increase more
oxalates in the kidney for this reason
but mainly if you have a malabsorption
problem not in general it's just a
little side note okay
another way to decrease the Oxford's
Adsit rates when someone is a stone
former they're usually deficient in
citrates so you can add lemon or lime
juice okay citrate combined
with the oxalates and inhibits and binds
up the oxalates so it becomes less of a
problem for you you can also do minerals
like in potassium citrate magnesium
citrate or even calcium citrate okay
that will also help number 5 uric acid
now I'm mainly focusing on the oxalate
stones but there is also a situation
when you can have uric acid stones and
this is dependent on your pH if your pH
is too acidic and I'm talking like five
instead of six the optimum pH would be
six okay it becomes too acidic that's
when the uric acid stones can form and
this is another reason to consume enough
vegetables to keep your pH in the
correct place so it's not too acidic
when you're on the ketogenic diet okay
you're having all these ketones going
through your body they're acidic and
you're not consuming enough vegetables
and you're a stone former you can end up
with a bit too much uric acid you can
even get some gout symptoms because when
you do keto a lot of times people will
do in a minute fasting and Emin fasting
will spike your acid because one of the
purposes of uric acid is to act like an
antioxidant so your body is trying to
clean up microbes related to Toth adji
and if you don't know what that is I put
a video down below watch that it's very
fascinating but the way to counter this
uric acid is just to raise the pH a
little bit acidify it wait and you can
do it with potassium citrate okay and of
course with vegetables so potassium
citrate will kill two birds with one
stone it'll actually help lock up the
oxalates if there is any there and also
reduce the uric acid all right next one
floor up there's a microbe called
oxalobacter for merchants okay and this
microbe uses oxalates
as its food okay it lives on oxalates it
will degrade in break
up to 95% of the oxalates and so if you
had a history of taking antibiotics or
you have some colon damage or you had
some surgery to your colon where you had
part of it removed that can increase
your susceptibility to getting stones so
it's not a bad idea to take a probiotic
something like lactobacillus or bifida
bacteria and some other microbes right
now they're doing experiments on this
microbe but you can't get it unless
you're enrolled in the trial that
they're doing maybe eventually they'll
come out with this microbe but I think
what happens in a lot of cases is that
when people get antibiotics destroys
this microbe and they just have higher
levels of oxalates so having the right
amount of bacteria is very very
important in fact having other microbes
as well like the lactobacillus can
reduce your oxalates by between 40 and
60% okay
magnesium also can help reduce the
calcium buildup in the kidney as well so
that's another mineral you get magnesium
from leafy greens right there vitamin D
now one complication for vitamin D is
hypercalcemia okay that's too much
calcium in the blood which potentially
in it but this is rare could lead to a
kidney stone and that's really the only
danger about having high levels of
vitamin D if you're a kidney stone
former you just have to be aware of this
potential situation if you're taking
high levels about amedy and I'm talking
about like fifty thousand or eighty
thousand I use you probably would want
to drink a lot of water and just make
sure you're not consuming too much
calcium okay so that's just one little
side note it would be rare to have this
happen but I just I'm bringing up is one
one point
okay so salt now here's the thing with
salt especially sodium if you have
excessive excessive amounts of sodium
that can actually cause more calcium to
leave the body to go through the kidney
in this situation if your
former I would recommend to stick with
something like 2300 milligrams which is
one teaspoon and not go crazy with maybe
like two or three or four teaspoons
because potentially that could be an
issue
and lastly vitamin k2 which counters
calcification in the body it counters
calcium being in the wrong place in the
soft tissues not just in the kidney but
in the joints and the arteries so about
I mean k2 is also a valid thing to take
in this approach
so in summary okay there's a lot of
things going on more fluids avoid the
foods high in oxalates add a little
cheese when you're eating I recommend
sheep cheese or goat cheese calcium
citrate as a good electrolyte that will
actually help both of these conditions
ox let's and uric acid lemon juice with
your water would be a good thing to do
make sure you have a good probiotic
magnesium but if you're consuming you
know vegetables you get the potassium
and the magnesium just try not to go too
crazy with the vitamin D if you want to
if you have a stone or you're trying to
prevent a stone and your stone former
the regular amount of salt that you need
and k2 alright thanks for watching so if
you want to get notified with all my
content click the notification bell next
to subscribed
