hi guys today we're going to talk about
something called right-sided
fibromyalgia now what is that well in
the last thirty years of practice I
noticed the majority of clients coming
in with fibromyalgia nearly always had
it on the right side okay now why was
that that was weird
why would you have it just on the right
side and not the left side okay well I
found when I started pulling the string
that the real cause for this condition
is the gallbladder which has happens to
be on the right side now there's a
little nerve that comes right here
called the phrenic nerve that can refer
pain to the right shoulder to the neck
all the way up on the right side and it
can even affect your meridians like in
Chinese medicine there's these nerve
channels called meridians and that can
affect the entire right side even lower
on the leg as well so anything on the
right side you always want to check the
gallbladder so if you have right-sided
pain right now do this simple experiment
take your hand press underneath the
right ribcage about an inch down an inch
from the midline and just start
massaging that for about a minute and
you will soon find out that that pain
completely goes away why because the
root problem is the gallbladder okay if
you research from algae you're gonna
find they don't know what causes it it's
an unknown cause they don't know how to
fix it but check the gallbladder okay
now the question is now what would a
great the gallbladder number one
frequent eating like eating six meals a
day snacking continually why because it
keeps aggravating the digestive system
it has to constantly work that's why
going an imminent fasting is incredible
for improving gallbladder function
because you're taking all the stress off
the gallbladder number two consuming
nuts can aggravate the gallbladder okay
and make you feel bloated too much sugar
refined grains or even whole grains
cortisol de that's from either
prednisone and medication or just stress
can aggravate the gallbladder high
levels of estrogen can aggravate the
gallbladder and cause stones whether
you're on birth control pills hormone
replacement therapy or just got pregnant
that can do it too
low fat diets cannot
she creates tones consuming saturated
fats actually stimulate the release of
bile that actually prevents gulf stones
okay and that's why when you're going to
low fat diet you can end up with gall
stones so a low fat diet can cause the
stones in the gallbladder but a high fat
diet can also aggravate the gall butter
but not necessarily create the stone and
that's simply because saturated fats
tend to stimulate the gallbladder to
release more and more bile but there's a
higher risk factor for gall bladder
disease for diabetics simply because
sugar aggravates the gallbladder so if
you look at some of the remedies for
fibromyalgia which is an inflammatory
condition in your muscles and connective
tissue you're gonna find this common
remedy that seems to be effective called
malic acid okay now why would malic acid
help fibromyalgia because it supports
the gallbladder it helps soften stones
it increases the bile duct it vasodilate
s-- the little duct allow the sludge
from the gallbladder to drain out it's
the compound then it's tart in apples
and take a while guess where you can
find malic acid in apple cider vinegar
another great remedy for fibromyalgia
because it supports the gallbladder in
the liver so if you have a gall bladder
problem apple cider vinegar is what you
need to do infrequent eating that's
called in a minute fasting you need to
do keto adjust the fats to your
tolerance you may need to take some
purified bile salts okay I put a link
down below for more information about
that especially if you don't have a gall
bladder because you don't have enough
bile to break down the fats or choline
is another thing you can take to support
the breakdown of fats and it's this is
really good for a fatty liver so I
believe that fibromyalgia is really a
secondary condition a symptom of a
congested gall bladder thanks for
watching
hey I appreciate your attention and if
you're enjoying these videos go ahead
and subscribe and I will definitely keep
you updated on future events live events
and webinars that we're going to do very
soon
