hello everyone so before Dave Feldman
does his talking cholesterol I wanted to
first give you some basic understanding
of the definitions he's going to use so
you really can digest and understand
everything that he's going to say okay
so we're gonna start with this
definition of cholesterol so the first
thing you need to know is that
cholesterol is not really a fat it's not
a fat it's a fad like waxy substance
okay so let's start with the purpose of
cholesterol number one it provides the
raw material to certain hormones okay
number two it makes up all of your
cellular membranes so in other words the
outer shell of your cells are made up of
cholesterol 3 it makes up part of the
brain without cholesterol the brain will
not work correctly also a part of the
nervous system the insulation around the
nerves is made from cholesterol 4 it
helps make bile
so what's bile bile is the detergent
that helps you break down certain fats
to turn them into fat type of vitamins
essential fats that you need like
omega-3 fatty acids and it helps you
make certain vitamins like vitamin D so
without cholesterol you can't make bile
and you cannot make vitamin D so it has
a very important purpose everyone's
focused on cholesterol being bad it's
gonna clog your arteries but cholesterol
is very very important to actually help
make up part of the body tissues alright
so the next thing you need to know is
that the body makes a lot of cholesterol
itself it makes roughly about 3,000
milligrams of cholesterol every single
day that encompasses 75% of the
cholesterol in your body so if we were
to take you to cluster out of your body
75% of it would be made by your body and
only 25% of it comes from the diet the
next point is that cholesterol is a part
of plaquing as in a clogged artery ok
but it's not the cause of the plaquing
it's a part of the crime scene but it's
not the criminal just because there's
cholesterol in a plaque doesn't mean
that it caused the plaque cholesterol is
there as part of a band-aid trying to
heal
something as you're gonna find out it
has several really important purposes
and let me just touch on this word
triglycerides okay simply it is a type
of fat that makes up your fat cell it
also can be consumed from your diet to
supply energy or be used to store fat
carbohydrates that you eat can be
converted to triglyceride in the fat
cell so triglycerides are called lipids
and what you need to know is that
cholesterol triglycerides and other flip
it's are hydrophobic which means they
don't mix well with water okay like oil
and water do not mix so then the body
has to do certain things to make it mix
with water to allow the fat to travel to
the rest of the cells why because it
provides the raw material to hormones
and helps make up the cell membrane help
support the brain makes the bile of
vitamin D how is it going to do that if
it can't be transported so your body
adds a protein to the lipid and that is
called Lippo proteins okay
let's go to the next section on that
okay so in this section we're going to
talk about the five lipoproteins
okay lipoproteins basically our boats or
carriers to transport fat and
cholesterol to the body because fat
doesn't mix well it's hydrophobic with
water so we need to add a protein to the
fat to allow it to travel through the
body okay so the first one we're gonna
talk about is this thing called a Kyllo
micron okay what is that basically that
is a boat that transports the dietary
fat that fat from your diet from the
small intestine to the cells okay so
this is created when you're eating so
it's a boat that takes the diet fat and
it brings into the cells
okay another name for this chylomicron
is ultra low density lipoprotein so let
me explain this because it's a little
confusing
ultra low density because if you look at
the other ones in relationship to this
one you have something called very low
density lipoproteins intermediate
density lipoproteins low-density
lipoproteins and high-density
lipoproteins so if something is more
dense high-density that means it's more
compacted okay
so you see how small it is now look at a
chylomicron it's ultra low density so
it's bigger it's not very dense it's an
ultra low density particle okay so then
we have very low density lipoprotein
it's smaller and it gets smaller and
smaller and smaller and reality we're
just making something more dense so
that's just another way to understand
the relationship between all of these to
try to make it a little bit simpler okay
so the chylomicron is created when
you're eating but when you're not eating
and you're fasting okay what we have to
do is we have to take the energy or fat
from the fat cell and transport that to
the cells okay we need a shuttle for
that and the first shuttle is the very
low-density lipoprotein so basically you
have this boat that has this energy that
it's going to start feeding the cells
okay feeding it fat triglycerides and
then it's going to end up as a
low-density lipoprotein so you can kind
of look at this is these three together
as a kind of a transition phase so we're
going to go from here to here to here
and by the way there are other functions
than just feeding the cell as well and
number one it's going to provide vitamin
E and other antioxidants to actually
neutralize free radicals help neutralize
pathogens there's even a little bit of
carotenoid in here which is another
antioxidant so the very low-density
lipoprotein carries the fat from the
liver to the cells and then this would
be the next phase with the LDL which
when it's done with its purpose it gets
recycled by the liver now what is the
HDL the high density lipoprotein do it
carries excessive cholesterol that's
still lingering around from these guys
back to the liver to be recycled or used
for some other purpose so each of these
boats
their own percentages of triglycerides
cholesterol and protein okay and that's
what makes them different all right so
now that you have a little background
let's go right into Dave Feldman's talk
he's a senior software engineer business
developer and an entrepreneur in April
of 2015 he began a low-carb high-fat
diet and after experiencing a
significant rise in his total
cholesterol committed himself to
learning everything he could about
cholesterol and the lipid system lipid
his fat right
using his engineering background so here
to make a pretty complicated subject
simple for you are you gonna come up
here and say something
Dave Felton thank you thank you so much
I'm curious do you guys do you guys like
plays yeah yeah I mean you ever go out
to the theater kind of get to enjoy a
night on the town well what I've liked
about this conference is fairly early on
when Eric approached me we started
chatting up this idea that would sound
outlandish to other conferences but this
isn't like other conferences right now
so I would like to introduce to you an
important cast that's actually at play
right now inside your body please
welcome the cast of the lipid system
[Applause]
we'll stop yeah just stay here come on I
know I know we really decked it out on
the pricing here now I'm gonna do is
have you guys a little bit more over
here and spread out so that the podiums
not too much in the way hope you guys
have a decent view nabiollah ford here
perfect alright so how many of you guys
had a fatty meal Wow a lot of you a lot
of you had a fatty meal it's interesting
well what happened to those fatty acids
that were being pulled through your
digestive system well they got packaged
into something called a kite sorry a
triglyceride
now the triglyceride as we see here by
your digestive tract is having trouble
getting it into the bloodstream and
that's because it's hydro phobic but she
has about to transport and that is
called the chylomicron a lipoprotein now
the chylomicron is kind of like a waiter
it's moving around your bloodstream
going to these different cells and oh
one of the cells would like a
triglyceride and now that all of the
triglycerides are off of the chylomicron
it then gets absorbed by the liver
however you're not always eating right
so at a certain point you are fasting
you hear much about fasting at this
conference your body should be in a
state of fasting not just overnight but
also between meals so then what happens
don't we still have some cells that need
energy you can tell that's by the way
the signal that you know the cells need
the energy well fortunately the liver
can help out and it does so using the
fat cells
the liver has its own boat known as a
VLDL and there it is
with fat cells ultimately supplying
those triglycerides through the liver to
the boat and now it does the same thing
that chylomicrons were doing but from
its own boat
go ahead and now that it's relieved of
all of its triglycerides
unlike the chylomicron it has a second
job it is an LDL particle so now it has
things you hardly ever hear about one of
those for example is that it actually
helps to neutralize pathogens it does so
with something known as vitamin E ooh
was a nice ring but now that it's
totally out of vitamin E what can it do
with this last pathogen that's coming
forward well fortunately it can bind to
that pathogen to help clear it
and that ladies and gentlemen is your
lipid system at work as we see it now
thank you so much oh my gosh we were
gonna do a a theater bow here we go
okay get one more big round of applause
for everybody you volunteered for this
thank you guys so much so now if I could
get my presentation up I think we'll be
ready to get started hopefully this
isn't double making me all right keto
and cholesterol so it's kind of a
sentiment that I've seen the entire time
I've been working in this and it's will
be actually three years next month but
very early on in the literature
I saw effectively what you see in this
cartoon which if you can't read it says
we already know the killer is
cholesterol we just need to get enough
evidence to prove it and that's
effectively what I've seen over and over
again and again I'm an engineer like
Iver you can't say something like hey
we're at risk for a meteor strike and
it's incumbent on me to prove you wrong
it's up to you to actually prove the
meteor strike is in fact imminent that
we should do something about it so let's
go back before three years ago in my own
health journey this was what I would
call my fighting weight and I don't know
if any of you guys have ever done this
I've done this when I was running and
yet I still somehow had a gut if I knew
I was coming up on a camera while
running I try to suck in my gut I try to
get the shot right well I certainly may
not be able to see my gut in these shots
but you can certainly see my neck in my
face I was definitely a lot puffier this
next picture was actually my engagement
photos with my wife
and at that time I weighed quite a bit
more than I do now well this is me now
start Quito in April 2015 lost 25 pounds
and the big moment again was about three
years ago next month I became obsessed
with cholesterol research since seeing
my total and LDL cholesterol skyrocket
and after that I began extensive in
tawan experiments to learn more and for
those of you in the room who know what I
mean by extensive in of one experiments
you know the inside joke for those of
you don't let's have a little journey
together so I take metrics constantly
this is back these are old pictures you
can tell because I have a precision
extra when in fact I like to use keto
mojo all the time now I have it for both
glucose for ketones I do blood pressure
I do like a whole bunch of metrics but
this is probably what I'm most known for
I take a picture of every single thing
that I ingest everything in fact at
every conference I make everyone aware
of this I will give you $100 if you can
capture me
ingesting anything that I didn't already
take a picture of first but I'm gonna
warn you my wife hasn't collected on
that so it's not looking good yes this
is literally everything you may have
noticed my left hand appears in it and
that's so that there's always a
reference for volume so if I'm not
actually weighing it I can be sure that
I know approximately what the quantity
is but a lot of times I weigh it as well
like you see I'm doing here with the
shredded cheese and when I say
everything I'm not talking just
foodstuffs I'm talking also supplements
and yes
even water every single sip of water
that I've had I even have a symbol by
the way for when I go to a water
fountain and I hold up how many fingers
for how many gulps that I've done now
why am I doing this why am i capturing
every single thing I'm eating this
obsessively well they have to match with
my blood tests how many blood tests have
I had I've had about a hundred and five
in the last 35 months since my research
has begun and the reason I emphasize
this is because I take the data that I'm
collecting very seriously to the extent
to where when I'm doing these
experiments
I can show you just how tightly
controlled it is that's what's going to
bring me about to the inversion pattern
now for those of you are not familiar
with my work this will be quite amazing
because this is really the model at the
end of the day as to why it is that it
relates back to me as a software
engineer
I saw early on that this looked like a
network but these different things talk
to each other and that's part of why I
was happy to put that play on just now
was because you can't look at the lipid
system in a static manner you have to
look at it in a dynamic manner and once
you do and particularly the more you can
kind of understand networks and software
engineering in my opinion the more you
can get why it can be the way that does
and how well it can function so about I
want to say two and a half years ago I
was at low-carb ville and I brought
these eight data points
that was back when I had only eight
blood tests and I took them over three
months and as you could probably see by
that dotted orange line it seems to
reflect what's going on above it in that
sort of solid blue line that dotted
orange line is a three-day average of my
dietary fat that solid blue line that's
my LDL cholesterol so I took that to
low-carb Bale and I stocked all of the
different doctors there the different
researchers and so forth but I actually
happen to have a great conversation with
Ivor Cummins as it happens to be the one
other major engineer there and sure
enough I said you know what I'm gonna do
this I once I get home
because this was taken over three months
and it was about every like 13 14 days
I'm gonna actually do one full week
where I actually eat to a meal plan like
you see here so that I can induce a
curve to see if the LDL cholesterol will
even follow it when I'm doing it one day
after the next actually was going into
the phlebotomist getting my blood drawn
every single day so what happened that
happen sure enough we see the reflection
shown and then of course for my next one
I said well heck what if I just go gin
the fat what if I have tons and tons of
it well we then see the lowest LDL see
that I got since I started since then
you can see with 29 data points the very
beginning of my research what is clearly
what I would call the inversion pattern
and I'm gonna flip the axes on the left
side flip it so that you can actually
see how well it retrofits when you can
see the inversion together
unquestionably one of the most amazing
things that I've ever seen and it's
amazing to me even more so that I'm
actually just looking at nutrition
labels coming to the macros and from the
macros ultimately being able to predict
accurately what the cholesterol levels
will be in my blood now for those of you
who are actually rendered the statistics
mumbo-jumbo the Pearson and the
regression those are amazing scores
and this is what I call the inversion
pattern the dietary fat inversion for
LDL seen it's really quite simple I'm
right now recording this on a Saturday
so if I were to have taken my blood this
morning I would look backwards three
days the Friday yesterday and the
Thursday before that and then the
Wednesday before that and from those
three days I feel that I can make it
fairly strong guess as to what my
resulting LDL cholesterol would be now
how is it that I can get to that well
I'm going to explain the model to you
and I'm going to warn you this may be
one of the more technical areas but for
the mumbo-jumbo slides don't worry I'm
gonna slow down and walk you through it
now this is one of those slides the
truth is this is what you hear about all
the time in the ketogenic community and
even outside the ketogenic community
that carbs and protein can be converted
to glucose okay that's great
you also hear all the time about how fat
can be converted to ketones and that's
true but here's the thing you don't
often hear about it you don't often hear
about how fat can be delivered directly
to cells until just a moment ago with
our little play showing how they can get
transported in these boats
so these are the other pathways by which
fatty acids can come directly to your
cells but I want to focus on one
particular one I want to focus on the
one that includes that word I want you
to remember
there's any word I want you to remember
past this it's triglycerides try as in
three fatty acids three fatty acids
they're bundled up and they are
basically the stored form of fat and
they're loaded onto these boats that
your body makes and then sends around
your bloodstream and I'm going to go
off-script for just a sec does anyone
know about what measurement just what
total quantity of LDL particles you have
in your blood stream right now is anyone
want to guess no millions I mean you
think millions how many think trillions
obviously it's a trick question it's
millions of trillions it's known as a
quintillion and it's a one followed by
18 zeros your body makes these in large
quantities every single week it actually
will synthesize and then reabsorb these
at very high quantities so it's very
keen to be sure that it delivers these
triglycerides and ultimately then
remodel back to LDL particles so putting
it pretty simply if you were to think of
a boat as a lipoprotein like this cruise
ship what are the passengers passengers
are triglycerides it's right okay so
what's the cholesterol on this
cholesterol is the life rafts what is
the purpose of a cruise ship the cruise
ships purpose is actually to mainly move
around the passengers the cruise ships
purpose is not mainly to move around the
life rafts however you wouldn't get on a
cruise ship that didn't have life rafts
so you do still want the life rafts it's
still very relevant and you'll see why a
little bit more later so this is where
I'm gonna kind of break it out into a
little bit of a diagram and what's neat
is because of the play beforehand and
everything else we're helping to kind of
set you up a little bit more
so now let's define what is an Apple
lipoprotein okay so it's an additional
protein that binds to the lipid so you
remember these little boats called the
lipoprotein there's five different ones
that have different ratios of protein
cholesterol triglycerides they're
carrying vitamin E as the antioxidant so
the Apple lipoprotein is basically the
captain of this ship that's directing
what's occurring and we also have
phospholipids which is another type of
lipid that is used in making cellular
membranes so now different
apolipoproteins do different jobs and
they have different names okay their
name simply ABCDE h j l m and they have
also subclasses of names so a would have
a subclass of different names B could
have a subclass so LD L uses Apple B HDL
uses Apple a and IDL uses Apple II so
you can see that these things right here
have different effects for each one of
these so what actually do they do well
they have several things that they do so
number one they would activate certain
enzymes to help the conversion of a VLDL
to an IDL to an LDL so basically they're
they're making the fat dissolve from an
enzyme called lipase and then I'm
helping this unload so they can convert
to this end product right here they're
also involved in transporting or
directing the boats to through the
circulation through the limp to the
cells and they're also involved in a
communication of where they start to
where they're supposed to end up so very
simply an apple lipoprotein is the
captain of the boat or the ship and
without them these lipoproteins would be
a mindless bag of fat and cholesterol we
talked about the chylomicrons they came
from the small intestine they came from
food you just ate they got loaded up
with those triglycerides a nice big
payload and then they got sent on their
way to then go ahead and provide that to
your tissues as soon as possible and
once they did and they lost their cargo
they then ultimately get
absorbed back at the liver but there's
also a line that comes from the liver
primarily of triglycerides that came
ultimately from your fat stores from
your body so when you're fasting you
absolutely are pulling more of those
triglycerides into these vldls to then
move around and they move into something
known as ideals intermediate density
lipoproteins which can also be absorbed
and this is the story of energy delivery
at least in terms of fatty acids direct
delivery so now let's talk about this
other part of what lipoproteins do
because it's not just energy delivery
their support you guys have all heard
about HDL the so-called good cholesterol
what they really mean is the cholesterol
found inside these lipoproteins these
boats and these are in fact very good
they're very good in your system you
want them operating and doing very well
you just like to see your HDL
cholesterol very high well they also
work closely with LDL particles the so
called bad cholesterol but of course
what they mean is the cholesterol found
in low-density lipoproteins the boat now
you notice this is the one line that's
pulling double-duty
you see chylomicrons they're pretty much
delivering energy HDL is pretty much in
a support role this is the energy
delivery this is the support only only
the purple line only vldls to ideals to
LDLs have two jobs
the first job being energy delivery the
second job being in its support role and
I showed you a couple of those support
roles for example in being able to clear
pathogens and also neutralizing free
radicals with vitamin E also known as
alpha tocopheryl you don't need to
remember that just remember the vitamin
E so now you have to say okay now hold
on I've heard that high v LDLs and
triglycerides are associated with
disease that's true if they're lingering
how do you know if they're lingering you
know because it comes up in your blood
test so oftentimes when I'm telling
people about triglyceride so you're
being
fueled by triglycerides they go and
understand Dave I don't understand
I see that my triglycerides have dropped
well that's correct because your usage
of triglycerides has gone up you're now
using your fat at a much higher degree
and therefore there's less and less
triglycerides per boat and that might
mean that there's more LDL particles
that started out as vldls that deliver
the fatty acids you following me all
right so now let's talk about my low
carb cholesterol challenge I'm gonna
keep putting this into my presentations
until it finally gets answered but I'm
gonna say about eight months ago I open
this challenge and I wanted to put it
out to all sorts of different people I
paint a lot of Lokar a lot of
lipid-lowering experts people who are
not necessarily low-carb who say look
you guys are getting overly comforted
when you have high LDL cholesterol just
because you have high HDL cholesterol
and low triglycerides I'm gonna
constantly call this the triad
those three together and I said that
okay great so why don't we start looking
at the studies that actually examine all
three of these together the high LDL
cholesterol that so-called bad
cholesterol the high HDL cholesterol
it's so-called good cholesterol the low
triglycerides because from what I'm
seeing doesn't look as if there is as
much of a problem but I want to see some
conflicting data so I had this up eight
months ago for six months while I had
this up I got no studies they have done
studies from the other direction again
studies that have shown the opposite
including from our friends at Framingham
this actually was about four thousand
different people and what I loved about
this was it also excluded users of
lipid-lowering therapy so you have a
nice fresh batch of people who didn't
already have cardiovascular disease at
baseline to see what a difference it
would make for them with heart disease
and this is what we saw I'm sorry is a
little bit mumbo jumbo but the o.r above
is called the odds ratio generally you
want that to be as low as possible
people everybody with an LDL cholesterol
higher than 100 so long as they had
low triglycerides in high HDL we're
doing fantastic well okay maybe this was
including those people who had like say
an LDL of 102 or 103 so fortunately on
the same chart we also have people who
have an LDL above 130 now that's a lot
higher but guess what it's the same 0.7
now we're talking significantly higher
levels of LDL cholesterol it's still so
much better but I actually got another
study this one I liked even more because
in this case they were actually using
men who of course are tend to be a lot
higher risk for hardy vascular disease
around 3,000 of them 53 to 74 and they
divided the group by those who have an
LDL of a hundred and seventy or less a
hundred and seventy or less that's
extremely high or so we're told to one
hundred and seventy or more but if you
look the darkened bar on the left side
is HDL cholesterol that is above fifty
seven triglycerides below ninety seven
that's the tertiary if the line is
almost identical on both sides whether
you had whether you had a high or low
LDL cholesterol you ended up in better
shape regardless so long as your HDL was
high the difference is less than two
thirds and 1% but I really want to call
your attention to even more strikingly
at the top end at the risk level where
your HDL is low and your triglycerides
are high that's nearly identical
regardless of your LDL so I can't help
it I keep looking at data like this and
I say low LDL high LDL does it seem to
matter as much as HDL and triglycerides
now through a little more humor on it I
said I had that challenge up for six
months two months ago as of two days
coming I went ahead and put some money
behind it so I actually I actually I put
it out there that I would like to give
three hundred dollars to anybody who can
find me at least one study just
one study that showed those people who
have high HDL and low triglycerides with
high LDL would have a higher rate of
cardiovascular disease and I even made
it not even high I said just above
average and I wanted to use the numbers
that the American Heart Association a
lot of different like heart.org for
example just just just above average and
I've yet to see one study and I've now
put money behind it I have not spent one
time of that bounty thus far so with
that in mind I'm gonna show you some
very very surprising data that came out
of the most recent experiment that I did
with the weight gain and this experiment
before I start talking about it I want
to emphasize to everybody don't do this
there are a number of experiments that I
kind of have - okey half knots aid I'm
doing this so that you don't have to
this experiment in particular some
people get inspired to do experiments
like I've done this is not one of them I
actually knew I'd need to induce a state
of hyperinsulinemia to accomplish this
but I had an opportunity scenario you
see I still had some weight left over
from a previous couple of experiments my
capstone in my sugar experiments
you have to read up on my blog to hear
about that I know how crazy that sounds
and I had an upcoming trip with an
understanding wife can I just set the
scene there was one night where I walk
into the bedroom and she's reading and I
go you know honey had really helped my
research a lot if I could gain about 20
pounds of fat that's how awesome she is
so you know okay who are the experiment
upsides obviously this was a chance to
observe and compare cholesterol at
higher weight on a standard American
diet and to observe what happens when we
change over to ketogenic diet almost all
of that data will be available on the
blog soon but there was an obvious
experiment downside there is short and
long-term risks
I knew this going in and I made this
clear to my wife and I made this clear
to everybody else which is why I don't
want anyone else to do this obviously
inducing a high level hyperinsulinemia
is not recommended under any
circumstance just avoid that in general
if there's anything you take from this
conference it's that so you can actually
see this in the media that I was doing
it around the time of the experiment you
can see my face gets a lot puffy or my
neck gets puffy or etc and this was the
timeline is fairly straightforward Oh
kind of cuts it off a little bit but you
can see I was a little bit of a ramp up
but it's mainly through the month of
April that I'm actually gaining this
weight and here's what I was eating
bread a lot of bread I had a lot of
cheesy bread I had a lot of sandwiches
and I had that's like a chunky steak
meat pie that I was getting from a place
called pie-faced in Australia and I
actually intentionally avoided a lot of
sugary treats because I just wanted to
see you know what would come up with
just a lot of starchy foods just just in
case you were curious works like a charm
in lots of weight I hadn't yet gained my
my goal weight of 205 so fortunately I
was moving now into a new phase of the
timeline which is for five days I'd be
doing a controlled standard American
diet experiment by that I mean I'd be
eating to a particular plan what does
that plan look like looks like this at
10 a.m. I'd have a footlong Subway
sandwich at 3 p.m. I would have a medium
pepperoni pizza and then at a p.m. I to
have another footlong Subway sandwich
total calories 4217 hungry do you think
I gain weight
I gained weight that didn't quite give
me to my 205 but I was I was really
ready to stop it there by the way for
anybody who's contemplating leaving he
doe going I wonder what it's like to be
like this I wonder if they've really
enjoyed it you really honestly did not
enjoy it I'm gonna say there's only one
thing I find that I miss when I ever I
do these experiments that take me back
to carbs and I'll be honest about this
it's the hand-holding part that you
don't have to use like knives and forks
as much that's it that's all anything
else I feel like I get just fine with
keto so okay I'd then take a huge number
of tests and I want to point just to one
in particular that third one from the
left up there that's my blood pressure
it reads 140 over 86 I'm telling you my
blood pressure normally is around I want
to say 104 over 71 maybe so I really was
ready to step off this experiment I was
getting quite a bit concern now I then
took a whole bunch of blood tests you
only need to be you don't need to pay
attention to that but then I finally got
to move to the keto phase which was a
lot more refreshing now I got to have
sausage scrambled eggs and I did have to
keep it somewhat mundane so that I could
control for all the variables so it
otherwise was a lot of cheese and
hard-boiled eggs with some almonds this
was a lot better 2437 calories total
carbs 20 and this is effectively what
the controlled phase moving into the
other control phase of the key to look
like so I was literally eating the same
thing in about the same way every single
day and as I like to joke it's kind of
like Groundhog Day I like when the
audience laughs that because I don't
feel as old when I say that and so now
if we look at my triglycerides versus
the way my triglycerides in the blood
versus the way we can't really tell a
lot and that's because this isn't a
relative comparison but what if I take
my relative or if I take my weight and
actually do a relative comparison so
that we can see what's happening between
that five-pound Delta well we see that
it looks like this striking my
triglycerides were much higher during
the standard American diet started
dropping as I started dropping weight
but here
the kicker how many of you guys have
heard show of hands how many guys have
heard that your LDL cholesterol can go
up as you're losing weight well I've
been hearing this for years and as the
cholesterol guy I really wanted to know
and now this was my one chance going
from a standard American diet to keto
and losing weight at the same time I
finally got to find out and this is what
that looks like
my LDL cholesterol had started at a much
lower level at 133 which I'm sure my
doctor would have been a lot happier
with and then as I started losing the
weight it jumped up to 228 that's a
change of over a hundred milligrams per
deciliter or close to a hundred
milligrams per deciliter through a delta
of just five pounds of weight loss so
without question from now on whenever
anybody is actively losing weight I say
just don't even look at your lipids but
don't even bother with it right this is
what it looks like when we invert the
pattern it's actually quite striking and
the pure scent is amazing it at point
nine three six okay now I've got some
new data you'll notice this table over
here is now starting to pay attention
they were used to my other stuff so this
is the resistance training experiment
now enough you guys have heard but I was
on a podcast recently otherwise I was
the Peter Atia drive and I had a habit
of doing this I have a habit of
announcing my hypotheses in advance
publicly I by the way I had a friend who
said you shouldn't do that because
you're gonna eventually embarrass
yourself I said I thought that actually
was what science was is too you know put
forth your hypothesis before you test
the experiment and he said and by the
way he's a PhD grad he goes well not
anymore so I'm going to tell you them
this is the mumbo jumbo and then I have
a translation one for the next one so
I'm gonna read this aloud again more
Theory this is me talking to Peter I'm
actually going to be testing intensive
exercise myself in the next series of
experiments that I'm doing there is a
difference between those people who are
doing things like say endurance running
and those who are weightlifting or
resistance training in that I think
there is a greater overall gradient of
reset
Durr mediated endocytosis for muscle
repair and growth don't worry
translation coming I could be wrong
about that but I'll be very curious to
see if it turns out to be the case when
I'm doing it myself and here's the
translation of what I really said I said
I think when you make your muscles sore
they eat LDL particles to repair and
grow I hadn't yet done this experiment
at the time that I did the podcast so I
was very excited to do it this ended up
being the longest controlled experiment
well before I get started let me tell
you how I thought of that well you see
this is a cell membrane and a cell
membrane is made up of two things
especially phospholipids it's a kind of
lipid and cholesterol that's what that
little orange guy is there right what's
a low-density lipoprotein made up of
it's made up of phospholipids and you
get one guess Wester all okay so why is
there this process that cells have halt
that long word I used before receptor
mediated endocytosis basically the
engulfing of a lipoprotein why do they
have that well i had speculated for some
time that that's because it's for raw
material certainly they would say cells
have enough on hand to be able to repair
and synthesize their own cholesterol for
the most part I think that they're right
but what if the man climbs if you're
stuck in your home you may have enough
in your garage to be able to do repairs
to your drywall what if you don't have
enough wouldn't it be great if Home
Depot was driving by your house every
five minutes saying aide you need
anything doing anything so my theory was
very simple I believed that if I could
control for every other thing that there
was that if I did some intensive
exercise I would see a drop in my LDL
cholesterol because there'd be a drop in
my LDL particle count but in order to do
that I would need to like live my life
the same way day after day after day I
think I could do that okay that was the
plan try to keep everything identical
from one day to the next for 20
days straight so I need to have a big
washout period so I can be sure that I
had a baseline and that was gonna have
the same things the same way every day
but on top of that also control for
exercise I did my usual 2.5 miles of
walking in the afternoon every time and
this is what that looked like no these
are not duplicate pictures this is
literally the pictures they took on
those days and at those times so I
wanted to be sure I control for
everything that I could including even
sleep which I wasn't always as
successful with and this is what it
looked like this was all of my lipid
numbers taken for my cardio check day
after day up until the first
intervention period then this is what
happened we see not only does it dip
down but actually it starts to come back
up right around the time I happen to be
doing the second intervention phase and
what did that look like that look like
this you can actually see clearly very
well delineated an intervention phase
one we see a drop of around 11% on
intervention phase two where I actually
really hit it I did the weights I went
to the gym and I also got vibration
plates my LDL cholesterol dropped 13%
keeping all other things the same now I
can't prove that that was entirely into
cytosis I don't even know for sure how
much of that it was into scientists but
do I believe that that's still the case
yes what does it take to do that it
takes this takes being able to isolate
every other variable this was also one
other thing I just wanted to point out
that I thought was fascinating as you
can see on the intervention phase I was
also doing glucose versus ketones the
glucose are in the blue at the top the
glucose actually didn't change that much
but the key talents sure did he tone
production actually went up quite a bit
or I should say perhaps the overage
would have quite a bit because we can't
actually see the uptake coming into the
cells I thought that was actually quite
fascinating as you can see it starts to
taper back down toward the end of the
experiment now I told you about the fat
experiment I actually want to come back
to because one of the most powerful
slides I have in any presentation I'm
going to show you now and it's really
gonna drive home a lot of how I
understand LDL cholesterol and
why it is that I still have the state of
uncertainty that I do as far as its risk
so the carotid intima-media thickness
test is a test along the carotid
arteries that are along the side of your
neck and it's supposed to be effectively
in his used in many studies as a proxy
for a thorough sporadic burden what it's
trying to do is measure both the
thickness of your intima and your media
together now I have been tracking mine
every six months starting in July of
2016
every six months to my surprise and
appreciation my left carotid artery was
slowly regressing not progressing it
should actually be staying the same or
going up with my age that's the normal
progression but yet it was actually
going down my right carotid artery
started much higher started at 600 I
want to say around 680 something along
those lines it actually dropped about a
hundred and fifty nanometers while I was
on this ketogenic diet but you remember
I then after we go through all of this I
then go ahead and have the standard
American diet experiment I take my C IMT
toward the end of that standard American
diet experiment and I'll say I was
speculating there was a chance that
might move north right well sure enough
the left carotid artery jumped up higher
than it had ever been before the right
likewise in fact if you add that last
line you can see just what a pronounced
difference it is following four weeks of
a standard American experiment standard
American diet experiment I really have
to say for any of you guys who right now
are thinking you know what I think I'm
gonna take a break from keto for the
holidays
I want this burned into your head now
obviously I can be somewhat jovial about
it because I am banking on the
regression restarting again and if in
fact that turns out to be true that'll
be some pretty powerful data there's me
making another public hypothesis about
my data we'll see how that turns out now
this went from the lowest ever on both
sides both sides not one side to the
highest ever on both sides showing just
how much of a difference it makes but
this is the part that's going to bring
it home you see I already read in the
literature several times one of the
contributing factors not just to a
thorough score attic plaque but in
particular to the carotid intima-media
thickness is as you can see highlighted
a high lipoprotein levels high
lipoprotein levels yet look closely if
we add this last column on ldlc and LDL
P I was averaging 200 LDL 200 milligrams
per deciliter of LDL 200 or more
throughout this period of time and my
LDL particle count was 2,000 or more
both considered well into the 90th
percentile of risk at those levels my
left and right carotid arteries were
regressing so what happened to my LDL
see in my LDL P I'll give you a hint
when I did the standard American diet as
I hypothesized would happen my LDL see
dropped to what it was before I started
keto how much did it drop dropped to 130
my LDL particle was what would be
considered a much more attractive 1130
so if you were looking at this chart
alone and you were saying hey what's the
best thing that I could do to help
regress the thickness of my intima you
would come to the conclusion the thing I
was doing in the first four rows makes
more sense than the thing I did in the
last row that's why this data is so
powerful even though it's only ten data
points so far I want to do one big thank
you to my patrons I want to emphasize
something to all of you I take no money
from any corporate entity in order to
maintain the integrity of my data and so
I'm fortunate
to have literally a hundred and sixty
plus people who actually directly
support my patreon which makes this
research possible could you please give
them a round of applause for me
and thank you so much for your time I
really appreciate it I'm really in love
in this conference thank you so much
you
