there are thousands of different types
of exercise routines that you can do
and they all of them claim that they're
the best
what i want to do today is show you
what's behind exercise so you can
understand the anatomy of exercise and
think with the underlying principles so
you're not locked into a pattern of
exercise or you end up doing some
exercise that is a complete waste of
time the goal i would think with
exercise is to
get the maximum benefit with the minimal
amount of time but to do that
you really need to just understand
two simple definitions okay
and so all of exercise really comes down
to two different
types of exercise you have anaerobic
exercise that means without oxygen then
you have aerobic exercise which means
with oxygen
and let me just differentiate this
definition because there's two different
definitions for aerobic you have
aerobic type routine where you're going
to do this like i don't know dance
routine or something like that within
like 45 minutes versus another
definition which means with oxygen okay
so at the cellular level depending on
what type of exercise you do
you're going to be using this system
or this system
and there's a lot of variations in
between but
just understanding these two okay and
how these certain variables are
different between this exercise and this
will allow everything just to make sense
for you and now you have the ability to
adjust these factors to really maximize
your results and actually not waste any
more time
so let's take a look at this check this
out anaerobic right if you're going to
exercise without oxygen
what do you think the duration of an
exercise going to be how long can you
hold your breath
not very long okay so
the duration
for this type of exercise is very very
short okay
with air it's very very long so then
let's look at intensity the intensity of
the anaerobic exercise is going to be
high
the intensity of the aerobic is going to
be low the recovery from this type of
exercise because the intensity is so
high
is going to be a lot longer because you
are creating a lot more damage to the
muscle versus having a low intensity
exercise you're not creating a lot of
damage so your recovery is going to be
very very short and then of course the
frequency of this exercise should be a
lot less
and this can be a lot more
but let's first start with the goal okay
the goal of this type of exercise is to
increase muscle stimulation increase
muscle growth
increase muscle strength of the body as
well as increasing the speed of how fast
you can go okay versus the goal of this
system
is to create more endurance
more capacity to go longer without
fatigue
so the question is what type of exercise
should you do
you should do a combination of both
because you do want to at least maintain
your muscles okay and of course having
endurance is really important too
because you don't want to be walking up
a
hill and just get out of breath just
immediately you want that endurance for
many different reasons cardiovascular
health longevity etc sometimes you hear
the concept that if you do a
high intensity interval training workout
for seven minutes you'll get the same
benefits as an hour of
walking on the treadmill well the
question is what benefits are you
looking at because
the benefits from either one are
different i mean this type of exercise
will lower cortisol this will increase
cortisol at least temporarily
this system right here because it's
using oxygen
will oxidize
more fat
okay during the workout this system
right here burns mainly sugar and
glucose in the muscle
but the hormone activation will cause
you to burn fat
24 to 48 hours later when you're
sleeping so really when you're comparing
these workouts it's not really fair to
say which one is better or worse so you
really need to just understand the
differences between both of them so you
can actually use the information and
tailor make your workout to your goal
but let's first talk about anaerobic
type exercise
there is
some great information by mike metzer
who basically was the first person to
win mr universe with a perfect score he
wrote multiple books but he really
talked about
intensity training and i want to share a
couple principles that i really
think are valid and you can use these
principles in many different ways mike
was all about maximum benefit and
minimum time and he talks about this
variable intensity which is a very
important variable especially if you're
trying to grow muscle or even maintain
muscle the more intense you exercise and
let me just clarify that i'm talking
about using
maximum effort
to create complete muscle fatigue to the
point where
you cannot do even one more rep okay so
that's what i mean by high intensity so
you're creating enough stimulus to the
muscle where you're doing at least six
reps okay six to nine reps but you can't
go more than six to nine reps no matter
what you are at your maximum your body
won't let you go any further
and that is going to create enough
stimulus and enough damage to the muscle
to create a repair action in the
recovery phase which will then make you
stronger but here's the interesting
thing about that if you're going to
create that much intensity and that much
stimulus
the recovery is going to be very long
and i'm talking about 7 to 14 days okay
so let's say you work out right and you
recover within
i don't know a day or two all that means
is that your intensity was not at a
hundred percent and you didn't create
complete muscle fatigue well of course
you have other factors too uh an average
person is not going to jump right into
that type of workout and also if you're
older like me 57
you're not going to jump into that
either especially if you have joint
arthritis or some type of disc problem
in fact you have to be kind of healthy
to do it at this degree however the
concept of this is important you can
take a variation of this what we're
trying to do is create enough intensity
up to your ability to tolerate that
intensity so then the hormones the body
chemicals the enzymes can come in there
and repair and build a stronger body but
the key is letting your body recover to
the point where you're fully recovered
now how do you know if you fully
recovered it is a bit of an arbitrary
thing because it's subjective um it's
how you feel
did the soreness go away are you at the
point where your body is like ready yes
i am ready to work out i mean there's so
many times that i worked out where let's
say even the second or third day i'm
like i'm not ready yet i'm just not
feeling it i'm feeling tired i'm feeling
like sore i'm just gonna wait so this is
very important
waiting till you have a full recovery
before you do the next cycle of exercise
and then you're playing with these two
variables increasing your intensity over
time and then increasing the recovery
and then you'll find as you get more fit
and the muscles respond your recovery
time will be a little bit less but it's
okay to wait seven to even 14 days
to fully recover after a really hardcore
workout now let's compare that to a
moderate amount of intensity okay
first of all you're not going to get a
sore you're not going to get as much
stimulation to the muscle you're not
going to get as much strength or muscle
mass or speed because
the trigger for all of this is the
intensity so it's really all about
intensity however you'll get some
benefits but you're going to spend a lot
more time in the gym with duration
because your intensity is not high and
how many people do you see at the gym
using these moderate weights or these
exercise equipment that they're doing i
don't know seven sets eight sets ten
sets thinking that that is the thing
that they need to do the complete muscle
fatigue
pushing to failure
is the single most important factor in
getting to your goals so if you really
build up to this level you're only going
to be working out like once or twice a
week now i'm talking about the anaerobic
workout
this workout i would recommend to do
you know more frequently three times a
week for me it's daily
because i can recover in 24 hours okay
because i'm doing you know light
intensity type activities walking hiking
yoga i do pilates and now i'm doing
gyrotonics which is a completely
different
exercise where you're working range of
motion type stretching type things which
you're not really getting tired in an
exercise but i'm doing it for more of a
joint rehab and so the lower intensity
the more aerobic the longer you're
probably going to have to do the workout
like 60 plus minutes for a workout right
but you can pretty much do that every
day or every other day depending on the
intensity so your recovery is much
shorter the frequency of working out is
going to be more with the end result of
having more cardiovascular endurance as
well as muscle enduring so you can go
longer now there are so many other
exercises that are in between here you
have
jogging cycling swimming at various
intensities dancing
spin bike
and it can go from high intensity to low
intensity but like i said before based
on an intensity i mean if you're cycling
up a hill
and you're you're going as hard as you
can to muscle failure that would be
something that would stimulate muscle
growth to a certain degree you're going
to get sore the next day and it's going
to take time to recover it might not
take a week of recovery but maybe it
takes two or three days to recover
and then you start the cycle over again
same thing with spin bike let's say you
go as hard as you can until like you hit
a wall you cannot go any further right
so let's take another example high
intensity interval training like
sprinting right can you do an all-out
sprint
for five minutes no
maybe you could do it for 30 seconds if
you can do it for longer that just means
your intensity is a little bit lower so
this is all about adjusting the
intensity to your body at first to see
what you can tolerate to be able to fit
into wherever you are on this scale
right here
but anyway i wanted to give you some
background principles of exercise so you
can think with the information and then
apply the right exercise to where you
are at with your recovery and
what you want to achieve
now the next most important video to
watch would be on this recovery capacity
there are things you can do to increase
your recovery and that is the next video
you should check out i put it up right
here
