so I recently had a question about
alcohol can I drink on a keto in in a
minute fasting plan because after all
you know at zero carbs and I'm not going
to do wine or beer I'm just gonna do
hard liquor so even the dietary
guidelines about the USDA said that you
know one drink a day for women and two
drinks a day for men so it can't be that
bad that's pretty much drinking in
moderation and there's probably certain
antioxidants in the alcohol so it
shouldn't hurt me too bad right well
let's just take a look at a couple
things okay so alcohol even no certain
types of alcohol is zero carbohydrates
it it's a solvent it acts as a poison or
a toxin to the liver it kills liver
cells it kills brain cells it leads to a
fatty liver in fact ninety to a hundred
percent of alcoholics have a fatty liver
and then that leads to inflammation and
then fibrosis and then cirrhosis once
cirrhosis sets in which is scar tissue
around the liver I think it's going to
be not just difficult to reverse that if
not impossible to reverse that so you
don't want to get to that point but
alcohol does deplete vitamins especially
B vitamins it dehydrates you and it
blocks fat-burning okay so it's gonna
knock you out of fat-burning so let's
say for example it's a Friday night and
you drink just kind of realize you're
not going to burn fat for at least 48
hours so the question is can you drink
when you're doing keto well of course
you can as long as you're willing to
experience these effects and not burn
fat for several days hey you know what I
just want to say thank you for watching
these videos you made it this far I
appreciate your attention and your
precious time
