all right today we're going to talk
about 7 things to do after someone
experiences a stroke now what happens
when you get a stroke is you get hypoxia
so you have a blood clot in the brain
and you start killing neurons so you
damaged brain tissue so you have this
lowered amount of oxygen that then
causes the brain tissue the brain tissue
is very sensitive to oxygen and it does
not survive without oxygen in fact your
brain only represents 2 percent of the
tissue in your body but it uses 20% of
the oxygen so you need oxygen to keep
the brain going so what do you do for a
stroke well the question is well how do
you increase oxygen in the brain that's
what you need to focus on the single
most important thing that I would
recommend and to do this as quickly as
possible is to do hyperbaric oxygen
therapy because what they do is they
combine pure oxygen well it's probably
like 99.5% oxygen under pressure so it
pushes all this oxygen through your
lungs up into the into the blood up into
the brain so it can really help heal the
damage after a stroke so this would be
number one number two ketones now why do
ketones help the brain well they
actually give you more oxygen glucose
does not give you as much oxygen as
ketones and ketones are wonderful on
providing an alternative fuel for
especially a damaged brain now how do
you do that exogenous ketones you can
get these as supplements called ketone
salts and I would consume these through
the day so even if the person doesn't
change a diet which we recommend they do
and they have higher glucose if there's
ketones in the blood because you took
this the brain will use the ketones over
the glucose MCT oil can also give you
ketones going on a low-carb diet can
give you more ketones and in a minute
fasting can spike your ketone levels so
all of these are essential if you had a
stroke the worst thing to do is stick
with the standard American diet and
snack okay
that would be the worst thing you can do
DHA is also very important this is an
omega-3 fatty acid and your brain needs
that as a part of its structure this has
been shown to help improve a damaged
brain so I would consume a good amount
of it vitamin D can help repair a
damaged brain lots of exercise will
flood the body in the brain with o2 and
I would definitely want to include long
walks low stress lots of oxygen very
very important now there's something
else that you may want to consider it is
called acute intermittent hypoxia now
this is interesting because you're
basically creating a hypoxic state with
a very short period of time and then
you're increasing oxygen back and forth
because anytime you're taking away
oxygen on a very short-term basis and
then putting it back in you're creating
what's called a hormetic effect so
you're causing a stimulation of certain
genes that increase the growth of brain
tissue
so the key the term is intermittent okay
not a chronic state where you're cutting
down the oxygen but just a little bit I
mean there's certain people that train
under hypoxic conditions when they're
training in high altitudes for example
that then can strengthen their their
circulation and their endurance yet
there's some great data on this in
relationship to people who had strokes
up and a link down below and the last
thing is whole about M&C complex now
normally vitamin C comes as a synthetic
fraction of the entire complex but the
entire vitamin C complex that has all
the factors can help strengthen the
blood vessels to prevent a stroke in the
future especially when you're dealing
with aneurysms and weaknesses within the
blood vessel itself all right there you
have it the seven things that a person
should do after they experience a stroke
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
