if you have mitol valve prolapse
syndrome today we're going to talk about
the number one nutrient deficiency in
this syndrome the first question is what
is mitol valve prolapse well you have
these valves in the heart they're little
doors that open and shut and if they can
close and open correctly the motor the
pump is very efficient and you feel
great everything's fine but with the
mitro valve prolapse they're kind of
floppy they kind of leak they're kind of
large and they can bulge and this
bulging is called prolapse okay prolapse
is kind of a displaced tissue from the
normal position so we have the valve in
the wrong position it's just not correct
and from that you get a lot of
inefficiency of this heart pumping
action and this creates various symptoms
like weakness fatigue palpitations
anxiety shortness of breath and if you
look this condition up a lot of times
you'll see a word connected to it called
ideopathic that basically means we don't
know what causes it and this condition
is usually treated with either beta
blockers or a calcium channel blocker
now there's a very interesting uh
research paper on this and so I'm going
to show you what I found I'm going to
put those down in the description but
from the American Journal of Cardiology
okay there was a double blind study done
and the title of this uh paper was
clinical symptoms of mitol valve
prolapse are related to hypo magnesia
see now you can use that at a party to
sound really really smart you can ask
your friends have you ever been checked
for
hypomagnesemia just don't mention my
name when you ask them that basically
that means you have low magnesium in
your blood and
attenuated that means lessened by
magnesium supplements they had 141
subjects and they compared it to 40
people who did not have this condition
and the first thing they did is they
tested both groups for a magnesium
defici
and they found in the group with mitral
prolapse there was a
60% deficiency of magnesium now in the
healthy group there were only 5% of
these people had a magnesium deficiency
and the results were this there was a
significant decrease in anxiety weakness
shortness of breath and
palpitations and there was also a
significant decrease in Adrenaline
I don't know if you know this but when
you have low
magnesium adrenaline tends to go high
now check this out this is interesting a
magnesium deficiency accelerates the
Aging of the fibroblast cell it's
basically the cell that helps you make
collagen elastin and hyaluronic acid now
all three of these things are like
really important as we age for our skin
for our our ligaments for our tendons
for our valves well apparently this is
kind of one theory of why we develop
this mitro valve prolapse because of the
magnesium deficiency and the fiber blast
the formation of those little collagen
elastic valves now if you actually
watched my other video on magnesium the
one where I talk about the first symptom
of a magnesium deficiency is tetany like
twitching like that maybe underneath the
left eye it could be anywhere in the
body if we just take a look at tetany in
relationship to the heart this tetany is
the heart's equivalent to this mitrov
valve prolapse and it's Associated
symptoms like
arhythmia because tetany is a problem
with the muscle nerve connection well if
you have that in the heart you can have
an arhythmia and check this out
85% of people with mitol valve prolapse
have tetany in other places in the body
and if we come back to the medications
that are used what does a beta blocker
do it blocks adrenaline the very thing
that's increased with a magnesium
deficiency when you take magnesium you
don't want to just rely on the rdas
because you're usually already deficient
and it takes many years to become
deficient and so if you take a look a
like a lifelong deficiency of magnesium
just by going to the regular rdas you're
probably not going to fix that problem
magnesium is tightly regulated and so
when you take magnesium it's going to
like it's not just going to spike up
overnight it's going to slowly increase
over a period of months and it could
take even a year I I had someone reach
out to me and they said you know I I
have arrhythmias and I was taking the
magnesium and I didn't really see any
change I took it for a week I said did
you realize how long it takes to fulfill
a chronic lifelong
magnesium deficiency it takes quite some
time I would take 400 milligrams twice
or even maybe three times a day and of
course I would work up to it I would
start off with 400 milligrams for
several days then go up to 800
milligrams I would take one in the
morning one in the afternoon and then
take that for maybe a few weeks and then
maybe even add a little bit more I would
also and this is important make sure you
have enough vitamin D magnesium won't
work without vitamin D very very
important and as a minimum amount I
would take 10,000 I use of vitamin D3
and of course I would make sure I avoid
the things that deplete magnesium sugar
refin carbohydrates like the breads the
pasta the cereal the crackers the
biscuits if we even take a look at what
sugar does to magnesium if you were to
eat sugar right now let's just say
you're eating glucose as one half of the
sugar molecule it would take 24 atoms of
magnesium to help process and deal with
one molecule of glucose and then if we
get to fructose to metabolize one
molecule of fructose you need 56 atoms
of magnesium and also if you're cooking
and boiling the food you could kind of
you know wash away a lot of magnesium I
mean in America there's like 50% of the
population that consumes ultr processed
food
so you know every single one of those
people are severely deficient in
magnesium the main takeaway from this
video is this it takes years for a
magnesium deficiency to show up and it
also takes a year for the Magnesium to
be corrected in the body and the type of
magnesium I would recommend is called
magnesium glycinate now there's another
very popular video that I did on
magnesium that I highly recommend you
watch I'll put it up right here check it
out
e
