so in this video I'm gonna talk about
what your urine smell can tell you about
your body okay now this is just one
indication ideally having a complete
analysis as best you can go to the
doctor and get a urine test you can also
go online and get these urine strips
that will measure not just ketones and
glucose but blood certain enzymes in
your liver
protein or the urine specific gravity
which is the concentration of your urine
if you have a concern you want to get
checked out when you consume asparagus
there's a certain compound in asparagus
that is software-based and you will
smell like either rotten eggs or like a
softer smell consuming this food is not
detoxifying things from your body it's
basically something in this coming out
of you and it's software-based okay it's
not dangerous at all all right so if you
have a fruity smell that could be
ketones in your urine if it's a strong
urine odor
it could be ketones in your urine if the
urine has a foul smell to it it could be
bacteria or some type of infection it
could also be that you're dehydrated and
you need to drink a little more water
next one if the urine smells sweet it
could be high sugars okay if the urine
has a musty mildewed type smell that
could potentially be liver damage and
again if you have any concerns about any
of these get a urinalysis find out
what's really going on so you can get to
the root of it all right thanks for
watching
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
