so someone recently asked a question
about Brazil nuts could this be a good
source of selenium and we're going to
create a video on this because it's an
important topic selenium is really good
for people with Hashimoto's because
selenium acts as an antioxidant and you
have a lot of oxidation going on
especially hydrogen peroxide and
selenium can counter that and it also
helps you convert the thyroid hormone t4
to t3 the active form but here's the
problem out of all the nuts Brazil nuts
have the highest amounts of phytic acid
of any nuts and phytic acid binds
minerals including selenium so if you're
consuming Brazil nuts you have to soak
them in water overnight to germinate the
nut to get rid of the phytic acid
because if you consume them raw you're
gonna have too much phytic acid and
you're gonna block not just selenium but
zinc iron magnesium calcium chromium
manganese and copper so you don't get
the benefit of these minerals now you
could roast a nut but the problem with
that is that heat destroys these heat
sensitive vitamins like vitamin E and a
lot of the oils that that are very
beneficial
so either soak your nuts overnight or
get your selenium from seafood thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
