today I'm going to talk about a version
of vitamin B12 that I would recommend
avoiding it's called cyano called
bolamine now cobolamine is a molecule
with Cobalt it's kind of a foundational
structure of B12 and then there's
different versions of B12
cyanocobolamine is this synthetic
version it's very very cheap it's in
pretty much all the Fortified grains
like cereals snack bars it's in most One
A Day synthetic vitamins and if I'm not
mistaken it's also fortified in infant
formulas and things like that and it's
definitely an energy drinks as well and
sometimes it has very high doses
sometimes between 8 000 to 14
000 percent
are requirements and the problem that I
don't like about it is the cyanide part
of it there's a cyanide molecule
attached to this cobolamine that a lot
of times people will brush off as being
well it's it's insignificant it's a
small amount our liver can detoxify it
fine but what about if someone's doing
these energy drinks taking vitamins
doing a lot of refined grains getting
massive massive amounts of this
cyanocoboamine cyanide shuts down the
oxygen to your mitochondria so it
destroys the motor of the mitochondria
in fact this is interesting when you get
cyanide poisoning or even carbon
monoxide poisoning and you go to the
emergency room they have to give you a
remedy to counter that and that happens
to be something I've been talking about
in some recent videos called methylene
blue methylene blue is the antidote to
cyanide because it bypasses the
mitochondrial damage and it gives
mitochondria the oxygen it needs and a
lot of the B12 injections they're using
this synthetic version as well and so
there is some side effects like vomiting
stomach problem problems a potassium
deficiency which can lead to arrhythmias
headache fever dizziness Etc but
personally I think the biggest problem
with this cyanocobolamine is the cyanide
part you just don't need a lot of
cyanide in the body but it is true that
our liver does have the ability to
detoxify small amounts of cyanide but
what I'm talking about is larger amounts
okay and now if we compound that on what
I am finding on quite a few DNA tests is
the inability to fully detoxify in other
words there are a lot of people that
have mutations or problems with their
detoxification genes so if that's a
problem and you're taking a lot of the
cyanide you might have a difficult time
getting rid of it now on top of that
there's also a very common genetic
problem relating to methylation which is
basically adding something to a chemical
compound in your body to help you
detoxify to help things work better to
help you become healthier and so you
possibly have heard of this genetic
problem it's called MTHFR I mean it
sounds like a swear word but it's not
but if you have a mutation with this
Gene you're going to have a hard time
with methylation which means that if you
take the wrong B12 okay the form of B12
you're gonna have even worse problems
the type of B12 that you need if you
have that genetic problem the more
you're going to need a natural form of
B12 and the one I'm talking about is
methylcobolamine and just as a side note
I would always take that with
methylfolate as well because if you're
also taking synthetic folate which is
also in the in enriched grain products
you can have more of a problem but
methylcobolamine is the one I would
recommend because it's going to help you
if you have these genetic issues and
methylcobolamine is an active form of
B12 it stays in the body a lot longer
than the synthetic versions it can
really greatly improve your sleep it can
decrease the need for sleep it can help
you wake up feeling alert and refreshed
it can prevent the person who just
doesn't get tired at night that just
lays there until two or three in the
morning it's great for the nervous
system especially your myelin sheath
because if you're deficient you're going
to have problems with numbness tingling
paresthesia and a lot of other
degeneration issues of the nervous
system this methylcobolamine is also
really good for visual accommodation so
your ability to see things without
needing glasses okay so many times
people start taking methylcobalamine and
noticing that their vision is better
methylcobolamine also can help you
increase melatonin that's probably why
it helps your sleep it also decreases
something called homocysteine which can
put you at risk for heart attacks or a
stroke it even can help regular like
cortisol that stress hormone it's also
important to mention that a lot of
people are deficient in B12 for other
reasons not because they're not
consuming even the right form of B12 or
foods high in B12 like liver or red meat
or eggs things like that but they might
have inflammation in the stomach also
they might have H pylori active or they
might have low hydrochloric acid or they
might have gastric bypass or even
inflammation in the intestines
especially the lower last part of the
small intestine which is where you
absorb each 12 so if there's
inflammation there let's say they have
IBS or Crohn's or diverticulitis or
whatever and then they're going to need
to take more of B12 in the right form
B12 is very very important for your red
blood cells and so if you're low on B12
you can be anemic and when we're taking
the wrong type of B12 like the
cyanocobolamine which actually has a
direct effect on oxygen to your red
blood cells it doesn't make sense you
don't need to add more cyanide to your
diet there's other forms of B12 like
hydroxyclobalamine but that has to be
converted and also another one called
adenosyl cobalamine which is the active
form okay so it is active and it's not
bad to take but it it doesn't have the
methyl connected to it that we need in
so many genetic problems anyway I wanted
to bring up the importance of taking the
right form of B12 and avoiding the wrong
type of B12 and hopefully you're not one
of those people who are do a lot of
these energy drinks or grains but if you
are you should probably know what diet
to be on and for that information you
should check this video out right here
