someone recently other question how does
consuming sweets and refined
carbohydrates actually pull nutrients
out of the body so the first question is
what do nutrients actually do in the
body one of the main functions is that
they actually act as a CO helper in
metabolism okay and I'm talking about
the burning of fuel so what happens when
you consume calories without the
nutrients your body then has to pull
from its reserves certain nutrients to
burn that fuel or make that tissue so in
the example of burning glucose you need
vitamin b1 you need potassium you need
magnesium so these three nutrients are
vitally important in making energy also
you need zinc so anytime you consume
sugar you're pulling these nutrients out
and you're depleting your reserves and
this is why sometimes after you consume
a high carbohydrate meal your heart beat
goes up that's a that's a potassium
deficiency and that is a b1 deficiency
or for example you start holding fluid
you get like swollen ankles that is a
low potassium high sodium ratio so now
we have too much salt vs. potassium we
just hold fluid and then of course the
magnesium you can end up with insomnia
you can end up with anxiety you can end
up with feeling stressed so after a
carbohydrate meal if you have this
anxiety for example that could be a
combination of low b1 and magnesium now
zinc deficiencies are involved in so
many things if this becomes too low
you're gonna find the testosterone goes
down your immune system goes down you
may even lose your taste or your smell
with a zinc deficiency now as far as
vitamin C goes the chemical molecule of
vitamin C is very very similar to
glucose and if given the choice if you
had sugar and vitamin C there in your
body your body is going to accept the
sugar one instead of the vitamin C so
too much glucose will deplete your
vitamin C
so that's one mechanism right here the
second mechanism is when you consume
sugar over a period of time or refined
carbs you're raising your glucose you're
raising your insulin you're eventually
going to develop something called
insulin resistance now when you have
insulin resistance you not only have a
difficult time absorbing glucose in the
cell you also have a difficult time
absorbing other things as well like
amino acids like vitamins and like
minerals and this is why people that are
pre-diabetic and are diabetic usually
have a lot of nutritional deficiencies
and they have a lot of complications
with their nerves with their eyes with
their kidneys with your heart and that
has to do with the low amount of
nutrients that are able to pull in there
now if you were diabetic and you were
consuming nutrient-dense foods you would
have a lot less complications all right
so now you understand why consuming the
refined sugars and the grains will
deplete your vitamins and other
nutrients as well thanks for watching
hey if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
