so the question is how much of your
disease is genetic and how much of your
health is genetic sometimes people might
tell you you know it's all in the genes
I was just born with bad genes and
there's nothing you can do you need to
pick your parents more wisely next time
that is absolutely not true only five to
ten percent of disease is caused by some
genetic defect that is passed on from
your parents it doesn't mean that you're
going to get that disease there's a
really good book but I'm reading cancer
as a metabolic disease by Thomas C free
this guy is like the expert in cancer
and what he says and I'm just
paraphrasing when you see tumors and
cancers you do see a lot of genetic
mutations but those mutations those
alterations and genes are downstream in
other words their symptoms they're not
causes of the cancer they're symptoms of
the damage in the mitochondria the
machinery where you're burning fuel
that's the first thing that gets damaged
and then the mitochondria adapts to a
different metabolism called fermentation
and because the mitochondria has its own
DNA and they're not protected like the
DNA in the nucleus okay because they're
outside the nucleus they're very
susceptible to mutations and alterations
in the DNA and that's probably one of
the reasons why you see so many gene
mutations in tumors and cancer because
of this fact so most of the gene
mutations are not inherited they're
what's called somatic mutations let me
define somatic mutations basically means
not inherited that caused by your
environment let's take a look okay
here's another word for you it's called
epigenetics that means above genetics so
if DNA is DVDs the DVD player would be
the epigenetics so you can select what
song or what playlist that you want to
activate okay so epi
genetics is all about controlling your
genes and activating your genes because
your genes don't really do anything
they'd like to blueprints they have to
be activated or what is called silenced
or not activated but here's the thing
ninety to ninety five percent of your
health and whether you get a disease is
epigenetics now I'm gonna give you one
more word okay and then that's it for
the words exposome okay this is a word
that means the accumulation of all the
exposures of an individual in a lifetime
and how those exposures relate to health
and we're talking about the accumulation
of exposure to your environment
and this starts before you were born
when you're in the womb what your mother
ate the stress that she experienced all
that adds up that can eventually trigger
certain genes that lead to certain
diseases so epigenetics we include all
the environmental factors the stresses
the social experiences as a child and
especially the nutrition and what you
eat and what you don't eat because if
you're deficient in certain nutrients it
makes you very very susceptible to
getting all sorts of diseases so the
nutrition is a really important factor
in protecting you against DNA damage and
supporting also the repair of DNA so it
can prevent the mutations and
alterations that then lead to disease
and I really believe that another huge
factor that's equivalent to your
environment with epigenetics is your
attitude and your mental state how you
view things how you deal with life are
you in fear all the time and worried
about things versus I do you have a
relaxed mental attitude about it I think
that's a really important factor but the
main message for this video is this your
genes have a lot less to do with your
health and you have the ability to
control your genes way more than you
think so don't buy into this whole
concept that everything is genetic and
you're predestined to certain diseases
that's not
true because you can control your health
because your lifestyle and your attitude
are a senior factor in this I put
another video down below to give you
additional information about epigenetics
thanks for watching
hey if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
