magnesium is a fascinating mineral it's
involved in over 350 different enzymes
in the body and we may find that it's
involved in a lot more but what's
interesting about enzymes is that they
speed up the chemical reactions in the
body of a factor of like a hundred
million times faster than if you didn't
have that enzyme there's definitely
things that you know it helps with heart
disease it helps with cramping at night
if you have those cramps in your calves
it helps you sleep it's involved in
helping you reduce anxiety it makes you
more relaxed it actually makes your
arteries less stiff and that's going to
help you lower blood pressure you
probably also know that magnesium works
with calcium it's kind of like a
teeter-totter effect the more calcium
you have the less magnesium you're going
to have and vice versa so you need
calcium and magnesium and the right
ratios especially involved in the muscle
contraction and relaxation so where
calcium tends to be involved in
contraction magnet museum is all about
relaxation and this is why you have all
sorts of muscle problems if you have a
deficiency in magnesium like a cramp
like twitching like tetany a lot of
times people take magnesium because they
have headaches so magnesium is good for
headaches and so if there's any problem
involving with the nerve and muscle
irritation or even arrhythmias in the
heart think magnesium but let's talk
about the things that you probably have
never heard about that are quite
interesting there's an enzyme that helps
you regulate cholesterol it's called
HMG COA reductase this is the enzyme
that statins work on and it just so
happens that magnesium parallels the
effects of Statin so it can help you
regulate LDL and increase HDL and help
you regulate your triglycerides as well
magnesium is also involved in enzymes
related to lecithin which is like the
antidote to cholesterol and so without
magnesium you're going to have a lot of
issues with cholesterol and the ratios
as well as having lecithin work now the
other big thing that magnesium is
involved with is making ATP that is the
energy currency of the body and without
that you just can't make energy so this
is why magnesium is the second most
needed mineral in the body just behind
potassium so without magnesium you could
be tired all the time now the other
thing about magnesium is that it can
help you lower
adrenaline cortisol and something called
ACTH ACTH is this hormone that is
released from the pituitary that tells
the adrenals to release cortisol and so
if you have less regulation on that
hormone you're going to have higher
levels of stress and this is why
magnesium is really good for Stress and
Anxiety because it helps to normalize
this ACTH cortisol and adrenaline as
well as help to counter all the
oxidative stress that comes with these
stress hormones so magnesium is very
protective at the cellular level
magnesium is a natural calcium channel
blocker because it opposes calcium which
means it's really good for blood
pressure but typically they don't know
why well the reason is this it can act
like a natural calcium channel blocker
calcium channel blockers are a common
medication for hypertension while
magnesium is a natural version of that
with virtually no side effects but it
also can act at the same time as a beta
blocker so with one angle it helps
balance calcium and from another angle
the beta blocker that has to do with
reducing stress in the arteries and that
whole system now a couple other really
cool things that magnesium is involved
with number one it's in natural
anti-thrombotic basically it's a natural
blood thinner another thing you may not
know about magnesium is that it can help
you lower your blood sugars it is really
important in
kind of undoing insulin resistance and
the last thing which is actually
probably the most important function of
magnesium magnesium is involved in
making DNA without having the perfect
blueprints that can create a huge chain
reaction and we typically need about 310
to about 420 milligrams of magnesium
every day and not a lot of people get
that and so they're going to be
deficient and they're going to have
these problems magnesium is at the heart
of chlorophyll so anything green like
dark leafy green vegetables and this is
something that a lot of people don't
consume but then you also have nuts and
pumpkin seeds dark chocolate of course
without the sugar C kelp and even
certain types of sea salt that are low
sodium type sea salt but we also have to
look at those things that are depleting
our magnesium okay refined sugars
refined carbohydrates
alcohol diuretics diarrhea having a low
stomach acid and even having certain
type of gene
variations that can also be a problem
it's actually quite common where people
just don't seem to absorb magnesium like
they should and for those people it's
even more important to stay away from
alcohol and things that deplete your
magnesium and and even probably
supplement with a good form of magnesium
and the type of magnesium I would
recommend is magnesium glycinate which
is very bioavailable now since we're on
this interesting topic of magnesium if
you haven't seen my other video on
magnesium I put it up right here check
it out
