so I had a recent question about what
remedy is really good for PCOS okay
polycystic ovarian syndrome I'm going to
talk about it it's gonna be a pretty
quick video but polycystic ovarian
syndrome or disorder is a situation
where your antigens and a female body is
too high okay and that means you're
going to get facial hair that means that
you're going to get belly fat that means
that you might lose your hair up here
that means you might have a deeper voice
okay because you're getting a higher
level of androgens it's a male hormone
what's causing that is high levels of
insulin okay so of course you want to do
healthy keto remove fasting to lower the
insulin but there's a little bit more to
that there is a vitamin part of the B
vitamin family called an acetal actually
if you suck on it it tastes sweet
so it's involved in sugar metabolism and
signaling and a bunch of other things
but it's in the family of the B vitamins
then when people are talking about in us
at all they're talking about nine
different vitamin like compounds so it's
not as simple as just like one inositol
there are many different kind of
versions of it inositol so these are two
versions mile and then d Carroll one of
the theories out there and I believe
this is true is that the mile version
doesn't convert to the deep carro
version so there's a lack of conversion
and that's what creates the PCOS on top
of this already existing high levels of
insulin and then high antigen so because
what happens when you give women with
PCOS a certain ratio of these 240-mile
to one d Karim you can improve the
symptoms of PCOS and improve fertility
and improve weight loss and improve acne
also you can increase the quality of the
egg in peace us to improve fertility
okay so that is the remedy I'm going to
recommend I'm not going to recommend any
brand but you can find your own brand
but just make sure it is a 40-mile to 1
D karo enough
tall okay that's what I would recommend
taking but this is not gonna work unless
you also do healthy keto and in a minute
fasting why because you're not going to
be able to fully lower insulin because
the high insulin is going to create high
levels of androgen and prevent you from
ever getting rid of this so this is just
a helper factor that goes along with
healthy keto and then fasting if you're
new to my channel I put a link down
below of how to do healthy keto and
intermittent fasting but this has been
shown to work even better than metformin
for PCOS I'm gonna put a link down below
to so you can actually read the study
yourself alright thanks for watching so
if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
