all right so today we're gonna talk
about the nine signs that you're eating
too much fat so it doesn't make sense if
you're eating fat and it's not really
fully breaking down when you do keto
usually you're eating more fat and you
have to adapt to it your gallbladder and
your liver have to adapt to that fat so
some people can overdo it especially if
they're adding MCT oil butter coconut
oil bulletproof coffee and these are
some of the signs that you're just
overdoing it a bit you need a good liver
to make the bile a good gallbladder to
store it and then you also need a good
pancreas to release the lipase enzyme so
your pancreas and your gallbladder work
together to help you digest fat so if
you're still floats that means that the
fat is going through you and not being
absorbed number two
bloating burping belching okay that's a
gallbladder issue that's too much fat
number three no weight loss let's say
for example you do keto and you bring
your carb down down down but you're
still not losing weight well simply
because you're eating too much fat and
your body is turning those dietary fats
into ketones and not your own body's fat
in the ketones I recommend trying to cut
your fat down to about 75 grams or a
little less you never want to go on a
low-fat diet but you may want to cut it
down if you're not losing weight okay
number four right shoulder pain why
because if you overload the gallbladder
it's gonna swell up a little bit it's
underneath the right rib cage there's a
nerve underneath there called AfriNIC
nerve that goes to the right shoulder up
to your neck so if there's pressure
underneath the rib cage into the
diaphragm onto that nerve it can refer
to the right shoulder up into the neck
through here anything on the right side
also you can get pain underneath your
right ribcage right here so bloating
tightness a fullness or pain that's
usually gallbladder you're probably
eating too much fat of course if you're
doing carbs and sugar that would be even
worse alright number six right rhomboid
pain let me explain what that is let me
bring my
person to demonstrate this thank you
very much so we're gonna turn you this
way right there okay so there's two
muscles in between this bone right here
the scapula and the spine so it's right
through here okay and there's another
one over here and these muscles kind of
bring the shoulders inward this way and
kind of bring it up this way so right on
the right rhomboid right through in here
this is where you're gonna get problems
if there's a gallbladder issue sometimes
it comes up into right here too on the
right side anywhere through here alright
thank you very much so that would be
number six okay
nauseousness okay that's one symptom
that you're consuming too much fat the
rate your stool is black and tari and
oily it's leaving skid marks okay on the
toilet and also realize that you may
need some purified bile salts to
actually improve the digestion if you
have some of these symptoms too so it's
not always that you're doing too much
fat it could be that your gallbladder
just doesn't have enough file stored to
be able to break it down the gallbladder
is a storage for bile the liver actually
makes it the microbes help you recycle
the bile like over 90% of their bile is
recycled so it could be either you don't
have the friendly bacteria or there's
some problem the gallbladder or the
liver could be the pancreas as well and
the last one is no appetite for a very
long time
I know people who consume like half a
stick of butter you're not going to be
hungry for the next day maybe a day and
a half well that could just mean that
you just have a little too much butter
the problem with consuming too much
butter and not other nutrients so one of
the problems with consuming too much fat
is that you're so satisfied that you not
hungry for any of the other nutrients
that you need okay alright so now you
know when to adjust your dietary fat
thanks for watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
