so in this video we're going to talk
about another cause of low testosterone
now in other videos I talked about how
high estrogen can inhibit testosterone
high insulin will also shut down your
testosterone this is very very common
high cortisol from stress can decrease
testosterone if you're on a cholesterol
medication a statin that can reduce
testosterone because you're not making
the amounts of cholesterol needed to
make that hormone it's a sex hormone and
the precursor is cholesterol having
liver damage can lower your testosterone
being on a low-fat diet can lower your
testosterone again because of the
cholesterol needed to make that hormone
and the symptoms produced would be low
libido impotence erectile dysfunction
and even atrophy of the testicles so
here it is high amounts of iron now it's
interesting about iron is as you age you
accumulate more and more iron our body
has a very difficult time getting rid of
iron and so if you're getting iron from
a supplement or from the fortification
of certain foods like in grains breads
pastas or own crackers and things like
that you could be accumulating way too
much iron so you should get it tested to
see if it's within a normal range
there's also a condition quite common
it's a genetic condition called
hemochromatosis which a person has a
real big problem of regulating iron and
they just start accumulating way too
much here are the symptoms inflammation
in the joints excessive oxidation like
I'm talking about in the arteries which
is going to then set the person up for
heart problems in the brain which is
gonna set the person up for dementia and
Alzheimer's so it's a very dangerous
thing to have too much iron iron is very
corrosive on your body you can look at
it as a mineral that can create some
serious free radical damage because iron
generates a type of free radical called
the hydroxyl radical and this is a very
destructive thing in the body especially
to your liver
so too much iron in liver will cause
cirrhosis it will make you tired it
affects your memory blood sugar problems
diabetes etc etc so if you suspect any
one of these symptoms the next time
you're at your doctor's office get this
checked if it's high here are some
natural things that you can do to
actually remove the excess amounts
there's a supplement called ip6 I'm not
recommending any brand you're gonna have
to do your own research good IP 6 is a
phytic acid it's an antioxidant key
later which actually helps pull iron out
of the body it pulls excessive iron
there's another key later too called
EDTA which is very very powerful I would
recommend starting with ip6 you may not
need this but some people take both but
if you take this watch my video on it
because you want to take both of these
on an empty stomach because you don't
want to be consuming iron as you're
taking it trying to pull it out it's
gonna neutralize the effect if you take
this on the empty stomach and it'll
remove certain minerals and other times
a day you can take back in the minerals
that you want in your body and focus on
the eliminating the ones you don't want
and EDTA will pull out other minerals
too like Cal success of calcium
especially if you have calcification in
the arteries things like that but ip6 is
a really good potent nutrient to help
heal a or pull out excessive amounts of
iron green tea will also help donating
blood will reduce your iron avoiding
iron pills and foods that are enriched
with iron and that definitely includes
the bread the pasta the cereal the
crackers
those intimate fasting would be very
important to start number-5 increasing
zinc now maybe you've heard that
increasing zinc will help increase
testosterone now you see one of the
strategies of why it does it it actually
helps lower iron in the body alright
thanks for watching I will see you in
the next video
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
