so I get this question a lot so I just
wanted to create the video on it's gonna
be really short can I take a Greens
product instead of consuming that seven
to ten cups of salad or vegetables okay
well the answer is unfortunately not
greens product will enhance but they
don't replace even if you're doing the
wheatgrass juice powder or the
cruciferous these are meant to enhance
and some of the green products out there
are made with higher heats destroying
the enzyme so now you don't even get the
benefit of that so you're gonna have to
bite the bullet and consume more salad
or vegetables a fine
some vegetable that you like maybe it's
even if it's carrots use carrots or
celery with hummus cucumbers with hummus
add a kale shake add some more berries
to make it taste better but you need to
figure out how to consume minimally
seven cups but hopefully up to ten cups
each day all right
go do it hey guys a lot of you already
have my book some of you don't but this
new edition called the new body type
guide is an upgrade from my last edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has a hundred and fifty six
images three hundred seventy eight pages
full glossary I talked about keto in a
minute fasting the body types in detail
I have a new stressed chapter I'm going
to show you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
