so today I want to talk about how to get
more restorative sleep not just more
sleep but the type of sleep that
recharges you by adding vitamin D so
many people wake up tired okay they're
actually sometimes more tired than when
they went to bed they don't sleep
through the night
they either can't get to sleep they
can't stay asleep or they wake up
feeling tired they have dark circles and
mute eyes puffy eyes bloodshot eyes or
they might have sleep apnea or their
today they need multiple naps because
they haven't slept at night so we do
know that stress can prevent you from
sleeping but by the Mindi many times is
behind high levels of cortisol high
cortisol can deplete your vitamin D and
low vitamin D can raise your cortisol so
and cortisol is the stress hormone now
you have vitamin D receptors in many
places in the body including the central
nervous system so deep in your brain you
have receptors for vitamin D and one of
the functions of vitamin D among the
many is muscle paralysis during the
delta-wave sleep so when we're talking
about restorative sleep we're talking
about the ability to turn off when
you're sleeping at night ok so you're
not like laying there half awake so
vitamin D helps to turn off the muscles
so if you have restless leg syndrome for
example that would be a vitamin D
deficiency and sometimes it's a vitamin
b1 deficiency but when you take vitamin
D it allows your body to get in a full
resting deep delta-wave sleep and that's
how you recharge now the amount of
vitamin D that people are told to take
and the RDAs are roughly between 600 to
I think 800 IU's ok that is the amount
determined to prevent rickets but it's
definitely not the amount to create the
therapeutic effect for many other
conditions like especially if you have
autoimmune conditions like MS or
rheumatoid arthritis or lupus or getting
your deep sleep or getting rid of low
back pain you're gonna need more of a
therapeutic effect minimally a 20,000
now it might sound like a lot 20,000 I
use but 40,000 I use is only one
milligram so 20,000 I use is really only
a half of a milligram okay so there's
two main concerns I'm going to talk
about one is a concern that people have
with I don't want to have a toxic effect
about them indeed I have a specific
video just on that you can watch down
below all the toxic effects of vitamin D
really come from the higher levels of
calcium in the blood it doesn't have to
do with vitamin D itself it has to do
with what it does to calcium and there's
so many things you can do to prevent the
high levels of calcium building up in
the blood that I made a special video
for that but many times you're going to
need a lot more vitamin D to fix your
sleep cycles now one of the reasons it's
very difficult to get your vitamin D
from food the next reason is that people
are inside and they're not getting
enough sunlight and there's one more
reason I want to talk about and it has
to do with the vitamin D receptors being
altered genetically but a mutation is a
sudden change in the genetics that can
happen this lifetime so let's say you're
exposed to a certain chemical it can
affect the genes
there are several mutations in the
vitamin D receptor and it's called
polymorphism so your vitamin D receptor
is having a hard time absorbing vitamin
D so if you take the normal amounts of
vitamin D it doesn't go in so you just
have to take more now the question is
why are we developing these alterations
in the in the receptor I have some
theories we don't know exactly but
vitamin D deficiency trends have been
following the introduction of GMO foods
the introduction of glyphosate that is
my theory and why this is happening
because of what this chemical can do to
our receptors but there could be other
reasons all right so here's what I
recommend if you have a sleep problem
start with 20,000 I'll use if that
doesn't handle it go up to 30,000 IU's
take vitamin k2
take some magnesium and also watch the
video down below on how to overcome any
toxic effects that vitamin D might have
when you're increasing the amounts
alright guys thanks for watching
hey before you go would you mind putting
a comment down below to tell me what you
think about this video
