today we're going to talk about
Himalayan sea salt uh Celtic or you
might pronounce it Celtic Sea salt and
other types of sea salt uh is there a
big difference let's just jump right in
when we get into the Himalayan sea salt
um we're dealing with a a salt that has
been extracted from a part of the planet
where there is zero
microplastics this salt was extracted
very close to the Himalayan mountains
but not actually in the mountains
there's other mines in Pakistan that
provide this Himalayan sea salt which is
is a very pure uh wonderful sea salt
with a lot of trace minerals and a
little more of certain trace minerals
that give it the pinkish color now
Celtic Sea salt or Celtic Sea salt is
different it's mined from the ocean but
in a very traditional way in a certain
part of France they sundry and they keep
this standard harvesting of this salt
very very traditional and so Celtic salt
is wonderful for flavoring uh different
foods and it too has a lot of different
trace minerals as well as is sodium
chloride and there's virtually no
microplastics in Celtic or Celtic salt
either then you have a Redman real sea
salt another type of sea salt that's
very pure without the microplastics
which they extract from Utah deep below
a certain level of limestone and this
layer of dious Earth so it's really
protected from any type of pollution and
so all these salts really have come from
ancient Seas except for the Celtic or
Celtic sea salt which comes from an
ocean but the way that they harvest the
salt uh makes it extremely uh free of uh
pollution now when you consume regular
salt or especially sodium chloride which
is just two minerals right sea salt has
like between 60 and 94 minerals you're
going to get things that you don't even
know you don't know where it comes from
necessarily it can come from an ocean
that's very polluted and one study
showed that 90% of all salt uh contain
contains microplastics okay these
Plastics take a bit of time to break
down roughly 500 years so unfortunately
they are polluting our environment and
they can act like an endocrine disruptor
uh to our bodies just like pesticides
insecticides herbicides fungicides heavy
metals microplastics can also affect our
endocrine system so I highly recommend
you do Himalayan sea salt or Celtic Sea
salt or redond real sea salt or even
Baja gold sea salt which is kind of a
mixture of fresh water and ocean water
it's much lower in sodium chloride and
much higher in these other minerals
where these other sea salts I just
mentioned pretty much have like 90 to
95% or more sodium chloride uh the the
Baja gold has like 70% sodium chloride
and I'm not saying which one is better
or worse there's just different mixtures
of these minerals and trace minerals if
you want to get more trace minerals go
with the Baja gold if you want to get
more sodium chloride with the trace
minerals get some of these other ones
but just because something has more
sodium chloride doesn't make it uh less
healthy at all you know we depend on
sodium and chloride and when we become
deficient in sodium as well as chloride
boy we have all sorts of issues one of
the biggest signs that you're deficient
in sodium is overall muscle muscle
weakness let's say you want to exercise
and you just kind of you lost that get
up and go and what if you do exercise
and you don't have enough sodium you're
going to lose that endurance you're
going to feel tired and also realize
that you can lose one half of a teaspoon
of salt with one hour of exercise also
you can lose a good amount of salt when
you drink coffee like if you were to
drink four cups of coffee you can lose
up to uh four teaspoons of salt I mean
that's crazy and so we need sodium
desperately and I think uh people that
are against salt really are not looking
at the big picture because even if
someone has salt sensitivity what that
really is is either a potassium
deficiency because sodium and potassium
work together or it's insulin resistance
when you get someone on keto and you get
them off the carbs they don't seem to be
salt sensitive anymore and we need this
ratio of a little bit more than double
the potassium to sodium so as long as
you're doing enough potassium uh you can
tolerate a good amount of sodium another
very interesting fact about sodium is
this when you are deficient in sodium it
taxes your adrenals in other words your
sympathetic nervous system goes higher
that's the fight ORF flight and the
parasympathetic nervous system goes down
and this would explain why if someone is
deficient in sodium they uh will have
more adrenal stress they might feel more
anxiety they will definitely not sleep
as well in fact if you have a sleeping
problem especially due to stress just
try this one thing consume a little bit
of sea salt before you go to bed now you
can put a little salt underneath your
tongue or in your mouth or dissolve some
in some water just a little bit okay
drink it down and go to sleep and see
how much better your quality of sleep is
so without enough salt our adrenal
glands work harder sodium chloride as
well as the other electrolytes in that
sea salt will really help hydrate you
versus just drinking water which is not
too hydrating in order to take that
water and push in the cells you need
electrolytes especially sodium and
pottassium also if you're low in salt
your risk for insulin resistance goes up
and so this is a really important point
if you're on the ketogenic diet okay low
carb if you're doing in a minute fasting
if you're doing prolonged fasting boy
you better take enough sea salt or
you're not going to feel right you might
end up with low blood pressure you might
end up with dehydration and overall
weakness and so it's not just about
taking an electrolyte powder with
potassium also make sure you take enough
salt I would uh recommend at least one
level teaspoon per day for an average
person and that's without exercise the
sodium chloride in the sea salt also
helps with your immune system but the
other minerals also help too I mean you
have selenium you have calcium you have
iodine all of these minerals are very
very important I mean it's pretty wild
that uh people still use table salt
right you have the anti-caking
uh mixture in there sometimes they put a
kind of a poor source of iodine in there
sometimes they add sugar to the Salt but
the problem with table salt it's just a
refined product you need these other
trace minerals these other trace
minerals are essential to help you with
proteins and enzymes which are catalysts
that allow chemical reactions to occur
and unfortunately our food is very void
of these trace minerals because a lot of
times the farmers don't put back in the
trace minerals they might put in three
minerals like nitrogen phosphorus and
potassium but what about all these trace
minerals also what about the uh all the
salad that you have at the grocery store
right a lot of the other vegetables a
lot of them are grown either
hydroponically or aeroponically uh or in
soils that only have mpk Hydroponic and
aeroponic
really only use like 15 minerals and to
my knowledge they don't use all the
trace minerals which you need so you can
get these trace minerals from sea salt a
high quality one and especially if you
are exercising make sure you have more
there are certain um sports like soccer
football and if they're practicing in
the summer and they're sweating a lot
boy you can actually lose up to
18800 milligram per hour and sometimes
up to
6,000 milligrams of sodium in a given
day now sea salt also helps with the
immune system uh people that have uh
especially like sinus allergies can be
improved if they have enough salt and
there's all sorts of sea salt type of U
like nasal fleshes that help uh reduce
the bacteria and even the viral loads in
your sinosis if you go on a lows salt
diet okay you're going to trigger the
sympathetic nervous system that alone
can increase your blood pressure so you
could end up with high blood pressure by
reducing your salt because it weakens
the adrenal and you have this
compensatory reaction now there are
other types of sea salt that I probably
didn't mention that are totally fine but
you definitely need to know if that salt
has microplastics and if it does I would
stay away from it now because of the
sensoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other
side
