so this is a common question that comes
up if I go low-carb I'm gonna lower my
insulin and that's gonna actually lower
my muscle mass so how do I maintain my
muscle mass and do keto and intermittent
fasting it is true that insulin is
anabolic so anabolic is a condition
where your body is building up muscle
it's building muscle proteins and a lot
of times when you associate bodybuilders
with carbo loading a lot of times about
a week before the competition these
bodybuilders will go a little carb okay
and then maybe a day or two before the
competition they will do carbo loading
and they'll eat sugar and they will just
create this huge storage in their
muscles of glycogen which is stored
sugar with glycogen comes water so every
gram of glycogen equals two point seven
grams of water now they're not consuming
a lot of water during this period of
time or else they would just completely
blow up or salt but the fact that they
spike their glycogen makes the muscles
look really good and it pops out it
makes a little bit bigger so the reason
when the bodybuilders are doing the
carbo loading is not to build muscle
it's to build glycogen now here's the
problem when you start spiking insulin
you're going to create insulin
resistance the majority of the
population has insulin resistance and
that means that insulin is dysfunctional
it's not working like it should and one
of the big purposes of insulin is to
absorb amino acids because of Santa
Baalak so if you have instant resistance
you're not going to absorb the amino
acids that that well this is why a
diabetic who definitely has insulin
resistance despite having high levels of
insulin by nine times to a normal person
and I'm talking about type diabetes type
two they're not absorbing these amino
acids and this is why they have a loss
of muscle mass despite having high
insulin so that's interesting so when
you do low-carb with keto and fasting
you improve insulin resistance you
improve insulin sensitivity and you
start to absorb
these amino acids and proteins for the
first time it's like wow I'm finally
starting absorb protein also when you're
on low carbon you're doing fasting
there's another thing that happens it's
called protein sparing in other words
your muscles now are protected against
the loss or the use of that protein in
the muscle for fuel so your body
protects against that when you're doing
fasting maybe after a period of a week
you may lose a tiny little bit of amino
acid but it's almost insignificant and
rarely does anyone fast for that long
they're just doing it like a little bit
each day so I highly recommend
decreasing your carbs and doing fasting
if you want to improve your muscle mass
also add exercise and the type of
exercise you want to do is not long-term
running you want to do weights and
higher volume to the point where your
muscles are really sore now I always
recommend getting a personal trainer
because they could push you a lot
further then sometimes you can push
yourself especially if we're if you're
trying to build muscle mass and you know
it's a little painful trying to do like
six sets of all this exercise you may
quit after the third one so they can
push you also maybe keep your carbs at
fifty to sixty grams a day not go crazy
but you're not going low-carb to help
you with a little more car but you don't
want to do high carb because that's
going to keep you in insulin resistance
and of course the type of carbs i'm
recommending would be like berries
something like that okay and then the
other thing is dietary protein you don't
want to go low protein you want to go a
little bit higher maybe you do eight
ounces of protein per meal or even nine
ounces of protein but just realize
there's certain types of protein that
turn in the body tissue a lot more
efficiently and the top food that will
turn into muscle protein better than any
other proteins would be whole eggs not
the egg whites but the whole eggs and
then meat and fish but dairy in whey
protein and soy protein are very low in
the list in other words when you consume
that a great deal of that is either used
as fuel
or waste with very little turning in the
body tissue I put a link down below for
more information about that but eggs are
really really important
and then also you may want to enhance
that with a very good complete amino
acid supplement so this can give you an
efficiency of like 99 percent so only 1%
of its wasted or used as fuel the rest
is turned into body tissue so I hope
that clarified this common confusion
that a lot of people have thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
