hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about how to spot a fad diet now
every other year I have to get
continuing educational credits okay to
keep my license so this year part of
those credits could be achieved online
so there was an online course that you
can take to get your certification and
so I figured I'm going to do the one on
nutrition right so what I'm gonna show
you is based on that course this is
where I got this information from okay
and they have a little section there
that said how to spot a fad diet okay
first of all the derivation of the word
fad comes from the Latin word which
means follow us which means stupid okay
but number one a fad diet is usually low
carb that's what they're saying
dangerous to the brain and nerves which
is so hilarious because the high carbs
are dangerous to the brain and the
nerves why do you think they call it
peripheral neuropathy or what is the
brain shrink with the diabetic you get
atrophy of the brain and then when you
get the person off sugar put them on
keto in a minute fasting they actually
can regrow neurons okay and you can
reverse peripheral neuropathy number two
deviates from the food pyramid
wow really so anything that deviates
from the food pyramid is a fad okay good
number three too restrictive eliminates
a food group well I think I know where
they got that from because there's
certain lobbyists that are like the
group that promotes grains and you have
the vegetable oil group and you have the
meat and dairy industry of all these
different industries you can't eliminate
one of those politically it it'd be
devastating number four fast results so
you just have to make sure the results
are not too fast
or you're going to be labeled as a fad
diet alright five two is simple Wow
has to be complex number six anecdotal
so it cannot be based on a person's
opinion or their thoughts or feelings or
a success story okay it has to be more
based on scientific evidence number
seven a food is considered bad Wow
that was an interesting one so you can't
really have any food bad or good okay so
they're basically want to assign all the
foods of an equal importance
okay number eight implies the food can
change your chemistry really I mean you
can't change chemistry left with food oh
wow
number nine sounds too good to be true
it's definitely a fad diet this is so
funny I can't believe it so basically
what we should have a high carb diet
make sure it follows a food pyramid
include all food groups gets low results
complex and no success stories now if
you think about it I healthy ki tail an
intimate of fasting program is low carb
it does deviate from the food pyramid it
is restrictive of mainly refined carbs
okay it does get fast results it is
simple it gets great success stories and
we do consider certain foods bad and it
definitely it can change your chemistry
okay so my thought is I think we should
redefine the phrase a fad diet to mean
something that does not give you long
lasting healthy results I think that
would be a lot better so comment below
and tell me what your thoughts are I'm
curious what you think about this hey
you know what I just want to say
something only 30% of the people that
watching this video actually make it
this far and you did so I really
appreciate you thank you so much
