so in this video we're going to talk
about why diabetics must understand
insulin this is very very very important
it's vital if you're diabetic type 1 or
type 2 this video is vital ok especially
if you don't understand insulin here's
what you need to know insulin lowers
blood glucose or blood sugar ok we'll
just call it blood sugar to make it
simple so when you're taking the
medication insulin it's lowering your
blood sugars okay now if your blood
sugars are 100 or less and you take
insulin what do you think is gonna
happen if you don't know that answer
you're in some serious trouble because
if you take it when it's low you're
gonna end up with hypoglycemia a much
lower blood sugar to the point where you
become literally stupid I'm not trying
to say you're stupid I'm just saying
you're gonna be like less aware of
things you're gonna do things you're you
don't understand you're gonna be very
like I'm almost slightly unconscious
okay because the lower the blood sugar
the more unconscious you go even to a
coma so you'll like just walk around
like okay forget full that type of thing
so we want to avoid that and the way you
avoid that is keep your blood Sugar's
normal okay so if you were to do a diet
or a ketogenic plan or intermittent
fasting that's going to naturally lower
your blood Sugar's and then need for
insulin is gonna go down and if you
continue to take insulin without
understanding what's going on and you
let your blood Sugar's drop down to low
it can be very very very dangerous okay
so why does insulin lower blood sugar
because too much sugar in the body is
toxic so your body's trying to get rid
of it so the real bigger plan for this
is to get the sugar out of your diet and
don't eat so frequently it's the
frequency of eating and the amount of
carbohydrate in your diet that's keeping
you on the insulin in the first place so
if we decrease that the need for insulin
goes down the blood sugars get better
and you can make adjustments with the
help of your doctor but what you need to
understand above all else is that
insulin lowers blood sugars and as
you're monitoring your blood sugars
if they come down and you take insulin
you're gonna actually allow yourself to
get into a real bad place so check with
your doctor decrease the insulin as
needed if your blood sugars come down
and if you're new to this click the link
down below because I have a little mini
course on what to eat so you can
decrease the need for insulin because
taking so much insulin over a long
period of time is also dangerous to the
body thanks for watching hey guys I want
to introduce you to my new doctor Berg
app it's right here it's I'm really
excited about it you need to download it
it's free it has a lot of great data it
has all my videos it's updated on a
regular basis I also have the audio
version of the videos audio episodes I
also have a mini course that you can
take I also have a button for new
content so you can really know of all
the recent content that I'm downloading
and I also have something called PDF
resources which gives you additional
cool little one-page PDF documents on
all sorts of health things so download
it check it out and tell me what you
think about it and don't forget to give
me a review
it's dr. Berg app
