okay so let's get started uh so uh
welcome ashot uh pleasure to meet you
finally I saw your before and after
amazing before and after by the way so I
just wanted to call you and dialogue and
and see how you did it and uh I guess
you were mentioning you were trying to
do with exercise at first right y y so
um so I always had this weight problem
because uh uh uh being a millennial I I
have I I fed a lot on the fast food and
all the processed food so and all the
all the D all the sodas the Coke and
Pepsi so I always had this tendency to
gain weight and since sugar is no evil
when you're growing up it's actually a
treat uh so it's it's you don't know why
you're gaining the weight where did you
grow
up uh where where uh so I I grew up in
India uh so I'm presently in New Delhi I
I spend some time in Mumbai uh so it was
mainly India but um the junk food is
everywhere uh and I think so I guess
I've never been uh too far out of the
country but I I guess in my mind I'm
thinking if you go to India it's all
clean food all healthy food is that a a
falsehood no that's that's a falsehood
at least for the people who know that
ketos is life now I no it's it's it's
it's a falsehood and it's um for Century
that's a f because uh no matter what
carbohydrates and sugar they are part of
everyone's life and U if if sometime we
think about it I think we all when I
well I read one of the book and uh most
of our ketosis stuff is quite closely
related to Evolution so I think we all
survived because of carbohydrates
because if we are all meat eaters it'll
be little tough so we all survived but I
think it it has really spoiled uh our
genes and you know the tendency to gain
weight it's it's quite fast so so of
course carbohydrates are very important
part of our diet in India we have lot of
different kind of breads rice lentils uh
it's all Cs and we have like amazing
deserts uh so and and it's a treat right
it's a treat when you do something good
you you have some deserts so so that's
uh so you eventually gain weight you
know uh and uh um I I think I had an a
pretty average Gene
that I had to work really hard on my
workouts specifically running in order
to just maintain my weight um so I I
hanged around a a scale of weight which
I thought is perfect but I was kind of
overweight even in that that uh range um
but then of course I changed my diet and
and it and I finally was able to get
into a weight which was which was which
was good for my height and uh age so so
um how long ago did you kind of start
this process of going oh wow ketosis I'm
going to try
this oh yeah so uh so I I try to control
my weight I think ever since let let me
just give you some background how I try
to control it before uh uh getting into
a keto diet um so ever since my late uh
Teenage and uh during my mid 20s I'm
right now uh exactly 30 so uh till my
mid 20s I was able to control my weight
with running I bought a treadmill uh but
of course my diet was was just the
regular di with carbs and sugar and you
know having tea and coffee with a lot of
sugar I liked it uh and but I used to
run a lot uh but however for for for
almost 12 to 13 years I I stopped having
fat because that's the most logical
thing like I'm gaining fat so I should
stop eating fat um so I had no butter no
ghee um uh no cheese uh um very little
meat in meat mainly chicken not mutton
or any other kind of meat because
cholesterol and all those things which
are associated with red meat and eggs uh
and I try to work out with running in
order to control my weight and even
after controlling it I could I was
always in the range between 72 to 75 so
if I am 72.5 I used to think I'm healthy
I am fit uh and I would reach 75 very
quickly then again I'll start running I
would spend like considerable amount of
my day in running uh but then two years
back uh one of my another colleague uh
shadab Ahmed uh he was also struggling
with weight and he came across this book
called why we get fat what to do about
it have you heard about it uh okay uh
that is a book he came across and he
shared it with me he gave a long lecture
about it and I went through it uh and I
was totally you know I I read three over
a weekend I read that book and I was
totally by the science in it I was
totally amazed uh followed up I watched
some lectures on YouTube I started
following your Channel
uh with the your daily videos and as
they have I think your videos are now I
think we get two videos a day uh so I
regularly watch your videos and uh you
know I started um getting uh uh the
whole doctrine of ketosis started
getting into me and um I started
following ketosis around two years back
one and a half two years back and for 3
months I followed it very very
religiously I didn't even do exercise CU
I read somewhere that is not that
important I think I even in your
lectures you say that running in a
marathon is not a good thing right
jogging and right because I think it's a
like the exercise is about 15 if you
look at 15% 85% is Diet exercise is
15% yeah right and I remember one of
your videos you actually described that
it's it it won't help you in your old
age because if we run in marathons and
we will it will impact our knees um and
we might might suffer a lot during uh in
our old age we can do it right now we
are young but later on we'll have bad
impact of it so it it will backfire um
so I religiously followed it and within
3 months I lost significant weight from
75 my top was 75 and at that time uh
even with running it was not getting
controlled uh so I with the diet within
three three and a half months I lost uh
from 75 to 63 that was 12 kgs in 3
months uh in I think it would be around
uh 25 lbs U so that was significant uh
but of course in last one year uh uh I
would say that I have uh even this diet
uh I have evolved this diet like uh when
I started I I misinterpreted it has zero
cups and high fat and high protein uh
but then of course it impacts your liver
right in I think in one of your I think
today's video I Remember You you had
talk about the fatty liver part right so
it impacts your liver so I tweaked uh I
I continue to tweak the diet and evolve
it uh by increasing vegetables and then
lowering down the meat to one meal and
of course eggs I really like eggs so I
have uh so this was this was the whole
diet part of course the benefits were
not just limited to um to my to my
weight loss uh when I added butter and
uh and ghee and shees to my diet so I
had a very dry skin imagine somebody not
having fat for 12 13 years I had a very
terrible dry skin no matter how much uh
awesome creams I use it's not going to
help uh but suddenly I do you see this
brightness it's it's all natural so
there's no cream no additional stuff and
all my friends tell me that you know I
look significant younger uh than what I
was just a year and a half back so they
were not just it's not just limited to
weight loss and uh and and on and beside
that I I have I have a very uh uh kind
of a stressful job uh long hours and all
but my productivity has increased um
it's like 12:00 at night but my energy
is really not down I can still work
couple of hours more uh so I think it
has also helped me professionally wow I
just want to make one one one point um
for those people that are watching that
don't know what we're talking about um
he started something called the ketogen
diet but he's been watching my videos
and basically I tweak the ketogenic diet
I add a lot of vegetables to it uh we
like to graduate into it and not jump
into so many fats and we want a moderate
amount of protein but as far as what it
could do for your your skin and for your
energy ketones basically are the
byproduct of fat and ketones are more
efficient they're less stressful they
produce less waste they help with your
cognitive function so those of you that
are watching you may want to try try
this eating plan but go ahead let me
started this whole thing you know it's
it's it's a it's a very uh radically
different uh diet which a lot of people
have you know they have uh they had
their whole childhood and they grown on
the the standard pyramid which we see uh
which has carbohydrate as very integral
part and sugar as a a legal drug which
we all love which which I don't love now
but a lot of people do uh it was very
tough but uh I think even colleagues and
a lot of my close friends I was able to
influence them like I was influenced by
one of my colleague um uh we influenced
them and cumulatively all a lot of
people in our group because it's more it
was more like a social experiment we
were able to police each other and
cumulatively we lost I think a lot of
kgs a lot of kgs U and uh and of course
uh you know watching the same reading
the same literature watching the same
videos and uh you know we we all have
our old small group and uh uh slowly
slowly it's it's getting popular so it
it is becoming more easier you know like
you get options uh to eat uh even
outside uh you know like uh like just
year and a half or two years back I I
could never see things which were like
low carbs or zero carbs but now you can
find things uh which are like that you
can find salad dressings which have uh
which have either no sugar which are
which are not soy based uh and are um
and a much healthier option wow I know
that in India they use um GMO just like
in America right y yep and did you do
also in minute fasting yes I do yes I do
so uh uh earlier I didn't know what was
the term uh for this but I was when when
when I when I got into my ketosis I
think I got it pretty fast like in in
week or two when when I initially
started um uh but I I didn't feel that
hungry so so I would have my meal like
8:00 9:00 at night and my next meal was
um in uh at noon or around 1 p.m. next
day uh however later on when I uh so it
was not like exact intermittent fasting
like uh 16 hours no uh food uh only uh
liquids like coffee or tea black uh but
I was able to I was doing for quite some
time like a 14h hour uh no food and then
having kind of a 7
to8 for my two meals of the day um so
but later on I was able to stretch it to
16 hours uh and uh and actually
intermittent fasting is is totally I
started when I saw your videos purely uh
there was no other literature in which I
knew about inter fasting but I always
thought it's it's kind of uh too pushing
myself uh but uh but then I saw and and
uh actually I I I went through a lot of
your videos back to back like a marathon
in order to study cortisol and in order
to uh I don't know if I had some stress
issues or cortisol issue but but I don't
know I really like that topic you know
the whole growth hormone and the how
cortisol secretes in every now and then
and I think in high pressure jobs it it
sometime happens uh and then I started
practicing intermittent fasting uh in
the more of 16 hours and then a 8 Hour
window uh thing so uh yes that that was
really helpful I believe it uh uh I
don't know what are the more results I
think I'll see it as I practice it over
the years yeah so let's say for example
um your first meal give me an example of
what you would eat in your first
meal uh so my first meal of the day is
uh so uh usually my first meal is around
10000 p.m. that is more like a lunch
plus my breakfast so I have eggs in it I
have a salad uh which is primarily
cucumber and tomatoes I know tomatoes
are not that keto friendly but but
that's the option I have sometime I have
celery uh like small salad I have a bowl
of curd uh cuz that uh that keeps my gut
really healthy what's in the
curd uh there's nothing in the curd so
it's it's blank uh sometime I add a
little bit of salt No like kurd is that
like a probiotic or what what is kurd
uh so CD it's uh it's not uh it's a way
it's like yogurt uh but uh yeah so uh so
it's mostly plain which I have and U
beside that uh uh what else I I usually
have like a piece of uh chicken or uh
mutton whatever is available uh so this
is usually my meal uh the first meal and
um that's it so of course I have my
black coffee in morning uh with with
some coconut oil wow that's amazing so
um so let's say that uh was going to ask
you um and then for dinner is it a
similar meal or is it
different uh except the eggs it's mostly
similar okay uh the only difference is
that I add uh vegetables uh instead of
eggs uh so these are either sauted
vegetables or some traditional Indian
vegetables which are very spicy and
pretty delicious so uh you can easily
have it uh and some my wife uh so my
wife has experimented so many dishes
because of uh because of my diet uh so
she keeps Reinventing like I recently
saw zucchini noodles uh you know and I
was just showing her we used to cook
make zucchini noodles uh like a year and
a half back and I really love it cuz it
it it's like uh like say spaghetti but
but much healthy spaghetti I love it too
um have you ever been to the
US oh no I haven't been to the US so
they have Indian restaurants and I I
would imagine it's probably not the same
as eating food in India but it could be
and the reason why I don't go to Indian
restaurants anymore is simply because
every single sauce loaded with sugar so
you got the meat in the sugar and then
you have they have the the naan you know
what and you have all
this great spicy food it's incredible
but oh my gosh if they just didn't have
the sugar it would be so much better and
of course they bring the rice right the
rice is always part of it rice yes R and
the
Breads and I would leave that restaurant
feeling completely and utterly stuffed
and Bloated for the next day and just
like what was it worth it you know so
you would think that I would just like
no for a fact but um you know that was I
used to uh frequently go to those uh
restaurants and also all you can eat
buffets
this is this was uh very bad in the US
because they have all you can
eat that's the thing uh so even salads
if you go to salad bar uh so they they
have these delicious salads so I later
came to know that uh even top bran I
would won't name them but uh even they
have their salery their capsicum their
peppers are not that spicy to your
tongue but why are they so spicy when
you eat it at home the reason is that
they just run it through sugar water and
that's that's why they are so delicious
so so it's a big no no to have salad
outside so and that's interesting and
then also if you in my area the uh like
in Virginia and Washington DC they have
a lot of Peruvian places where it's they
have chicken places and I they basically
put the reason why it's so delicious and
they have a line outside um is because
they load it with u like a tremendous
amount of monosodium glutamate they put
that in the meat and they make it taste
really good
but you're going to get so fat because
you're going to spike insulin
so yeah it's amazing eh yeah that's yeah
but you're your uh before and after is
just incredible so um you did really
well and I'm just amazed at the
transformation
incredible yep and it was purely with
diet so I think uh that that's that's
the piece which everyone misses right
the diet part yeah yeah they say well
I'm just going to eat what I want and
exercise more well good luck on that one
right so absolutely but anyway I wanted
to just thank you for taking this
interview and I think we have a great
story I think it's going to motivate
other people just because you don't look
unhealthy you look like you're energetic
you're not starving between meals you
don't crave sweets anymore and uh you
didn't even have to exercise yet so who
wouldn't want to do that that's a that's
the perfect life yeah right I know yes
yeah well thank you so much for doing
this interview and uh U maybe we'll do a
followup in the future and just uh when
you take to the next level and we'll see
we'll go from there absolutely it is so
nice to see you live uh Dr BG oh my
pleasure yeah that's great well thank
you so much and uh have a wonderful day
yeah you too okay see you
