welcome to the anti-aging seminar today
we're going to answer a question is it
possible to reverse the aging process or
at least slow it down I believe it is so
before we get into how to do that I want
to talk about a big problem in
healthcare we're running into right now
and that has to do with there is no
prevention it's all treating symptoms
it's not preventing anything so let me
just show you something right here this
is a book um called Frank N MD
endocrinology and we're going to talk
about the adrenal gland because there's
an aging hormone it's called cortisol
and cortisol will make you older and so
you need to know about it you need to
know how to undo it and slow it down and
this is what it says the normal adrenal
gland has an enormous functional Reserve
indeed the adrenal deficiency does not
become clinically manifest until 9/10 of
the adrenal has been rendered
unresponsive now what does that mean
that means that before it shows up in a
blood test it has to be 90% destroyed
you see the problem if you wait for your
adrenals to be showing up on a blood
test it's too late and the same thing
goes with um the heart does anyone know
the first symptom of a heart attack over
50% of the time well guess what it is
it's actually there is no symptom it's
death you just die so sometimes your
body gives clues some times your body
does not give Clues you really can't go
by symptoms same thing with the liver
your liver has to be almost completely
destroyed before it shows up in a blood
test so what we're going to get in today
is some of the problems some of the
solutions in relationship to the
anti-aging cycle all right there's two
situations you have right here you
have creating
Health okay
versus
treating
disease so the medical model is this
over here treating disease and that's
that basically what they
do I want to set up a new model and
that's called creating health and
avoiding disease it's completely
different what we want to do is we want
to stay over here at how do we create
Health well through your Foods the
nutrients in your Foods the type of
exercise the Sleep the things you're
doing to reduce stress all these things
are creating health and of course the
counter creating of the health is just
the opposite you know it's what you're
putting in your food as far as junk
Foods bad foods artificial things
alcohol
not sleeping stressing your body out all
those things are counter creating your
health but there's also something else
and that has to do with doing nothing
all right doing nothing is counter
creating your health because if you do
nothing it's your body's going to fall
apart so if you sit in the couch all day
you're not going to create any health
are you you're going to counter create
your health so here's the thing here's
the problem with treating the disease
model what happens is that the doctor
says you have to wait you have to wait 6
months months and we're going to test
you again so every six months we're
going to test you we're going to test
you until you have this disease well by
the time you wait you're already going
to have it so my suggestion is that we
actively and aggressively create your
health now because the odds are against
you do you realize that cancer takes 20
years to grow in your body before even
shows up on a test 20 years that's two
decades so you really can't wait and
then because when you wait and then you
actually are diagnosed it takes
incredible energy to undo this thing in
fact when you get chemotherapy the
success rate after 5 years is only
2% so the disease model treating the
disease model doesn't work it's very
very
expensive and the prognosis is not very
good and there's a lot of side effects
because the drugs create other
complications what I suggest is we do
this we really focus on this C Health
thing because this is all if you want to
know about anti-aging it's right here
it's all about creating your health it's
about creating your cells healthier it's
like building this thing up that will
make you younger I'm doing it personally
in about three years I'll be 50 I feel
like I'm 20 but when I was in my 20s I
felt like I was 90 so I've been actively
building up my health and creating my
health and I will tell you that this
model really works so my goal with you
is to make you more aware of this right
right here put your attention on this
okay because every single day whether
you know it or not you're either
creating your health or you're counter
creating your health which is basically
creating disease so there are little
actions that you can do each day that
make a huge difference but there's
really two mistakes that people make
number one is waiting until they have a
problem and men are notorious for this
because they tend to be more Macho or
they wait they don't want to admit that
they have weaknesses and I treat uh
small percent of men but only because
their wife dragged them to my office and
then they decide okay I'm ready to do
something about it but women tend to be
more responsible hopefully you men in
the audience are going to be more
responsible today but what we want to do
is we want to not wait anymore we want
to take action waiting never works
because sooner or later you are going to
have a health problem I know some of you
have uh parents or grandparents in your
family right now that just out of the
blue got sick and now all the family is
sucking into trying to help this person
so waiting always leads to more problems
down the down the road so that's that's
mistake number one mistake number two is
that you have no Health goal or your
goal is too small it's like what is your
health goal well I don't know I'm just
going to wait till see what happens to
my life in a couple years my goal for my
body is to get younger every year that I
get older does that sound like a good
idea yeah absolutely because if you do
that if you actively create on your
health then guess what what happens to
this disease State you avoid it in fact
when it's like learning Kate then no one
wants to fight you you're actively
countering and bulletproofing your
health for the future and so that way
you take yourself out of the risk
factors and out of the state where your
doctor's saying hey let's wait in six
months and let's test you and see when
you have it so then we can treat you
with a drug I want to
aggressively actively promote and create
a health Reserve that you are totally
bulletproof for the future
now let's talk about the three mistakes
that people make repetitively over and
over and over without really knowing
they're making a mistake the first
mistake is these things called
antioxidants and I know some of you are
taking them vitamin E and vitamin C and
the and I guess the Chinese herb tea
that you're drinking and the gko baloba
and all that stuff well let me explain
something the whole free radical theory
is a myth now before you reject that
because I was the guy that was pushing
that at one time
thinking that there's these free
radicals going around destroying our
body making ourselves older until I
started to go and read some of the
studies that were done on these
antioxidants so let me read you a couple
these are scientific studies that will
show you that these um the antioxidants
either don't work or they make you worse
check this out here's one the alpha
tofal that's vitamin E beta uh keratin
that's vitamin A prevention study this
was done in 29 9,000 people okay it
increases taking antioxidants increase
the risk of cardiac death stroke and
risk for coronary events okay the the
trial will stop early all right the next
one called The Poet prevention study
done in 751 people neither beta katene
or vitamin C or vitamin A reduce the
incident of tumors or PPS or prevented
any PPS okay and then we had another
study the physician study this is shows
no difference in the incident of
malignant cancer stroke or
cardiovascular disease or overall
mortality in 12 years of taking the
supplement here's another one says
there's no significant different in
major coronary events but significantly
more deaths from Fatal coronary heart
disease is this mindblowing or what the
actual solutions that people are trying
to take the actual vitamins that people
are take or actually making them worse
now how can that be let me explain
something in nature all vitam
come in complexes okay a complex is a
series of complex parts that make up a
hole now let's just take the vitamin C
complex here we have one part called the
ascorbic
acid that's the anti-oxidant portion of
the vitamin C complex and it also has
some co-actors here vitamin J vitamin P
that's the bioflavonoids that you
probably have heard about and then you
have copper that's a mineral and then
you have vitamin K so this is what makes
up the vitamin C complex well when
you're taking these antioxidants in all
those studies most of the studies were
doing we doing on on synthetic vitamins
and synthetic antioxidants they weren't
using natural antioxidants so anytime
you take a vitamin fraction or a part of
a vitamin out of the normal complex you
create deficiencies in the other factors
I had a patient go to Mexico he had
cancer and they injected him with over
100,000 milligrams of synthetic ascorbic
acid which is vitamin C and this guy
came back with the worst vitamin C
deficiency that you ever have seen in
your life he had bleeding gums he had
spider veins in his nose he looked like
he had scurvy which is a vitamin C
because he was very tired and he had
varicose veins and hemorrhoids which are
all vitamin C deficiencies the very
thing that you're taking in high dosages
but synthetic are creating the
deficiency and you know how many people
are doing that they buy cheap vitamins
that are believe it or not made from
petroleum products they're not natural
they're not from Plants but they they
can they some people say there's no
difference well let me ask you this is
there a difference between artificial
flavoring and real flavoring I mean I
think there is I believe there's a big
difference between synthetic and natural
so anytime you take artificial synthetic
fractionated vitamins from the complex
and take those Mega dosages you're going
to be creating problems and I can prove
it CU right in the studies all those
were done
synthetically mistake number two taking
hormones all right now I know there's a
lot of people are doing the biodental
hormones and doing uh synthetic hormones
and let me just explain some challenges
but before I do that I just have to
explain what a hormone is because it can
be very complex first of all that you
have to know there's
600 hormones in your body and when you
add a hormone into the mix you you
create
a lot of confusion but what happens is
that hormones are Communications that
are sent from one part of the body to
another and they travel through the
blood so these are
hormones and what makes a hormone are
things called
glands and it usually goes to some other
part of the tissue like let's say this
is the ovary and this is the pituitary
so you always have these glands that are
sending
receiving and then returning
communication just like you would talk
to someone you know you talk to someone
they supposedly they should be listening
to you and they should be acknowledging
you when you talk to them you're not
going to talk to someone they're just
sitting there not acknowledging you same
thing with the body so anytime you have
too much of a hormone you have a certain
problem anything not enough you have a
completely other set of problems so
here's the problem when you take
hormones you
actually shut down the
gland you make the gland not have to
produce you make the body now dependent
on that hormone same goes with thyroid
any hormones in the body that's why I'm
not crazy about taking hormones unless
youve tried
everything here's what's really missing
no one is looking at the glands
repairing the glands healing the glands
this is the secret to anti-aging because
you have to be able to know what to do
to heal the glands now one of the
biggest things that destroys your glands
are a thing called endocrine disruptors
what is an endocrine disruptor an
endocrine disruptor is anything in the
environment that can destroy or
interfere or mimic other hormones and
specifically it mimics estrogen and you
know that estrogen has a tendency to
cause cancer and Trigger cancer it can
create lots of problems for you too so
even some of the anti- breast cancer
drugs
um are things that block estrogen in the
body so endocrine disruptors are any
chemical like pesticide insecticides
herbicides fungicides heavy men metal
country and western I'm just seeing if
you're awake all these things in the
environment that are messing up your
hormones golf course they pesticides all
it's everywhere so what happens what you
have to do is you have to be aware of
that number one and you have to be able
to detoxify your body from the endocrine
disruptors it just so happens there's a
wonderful set of foods that you can eat
right now that can dismantle these
chemicals from your liver without
creating any detox reactions now would
you like to know about that would anyone
like to know about that okay you would
like to know about that and they're
called cruciferous okay cruciferous are
those vegetables like broccoli brussels
sprouts cabbage kale and these
vegetables that not very many people are
eating have the ability to reach out
from your and pull these chemicals
dismantle them and deactivate them why
because these things cause cancer they
create disease thank goodness that we
have our own food supply we have things
that can protect our bodies my favorite
food is kale why because kale has the
most nutrition of any plant on the
planet it's the healthiest food that you
could possibly get does it taste good
well that's a different topic but it's
good for you it's a little bitter but
you can mix it with different things
kale is my favorite because it it can
has anti-cancer properties it can make
your cells young again it can pull these
chemicals out so to salvage the gland we
need to be consuming cruciferous and you
know what's really cool about that only
three cups of cruciferous every single
week will decrease certain cancer rates
by
48% okay just remember that because
these phytonutrients I have special
properties that if eaten in their
complex not synthetically can create
massive amounts of anti-aging properties
okay so let's let's let's look at
something
here as you age every single year you
age your
hormones are declining that's the good
news I mean that's the bad news so let's
look at this this is an aging over
time there's hormones that are
decreasing with time and there are
hormones that are increasing with time
all right the ones that increase with
time are the Aging hormones specifically
cortisol that's the bad hormone that's
the one that causes belly fat that's the
one that destroys your collagen and your
skin and your joints and your arteries
that can set you up for strokes okay
that's the one that makes you old inside
and out it it keeps you from sleeping it
it get it causes sets up a situation
where you can get autoimmune
diseases I mean think about what
cortisol is if they inject you with it
it's an anti-inflammatory so that means
that all the uh inflammatory diseases
are adrenal why don't they fix the gland
that's a good question so cortisol that
goes up as you age and let's say this is
uh 50 years old right here okay 50 years
old and then we have this other one
going down is called growth hormone okay
now growth hormone is not just about
growing it's about making you young
growth hormone is the main anti-aging
hormone it occurs when you're sleeping
so if you're not sleeping it's not
working the other thing that triggers it
is exercise but not anyal exercise and
I'll I'll get to that in a moment but
this is a very very important thing that
decreases and that's why it's so hard to
lose weight as you age because this is
the main hormone that burns fat
especially in your belly Okay so what we
want to do with the anti-aging strategy
is we we need to get the glands healthy
we need to get cortisol down to zero and
get growth hormone as high as we can all
right so that's what we're talking about
so so what we want to do we want to
understand what gland or what organ does
growth hormone work through liver what
destroys the liver is alcohol even wine
beer Mad Dog 2020 and also a lot of
cooked protein proteins a lot of cook
protein powders the soy powder is very
bad for the liver soy protein isolate
powder is very bad for the liver when
you actually have these powders at your
house that you're taking look at the
ingredients make sure it doesn't have
this soy because it's very bad in the
liver in fact they found it increases
tumors in your liver so we have um the
thing that the liver loves is um bitter
vegetables and there we got the
cruciferous again we keep coming back to
those darn cruciferous vegetables
now the only thing green that I ate
growing up was pistachio ice cream and
lime green Jello I never ate any
vegetables until I got out of college
and that's why I hit bottom I was very
very old on the inside and going down
real rapidly I hit bottom when I was 28
but I decided at that point that I'm
done I'm ready to get my body in the
best shape that I've ever been because I
if I didn't I would end up in serious
shape so I've I've been consuming a lot
of cruciferous my favorite is kale for
probably about 15 years why because I
found that was the food that heals the
liver and so that's why I want you to
eat that as well um or eat similar types
of food so the the liver needs bitter
vegetables to heal itself okay so now
let me show you
something a strategy that I use to help
people get younger is increase
this growth hormone and by the way you
can buy it you can buy it from a um you
can actually have your doctor order it
for you it will regenerate your organs
within three months it will lose a lot
of weight you get lean body mass it
costs $12,000 though but it causes
diabetes as a side effect about 3 to
four months later so remember I talked
about when you take a hormone and in
activates your gland that makes it so
there's another way to increase growth
hormone by
450% does anyone want to know what to do
how to do that anyone I don't think you
guys are really ready for this maybe
I'll show you at the next seminar the
advanced seminar you want to know okay
fine I'll I'll tell you so to increase
the growth ran by 450% what we want to
do is we want to do a type of exercise
that is called interval training that
would be the short little workouts with
lots of rest back and forth you can do
little hopping on stairs you can do uh
bike riding you can do little jogging
things you can do jump rope whatever
doesn't doesn't matter but the key is
the interval short rest short rest as
compared to jogging doing marathons okay
you will not increase the growth hormone
so the type of exercise that they found
that increases it is interval training
all right but here's the problem with
some of you you you're not ready to do
interval training yet because when you
exercise you stress your body out and
then you stop what's supposed to happen
you're supposed to then recover and get
healthy and burn fat right here in the
recovery after the workout 14 hours
later but most of you your recovery is
so
bad and I'm talking about your body's
ability to
rejuvenate you're not ready for theal
training because it's more of a stress
see here's the thing it's not about the
quantity of exercise it's about how your
body can recover from that exercise I
wrestled in college I was undefeated for
the first week then I was the worst guy
on the team because I would work out
twice thinking more is better the point
is it's not it's about your ability to
bounce back from things there is
something in your body that is actively
getting you to recover from stress
actively it's an active machine I'm not
going to give you the long name for it
but there's something that helps you to
recover so let's just say you run up a
stairs okay and you get to the top how
fast is your pul rate come back to a a
normal range well guess what gets your
pulse rate back to that normal range
this specific system so it's called a
recovery system and then you also have
something that reacts to the stress to
get your pulse rate to adapt to the
climbing of the stairs too so in any
given moment you're constantly reacting
to stress and adapting to stress
reacting and adapting to stress so this
brings up the next most important thing
and that is the Aging hormone called
cortisol what destroys your body is
stress how many you you ever experienced
stress at least once before four got one
person and I'm being sarcastic all of
you it's okay to experience stress as
long as you can recover from it so
here's another
secret If you experience stress make
sure you actually do things to extract
the stress as you go through stress
because unfortunately we can't move you
all to an Island right now in the beach
for about the next six months so you can
rejuvenate so you're going to have to do
things to undo the stress what I do for
my body is I teach people how to do
acupressure it's a non-invasive way of
extracting stress because that way each
night you can pull the stress out
because here's the thing all stress is
accumulative your bodies are like
buckets and you're filling up with
stress every day and if you don't get
rid of it that sustained stress will
burn you out a lot of you mothers in the
audience are experiencing that you put
your body on the back burner until one
day when you get after menopause you're
like what the heck happened to my body
because you've been pushing putting
yourself on the back burner like I said
it's okay to experience stress as long
as you can recover from it and you can
keep going so sleep is vital extracting
stress doing things to decrease stress
is vital because stress is the number
one killer out there right now and a lot
of you are going through lots of massive
stress so I want you to do things every
single day that actively get rid of your
stress or reduce your stress why
because you can't escape stress but you
can do something about it you can you
can actually handle your physical body's
ability to adapt from the stress so like
I said
before there's a program that I put
people on that actually helped them
recover but sometimes that's confusing
to people they want to like what do you
mean recover well I mean bounce back how
do you know you have low recovery well
how is your tolerance to stress do
people get on your nerves do uh are you
have a low tolerance to incompetent
people do you get on edge do you have do
you get overwhelmed that means you lost
your ability to recover okay when the
more you lose your ability to recover
the less exercise is going to help you
lose weight especially in the
midsection why because that's when all
the fats burned all right so this
recovery thing is everything and um to
build up your recovery in your cells get
them to adapt better um is the probably
even more important than anything so you
want to adjust your exercise
to your ability to recover okay so we
have two things going on we have the
reaction to stress and the recovery from
stress and we want to be able to react
to it but we have to adapt to it as well
and this is one of the most important
things so let's say you're stressed
right now and you don't know what to do
and you you're probably uh maybe be o
you're over trining well just do walking
right now and build up to it over a
period of time but the key is never to
overtrain because again if we can get
you to recover better we can increase
growth hormone and we can then make you
younger as you get
older mistake number
three not isolating and being aware of
and getting healthy your weakest link
all of you are going to die of something
someday the key is knowing what you're
going to die of is it going to be the
heart is it going to be cancer is it
going to be the pancreas is it going to
be the the liver is it going to be an
artery what is it going to be you're as
strong as your weakest link and what you
want to do is you want to identify what
weak links you have and put a lot of
attention on creating Health in that
area it's so simple but people don't
look at it like that now how do you know
your weakest link look at your parents
do they have diabetes I know some of you
are on medication right now well that
would be a weak link right there to
start with I mean if you want to if
you're confused with what weak link you
have
you can get help from me or you can just
start with the heart because most people
die of a heart attack some of the common
things that destroy the heart are um
vitamin B deficiency coming from eating
too many refined grains like breads
pasta cereal crackers biscus waffles
pancakes muffins things like that and
sugar that will destroy the heart faster
than anything also um it depletes you a
vitamin E which then will cause a
different type of heart problem which is
um like heart attacks angina that's why
vitamin E is good for the heart if it's
done naturally but how do you become
deficient vitamin E by consuming too
many of those refined grains breads
pasta C crackers biscuits you know
everyone's doing it so we want to avoid
those to protect your heart we already
talked about the liver it doesn't like
high uh a lot of cooked protein it
doesn't like uh soy powder it does like
cook fats it likes raw bitter vegetables
okay what about the pancreas well it
doesn't like sugar it doesn't like
hidden sugars like juice and like um the
hidden sugars as MSG in some of the
Chinese restaurants in the fast food
places all right so all these things are
very very vital when you're talking
about um healing the body and getting
younger you don't want to take a global
approach you want to take a specific
approach and take one organ at a time
take your weakest link and bring it on
up some of you are so stressed out your
adrenal glands need to be
rejuvenated that would be a good place
to start because if you take that weak
link and you bring that thing up guess
what you did you allow the anti-aging
hormones to work in your body just by
automatically bringing that darn
cortisol down and that cortisol is at
the heart of so many illnesses from
degenerative disease to autoimmune to
cancer to burning out the heart so that
would be a very vital goal
