so here's a question will apple cider
vinegar actually break your fast because
it does have carbohydrate okay one
tablespoon of apple cider vinegar has
point zero 1 grams of carbohydrates so
it's not going to really break too fast
more than a nanosecond but if you're
consuming the salt make vinegar 3 grams
of carbs rice vinegar 6 grams of carbs
so these two comparatively have a lot
more than outside of vinegar but if
you're using just a tiny bit on your
salad dressing I think it's going to be
okay but what is vinegar vinegar is
acetic acid there's some other things in
there but it's mainly a scenic acid now
where does this come from it comes from
acetic acid bacteria so this bacteria
ferments the carbs the Apple
carbohydrates so it's breaking down the
carbohydrates with certain enzymes and
eventually turning it into vinegar so
fermentation is basically the breakdown
of carbs sugar or alcohol by bacteria
the Latin derivation of the word vinegar
means sour wine and the reason why they
add sulfites to the wine is to prevent
this bacteria from turning the alcohol
into vinegar because sulfides suppress
this bacteria now when I was 11 years
old in the backyard we had this
crabapple tree and so I took this bushel
basket of crab apples through the corn
field up to this hill where this farmer
lived and he actually had a press and we
turned all those apples into apple juice
so we had them in jugs so I took these
jugs of apple juice took him back home
put him in the backyard and the next
couple days I came back and I wanted to
drink some of this juice and I noticed
it taste very very strange and the more
I drank the more I felt really relaxed
and I felt really good because the
fermentation process turned that apple
juice into alcohol so as I noticed over
time after a couple more days this
alcohol spiked apple juice turned into a
very bitter vinegar so even the armies
of the Spartans consumed
vinegar for strength they made the same
called black soup which is a combination
of boiled pig legs blood salt and
vinegar sounds like a great keto recipe
we'll have to try it sometime but the
real interesting thing about apple cider
vinegar is that yes it has a very tiny
amount of carbohydrate but it has the
ability to stabilize your blood sugars
and decrease insulin and improve insulin
resistance and anything that will
decrease insulin will help you lose
weight and because it stabilizes your
blood sugar your hunger goes down and
your energy will go up so you really
don't to be worried about consuming
outside of vinegar while you're on a
fast in fact I encourage it and it'll
actually help you go longer and give you
energy and if you haven't seen this
video on the outside the vinegar check
it out right now
