all right so I had another question can
I consume an avocado pit okay without
any problem
well it's not a quick answer I just have
to explain a couple things the benefit
of consuming the pit and I'm talking
about taking the seed out of that
avocado drying it out in either a
dehydrator or your oven 250 degrees for
two hours it's a lot of work chopping it
up and then blending it into some shake
when you do that you get a lot of extra
phytonutrients in fact the
phytonutrients in that seed compared to
the meat of an avocado is like
off-the-charts okay so that's why people
do it now that sounds pretty good but
there's a certain chemical natural
chemical in the seed it's also in the
meat as well but it's mostly
concentrated in the seed it's in the
bark it's in the leaves which you don't
consume but mainly if you're going to
consume the seed you have to be aware
that it has this natural fungicide
it's called person now it is toxic to
animals but it's not as toxic to humans
okay maybe in large quantities and
certain people could be sensitive to it
they could have allergies to it but
genuinely it's non-toxic to humans
there's a study that showed that even
had anti-cancer properties to the breast
tissue but there's another study taken
out of context to show that this
chemical can create DNA damage but it's
in vitro which means they take this
avocado extract and they put it into a
petri dish and they expose it to your
cells and they show that it causes
damage but here's the thing you're not
gonna crush this up and inject it into
your bloodstream okay you're gonna eat
this it's going to go through your
digestive system into your stomach into
the intestines it's gonna go through
immigration get the stamp of approval
through your own body's immune system
it's gonna go through the liver and the
liver has all sorts of an enzymes to
make this safe now if you have liver
damage it could be more toxic but the
point is that this study is really
invalid because no one in consumes these
foods directly into the bloodstream it
goes through your digestive system so in
reality you'd have to consume a lot of
this
avocado seeds to create a toxic effect
on your body alright so the question is
can you consume an avocado pit
absolutely are there health benefits yes
lots of phytonutrients is it convenient
no because you're gonna have to take
this pit out dehydrate it chop it up
blend it consume it so personally I
don't have time to do it I'm gonna get
my phytonutrients from other things like
cruciferous vegetables alright guys
thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
