want to just state your name and what
you notice in your body
my name is Paul Becker and I noticed
that the room floor retention in my body
leg swelling and the weight was very
hard to move I tried basically every
diet that just know I've been to weight
loss well someone called fat farms but
they very expensive weight loss clinics
and which we get try to do it with very
little success and yeah we're here I got
it and have you done any part of the
program yet with dr. Burke yes before we
came but more motivating us to actually
travel before miles to get here is the
fact that we ordered a book I've had
four had two books in them shampoos our
lot of books I read and find I said let
me just look at this little bit we
started to prove them we started the
cruciferous and within a week I noticed
I could no other doses on my protonix my
medication for my floor I rarely have to
take that my asleep in the word well it
has improved feel rested in the mornings
I don't just feel like I don't have more
energy and it doesn't take a lot to a
food to fill me up so I reached the tide
to a lot quicker versus what I was
leaving air thinking I was trying to
lose weight I was on the boat protein
diet we tried some similar to the Atkins
we tried
Oh electron vestment vegetables before
but this is an idea that's great
anything else you'd like to say I might
say that I had a great expectations
because I've never seen something that
simple word and my favorite I look
forward to it to actually build a hill I
like the concept kill the body and wait
to go away alright so I'm just gonna get
a big picture here okay just kind of see
where we are to start and we'll know how
far we've gotten from there so what's
the worst body complaint you have about
yourself going on the symptom ones my
abdomen and my knees very weak knees and
that's the reason why via the power
chair about a year ago I've been in a
chair like a year and a half ago and I'm
ready to get out of jail that's awesome
thank you for sharing that now if you
want to tell us if you're okay with it
how much do you weigh so then when we do
this again we'll see a difference break
the arrow of its 6:35 see seven thirty
five pounds
gotcha alright anything else you'd like
to say that's buddy that's good yes say
what all right all right she's very
supportive not very grateful to have a
wife like her and she's gonna support me
with other courtesy drastic weight loss
hmm with doctors play excellent thank
you
