hey Dr Burke here in this video we're
going to talk about the cognitive
effects of your adrenal glands your
adrenal glands are the stress glands and
you may have heard of the adrenals
involved with something called the
flight or fight mechanism basically
that's a stress state where you're
actively fighting or fleeing running
away and so you have heightened
awareness and you have all sorts of um
reactions that occur to prepare your
body for stress so I want to show you
something in civa collection of um
medical illustrations Endocrinology
Frank net um and Page 84 it talks about
the effects of one of the adrenal
hormones under stress stes says increase
neural excitability now what is that
mean it means that on a cognitive
function you are increasing your your
thinking a lot so you're always thinking
thinking thinking thinking the thoughts
no longer become more linear they're
more like popcorn they kind of come in
kind of disperse so that's the first
thing that occurs under stress so we
have that and then we get into this
excessive problem solving thing now what
the body is trying to do is it's it's
putting you in a stress state to solve
problems relating to survival so you're
constantly every second of the day
you're solving problems and even solving
nonexistent problems just in case they
might occur so a lot of plan B's a lot
of plan C's so that's what's happening
and the problem is that it won't turn
off cuz even when you're sleeping you
got this thing running constantly going
going going even if you're talking to
someone you're already done with the
conversation ready to move on to the
next thing um and then as it progresses
you're you're going to find that your
tolerance to stress is going to go way
way way down people might get on your
nerves a little bit so especially to
anything that's nons Survival like
incompetent people people that make
mistakes people that make errors uh slow
people uh stupid things that people do
will really upset you and also things
are out of order so you may even look
and go in a room and spot that one
little piece of paper on the floor that
no one else can see and you have to pick
it up and clean it up because your
environment has to be very very orderly
so your attention goes to the non-s
survival thing the thing that's out of
order more than anything else so that's
one stage right here and I'm not saying
that just because you do that you have
an adrenal problem okay that's my
disclaimer but this could potential
potentially happen under stress States
over a long period of time so because
certain personalities they're they're
cleaners and I'm not saying that's
adrenal problem so you have to
differentiate the twoo now later when it
gets really bad you start having memory
problems and that has to do
with the um GPS in the brain there's
actually a GPS in the brain uh birds
have this structure in the brain um I'm
not going to give you the name because
it's kind of a medical term but that's
how they're able to locate their self in
time and space to fly back to um the
South during the winter months we have a
GPS that helps us locate ourselves in
time and space so the connection to that
GPS becomes inhibited with high levels
of adrenal stress and so you start
having a lag time of finding out what
you were talking about like you might be
talking like okay what am I thinking
about or where are we going again or
have to backtrack when you go downstairs
or where do we
park okay so that could even happen with
adrenal stress as well so again um in
summary there are many cognitive effects
that can happen with adrenals that are
all related to stress day
this is Dr Berg I hope this was
informative
