hey guys in this video I want to talk
about acidosis um people have this
confusion about pH in general um you
know each part of your body has a
different pH and so when you're talking
about everyone needs to be alkalized
because that's healthy not necessarily
so uh in some cases um people are too
acid though and these are the symptoms
to identify here nervous system becomes
very irritable so the person becomes
very edgy uh very dehydrated so your
mouth is dry hard to breathe sighing
frequently you're
like Can't Get Enough air uh light and
Sound Sensitivity especially at night
when you're driving in the dark and
these lights they're irritating your
eyes that could be acidosis uh a lump in
the
throat um feeling stuffy in closed rooms
okay that's part of the hyper
irritability I guess that would be a low
tolerance to stress um un comfortable
high
altitudes um abnormal sensitivity to
pain like for some reason people just
don't don't um enjoy pain too much now
I'm being sarcastic but but like a real
abnormal sensitivity like just a little
bit of pain really is magnified so you
could actually have too much lactic acid
build up and that usually comes from
eating too many carbohydrates or sugar
uh that builds up a lot of lactic acid
in your muscles and that could create
this situation or uric acid from maybe
too much protein which turns into uh
acid but here's the thing that um is
probably the most common is when you do
a ketosis diet um you could go more on
the acid side because uh ketones are
more acidic so that means if that
happens um you want to make sure you're
consuming enough vegetables so you have
all that potassium but the best remedy
there's two remedies one is calcium
magnesium okay so you need to take that
you can take it right before bed to help
neutralize this acid and then the other
one is potassium citrate those two are
very essential if you're doing the
ketosis diet and you become too far on
one one pH more acidic all right but if
you're doing a lot of vegetables you
probably going to be okay and you're not
going to need to do that all right put
your comments below and I'll see you in
the next
video hey guys thank you so much for
watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
