hi guys I have a question for you are
you friendly to your friendly bacteria
well this is a good question let's talk
about it first of all there's two main
purposes for friendly bacteria another
name for friendly bacteria is called
flora all right to number one make
vitamins okay
and also they make up your immune system
there's only really two vitamins that
your body can make without the help of
microbes and that would be vitamin D
from the skin and vitamin b3 that can be
converted from tryptophan which is a
protein vitamin D helps build the bone
helps the immune system it does a lot of
other things but those are the two
things that it primarily does b3 is
really good for decreasing LDL
cholesterol and increasing the HDL the
good cholesterol right which we know
it's not good or bad but the point is
that it helps regulate cholesterol it
also helps your skin it helps a lot of
things but the body can't make other
vitamins so either you're gonna get it
from the diet or you're gonna get it
from your microbes okay and this is why
you have to start becoming more friendly
to your friendly bacteria because you
have to look at them as partners or
things that actually help you they are
the energy factories they're your
insurance policy they're the backup
vitamins that you need now they live off
of fiber so when you consume vegetables
we don't want to do we don't want to
feed them grain fiber we want to feed
them vegetable fiber fermented
vegetables sauerkraut kimchi all the
fermented vegetables are very very good
asparagus
you know garlic they're all really
really good fibers to feed your friendly
microbes but let's just take a look at
friendly bacteria can make vitamin k2
but I've been k2 prevents the
calcification of your arteries they get
rid of soft tissue calcium deposits in
the body so they're good for kidney
stones calcium the deposits and the
breast tissue so they take the calcium
and put it into the bone where it should
be so this is one very variant
and vitamin so the body also makes
something called folate which you
normally think of preventing birth
defects and a pregnant women when they
take prenatals but it's also needed to
make neurotransmitters to prevent things
like depression mood disorders and
reduce stress also they are responsible
for making certain type of protein as
well
now biotin is also important too and is
made by the friendly bacteria biotin is
really good for your hair it's good for
cell growth and if you're deficient in
biotin you could lose your hair and so a
lot of people are taking this supplement
but it could be a digestive problem you
just don't have the friendly microbes to
make biotin in the first place now
there's really only one microbe that
makes biotin there's not a lot of
microbes so it's really easy to become
deficient but b12 you have many
different microbes that can make b12 so
this is more difficult to become
deficient but if you're a vegetarian you
could be deficient because normally this
is from animal products however I just
had my wheatgrass juice powder tested
and I found that it's double the RDAs
and it's interesting because in
wheatgrass you don't have b12 so it's
made by the friendly bacteria that lives
with the wheatgrass when you consume
vegetables you are consuming something
that is just loaded with friendly
microbes just so you know so yes you
need to clean them off but you don't
necessarily want to destroy those
microbes that's probably half the
benefit in addition to all the vitamins
and minerals and the phytonutrients so
b12 is good for red blood cell
preventing anemia nerve brain energy and
many many other different functions your
microbes make b1 which also is a
precursor for all the neurotransmitters
in the body like gaba for example and
that's why when you're stressed and you
take b1 you just feel so relaxed
because b one makes gaba and gaba is an
anti stress vitamin now when you take
antibiotics you're gonna find that
you're not going to absorb nutrients
very well after that so you have to put
that friendly flora back into the gut by
consuming fermented vegetables like
sauerkraut that's very important but any
if someone has taken many antibiotics
they have a lot of nutritional
deficiencies and they need to take a lot
of supplements because their body is not
making enough vitamins so you have to
realize number one that your your body
is bathed in a sea of microbes you have
10 times as many microbes as you do your
own cells so you want to become more
friendly to them you don't want to just
kill them off with too many antibiotics
so look at them as your partners as your
insurance policy and take care of them
thanks for watching
