so I wanted to do a quick video on
mineral fluctuations when you're doing
fasting because it's always a concern am
I going to deplete my mineral reserve
especially if you're not taking
electrolytes or other minerals like
trace minerals so let's go ahead and
cover it on an average fast let's say 72
hours so if you look at sodium and we're
talking about blood values okay goes
from 138 to 136 so a slight decrease
potassium 4.6 to port 4.3 a slight
decrease magnesium 1.7 to 1.6 a very
slight little dip there and we have
calcium 10.32 9.1 again just a small
amount phosphorus 3.6 the 3.0 zinc check
this out
104 it goes up to 117 this is
interesting
why woods ink go up when you're doing a
fast okay well you're not eating
anything supposedly but what happens is
your body releases from the reserve a
lot of zinc goes up by 3.5 times okay
and why would that be because your body
actually needs ink to make certain
enzymes as a part of the antioxidant
Network that's involved with defending
the body against pathogens also in the
repair action so that's why it goes up
and the other thing that's very
interesting is that uric acid goes from
4.5 to 26 to 41 and then back down to
3.5 so we get this massive spike of uric
acid now why would that be well a lot of
people are associated uric acid with
gout and uric acid kidney stones so it's
a real negative thing but in reality
uric acid is a very powerful antioxidant
and this is why it spikes because it's
part of the body's defense mechanism to
clear out stuff or kill certain things
but you'll see that it actually comes
down it's a temporary spike if someone
is prone to gout or kidney stones
there's a
couple things that they can do consume
lemon juice in their water when they
drink it that would be beneficial also
potassium would be beneficial as an
electrolyte and if you have a bigger
problem another product that would
recommend is called hydroxy citric
that's the most powerful remedy that I
know
to counteract kidney stones because it
actually dissolves the crystals in both
oxalate stones and uric acid stones okay
all right there you have it thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
video hey guys I want to introduce you
to my new doctor Berg app it's right
here it's I'm really excited about it
you need to download it it's free has a
lot of great data it has all my videos
it's updated on a regular basis I also
have the audio version of the videos
audio episodes I also have a mini course
that you can take I also have a button
for new content so you can really know
of all the recent content that I'm
downloading and I also have something
called PDF resources which gives you
additional cool little one-page PDF
documents on all sorts of health things
so download it check it out and tell me
what you think about it and don't forget
to give me a review
it's dr. Berg app
