so if we compare Mexico China to the
u.s. question is which country consumes
the most soda per person okay now in
Mexico you have a hundred and twenty
seven million people china is 1.4
billion u.s. is 330 million Mexico
consumes 43 gallons of soda per person
that is it blows my mind that an average
person consumes that much soda every
single year I mean I don't think in the
last year I drank more than three
gallons I'm just kidding I'd I didn't
drink even one drop of soda but this is
crazy
now China they only consume 2.4 gallons
and of course US is in second place only
31 gallons of soda per person that is
also quite high so if we look at these
numbers right here this soda correlates
with diabetes prevalence of diabetes is
fourteen point eight percent in Mexico
versus eleven percent in China versus
nine point four percent in the u.s. of
course we're not calculating
pre-diabetes which is very very high and
insulin resistance and then we have
obesity rates 30.9% in China
six percent to twenty percent depending
on where people live in relationship to
fast food restaurants and then the u.s.
is thirty nine point eight percent and
of course we get our carbs from other
things that go beyond just soda but when
I look at these stats it blew my mind
how much so the people are drinking it's
like liquid sugar now for those of you
that are watching that are addicted I'm
sorry craving soda you might want to try
the soda sweetened with stevia it's
actually not too bad but I have a
question for you comment down below how
many gallons or cups of soda you consume
on a yearly basis
