hey everyone I got another special guest
Tristan is here in the house hey how you
doing
here in my house I'm hanging out primal
health a primal edge health that's your
your YouTube channel right awesome
hey listen I want to do it I wanted to
bring you on because I got your book
okay this below there you go it's a very
very interesting very interesting book
you know I'm always looking for good
ideas for cooking and something that's
definitely that aligns with my
philosophy and you put some cereal you
and your wife put some serious work into
this book I mean that amazing the
pictures the amount of work I mean
that's one thing I mean I have a couple
recipe books but they're just digital or
not anything high-end because it's my
work attics I don't know how you pulled
how you guys pulled this off but well I
mean I'm kind of the face behind the
camera and Jessica is the magic behind
it all and she did such a good job and I
really appreciate the other kind words
there but I love it too the cover is so
pretty I mean it's a the only my only
complaint is there's not enough fat on
those steaks those are way too lean that
butcher trimmed off too much fat for
that photo we got well it's just it's
like a piece of art I mean like even the
images like wow okay I want that I want
that we got to make that it's awesome
and then like even like the my wife
she's gonna be making a lot of things in
here but one thing she likes is the bone
marrow she just loves that bone she can
live on bone marrow oh she's like her
and I would get along because I'm a bone
marrow enthusiast but I think a lot of
people miss out on some of the best
parts of the animal you know the bone
marrow the heart the heart can be really
affordable to actually a lot of these
really good parts until the most recent
push with a lot of people getting
interested in like Weston a prices
information and the paleo movement
doctors like yourself you know teaching
people how to eat nose-to-tail and of
course on our channel we've been
promoting this as well but people used
to just a few years ago now have no
idea that heart or liver could be so
affordable could be so delicious and I
think people miss out on a lot of the
best pieces of the animal I mean I'll
get don't get me wrong I love a ribeye
you know I love me a nice t-bone but you
know some of them if you're doing
grass-fed sometimes there's just not
enough fat so that's kind of an issue
here grass-fed is always the way to go
in my opinion right supporting local
cattle ranchers had a local cattle
rancher from a two ranch on my channel
the other day and he's down in Texas and
it was just so cool being just getting
able to see my audience connect with him
and there were people in his local area
who were able to pick up some meat
directly from the producer after
listening to him on the show we always
recommend that but the problem with some
of the grass-fed is
seasonally in certain times of the
season they don't have as much fat so
bone marrow is one of the best things to
use su and also like so yeah we wanted
to teach people how to eat nose-to-tail
I know you're talking about this all the
time as well teach people how to use the
entire animal and of course how to get
in the good healthy animal fats so this
book what's unique about this book and
thanks so much again for having me on
dr. Berger what's I really really
appreciate you know everything you do on
your channel everything you've been
doing to direct people and how to live
healthfully how to eat the right foods
how to do a ketogenic diet the right way
I think you've done a lot of great work
and you definitely have brought so much
attention to the movement here and been
a really positive influence on so many
people I mean the amount of people who
contacted me and said hey man I found
you and dr. Birds channel and look at
this I lost 100 pounds or I lost 200
pounds or I reversed my type-2 diabetes
or I've got my autoimmune condition
under control so many people have told
me that they found keto from dr. Berg
and channels like ours primal edge
health as well but what's cool about
this book is it's it's all animal foods
so a lot of people they start doing a
ketogenic diet we actually I'm sure you
talked to a lot of these folks as well a
lot of people end up finding that keto
is great but sometimes they have to take
it to the next level and look at maybe
food sensitivities and a lot of people
have been
about a carnivore diet is like the
ultimate elimination diet and that's
kind of what I see it as you're removing
any possible irritants you're removing
any possible foods that might be giving
you a reaction and you're whittling it
down to the bare essentials which are
the animal fats and the animal proteins
so whole unrefined animal foods for me
are the crux of my diet are the baseline
of our kids diet as well and they eat
lots of fruit they carbohydrates they're
growing children so we don't put them on
a straight low-carb keto diet but our
whole family eats animal fats in
abundance and the reason we made this
book the way we did it using no plants
at all no plants harmed in the making of
this book it's all animal foods we call
it zero carb recipes for people who
really love animals and you know it's
kind of a cheeky comment kind of
happened to laughs at the ad the vegan
trolls out there but we made this to
help people with autoimmune conditions
people who are trying to get back into
eating meat people who might be doing a
autoimmune protocol type diet or even a
gapps type diet the gut and psychology
syndrome or you know a low fodmap diet
or a full carnivore diet we wanted this
book to be applicable to all these folks
across the board and teach people how to
use the whole animal and how do you nose
the tail and how to get all the
nutrients we need from the most
bioavailable foods that are the most
easily digestible foods in the world
those are always gonna be the animal
foods so to me it's all about the animal
foods and we're really happy to be able
to uh you know put out a book like this
and it's something that's unique it's
something that's definitely I thought
was much needed in the space and yeah
Jessica really did a really good job on
this book so I can't take any credit for
it was all her
I'm just the I'm just the the face and
you're the messenger
exactly don't shoot the messenger right
well um you know years ago I remember
like as a kid but my family is from
Sweden my you know my grandparents stuff
so we would go over to their side of the
family their house and they would they
would have they would cook with large it
cook with lard a lot of lard and you
know I remember in college Chiropractic
College it has been grain that you don't
need etc and fat so I remember eating
bacon and taking this towel and just
dampening out all the grease and
everything and just getting rid all this
fat and like it's bad it has a meaning
of pizza and chips and I'm like I got it
wrong but the they back then they a lot
of young lard they which by the way can
potentially have a lot of vitamin D and
here's the thing about vitamin D it's
really really really hard for people to
get vitamin D unless they know what the
heck they're doing and what 57% of the
population is deficient vitamin D right
there and that's like incredible so
where do you get vitamin D I mean it's
you you you can get maybe a little bit
of I think b2 in mushrooms but that's
not going to satisfy even a fraction and
unless you're getting enough Sun you
know which very few people do who's
gonna have something everyone's inside
they don't go outside they're on the
computer all day long like me yeah yeah
but man I live in a beautiful place we
got abundant sunshine year-round and my
job is still indoors on the computer so
I although I you know I love the Sun I
look at it as a nutrient I still very
often don't get enough just because of
the nature of how much I work and it's
hard yeah and so let's let's just talk a
little bit about vitamin B how important
is person I think it's probably the most
important vitamin especially when you're
dealing with autoimmune stuff immune
immune immune I mean it's like it's a
direct correlation II you but the
problem too is that not only are we
knocking up Sun there's a I familiar
with some of the mutations in the
vitamin D receptor have you kind of got
into that isn't something I've learned
much about and love yeah certain open
assembly there's certain quite a few
part of populations that have mutations
in the vitamin D receptor and you can
test genetic test to see if you have a
called polymorphism and basically you
have this alteration in this receptor
for the vitamin d receptor and another
thing that microbes will do bacteria and
viruses as a strategy is they'll block
your vitamin D receptor to basically
shut down your immune system so they can
take over and so there's a huge huge
connection between vitamin D deficiency
and autoimmune especially when you get
to MS and so there's a whole protocol so
there's a couple ways you can fix that
you know you need to take more bottom in
D you need to keep increasing it to the
point where it connects or there's
another thing you can take is in the
medical community it's called vitamin D
and receptor analogues which is
basically it's kind of like a another
thing that kind of pushes in the vitamin
D without having to take vitamin D and
so there's a certain but the problem is
like you're using medications right
there like benicar it's a blood pressure
medication that's a that actually
bypasses the whole system and gives you
some connects vitamin D in there but you
can also use bile salts that's another
thing that you can do Wow yeah bile
salts will help open up that vitamin D
receptor big-time and interesting so I
wonder if there's a connection between
gall bladder function and vitamin D
production in the body as well massive
you you can't without bile and you're
gonna have a bowel deficiency if you
don't have a gall bladder if you're
deficient in bile you're not gonna
you're not going to be able to absorb
vitamin d2 well because you need the
bile to break it down at least from
foods but they're even looking now at
infants that are born at certain months
of the year
having less autoimmune based on how much
sunshine the mother got you know if yes
and this is a big this is a big thing a
lot of cultures you know when you look
at this book right here is really cool I
think we might have talked about this
book last time I was on your show I'm
crazy I like said my books yes nutrition
and physical degeneration from Weston a
price
he talks about the timing of pregnancy
was kind of important in a lot of these
cultures and they would actually time a
pregnancy around the abundance of
certain foods you know what's
interesting a lot of these foods were
vitamin D rich foods that these
different cultures were using as
fertility boosting foods so you know
certain shellfish were used a lot also
here in the Andes they would trade for
this little egg called an antelope they
from the anima look basically and this
is a skatelite creature and it's the
unfertilized egg and it's got a lot of
iodine and very likely of course because
it's a sea creature probably a
significant amount of vitamin D and
pregnancy would be time in a lot of
these cultures so that the children
could be born under the most optimal
environmental conditions of course you
don't want a kid born in the middle of
winter when the mothers already depleted
when the food supply is so crap you know
so then I think it's very very important
and that's that's a fascinating
observation you just made there well you
even like ms occurs in blatte' twos
above a certain amount a lot actually
higher than a certain latitude so if
you're not getting the Sun your risk
factor for MS goes straight up and
vertical simply because of vitamin D
vitamin D is going to be a modulator
involved in two thousand genes I mean
it's like it's so key now unless that
person living in the north is consuming
salmon or fish eggs which is loaded with
vitamin D so college school those
cultures would have been doing just a
few generations back right until you get
the bread you get the grains you get
Cheerios in every place you get
pasteurized milk which basically turns
it into something that I wouldn't want
to even give to my dog when you've got
you know raw milk that you know your
your ancestors in Sweden and they're the
Swiss also we're using an abundance and
some of these cultures living almost
exclusively off of raw cheese's
fermented dairy products and raw fresh
milk you know I mean these are great
foods but you pasteurize it you give
people the weep the corn the soy and
they leave their heritage foods behind
and look what happens we get obesity we
get diabetes shoot ms I mean that's
that's such a fascinating correlation
there and you know now that I think
about it here in Ecuador on
equator you see very few people with MS
I mean it's just it's not as common
you're not seeing things like rickets
very often here either and the diet is
pretty westernized right there is a lot
of Western disease coming in from the
vegetable oils from the junk food that
we're getting here and you know
coca-cola and all this crap that people
drink here instead of you know water
right you know maybe a little buttered
coffee if you guys are into it but yeah
the the diet is definitely degenerated
in a lot of these areas and of course
the disconnection from the Sun coupling
with that is going to create a massive
health deficit and the immune system is
just it's just not gonna function it's
not in fact those of you that are
watching if you wanted to do a
five-second test to see if you're
deficient in vitamin D do this okay
you just need to press on your shin
because the phone right on your your
lower leg and see it press pretty hard
and see if there's any tenderness and
then or and then you can press on your
sternum right here there's bone your
breast bone press in there if it's sore
if it's very painful chances are you may
be a low in vitamin D and what you do
take some vitamin D we chuck it in one
hour and that pain will be completely
gone because one of the big symptoms of
vitamin D deficiency is bone pain
interesting yeah their rickets is really
common and a lot of the Western world as
well I mean unfortunately we see a lot
of well there's a there was a news
article that was circulating around this
year about a girl that had such bad
rickets and such bad you know vitamin
and mineral deficiency from her parents
raising her on a very restrictive vegan
diet and you know not saying that every
single kid raised on a vegan diet is
gonna manifest these symptoms but this
was a specific case that was pretty
shocking I think she was a British girl
and this 12 he she was 9 or 12 and just
really debilitating rickets and this
girl was in such bad shape the parents
were actually I believe legally held
responsible for it so yeah I get that
vitamin D so now what are you some of
your preferred vitamin D sources as far
as a dietary sources go
hands-down the best one is going to be
cod liver oil or Cobb liver you you ever
you ever have the cat liver in a can you
can actually get it yeah yeah I've got
cans full of it here it's great it's
funny because we got some some little
recipes that we like to make and the
kids like it too that kind of used the
cod livers and our kids really like like
some low carb red things with the cod
livers on them are these little flax
pancakes and my wife makes but you know
I think with the polyunsaturated fatty
level of flax I've kind of backed off of
using so much of it but excuse me well
yeah cod livers are good my kids will
eat a whole can of it it's like it's
like pudding
but the Colliver if you take what's
better what's what's different about cod
liver than fish oils the cod liver has
not just DHA and EPA but it has vitamin
D and vitamin A and a perfect 50/50
split so you get the benefits of vitamin
A which is essential for night vision in
internal skin internal like lesions in
turn like ulcers and stuff like that
sinus stuff you mucous membranes dry
eyes dry mouth that's vitamin A so like
we have a baby in the house right now
Lucy's little Lucy my son's daughter and
grandfather she's four months she can
graduate this is your first grandchild
yeah yeah congratulations
yeah we haven't talked since that is so
cool yeah is it is it kind of like
having your own baby except without all
the responsibility stuff it's wonderful
it's cool I don't have to change the
diaper I can just go in there play with
her and then give her back yeah she's
crying not my responsibility
exactly I'll have to jeez I did a video
with her it was just kind of like ah yes
it was for clickbait but I I took Lucy
and I just I actually held her and I
didn't say anything you did the whole
video on the board holding Lucy and no
one even paid attention so but I got a
lot of clicks but Lucy is a very healthy
baby and you know she's breastfed and
I'm making sure that her mother Jordi
who's married to
my son Jordan is doing all the right
things nutrition-wise but you know Lucy
is really hungry so the only two things
that we're feeding it right now just
small amounts will be cod liver well and
just a little bit each day as well as
grass-fed pasture egg yolks
not the whites just the yolk yeah push
it up give it to her she just sucks it
up like crazy you should see her after
that the collar all she loves it
her teeth are gonna come in perfect her
skin she has the big cheeks she's such a
healthy baby so um yeah so that's um you
know what's interesting our daughter she
had some dental caries which is kind of
what threw us into this looking into
high-fat nutrition you know actually I
would have never been into a ketogenic
diet as far as my life timeline goes I
would have never probably heard of keto
were worried so much about getting in
enough animal fats had my daughter not
experience dental caries so she she had
you know which is choose decay if for
those of you don't know very rampant in
the Western world now you'd be amazed at
how many kids get teeth extracted before
their adult teeth come in she had some
dental carriers and it freaked us out we
learned about the principles that were
taught by Weston a price we read his
book started looking into kind of
ancestral nutrition what were people
eating just a few generations back
before they had all these issues with
health with teeth he was noticing that
tuberculosis love levels in these
countries in these societies pre
industrialized food supply
there was no tuberculosis there was no
dental caries their jaws were formed
properly the women had easier childbirth
because their hips were wide enough and
we don't see this so much in the Western
world now with you know really
degenerated food supply the women's hips
are getting closer together a lot of
people have difficulty in birth and a
lot of kids have dental caries so this
led us to actually researching the
importance of fats the importance of fat
soluble vitamins so back in 2012 this is
what kind of sparked our journey 2013
and must've been because she was born in
2012 and yeah we gave her lots of butter
you know for the
the vitamin k2 butter is also a pretty
decent source of vitamin D lots of
animal fats we started giving her liver
grass-fed beef liver and of course egg
yolks were another one of her favorites
and she her teeth hardened up they
stopped the tooth decay was able to be
stopped in its tracks and now her adult
teeth are coming in and they're
perfectly normal our second child he's
got perfect teeth you know he was
blessed enough to be raised on a on a
lot of animal foods and like you said
the first the first food we gave him
were raw egg yolks egg yolks from our
chickens you know III as a child I
craved butter and I didn't know of
course I didn't connected up that's
vitamin k2 k2 is what I needed and I had
every single Tuesday the cavity you know
but k2 ISM is fascinating it works with
vitamin d3 in k2 is essential in the
transportation of the calcium out of the
soft tissues into the bone but it really
makes really good teeth solid teeth good
bone structure but k2 also people don't
realize this it gives you more cardiac
output so let's say for example you're
you're exercising and you just don't
quite have that endurance and you want
more just take some k2 that'll give you
that edge because it outputs more energy
from the mitochondria it's not just
about calcium but it's uh I'll usually
take it before I'll work out maybe about
an hour before and I can go up hills
like crazy so it's definitely great yeah
that's cool I actually had not heard
that factoid I think you know people get
so afraid of these fats they think lard
they think butter they think fatty
snakes they think fatty meat I think
bone marrow or you know even you know
brain where these are full of dangerous
cholesterol and saturated fat that
saturated fat is so bad but um people
don't realize how important these things
are I mean your your whole body is made
of cholesterol yeah I think I forget how
many pounds of cholesterol we actually
have in our body but it's ridiculous I
mean every one of our cells is the cell
walls are made of a cholesterol our
brain is made up of cholesterol
we need fats and the body just runs so
efficiently when we use fat as if
fuel source I think yeah the the
ketogenic diet and you know even a
carnivorous diet which is becoming much
more popular now the way I like to teach
a carnivore diet is using nose-to-tail
eating and making it more of a ketogenic
carnivore diet so a lot of people focus
a little bit more on just eating as much
steak as they can and I like to teach
people how to actually use the fat
because you know things like sheep fat
beef suet these are really affordable
and you can get these from you know
local rancher you can get these from
places like I don't know if you you know
like us wellness maybe some of these
groups i order laughs John John woods
he's uh he's actually coming to my
summit meeting with one of the sponsors
and he can see samples out there Mike
it's like it's the best it's it's
grass-fed a hundred percent but he you
know he he's very you should talk to him
sometime interview him on your show you
maybe you have but fascinating
understanding of grass-fed and what it
does nutritional and it's just it's
awesome you know there's another um
there's another person I'll have to turn
you on to you could do an interview on
her she's a podiatrist she's a surgeon
as well for the feet right and this is
what she told me and you could probably
ask her more about this but I just I was
like it just stuck with me she was doing
she goes you know you got different
colored people on the outside but then
the inside they're all the same color
and then she said except vegans and I'm
like what are you talking about she goes
yeah when I if someone is a vegan when
you cut their foot open all the the the
muscle is like gray like what well I'm
like okay that's interesting so anyway
that's what is her name again
I'll find out I have it in my database
and you can you could talk to her and
get more data but I just stuck with me
and I didn't didn't really ask her too
much more about that but I was like oh
that's that's interesting yeah then they
you started to tell deeper into some of
this information you start looking at
the importance of these animal fats the
importance of these animal foods for
everything from fertility to bone
mineral density to you know maintaining
lean muscle mass and it's just it's so
important that we look at you know
animal foods as a I mean I I make it the
most important part of my diet and I
think that people who are maybe
vegetarian leaning should at least
consider including some and maybe you
know replace if you're eating tofu and
you think it's healthy
you're you've been misled right the tofu
is not healthier for us than a steak and
a nice marbled steak will always say she
ate as well as any other food on the
planet and it's yeah the the fats the
animal fats are crucial so I mean one of
my favorite fast is this suet when I
like to do is I'll take a steak I'll
cook a steak I'll cook it real rare I
like it rare and then I'll take some
little chopped up the suet in some
little bit so maybe just pull off peel
off a little disk of it the suet being
the fat around the kidney of a ruminant
animal and and I'll just warm it up a
little bit on the skillet there I'll
still leave that really rare and
basically raw in the middle but that fat
is just so good it's so easy to digest
compared to most other fats for me and I
just yeah I love it so animal fats are
crucial and hey nothing wrong with
coconut oil if you can handle the
coconut oil it's great but when you look
at something like you mentioned you know
pastured lard having you know with if
the pigs are outdoors pastured lard is
going to have significant amounts of
vitamin D the higher vitamin D content
than almost any other food you're gonna
find foods like cod livers you know
there's actually some vitamin D also in
beef liver as well as vitamin A you're
gonna find that if you replace those
plant fats that you've been focused on
thinking that those plant fats are
healthy especially those vegetable oils
man like the those are the worst
offenders
what are you sir soils not good is that
well unfortunately that's my worst enemy
you know what's crazy a lot of these
people that hate me so much in the you
know these vegans who hate me so much
those poor guys are eating this stuff
regularly the cottonseed oil the corn
oil canola
well canola oils like these grapeseed
oil it just doesn't that sound delicious
it sounds real good literally yeah in
college I think you know because I had
this fixed idea that you know I need to
get rid of fat because just being
grained in you I um I made some meatloaf
right and I didn't read the recipe that
well because it's said to drain some of
the excess grease so I ate a pound of
meat loaf but of course I put an entire
loaf of bread in there and not to
mention a whole bunch of ketchup right
well that started my gallbladder problem
I mean that was probably that and of
course we're doing deep frying with
Crisco so I was ingrained in like fats
bad but it wasn't a fat it's not the fat
it was the ketchup the bread and the
trans fats so just it's just another
point that got me off track for probably
a decade before I came full circle and
realize you can do fat as long as you
don't add all the carbs and sugar you
don't add sugar you're like you say well
meeting about a meeting ice cream yeah
but it has so much sugar in it it's
gonna create sticky blood in all sorts
of issues you know yeah if you want to
gain weight as quickly as you can eat a
lot of carbs and a lot of fat at the
same time oh yeah just gain as much
weight as you can and now I'm not
talking about good weight I'm not
talking about you know all right you're
putting on muscle I'm talking about you
just want to gain a bunch of weight
mostly fat do that eat carbs and fat in
a great abundance you know I'd say if
you're gonna do a high carb diet you
definitely need to eat less fat if
you're going to be healthy right these
insulin signaling is I mean a lot of us
on the low-carb community we talk about
insulin resistance right insulin
resistance being the root of many
diseases them even be highly implicated
in heart disease but we don't realize
that fat does play a role in insulin
resistance as well let me explain so I'm
not trying to make anybody afraid of fat
but understand this principle when you
eat a ketogenic diet we need a high-fat
diet your muscle tissues don't want to
take up glucose because you save the
glucose for certain parts of the body
that require
they're parts of the brain that need
glucose your liver is gonna partition
the glucose that you do have so what
happens is your muscle tissues will be
using fat for fuel when you're using fat
for fuel and there's an abundance of fat
in the muscles and in the tissues in the
blood it signals your body not to take
up glucose because you should be either
using glucose or fat right and of course
it's not just a binary system we're
constantly using both fuel sources
throughout the day but your muscle
tissues don't want to take up glucose
when you're burning fat as fuel so when
you're taking in a high-fat diet if you
add a bunch of sugar to that your body
is going to become physiologically
insulin resistant because your muscles
don't want to take up the glucose
because they're being told like it's in
they're being tricked into thinking that
it's almost like a fasting state or in a
ketogenic state where you're using fat
for fuel and you don't use glucose in
the muscles if you take in a bunch of
fat and carbs at the same time you'll
make yourself insulin resistant and you
will store body fat and that's gonna
start storing in the liver you're gonna
get fatty liver then once you start
storing that visceral fat it creates
systemic insulin resistant that is just
very very difficult to get rid of if
you're going to continue eating
carbohydrates so that's why pulling out
the cards not worried about fat not
saying pull out the fat eating a
ketogenic diet that you are burning fat
in will allow you to get rid of that
insulin resistance and burn the body fat
eventually so it's important to realize
that both of those together a deadly
combo you're talking about something I
think just I just did a video I have a
very interesting this is yeah this one
right here you can see that evidence
that acute insulin administration
enhances LDL cholesterol susceptibility
to oxidation there you go so insulin
increasing oxidation of cholesterol yeah
that's so basically up here and it talks
about also you get oxidized cholesterol
if insulin is high even if your blood
sugars are normal so if you have instant
resistance you're pumping out your body
is making more insulin it's not coming
necessarily from the sugar your body's
just making
more and that is oxidizing the
cholesterol so when people see their
cholesterol out of control when they
start a ketogenic diet whatever realize
that that is going to improve as insulin
resistance goes away and as you do it
longer because your system is changing
over and it's becoming more efficient
but um you know it's also the
cholesterol that's not oxidized should
we worry about that some of the
questions guys like Dave Feldman and I
think you talked to Dave right yeah I
new friends with he's a great guy he's
not a lot of good work at cholesterol
co.com
and you've done a lot of good work
raising awareness of this on your side
as well so I'm sure if anybody was a
searched cholesterol in dr. Berg's
videos you'd find some great information
about why we don't necessarily need to
worry about high cholesterol some of us
on a ketogenic or high-fat diet do get
elevated cholesterol the cholesterol is
not the boogeyman that has been made out
to be just like you know glucose in and
of itself is not bad but when you've had
an overabundance of glucose you can get
those an advanced glycation end-products
we can start to get a lot of oxidative
stress in the body it's about balance
right so if you're getting oxidation of
LDL from all that insulin then you're
gonna have issues and they're blaming
the fat for what clearly the sugar and
the insulin are very likely highly
culpable in and of course the body's not
so simple as you know black and white
there's a lot going on you're looking at
systems interacting with other systems
and it's a beautiful delicate dance
within us but uh but the cholesterol is
not the enemy maybe the insulin is the
dang enemy it is it is no doubt
absolutely it's the it's the thing I
mean you you you work with clients you
see the results some probably all that
long people are reporting oh I lost all
this weight my diabetes my heart is
getting better and you just like like I
do a show on Friday morning and I have a
nice chance to just to get a sample from
all over the world people calling in and
it's just over and over and over it's
like massive results this is what
happened I lost another you know ten
pounds of my cholesterol everything came
back I mean like it's just like over and
over and over I mean
very few people that ever said they're
not like winning like crazy and there's
no one that says they're getting worse
so I'm like wow you know what it's
pretty obvious to me that it's the way
to go yeah it's pretty amazing I mean it
makes my day when I get people from you
know clients said I did private coaching
with two to three years ago sometimes
will contact me and just update me on
what's happened and they'll send me
pictures and I'll recognize the before
picture but it almost like did you
photoshop this this is a different
person and it's just so ridiculous to
see you know people lose in a hundred
pounds in eight months is I mean these
are the regular stories that I'm hearing
these are regular testimonials that
people are sending to me and it's just
it's so fun to be able to work with so
many people and to actually you know
helped them where they've yo-yo dieted
before they've never been able to find
something that they can maintain a
sustained long-term and a ketogenic and
a low-carb approach where you're
focusing on healthy fats healthy fats
from animals whole unrefined sources of
food real human nutrition and they get
the results they wanted their whole life
and they do it effortlessly and
enjoyably and then they start changing
other people's lives around them because
everyone asks them hey what it what
happened what did you do you know
sometimes they'll send their friends and
family my way I don't have come to me
for coaching or something or we do a our
keto and carnivore collective or group
coaching thing we do this each month
where we run it sort of like a course
but it's with a lot of live interactive
voice chats so we do two voice chats
every single week and one of those is a
lesson then another one's a Q&A where
everybody's bouncing ideas off of each
other
everybody's supporting each other and we
use a you know private forum for this so
each month we've got a different group
but it's just amazing seeing these
people and their friends and family
learning so much and integrating these
principles into their life and it's just
amazing seeing how transformative it can
be and I know you probably feel the same
way for me it's just it's like it's
normal now it's like I don't get hungry
but I'm saying it's okay if I go for a
heavy workout or something and I haven't
eaten all day I might feel kind of
hungry before the meal but it's never
like it was before where it's you know
I'm
shig after a meal my blood sugar is up
and down all day you know inflammatory
responses from food digestive issues
I've had in the past you know these
things that have been so detrimental to
my quality of life you know I don't want
to take them for granted at all and I'm
not saying I take them for granted but
the new normal it can be it's so
interesting the new normal is so
different from what it used to be for me
and it's cool talking to people all the
time and seeing them on their path and
seeing where they're at in their journey
because I do sometimes forget what it
felt like in my own life because it's so
far back behind me but then you know
talking to clients all the time and
seeing people out there in the trenches
trying to get their life back trying to
get their health back you know kit helps
to keep me grounded and keep me
appreciative and you know kind of
appreciate the blessings of being able
to function well in human body being
able to have mental clarity to have
stable blood glucose levels have low
inflammation levels and the fuel your
body with fat and you know getting the
nose-to-tail nutrition from animal foods
is something that has just really
changed the game for me and my family
and for you know I'm sure millions of
people who tune into your channel as
well it's just really cool you know I
mean we don't get TV spots you know you
don't see dr. Berg or Tristan from
primal edge health getting invited on on
dr. oz although I don't know man maybe
you one day could get jump on the dr. oz
train but I wouldn't even if he called I
wouldn't I wouldn't do it I wouldn't be
interested in all this it's not mine not
my gig it's just it's two commercially
I'm not into yeah that's what's so cool
so many people through your platform on
YouTube and change so many lives and you
know at some of these YouTube channels
yours being one of the biggest ones I
mean you're probably getting as many
people watching your videos every week
as even tuned into something like dr. oz
you know I'm not trying to toot your
horn or inflame ego too big but it's
like you reach a lot of people for free
through YouTube with information that
you're just giving out so you know I
think it's I think it's great what guys
like you were doing and you know I don't
think there's anybody out there who
works as hard I put out two videos every
day as you do them mom-mom
Thanks
well I appreciate you coming on and guys
you need to check this out I'll put a
little link down below it's a great book
we're gonna we're gonna be doing more
recipes my wife and I and so we'll have
to do some out of this book right here
and get the word out because it's a
great high quality book tell your wife
we appreciate the energy she put into
this and the work it's like a piece of
art I'm like amazing so you got content
and the art it's nice to look at all
these wonderful pictures as well yeah
yeah I really like some of the pictures
she put in here I mean some of these old
Renaissance paintings and stuff are
really interesting and you know she did
just such a great job I I really
appreciate all the work she put into
this I'd love to see if you if you make
the pemmican from the the book that's a
really cool travel food I know you're
gonna be doing conferences and stuff and
pemmican is a nice food for people to
travel with it's a kind of a Native
American recipe made of fat and dried
meat that will keep for years you don't
need to keep it in a refrigerator and
it's really easy to make and you can
even include dried heart and liver in
there that's what we like to do we mix
it at least 10 to 20 % liver with our
pemmican and it's just it's a really
cool food so again man it's it's an
honor talking you it's an honor to you
know to be featured on your channel and
I really appreciate everything you're
doing and appreciate you giving me the
time of day and and I'm so excited for
you being a grandfather man you're the
youngest looking grandpa I know you look
like you look 39 right now and the at
least on camera now I don't know if
you've got a live Photoshop guy that's
doing your that's making you look you
know airbrushing you and in the youthful
it's all airbrushed yeah I'm actually 40
years old right now ahead we have Jordan
when he when I was 13 yeah I like Jordan
and Jordie that's a funny that's not I
know yeah I've got a buddy whose name is
Jay and his fiance's name is Jamie
that's cool man awesome
