I'm gonna talk about recovery and how
you can determine your recovery rate now
there's a lot of different tests that
you can do if you're an athlete to
determine your recovery
there's heart rate recovery testing I
did a video on that you can check it out
below there's a test called heart rate
variability which measures the
sympathetic and parasympathetic part of
the nervous system which is the
autonomic nervous system it did that
test in my office for many many years
it's very accurate and it can tell you
how much sympathetic or flutter fight
that your body is stuck in versus how
much parasympathetic or recovery you
have left and a lot of times you would
see people like normally the sympathetic
should be right here so you would
normally see it like way up here people
stuck in that flight or flight mode yet
the recovery that should be way over
here is like way over here so they had
very low recovery with high amount of
stress so if you don't have access to a
test like this
you can go by other factors so I want to
differentiate two things you have your
body recovery rate and then you have the
beings recovery rate so let's say for
example you have this really tough guy
he's six years old mentally he's still
18 but physically he's 60 or maybe a
little bit older okay and in his mind
he's like I can do CrossFit so he gets
out there and does this intense exercise
and ends up almost having a heart attack
so you do have the person themself and
their attitude towards stress in life
and then you have the body's recovery
which is basically two different things
body recovery has to do with your
ability to repair and there are repair
proteins or enzymes in your body that do
the work of repairing damage at the DNA
level and your body is constantly
repairing those breaks in DNA and the
damage that occurs to different parts of
the machinery in your cells and they
definitely require nutrients like zinc
folic acid vitamin C vitamin E and these
repair proteins you definitely require
nutrients or they don't work that well
the body tends to relegate or ration out
certain nutrients if it's deficient in a
nutrient it will ration out that
nutrient to just the most important
functions and it can neglect the
longevity proteins and some of these
repair proteins and then you have your
adrenals your adrenal glands deal with
stress they help you adapt to stress and
if you have a lot of stress in your life
it accumulates and it builds up and the
less adrenals will function and there's
a lot of things you can do to improve it
this video is not about that but I put a
link down below of some things that you
can do one of the most important thing
is to get your sleep corrected and by
the way a lot of people that think
they're getting enough sleep are not
really getting enough sleep stay tuned
for a video in that I'm going to cover
that very soon but the question is how
do you adapt to stress okay
one good way is through the heart rate
and there's a real simple test I put a
link down below you can check it out you
can do this test you just exercise for
one minute and I go through exactly how
to evaluate that this is really
important if you are into exercise also
let's say for example you workout okay
a good workout and you can't sleep then
that night that is an indication that
you're overtraining and that you're
stress tolerance is low or let's say
your blood pressure goes way too high
for many hours after you workout and it
doesn't
rebound so you have the heart rate and
blood pressure or even your mood or a
stress reaction how long does it take
for you to bounce back from stress
mentally that's a good question because
if your adrenals are weak it's gonna be
hard to bounce back from stress quickly
but I want to show you a couple things
that you can do to strengthen your
ability to repair and even the the genes
and the proteins that help you repair
okay it's called hormesis or meeseeks is
a term to describe beneficial stress now
they found that stress free bacteria do
not thrive well
they don't do well same thing with us if
we take a person and put them in a
completely stress-free environment and
they never have to do anything they
don't do well so we thrive on a certain
amount of stress our bodies become
stronger I mean even take a look at some
of the real successful people they've
been through incredibly hard times and
they bounce back from it and it became
stronger of course if the stress didn't
kill you first I think there's a song
about that but hormesis would involve
many things one would be in a minute
fasting so when you do intermittent
fasting you're actually mimicking
starvation which is a stress and your
body rebounds by turning on certain
genes that become stronger you actually
get younger when you starve but not too
much just kind of a moderate amount of
starvation fascinating exercise the same
thing when you exercise in the correct
quantity and the correct intensity with
the correct recovery you can become much
more fit and stronger cold therapy it's
called cryotherapy can actually
stimulate certain proteins that become
stronger heat therapy like a sauna or
infrared sauna therapy very powerful
oxygen therapy hyperbaric oxygen therapy
I'm doing this right now I love it and
you're creating a hormetic effect of
spiking oxygen and then bringing it down
and you're actually in a chamber
simulating deep-sea diving so it's quite
an interesting effect on stimulating
stem cells and your bone and stimulating
stem cells in your brain you have
there's certain light therapy laser
therapy UV light just going out the Sun
a small amount of radiation can be very
beneficial because your body can rebound
and become stronger even final nutrients
which are considered toxins in plants
can actually help build up our own
body's defenses against these toxins so
I have a question for you on a scale
from one to ten ten being very high
recovery where do you think you are zero
being no recovery give me a number down
B
below in the comments section if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
