hey guys it's me again in this video I
want to answer the question what is the
best food for friendly bacteria in your
gut sometimes people have this idea that
they have to consume probiotics to help
feed their microbes probiotics are the
microbes okay they're not going to feed
the microbes they're just going to add
more microbes into your gut these
microbes actually consume as their main
food fiber from your vegetables and this
another reason why you need to consume
vegetables in addition to all the
potassium and the other nutrients we
need 7 to 10 cups
very important don't get your fiber from
the grain get it from the vegetable
fibre now what happens when the bacteria
consume this fiber they turn into a
fatty acid called butyrate and butyrate
is the main fuel for the colon cells ok
now you can also get this from consuming
butter but you want to focus more on the
vegetable fiber because you're going to
get a lot more that way all right so of
course why not just combine it consume
the vegetables and then melt the butter
on top of the vegetables and you're
going to be good to go all right I'll
talk to you later
hey thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
