so today I'm going to discuss what
happened when I tried the carnivore diet
for two weeks okay I think it's very
important for everyone to experiment and
try different diets because not every
single person does well on one diet this
concept of one size fits all that every
single person needs to be on the same
diet is just not real because the body
is very very different you have
different genetics you have different
environments you have different body
problems what's good for one person
might not be the best for another that
being said the carnivore diet produces
some really amazing results for a lot of
people and I'm talking about anyone with
gut issues autoimmune problems so what
did I eat on this diet well Beef Pork
eggs Seafood
shellfish and I did do dairy on this
program as well I did a lot of sheep
cheese and I did a little kefir and uh I
didn't do a lot of organ Meats I just I
don't like organ Meats but I did do fish
liver as in cod liver and so this twoe
test wasn't necessarily a before and
after on a blood test or anything like
that it was mainly a subjective test
just to see how I felt and one thing I
did really benefit from which I'm going
to get into is I did have some bloating
that I didn't even know I was having and
I'll tell you where the bloating was
coming from it wasn't coming from the
vegetables that I was eating it was
coming from the nuts I was eating I was
doing an experiment and trying to test
out would it be better to eat in the
morning versus the afternoon etc etc
what I basically concluded from all that
is that to keep it simple I'm just going
to eat when I'm hungry now as far as
some other things I've noticed um did I
notice much change with my energy not
really because I normally have very high
energies did I notice any change with my
bowel movements and yes I did in fact
the first few days um I didn't really go
to the bathroom and and then I started
going so I think what happened was there
was a bit of an adjustment by my
microbes in my gut and this is always
the big question that people want to
know if you're not feeding your microbes
fiber what are they living on well the
microbiome is extremely complex topic
and time will tell we don't have that
figured out I mean there's people doing
this carnivore diet for many years and
they do very well as far as Vitamin C
goes you know where am I getting my
vitamin C I think when you do the
carnivore the need for Vitamin C goes
way way down and I have hav't heard
anyone developing like scurvy or any
type of scurvy problems or vitamin C
deficiency problems when they're on
carniv in fact they do have a lot of
energy and they have huge improvements
and I also know people who do not do
dairy on Carnivore I did it because I
love Dairy I don't see have a problem
with dairy um I like European cheeses I
like goats cheese I like sheep cheese I
do not like processed cheese and I don't
have any of that and I don't go crazy
with like excessive amounts but um I
think there's a lot of benefits to high
quality cheese but many people have
reactions to that and if you have gut
inflammation that might not be the best
thing for you you know some people might
say with dairy that there's a bit more
carbs and Carnival is zero carbs but you
can also make the argument about Seafood
if you're doing like um shrimp or
Lobster or something like that there's
carbs in that there's also carbs in um
organ mates too and not a lot um but
there is some so when you're doing
carnivore you know we're basically
bringing our carbs as close to zero as
possible and then there's a a group of
people who are doing the carnivore that
then switch to you know meat honey and
fruit and Etc personally I'm not going
in that direction I don't recommend it
for most people so it doesn't make sense
to me that that would be recommended to
the general public we have to look at
the diet as something individual if our
mitochondria is healthy and it can use
various fuels if someone's doing more
carbs they're burning those fuels TOs
and it's not creating a problem but for
the majority of the population you're
going to create a problem if you start
overwhelming that mitochondria I've done
some videos on this topic I'm going to
do more on this topic of metabolomic
testing that's basically a unique type
of technology that allows someone to
instead of just looking at several bio
markers in your blood you're looking at
the entire picture of your biochemistry
so you could really visualize that Krebs
cycle and each uh stage in the assembly
line from food to energy and you can
find out the specific areas that are
bottlenecked and and from that determine
um really what's going on so you get a
much better picture of if the person is
on the right diet this is kind of like
an individualized test that you can test
yourself against yourself over time with
a lot of data and you can look into your
biochemistry and see
um what's going on and it gives you
prediction on on various things because
you can even predict diabetes like
decades before you get diabetes versus
looking at your blood thinking that oh
yeah I have normal blood glucose so
there's no chance of Ever Getting
diabetes Well are you looking at insulin
oh no we omitted that you're just
looking at blood glucose so metabolomics
I think is going to be the wave of the
future as far as medicine and health
care versus just focusing on your LDL or
your
other lipids so getting back to the
carnivore diet question is will I
continue the diet um no I I'm not going
to continue it um I'm going to continue
the same proteins but I really miss my
salad and some people react with salad
and I'm not talking about consuming a
lot of broccoli which bloats the heck
out of me or certain vegetables that
create more bloating uh but I'm talking
about like arugula high quality Roman
lettuce that I grow in my garden I also
miss the fermented vegetables like
sauerkraut uh pickles kimchi things like
that on my salad I'd like to put the
extra virgin olive oil uh the one I like
is from Italy and I love to put the um
real parmesan cheese I think it's uh
called parano regano I I I probably
butchered the pronunciation I also like
to put uh nutritional yeast on my salad
I love to put feted cheese on the salad
and plus when you add cheese on it uh
any blets that are left in there are
bound with the calcium and the cheese
and they're taken right out through the
digestive system and I'm also going to
include berries in the diet but I'm not
going to go back to the nuts anyway I
wanted to give you a quick update on
what happened with my uh version of the
carore diet and I would love to hear
your successes if you're doing it as
well please comment down below and since
we're on the topic of the carnivore diet
I think it's really important to
understand the health benefits of red
meat and if you haven't seen this video
check it out I put it up right
here
