let's talk about if fasting is actually
healthy for a diabetic did you realize
that 20% of all healthcare spending in
the US is targeted to diabetes and
diabetic complications now there are
some mixed reviews that state that it's
10 percent some experts say that it's 20
percent regardless if it's 10 percent or
20 percent
it's a lot of money that's like 350
billion to 700 billion dollars a year
spent on diabetes that is crazy
now in the US alone we have 84 million
people who are a pre-diabetic and 30
million who are diabetic and I would
venture to say that there's probably at
least a hundred and fifty million that
have insulin resistance that are on
their way to becoming a pre-diabetic and
still there is no agreement on the best
diet for type 2 diabetes amongst the
medical experts now why is that well I'm
just gonna just draw a little connection
right here guys I think I think you've
got the hint right there right you know
why and as far as medication goes with
diabetes there's two main mechanisms one
is targeting insulin resistance with
metformin which is probably one of the
most popular medication and then you
have other medications okay
this is an example that will increase
insulin okay
so those are the two main mechanisms the
problem is that these medications have a
special warning black label they
actually increase the risk of
cardiovascular mortality by 59 to 68
percent now wait a second wait a second
doesn't make sense to me isn't the goal
when you manage diabetes to keep you
alive longer well apparently not
apparently the goal is to manage your
blood sugars to make sure your blood
sugars are normalized well this is what
you need to realize high insulin is just
as damaging as high blood glucose so yes
we need insulin and we need normal
insulin but we don't need tremendous
amounts and anytime you're trying to
solve a problem with a solution to
handle maybe blood sugars yet that
solution is giving you a bigger problem
then you need to really evaluate what's
going on now that foundation leads me to
the main topic which is fasting for
diabetes okay so what is the data and I
put some links down below this is
fascinating if you combine therapeutic
fasting and no we're not talking about
starvation we're talking about
controlled fasting where you're making
sure you have all your nutrients okay so
you're taking supplements and vitamins
because the problem with diabetics is
they're very very deficient in nutrients
because they have insulin resistance so
they can't really absorb it so you'd
want to give them nutrients while
they're fasting so therapeutic fasting
while the person's on a low-carb diet
produces some really amazing results
okay within four months no need for
insulin so I'm gonna put the link down
below so you can read the case studies
and other studies on this decrease in
a1c decrease in waist size number form
able to control your blood Sugar's now
why does fasting work for diabetes
simply because it decreases the need for
insulin okay and if the need for insulin
is not there the pancreas doesn't have
to work so hard so the cells that make
insulin finally have a chance to
rejuvenate okay because the real problem
with diabetes is the high sugar and also
the beta cell and the pancreas that
produces insulin that's working so hard
around the clock to be able to regulate
the high glucose that's coming from your
diet okay so the combination of
decreasing the need for insulin by both
of these actions right here low carb and
fasting are extremely therapeutic versus
treating the person with something that
increases insulin well now we know why
it creates problems because the side
effects from too much insulin are just
as bad as too much glucose so if you are
a diabetic I would highly recommend you
look into doing therapeutic fasting with
a low carb and see if it can work for
you thanks for watching so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
