your feet are a diagnostic window into
your health problems in other words this
right here will tell you a lot about
early signs of many different problems
at the end of this video you're going to
have the ability to understand a lot
about what's going on inside your body
just by looking at your foot or someone
else's foot right here we have the heart
and we have the foot and this little
connection between the heart and the
foot is your blood vessels you have the
most oxygen starting at the heart and
you have the least oxygen starting in
your foot the foot is going to receive
oxygen and nutrition through tiny little
capillaries if someone has sugar in
their blood as in diabetes it's going to
show up in your foot first as the
earliest sign I'm going to go through a
series of indicators that will tell you
what's going on in the rest of the body
first topic I want to cover is something
called peripheral neuropathy you might
start with numbness or even like burning
and then it can go into some weird
Sensations it just feels abnormal that's
because the sensory nerves are breaking
down because of mainly one missing
vitamin called vitamin B1 thyine there's
not enough thyine in that nerve to allow
the nerve to work that nerve is
dependent on B1 you need a very special
type of B vitamin that has been changed
to a fat cable version and the name of
that is called benot toine I'll put it
in the description of how to spell it
there's not enough thyine in that nerve
to allow the nerve to work and there's a
couple things that will deplete B1 from
the nerve sugar destroys nerves if you
drink a lot of alcohol it destroys your
liver sugar and alcohol deplete B1 and
you want to put that back benot toine is
what you need whatever it recommends in
the dosage on the back of the bottle
times four because you want to take more
to really penetrate to fix this problem
right here another diag notic indicator
or a window to look inside your body is
to notice if your toes get blue could be
the finger tips too it has to do with a
part of the nervous system called the
sympathetic nervous system another word
for that is called the fight ORF flight
system and there's a problem with this
system in that it's
overactivated one of the treatments for
this the medical treatment is they use a
calcium channel blocker when they're
exposed to cold their fingers in their
toes become blue what would be a natural
version of a calcium channel blocker
that's magnesium magnesium is the
primary regulator of calcium that's
stuck inside the cell and so one cause
of high blood pressure is too much
calcium because calcium is all about
contraction and magnesium is all about
relaxation so magnesium fixes this over
contraction problem the thing to know
about magnesium is that you don't want
to just take any type of magnesium you
want to take magnesium iium glycinate
because that's the one that you can
absorb like 80% the next one also
relates to what I just talked about foot
cramps especially at night or in the
early morning magnesium in the tissue is
going to be lowest in the early morning
you can also get those cramps in the
calf muscle right above here cramps or
charlie horses are the earliest symptom
of a magnesium deficiency the simple
remedy is to take magnesium glycinate
remember we talked about that you want
to take at least four to five to six to
even up to 800 milligrams for a period
of weeks to really fix this deficiency
just by taking it one time doesn't
really help it the problem with
magnesium deficiency is that it's very
hard to detect and a lot of people are
deficient in it magnesium is really
important in a lot of things if you're
deficient you're going to have cramps
putting the Magnesium back in there will
help the cramp the next thing I want to
talk about is when you have swollen feet
this usually is involved with diabetes
because they have more sugar in the
blood and if someone has more sugar
they're going to be retaining a lot more
sodium and a lot more water and they're
going to have puffy feet the antidote is
to come up the sugar if you have
diabetes another problem that you might
have discoloration of the lower leg just
the feet start changing colors and they
look very unhealthy it could be a
circulation problem you can have deep
vein thrombosis which is a condition
where you're getting clots in the veins
and that's going to create fluid
retention in the foot discoloration in
the lower part of the leg and so those
clots can come from many different
reasons one being high levels of stress
and also vitamin E is an antidote to
excess clotting because vitamin E kind
of thins the blood if you get more pain
or more weakness when you exercise
suspect something called intermittent
claudication and get it checked out from
the doctor because that's a vascular
problem and with that problem you get
better when you rest next problem is big
toe pain right here that's gout gout
usually is a problem with too much uric
acid some people even notice if they cut
down their oxalates their top pane goes
away and that would be like spinach
almonds chocolate the antidote to high
levels of oxalates whether it's a kidney
stone or whatever is magnesium and
prevent the kidney stone situation or
the oxalate arthritic situation that
some people have other ways that you can
diagnose things on your foot if you have
an ulcer on the foot that's classic
diabetes because you're not getting
enough oxygen in a diabetic situation if
you notice the toes of the feet get
destroyed first and then it moves up
this way this is why they have to
sometimes remove the toes and diabetics
completely unnecessary you need that
botam and you need to get on a low carb
diet but unfortunately you probably
won't hear that from your doctor they're
more into managing your symptoms couple
things with the nail bed you can look at
the nail bed of your toes and tell a lot
about your overall health like for
example if it's like yellowish that
could be fungus but it could be jaundice
too with the liver but if there's a
fungus that means there's a problem with
your gut and you can fix fungus by
adding probiotics and really getting
healthy starting with your gut now
there's all sorts of Remedies as well
like tea tree oil and iodine on the
toenail your immune system is weak
because you don't have enough vitamin D
then the yeast wins and of course yeast
lives on sugar so you're going to have
to get off sugar as well if there's
funkiness with the toenail like
splitting let's say it's curving up or
curving down these are all indicators of
not necessarily disease but nutritional
deficiencies but in this video I just
wanted to give you some insights on how
to use your foot as a diagnostic window
to other issues and if you want to know
more information about the nail beds you
should watch this video right here check
it out
