so in this video I want to talk about
why getting on a fatty ketogenic diet
can actually help reduce fat on your
liver now this sounds counterintuitive
because you would think I'm consuming
fat it's going to fill up my liver with
fat but what makes the ketogenic diet
successful and I'm talking about causing
a conversion from the fat on your body
to ketones which occur in the liver is
the reduction of carbs for this to work
you must reduce your carbs in fact
you're not gonna be able to make ketones
without without reducing your
carbohydrates a lot of times when you
see research on a high-fat diet which is
no definition those studies are actually
doing high fat high carb diets so you
must reduce the carbs to get the person
to burn ketones and the liver is the
organ to do that and when ketones are
produced guess what happens you
automatically stop storing fat you stop
dumping fat in the liver okay when
you're actually on a high carb diet the
body is going to store glucose in the
liver especially fructose and one really
important point about this is that the
liver is the first area to show a
reduction of fat so when you start a
ketogenic diet and you don't notice a
reduction in your midsection what you
have to realize is that your body is
using up the liver fat first before it's
going to be using the visceral fat in
your belly so don't be discouraged just
realize it's gonna take time especially
if you have a lot of fat on your liver
and if you have a large stomach you
definitely have a lot of fat in your
liver and what you need to know is that
you can actually burn up a hundred grams
of fat per day doing ketosis the point
is that you just need to give it some
time for it to really work and realize
if you're not seeing a lot of reduction
in your midsection it could be you have
a lot of fat on your liver that the body
is focusing on first bottom line is you
can have significant fat reduction in
your liver as well as a decrease in
liver enzyme
by doing the ketogenic diet real simply
I would recommend three things one is
getting the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet
this also means consuming more
vegetables because you want that fiber
to feed the microbes so the microbes can
actually recycle more bile and the bile
helps with the elimination of the excess
fat through the gallbladder so that's an
important point also in a minute fasting
will greatly speed things up when you do
intermittent fasting you are stimulating
the production of ketones to a very high
level so the combination of low carb and
in a minute fasting ism is vital people
can develop a fatty liver just from
being deficient in this one nutrient
choline and it's very ironic that most
the foods that are high in choline are
fatty foods high in cholesterol fact the
food that has the most choline is shrimp
consuming shrimp and eggs for example
can give you enough choline to prevent
against a fatty liver it's wild and then
you have liver and peanuts meats
scallops fish and leafy greens leafy
greens and vegetables believe it or not
have the lowest amount of choline and
you can even take choline in a powder or
supplement it's Lippo trophic it
dissolves fat on your liver to speed up
the process alright thanks for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
