today I want to share the best
supplements for very specific health
conditions and I think everyone should
really know this information because
sooner or later you might end up with
one of these problems and it'd be nice
to know a remedy that could help you
especially if you're not into taking
drugs now when people research
supplements they have this idea that
evidence-based research is the best way
to find out if a supplement worked this
is very misleading because when you look
at evidence-based research you're going
to find a lot of mix reviews when we get
into supplements simply because certain
organizations and I'm not going to
mention their name Will purposely do
research to invalidate the results of
natural remedies that compete with
commercial remedies that make a lot of
money who's going to fund a natural
remedy it's very very expensive to do
research and so you're not going to see
a lot of credible research in the area
of nutrition we have this omitted
research that people will say well
there's no research to say that works
that doesn't mean it doesn't work it
just means that no one wanted to pay for
the research to validate if it worked so
what I'm going to share with you is
based on a lot of personal experience
working with a lot of people tens
hundreds of thousands of people over
years and just observing what works the
majority of the time and what doesn't
work as well as a lot of deep diving
into the mechanics of how nutrition
solves a problem this video is not going
to be a comprehensive study on every
single health condition but I'm going to
talk about the top health conditions and
how supplements or a nutrient or remedy
could help that problem starting with
probably the most important one which is
vitamin D one thing you need to know
about vitamin D is that we have a lot of
resistance against absorbing vitamin D
for all sorts of reasons from the lack
of sun because we're not outside as much
depending on the season where you live
in relationship to the equator how old
you are how much you weigh if you have
insulin resistance or diabetes you can
override all these problems by just
taking more vitamin D3 you would need to
have at least 10,000 iuse to up to
50,000 I use every day and even more
than that depending on certain
circumstances and I've done a lot of
videos on this topic one of the most
important conditions with an s that
vitamin D can help you with is
autoimmune diseases okay the common
theme of an autoimmune condition is
inflammation so vitamin D in the right
dosage can be a very potent anti-
inflammatory vitamin D regulates the
immune system in other words if you have
a hyperimmune system vitamin D can tone
it down and then we have other
conditions where we're lacking immune
support and that would definitely be
something like cancer AIDS vitamin D is
essential for those conditions vitamin D
also works great for depression another
condition that you might not realize
that vitamin D is good for is glucoma in
fact a lot of problems with the eye can
be greatly improved with high dose of
vitamin D3 and then we have the classic
low back pain or anything related to
your pelvis like hip pain deep bone pain
vitamin D3 because vitamin D3 can help
benign tumors as well as cancer another
really great benefit of D3 is anything
related to hair loss dermatitis a
dermatologist would give one remedy
vitamin D3 in high amounts they would
get amazing results with almost every
different type of skin inflammatory
condition I and one key point about
vitamin D anytime you take vitamin D3
you also need to take the co-actors
magnesium and zinc and vitamin K2 all
right the next supplement I'm going to
recommend is magnesium glycinate I don't
recommend other forms of magnesium too
much especially because the absorption
is not that great so what is magnesium
good for well allowing vitamin D to work
they both work together you could
actually take vitamin D and be severely
magnesium deficient and not see any of
results from vitamin D the same thing
goes with magnesium if you're taking
magnesium without vitamin
D3 magnesium will only work to a certain
degree and anytime you take either
magnesium by itself or vitamin D by
itself and then develop side effects
it's usually because you're deficient in
the other co-actor there's a lot of body
conditions that occur in the early
morning because of a deficiency of
magnesium because magnesium kind of goes
on this wave and you're going to hit the
lowest point in the early morning maybe
about between 5 a.m. 6:00 a.m. 7: a.m.
what kind of problems occur more in the
morning a lot of problems cramps in the
legs cramps in the foot increased risk
of heart attacks clotting happens more
in the morning strokes happen in the
morning even the dawn phenomena which is
the higher blood sugars occur in the
early morning all of that means you need
magnesium migraine headaches magnesium
but you need higher amounts and if
you're taking like 4 100 Mig you'll see
the results but with migraine sometimes
you need to take 800 to 1,000 or even
more milligrams of magnesium to create
the effect with migraines depending on
how bad they are also magnesium lowers
cortisol and adrenaline that's why it's
good for Sleep magnesium also helps thin
the blood and helps prevent clotting
magnesium is good for blood pressure
good for anticlotting effects good to
prevent cramping of muscle but magnesium
is really good as an electrolyte to
prevent arhythmia as an atrial
fibrillation so that's another really
important heart effect magnesium is also
at the heart of making energy so
anything related to chronic fatigue a
loss of energy in the mitochondria
magnesium is the answer especially if
you're exercising and you just don't
have that endurance you need magnesium
the way that I know that I have enough
magnesium is all of the muscles of my
body are calm and not tight this last
point is magnesium to prevent kidney
stones this is a huge reason why people
have kidney stones is they're magnesium
deficient next is Bain hydrocloride that
should be taken anytime you have
heartburn or indigestion ban hyd
chloride gives the stomach more
acidification okay more acid most of
this is a lack of acid and also the
valve just doesn't close because there's
a lack of acid what pan Koch chloride
does is help you keep that top valve
closed giving you more acid so you can
digest better sometimes you have to take
three or four or five or six or seven
before a meal to get it to work because
it's not like highly concentrated next
remedy is zinc carnosine hands down the
best remedy for an ulcer in your stomach
and it helps calm down gastritis now
next remedy is selenium okay selenium
believe it or not is really good if you
have AIDS selenium seems to fix C
certain te- cells that will then help
counter this AIDS situation because AIDS
is really an acquired imuno deficiency
syndrome so basically you don't have an
immune system anymore you lost the
quarterback of the immune system so
selenia is very very important in that
you can get a good amount of selenium
just from one Brazil nut a day selenium
is also good to lower getting this
autoimmune condition called Hashimoto if
you have Hashimoto which is an
autoimmune thyroid problem you need
selenium so when you think selenium
think Hashimoto and AIDS next remedy is
vitamin B1 here's another interesting
thing you need magnesium as a co-actor
to allow B1 to work so if you take B1
and it doesn't work it could mean that
you just need magnesium B1 is an amazing
remedy for nervous tension worry stress
anxiety Restless like syndrome restless
leg syndrome you take magnesium and B1
and you're almost guaranteed to get of
that condition then we also have another
type of B1 that's made in a fat soble
form called botam botam is really good
for anything with nerves in the the
peripheral part of the body in the
bottom of the feet the toes and the
hands you take four pills through the
day just keep it in your body and that
condition will improve another
supplement is calcium lactate for
chronic coughing but I normally do not
recommend any calcium supplements other
than if it's just a small amount but you
don't want large amounts of calcium over
a, 1200 1500 milligrams because it's
going to put you at risk for heart
problems and I recommend that you get
your calcium from your food like cheese
vegetables sardines with the bones in it
but not as a supplement same thing with
iron I don't recommend you taking an
iron supplement I'd rather you get it
from food red meat liver or take liver
pills that's good for low blood pressure
but it's also good for energy I also
recommend pot potassium for people that
are salt sensitive they're told to lower
their salt I recommend you just increase
your pottassium but the thing about
pottassium is that we need so much of it
we need 4700 milligrams I don't know of
anyone getting that much the next
supplements co-enzyme Q10 if anyone's on
a Statin they better be on co-enzyme Q10
because a Statin which blocks
cholesterol will deplete you of cozy Q10
what about vitamin E there's two
different forms of vitamin E I recommend
the too Tre one because it works 50
times stronger and tokat trinal are
really good to prevent fibrosis it's
also good for Angina chest pain it's
good to support the inner layer of the
arteries to prevent plaing it's also
good for infertility next supplement is
one of my favorites it's called TKA the
tutka is a very specialized type of bile
salt a lot of people have a problem with
thickened bile and it creates pressure
and causes pain that radiates to the
right shoulder up to the neck TKA will
just like make that go away TKA is also
good for neurological problems in your
brain it does a lot but I have separate
videos on that let's talk about iodine
great for fibr Cystic breast that's an
excess amount of estrogen that's causing
those cyst and iodine is a natural
inhibitor or regulator of excess
estrogen so iodine is great for that
vitamin C is good for collagen
especially for bleeding gums you're
brushing your teeth and it's like turns
pink because you're bleeding easily CU
your gums are inflamed you need Vitamin
see probiotics if someone's on a lot of
diet soda they're going to really mess
up their gut and they need to get off
the artificial sweeteners biotin good
for hair nails and skin especially to
make your hair and nails grow manganese
good for tourettes and ticks NAC is a
wonderful supplement if you've
accidentally taken too much Tylenol it's
really good for anything poisonous to
the liver snake bites poisonous
mushrooms think NAC and milk thistle
mastic gum is good for gastritis if
you've tried a lot of different
supplements for your sleep and it hasn't
worked I recommend melatonin for some
people tends to help a lot of people and
it does a lot of other things which I'll
have to do a video on but I recommend
that for severe sleep problems that
you've tried everything and nothing's
worked niin really good for anything
related to cholesterol and I recommend
taking higher amounts of it 500
milligrams 1,000 work up to it you will
have a flush response and that's normal
but you want the one with the flush
clove oil great for any like pain in
your teeth or gums now of course I can
go on and on and on and on but this is a
fairly long video I think you've learned
the most important effects of certain
supplements if you want all this in a
quick download okay I put the link down
below check it out go ahead and download
it and use it when you need it
