hey guys so I had a question are you not
losing weight listen don't make this
mistake okay I know it's frustrating you
do a program and then all of a sudden it
slows down it's not working now here's
what I find I've been approaches for 30
years and I I've run into this many many
times and I just want you to not make
this really big mistake and the mistake
is giving up quitting the program when
it actually was working but because you
didn't lose weight you thought it wasn't
working okay it's because you have
something backwards and that's this one
principle it's not lose weight to get
healthy it's get healthy first to lose
weight okay
weight loss is just one of the many
indicators of health other indicators
are increased energy no cravings better
skin less stress no hunger okay now when
the body heals it actually repairs
repairing is healing now I just want to
define this one word before I finish
this this thought
it's a tapa gee I don't know if you ever
heard of toffee gee it's basically where
the body becomes like a self-cleaning
oven and starts to repair its old
damaged protein parts and recycles them
to build new tissue okay that happens
when you do fasting now this next thing
is very very key okay
protein is actually heavier than fat per
volume okay so when your body is in the
healing mode and it's rebuilding the
cellular walls and the structures and
the atrophy or loss of muscle that you
have maybe you're menopausal and you
have this atrophy well guess why you may
experience at certain times a NetZero
effective weight loss and the worst
thing you can do it stops something that
actually was working okay so step back
take a look if you have these other
health indicators are the other things
improving will give it time because it
is working so this might actually just
sound really really simple but just
realize that it does take a good amount
of time to repair the body and it
repairs with protein and that could be
the reason why your weight loss is
stopped but give it some more time
because
after after the body does heal you
eventually tap out and use the fat
that's being stored when the body is in
healing mode it doesn't just go right
after the stored fat it heals first it
repairs first all right thanks for
watching hey guys so there's a whole
bunch of people that really need this
information so press the share button
and let's get it way out there
