hi guys I'm back in this video we're
going to answer the question is exercise
good or bad for your sleep okay well it
really depends on your heart and how
well your heart can recover how elastic
the heart is or how rigid it is okay
when you exercise you stress your body
normally you should bounce back fast
but a lot of people as they get older
the arteries become rigid the heart
becomes inelastic and they just don't
recover so the pulse rate takes a long
time to come down so a lot of times if
the person is doing high-intensity
workouts they'll go to bed they just
will not sleep that well so for those
people they need to do more walking
where it's low stress lots of oxygen
because the high intensity workouts high
stress low oxygen you activate the
adrenals and it just messes up your
sleep so the one thing you might want to
try is exercising in the morning if
you're doing high-intensity now if you
were an athlete before you were a
professional athlete or you did a lot of
workouts maybe in high school or college
and then you hadn't worked out your
mitochondria the little energy factories
are so developed that they'd a lot of
energy so if you don't exercise or don't
get that energy out that can disrupt
your sleep and that's my case so I have
to work out every single day around
laying there with tons and tons of
energy so I personally do a high intense
inable training workout in the evening
but I really emphasize recovery to make
sure it's long enough so I don't
overtrain
so the answer to this question is it
depends on how well your heart recovers
okay if it's not recovering you stick
with the walking in the evening and
maybe do the high interval training in
the in the morning all right thanks for
watching hey thank you so much for
watching keep spreading the word and
share this video
