let's talk about how to reduce or
minimize the side effects from
chemotherapy there's three big problems
with chemotherapy number one
chemotherapy does not differentiate
between healthy cells and cancer cells
it destroys them both number two it
creates significant side effects that
are sometimes even worse than the cancer
itself here's some side effects fatigue
hair loss bruising infections secondary
infection anemia nauseousness vomiting
loss of appetite diarrhea reactivation
of viruses like herpes weight loss not
the good kind of weight loss that you
want I'm talking about loss of muscle
and mood changes number three it weakens
the immune system with chemotherapy
there's a high rate of cancer returning
because you're also lowering your
ability to recover so whether you decide
to use chemotherapy alternative type
therapy radiation therapy I want to at
least give you some things that you can
do to minimize the side effects and
handle the damage control if you decide
to go the route of chemo number one
realize that cancer lives on sugar and
glutamate which is an amino acid and if
you look at the strategy of starving off
the cancer that might be a very good
strategy and I'm talking about going on
keto reducing your carbohydrates and
sugar and also reducing the amount of
glutamate in the body the problem is
glutamate is in so many different foods
but it's not in fatty foods so some
people they go up with their fat a
smaller amount of protein and sometimes
they use an amino acid powder instead of
actual protein which gives them the key
amino acids that they need without too
much glutamate and I'm gonna put a link
down below which shows some fascinating
data on cancer and using amino acid
therapy but when you're doing a minute
of fasting you're actually cutting down
the amount of glutamate the actual food
for the cancer there's a lot of other
alternative cancer therapies out there
one which would be really good Theresa
which is called insulin potentiation
therapy insulin potentiation therapy
looked that up since cancer lives on
sugar they inject you with insulin and
that drops your blood sugar down and at
the same time they're giving you a very
small dosage of chemotherapy so when the
insulin goes up the blood sugars go down
the cancer cells get really really
hungry and they start aggressively going
after this sugar in the body but if you
put a small amount of the chemo with the
sugar they will take the lion's share of
that and your cells the healthy cells
won't get it but just the cancer cells
will and you can kill them off that way
it's very interesting therapy it's worth
researching number two realize that the
way that 90% of people with cancer die
is through the cancer spreading through
our malignancy and many times it travels
into areas of inflammation so if you can
reduce inflammation that can slow down
the spreading of cancer how do you
reduce inflammation you take higher
amounts of vitamin D and you do in a
minute fasting okay number three
hands-down the most effective and most
powerful chemo protective in other words
something that helps to protect against
chemo poly phenyl that's that
plant-based chemical is called EGCG it's
a very long name which I'm not going to
pronounce of a phytochemical in green
tea green tea compared to anything has
the most potential protective factors
against chemicals and the other very
cool thing about this protective
property in green tea is that it reduces
glutamate the actual food for cancer so
it will protect against the chemo it
lowers glutamate it can decrease the
spread of cancer it can also decrease
the tumor size so if you decided to
chemo you should be on green team also
as a side note taking green tea will not
minimize the effect of chemo and on top
of that there
two additional things that would
recommend chlorophyll in the form of
wheatgrass juice powder that can
actually protect you as well and
cruciferous vegetables alright thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
