so the question recently what is your
spleen and I haven't done any videos on
this so this is gonna be a real quick
video so the spleen is located
underneath the right ribcage on the
outside right here underneath your
diaphragm and it's about 2.8 to 5.5
inches for those people and that know
about the metric system that's 7 to 14
centimeters okay now what does this
balloon do well if you've ever seen
these junkyards where people roll up
their damaged junky car and then there's
a recycling plant attached to it that's
extracting metals and things in putting
them to the recycling plant that's what
your spleen is it's a recycling plant
for your blood and iron there's iron in
your car right well there's also iron in
the blood and you're recycling this
precious metal and damaged red blood
cells old red blood cells mouth shaped
and 'disformed red blood cells and the
body is then converting them into
brand-new amino acids because if these
red blood cells are not monitored
closely then it can create a lot of
damage in the vascular system it could
clog things up so this is the primary
function right here but it also acts as
a blood reserve it holds about a cup of
blood just in case you might need it it
also enhances your immune system so if
you have your spleen removed your
susceptibility to getting infections
does go up to a certain degree so you
have to really make sure that you stay
healthy so there's an immune component
part so that's pretty much what your
spleen to us thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
