hey Dr Berg here in this short video I
want to explain something out of CBA
Collection this is an Endocrinology book
something you'd find in a medical school
and I want to talk about vitamin D lots
of people go to their doctors and they
find they have a deficiency of vitamin D
when in fact it's not really coming from
the diet or a lack of something in the
diet it's coming from excess cortisol
that's the stress hormone that's the one
that makes belly fat so if you want to
lose weight you're going to have to
actually lower cortisol but High levels
of cortisol will block the absorption of
vitamin D and um when you take vitamin D
A lot of times they'll give you like
50,000 inter international units of
vitamin D where our bodies only need
about 1,200 intern international units
of vitamin D so in the sun 15 minutes
would be about 20,000 but another source
would be cod liver oil but if the
adrenals are working good you're not
going to need to actually uh lay out in
the sun or you're not going to need
excessive amounts of vitamin D but one
of the symptoms of low vitamin D would
be um during seasonal depression you
know the blues during the winter months
because there's no sun so if that
happens I would recommend taking Civ oil
but also lower your cortisol levels so
vitamin D is definitely associated with
cortisol and I just thought you'd like
to know that and so stay tuned for the
next video and we're going to talk about
potassium
