hi guys in this video I want to share a
great remedy for diabetes type one now
type one is different than type two type
one is when you run out of insulin the
cells of the pancreas aren't producing
insulin anymore okay and all the
recommendations that I've given you for
type two and even insulin resistance
also apply to type one because anything
you could do to reduce the need for
insulin would be good because too much
insulin is dangerous on the body and the
remedy is nicotinamide this is B3
vitamin B3 and you want to take it in
amounts of 1 to 2,000 mg now anytime you
take an individual B vitamin out of the
normal complex you want to take the
complex with it so you want to take a b
complex and I'm going to recommend
nutritional yeast okay with this now
what it can do is it can delay insulin
deficient diabetics so let's say your
family is all diabetics right and you're
a child um you want to be taking this
okay to prevent vent it and also can
protect the B cells the beta cells in
the pancreas are the cells that make
insulin so this nutrient can actually
protect those little cells and lastly it
basically just helps decrease the need
for insulin in general so I put some
links down below that you can do some
more research on this but this is the
best remedy for a type 1 diabetic thanks
for watching hi guys listen I created an
evaluation quiz it is quite long it's 4
questions but it's very thorough click
the link below and take it and it will
help you to find out what's really
behind all your symptoms
