hey guys so today we're gonna talk about
the eight different benefits of
probiotics okay number one probiotics
help you support your immune system they
provide a major defense against
pathogens people that take antibiotics
kill off their normal friendly bacteria
which is called flora and what happens
it leaves you open to getting secondary
infections and creating all sorts of
abnormal overgrowth of yeast and fungus
that shouldn't be there so we need these
friendly microbes to help us defend and
I'm not just talking about friendly
bacteria talk about friendly funguses
friendly yeast and even friendly mold
when you wipe out any of these different
friendly microbes you can then get an
overgrowth of that microbe which can
actually grow in the wrong place like on
your toenails as a fungus mold even in
your hair on your mouth and so that's
really what happens but these microbes
live on fiber so the fiber that you
consume is digested by these microbes
because you don't have the enzymes to
break down the fiber number three they
make beneficial acids now you probably
think in your mind Wow acids are really
bad but they're beneficial acids that
your body needs one being lactic acid
and so if you were to consume sauerkraut
or kombucha tea for example or even
yogurt for that matter or kefir it has
something called lactic acid the problem
is so many people are sensitive to the
dairy and sometimes this these dairy
products come with a package because
they have hormones so there are
non-dairy sources of lactic acid but the
point is that lactic acid is really
important and defense mechanisms to
allow the pathogens not to grow your
body can withstand the lactic acid but
the pathogens don't like it and they
basically are inhibited with lactic acid
lactic acid is also necessary to help
with the pH and the absorption of
certain minerals in the digestive tract
then we have the friendly butyric acid
which is a friendly acid that feeds your
colon cells it helps lower your blood
sugar
it helps insulin
assistance and it helps you decrease
inflammation okay number four it helps
you make vitamins like biotin like the
other B vitamins even b12 or vitamin K
so without these microbes you can be
deficient in certain B vitamins number
five they actually help you recycle bile
what is bile bile the detergent that
helps you break down the fats it's
stored in the gallbladder
but it's recycled through the intestines
by the microbes if there's not enough
microbes you will not reabsorb the bile
you will lose bile and then you'll
actually be bile deficient and that can
lead to a whole chain reaction of
deficiencies of vitamin A vitamin D
vitamin E vitamin k2 and and many many
other problems even a deficiency of
omega-3 fatty acids number six
detoxification microbes are involved in
the detoxification of chemicals and
poisons in the body so if you don't have
as many friendly microbes you're not
going to have the full capacity of
keeping the toxins at a minimum level in
your body
number seven probiotics can act as
antioxidants in your body so
antioxidants basically help neutralize
free radicals which are atoms that are
have unpaired electrons that can create
too much reactivity or oxidation in the
body and create damage like like just
picture it like something rusting out
while antioxidants come in there and
stabilize that free radical to add
another electron to make it's more
stable and lastly probiotics can help
make your bowel movements very regular
okay so if you have constipation you
need probiotics so a few years ago I
carried my own probiotic which is a very
unique blend of effective microbes okay
but I had to discontinue it because I
had a really difficult time getting it
so I recently found a way of getting it
back because I had a lot of demand for
this product and I put a link down below
so you can check it out
but I wanted to quickly differentiate
what this product is compared to other
probiotics number one it's a non-dairy
probiotic it does not come from milk it
was developed by a Japanese scientist
and it has something called effective
microbes what does that mean it's a
blend of bacteria friendly yeast
friendly fungi and lactic acid bacteria
all of these microbes coexist in one
solution as a very broad spectrum
probiotic so you start off taking a half
a teaspoon and mix it with maybe one
ounce of water drink it right before you
go to bed
so all night long it's actually growing
and fortifying the digestive tract and
what's cool is the stomach acids do not
kill off these microbes they're able to
survive the stomach acids so if you're
interested go ahead and click the link
below and check it out thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
