hey guys today I'm gonna give you three
tips for split ends okay now the medical
diagnosis for this is tree Capital OSIS
so go ahead and say it with me tree
capital osis okay now you can tell your
friends hey I fixed my tree capital OSIS
and they'll look at you very strange
alright so let's talk about what's
really behind this condition okay number
one is too much heat on the hair blow
dryer curling iron damage the hair so if
you're using those high heat swell that
could be one cause alright number two
chlorine if you don't have a water
filter you're getting a lot of chlorine
on your hair so now the hair is made out
of protein and it's covered with an oil
called sebum chlorine destroys the sebum
on the oil around the hair which by the
way is loaded with vitamin E as a
protective thing against oxidation and
then it has the effect of destroying the
protein structure and it actually it
starts to break down the end of the hair
and that's another cost so what do you
do very simply you get a filter okay you
can screw it right on the showerhead or
get a whole house filter to reduce the
chlorine number three trace minerals
realize that a deficiency in trace
minerals can definitely cause split ends
hair loss in general because trace
minerals are involved with enzymes
they're like the key that allows the
enzyme to work and I'm talking about a
copper deficiency or a zinc deficiency
or even an iron deficiency but mainly
with split ends it's going to be low
copper okay by the way you can get
copper and seek help wasters leafy
greens seafood organ meats you can also
get these other minerals as well now if
you're gonna take a trace mineral
supplement make sure it's a plant-based
trace mineral supplement as in sea kelp
or just a regular plant-based trace
mineral because those minerals are a lot
smaller they absorb a lot better than
other minerals like 15,000 times smaller
than other minerals so they can go in
there and help the growth of hair oh and
one more point about chlorine let's say
for example you're a swimmer and use
chlorine in the pool I would recommend
wearing a cap
okay there's also something called aqua
guard that you can put on your hair to
protect this oil from breaking down okay
to protect the hair I would recommend
that and definitely when you're done
swimming you can rinse your hair to
reduce the chlorine as well alright guys
there you have it the three tips for
split ends
so if you've personally benefited from
the information that I put on my videos
I would love to actually see your
success story - I put a link down below
so you can upload your before and after
pictures with your story
