hey guys I wanted to bring up a couple
points about fat soluble vitamins versus
water soluble vitamins a couple simple
differences fat cybo vitamins are stored
in your fat cells and in your liver
water soluble are not stored and if you
consume too much your body will just get
rid of what you don't need the
interesting thing about fat soluble
vitamins and I'm talking about vitamin A
D e k1 and k2 as they're able to
penetrate the fat layer on your cells
and go deeper and even infect the DNA
and then mitochondria whereas water
soluble most of them cannot bypass this
lipid membrane this fat layer right here
so the water soluble vitamins are the B
vitamins and vitamin C okay and of
course we're not talking about other
nutrients like minerals or trace
minerals we're just talking about fat
Seibel versus water soluble now as far
as when to take these you would want to
take these with food with fat because if
you consume fat they'll be absorbed
better these you can take anytime
because you don't need fat to help them
be absorbed they're water soluble fat
Seibel vitamins are toxic in large
amounts why well because they're stored
and they're not able to be released
through the urine like water soluble
ones are if you take too much so let's
say for example you consumed liver from
a polar bear and by the way have a
tremendous amount of concentrated
vitamin A well that can actually kill
you it's very very toxic and that
quantity but if you're taking two B
vitamins about them and C your body will
tend to get rid of them you probably
noticed that when you urinated after
taking B vitamins that bright yellow
color of urine that's the B vitamins
coming out because you tip too many and
you probably took synthetic usually when
you take food based or even nutritional
yeast B vitamins you won't see that
yellow urine because those are more
natural and your body is using them and
the last point I want to bring up is
that when you're fasting you usually
don't need to take the fat soluble
vitamins why
because you have enough stored fat
soluble vitamins to last you a bit of
time but with water-soluble vitamins if
you go on a prolonged fast you should be
taking by them and simply because your
body doesn't store these I mean it
stores some of them like b12 but not all
of them so you could end up with a major
deficiency if you fast too long so when
you fasting B vitamins are good to take
and vitamin C and of course minerals to
primarily potassium okay and sodium but
realize your body really conserves a lot
of sodium but does not store potassium
so you lose a lot of potassium and you
need a lot of potassium and that's one
of the reasons why I recommend taking
potassium twice as at least twice as
much as your sodium alright thanks for
watching and check out this other video
I have on vitamins I think you'll find
it quite interesting
