so I'm gonna answer another question
today relating to feeling weak and faint
when they're fasting at 20:00 hours so
they can't seem to get past that 20 hour
mark now for you it could be 24 hours it
could be a little longer it could be a
little bit shorter so let's discuss how
do you advance to the next level without
feeling weak or faint so realize this
we're going from glucose metabolism to
running on ketones and fatty acids okay
that process does take some time it's
going to take a lot longer if you have
pre-existing diabetes if you have
insulin and resistance really bad it
could take months and months and months
so let's say for example you're at two
meals okay your first meal is at two
o'clock in the afternoon your second
meal is at six and then you fast for 20
hours if you're having a hard time doing
this okay and you're feeling weak and
faint you need to back it up to this
right here you need to kind of cut it
back to an easier level because you
haven't given enough time for your body
to adapt now I'm going to show you a
couple things to speed it up but if
you're feeling weak or faint you're
going too fast and we need to cut things
back to get your body to get used to it
a little bit longer so you want to let
how you feel dictate when you should go
from this level to this level to this
level this is basically three meals a
day seven am twelve and six and then
you're going to skip your breakfast and
go to lunch 12 noon and 6:00 p.m. and
eventually you're going to start pushing
that lunch and dinner together closer
and closer and closer so even if you're
having a hard time with eighteen hours
okay well then back it up out of
breakfast in there just avoid snacks
okay by adding more fat until you can do
this comfortably until your cravings go
away but also you want to feel energetic
you want to have good cognitive function
you don't want to feel frayed and by the
way fainting and feeling weak could be
low sodium all right so you want to make
sure you're doing your sea salt how much
at least one
teaspoon one level teaspoon many people
need like one and a half teaspoons
especially if they're exercising but at
least one teaspoon that could be the
reason why you're feeling weak and faint
and you can't seem too fast longer the
other thing is the B vitamins okay
especially about em b1 and also the
electrolytes potassium magnesium now
both of these categories of nutrients
are involved in your metabolism your
biochemistry and they're very necessary
in helping you make energy so if you're
not doing these that could be the reason
why you're feeling weak and faint and
also you can add some MCT oil this just
basically gives you more ketones to run
on and it could be because you have some
pretty bad insulin resistance you're not
able to fully get into ketosis 100% yet
so you can add this to speed things up
some other people are using my fasting
tea that seems to help because it has
certain federal nutrients to help their
blood Sugar's but the main point to
understand is that if you're having
symptoms for this just cut it back give
it more time until you graduate to the
next level and then do this more
gradually so you go from 18 hours to 19
then to 20 and then get used to that and
then slowly keep pushing it forward
alright so that's your summing up and
thanks for watching if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
