so in this video I want to talk about
some very interesting data on and that's
multiple sclerosis and it's based on dr.
Cobras protocol
okay so I'll put a link down below to
learn a little bit more about this
medical doctor but it's a quite
fascinating
not just for MS but for all autoimmune
problems what he found is if you use
high doses of vitamin d3 you can see
some serious improvements in autoimmune
conditions and as far as high doses
we're talking 1,000 I use per kilogram
so I weigh 180 pounds so I would be
taking eighty one thousand I use FD
three now the big concern for people is
that oh my gosh I'm gonna get too much
calcium in my blood it's called
hypercalcemia and these are the symptoms
increased thirst urination stomach pain
constipation nausea confusion depression
heart rhythm problems but as I go
through this I'm going to explain how we
solve that problem now what's so unique
about d3 well the first thing you need
to know is that there's less incidence
of MS and locations that have more sun
based on the latitude aboard you live
big clue right there also if a pregnant
female either takes vitamin d3 or
exposed to more Sun before she delivers
that child has a less chance of
developing things like asthma and
different autoimmune conditions down the
route so vitamin D is a immune modulator
it actually controls and regulates the
immune system every single immune cell
has a receptor for vitamin D here's the
problem in our population there's
actually four different mutations or
alterations in the vitamin D receptor
what does it mean it means that a
certain percent of the population cannot
absorb vitamin D too well in which case
they would need to consume a lot more to
create the same effect and there's a lot
of research going on
in this area but vitamin D is influences
over 3,000 genes so it does a lot so you
can read more about the protocol but one
thing about vitamin D is when you
increase vitamin D you decrease the
parathyroid hormone okay because the
parathyroid hormone kind of regulates
calcium metabolism and it has a feedback
loop when you're deficient in vitamin D
you have an increase in parathyroid
hormone and there also has some
interesting connections between having a
hyper parathyroid gland and developing
or triggering autoimmune diseases which
is interesting but what you do is you
take a blood test and you would measure
your parathyroid hormone before you
start the protocol and then you would
measure it after you start the protocol
if the parathyroid hormone decrease
after you're starting to increase more
vitamin d3 that means it's not working
and you need to take more vitamin d3
again you can read some more about the
details in this link down below but you
would also take DHA which is a type of
omega-3 fatty acid you would also take
zinc and this is very very important but
vitamin k2 vitamin k2 prevents the
accumulation of calcium and you'd want
to take the mk7 version a hundred
micrograms for every 10,000 IU's of
vitamin d3 that would be the ratio that
you would want to take and that will
keep your calcium in check because
you're also avoiding dairy during this
process as well and you're avoiding
taking calcium that way we can keep the
calcium from being a problem and we get
the benefit from vitamin d3 also take
magnesium which also helps absorption of
vitamin d3 choline b2 b12 folic chromium
and selenium
the other thing that he recommend is to
drink more water like two and a half
liters because if there is any
concentration of calcium we don't want
that turning into a kidney stone so he
recommended drinking more water so I'm
gonna talk more about this vitamin D in
future videos but it's quite fascinating
and if you have MS you definitely need
to know about this protocol thanks for
watching so if you're enjoying this
content go ahead and share it with
someone that could really benefit from
it
