today I'm going to talk about seven
strange signs that your body is begging
for iodine and the last one number seven
is going to be the most important and
the most interesting the iodine in our
soils have been depleted over the years
iodine is not in the soil it's not going
to end up in the grass if it's not in
the grass it's not going to be in the
animal and if it's not going to be in
the animal that's going to create a
deficiency in you back in the 40s there
was a huge uh problem with goers where
you have this enlarged thyroid and that
was an iodine deficiency in certain
parts of the country this is when they
introduced iodized salt but then in the
70s you know this whole iodized salt
kind of disappeared and it was replaced
with sea salt problem is there's not a
lot of iodine in sea salt the
combination of not getting enough iodine
from our Foods on top of that there's
certain things that will deplete iodine
like the fluoride in your water the
chlorine in the water especially if
someone is a vegan they're not consuming
foods high in iodine and more if someone
goes more vegetarian or vegan the less
they're going to start consuming
shellfish Dairy eggs Seafood that
normally contain iodine let's go through
this list right now number one if
someone starts losing the outer onethird
of their eyebrows you can see I'm not
losing my eyebrows they're quite bushy
but if you start losing this part right
here suspect you are iodine deficient
number two hair loss iodine is crucial
in making sure you have enough thyroid
hormones that support your hair and one
of the biggest symptoms of a hypo low
thyroid situation is hair loss number
three heness almost like there's a lump
in your throat and that is because the
thyroid is enlarging because it's trying
to reach out and grab onto some iodine
that puts pressure on your vocal cords
which can not only affect your voice but
it can affect other errors as well
number four is an enlarged tongue your
tongue starts to get bigger and the way
that you're going to know that it's
enlarged is you're going to look on the
part of the tongue and you'll see these
little indentations suspect you are
deficient in iodine number five
unexplained weight gain for no reason
you're just gaining more weight you're
not doing anything out of the usual you
just find your metabolism is just super
slow suspect an iodine efficiency
because the iodine is not supporting the
master metabolism gland in the body
called the thyroid gland you're going to
notice that you're going to gain weight
all over equally not necessarily in one
place number six your estrogen is going
to go up that can show up as a heavy
period or heavy cramping or headaches
that time of the month even waking in
your hips but then on the flip side you
might find that your testosterone is low
not just in men but in women as well
without a fully functioning thyroid your
estrogen's going to be high and your
testosterone is going to be low so many
men are deficient in iodine they can't
make enough testosterone the
testosterone is not activated a lot of
men find that just when they reintroduce
iodine into their diet that handles
their low testosterone right off the bat
testosterone is not just about libido
testosterone is a very potent
anti-inflammatory it helps certain
things in your immune system reduce
inflammation testosterone is all about
preventing the loss of muscle both in
men and women testosterone also supports
your bone health so if you're deficient
in testosterone you may find that you're
getting osteoporosis or even osteopenia
number seven is the most interesting and
most important about iodine when you are
deficient in iodine your IQ will be
lower this is not just in small children
it's in adults at any age iodine affects
your cognitive function from different
angles number one the thyroid directly
affects the brain there's two parts of
the brain that have a lot of
concentrated receptors for thyroid
hormones one is something called a Hipp
campus which is all about executive
function making decisions problem
solving giving you enough attention and
focus certain people are more
susceptible to this problem if the child
is 1 2 3 years old into development it's
very important for them to get enough
iodine if you're deficient in iodine
you're going to have problems with your
cerebral cortex as well as your
hippocampus and this is going to show up
in the inability to remember certain
things have a strong amount of attention
and focus on certain things problem
solving functions overall creativity
will be diminished the interesting thing
about the IQ is that yes it's true that
over the last 40 years IQ has been
decreasing but it's very difficult to
measure the actual IQ over time because
there's not just one standard test that
everyone does over the years this test
has been altered and changed the way
that we deliver this test has been
changed if we measured the IQ from
someone in the 50s versus now it's like
apples and oranges the glitch in this
whole IQ test is we're not comparing
your IQ with someone from 1950 with the
same test no we're comparing your IQ to
the average IQ from a random sampling
the IQ has been dropping but you're not
going to necessarily see it because we
keep readjusting the normal it's very
similar to when you test testosterone
now we know in 1950 testosterone for
someone 50 years old was a certain
amount and now it's a lot less but if
you look at the normal ranges those
normal ranges are based on the average
of the population basically comparing
you to a bunch of unhealthy people yes
there are other factors the school
system the way we're taught the screen
time overall nutrition but we can't
forget about iodine and just some random
assessments looking at urine iodine
levels from 1990 to present time we're
at a 50% less iodine level the most
important thing about iodine is to
provide the thyroid enough of its trace
minerals for these thyroid hormones to
work thyroid hormones go into every part
of the body they affect both the ovines
and the testicles they help regulate or
modulate or control estrogen dominance
thyroid hormones directly help cognitive
function as well as your mood people
with a low thyroid are usually depressed
and if we're just talking about low
thyroid we're describing a hypothyroid
condition and by the way hypothyroidism
is one of the most common health
problems worldwide there's another uh
partner Trace mineral that's really
important in Hashimoto which is the
autoimmune hypothyroid condition and
that partner Trace mineral is selenium
instead of waiting till you get one of
these symptoms I suggest you just
prevent an iodine deficiency by starting
to consume Foods in your diet that have
enough iodine and sea salt is not going
to cut it here are the foods that are
high in iodine SE or seaweed shellfish
and fish from the ocean now you will get
iodine from eggs and dairy but only if
that chicken or cow has enough iodine in
their diet last important point about
this topic get a filter that filters out
chlorine and fluide to make sure both of
those do not interfere with your thyroid
also be careful of the toothpaste that
is filled with fluoride as well as
getting fluid treatments at the dentist
that can affect your thyroid as well
because it blocks iodine thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
video
