let's talk about why cholesterol is so
biologically important typically when
you talk about cholesterol people are
afraid of it okay they're trying to
avoid it but why does your body make so
much it makes 3,000 milligrams every
single day the less you consume in your
diet the less the body will make if it
was that dangerous it doesn't make sense
that the body would makes so much of it
well let's talk about why you need it
first of all you need it to make bile
bile is an essential fluid that helps
you break down fats that helps you break
down fat so you can extract the fat
Seibel vitamins and the essential fats
like for example omega-3 DHA from your
food so your cells can use these healthy
fats then we have vitamin D which is
really a hormone but we're going to call
it a vitamin but vitamin D is probably
one of the most important vitamins well
guess what you need cholesterol to make
vitamin D all the sex hormones are made
from cholesterol estrogen testosterone
cortisol your brain is made up of 50%
fat and 50% cholesterol in fact out of
all the tissues in the body that make up
the organs the brain over only
represents like 2% yet it uses a
tremendous amount of cholesterol the
brain synapses are lined with
cholesterol they're made out of
cholesterol the myelin sheath that
surrounds the nerves to prevent the
nerves from becoming short-circuited
need cholesterol so without this
protective cholesterol myelin sheath the
nerves can't work as in MS for example
you have loss of myelin from an
autoimmune condition not a dietary
deficiency of cholesterol and you have
all sorts of neurological problems
but the most important biological
function of cholesterol has to do with
your cell membrane
okay now this is interesting because 40%
of all the cholesterol that's made in
your body is needed for this cellular
membrane now why is it important because
you have all the cell receptors for
hormones neurotransmitter communication
all the ion channels are in the cell
those are the little channels that allow
minerals to go back and forth you have
all sorts of enzymes on the surface of
this cell that help transport things in
and out of the cell selectively and it's
designed to keep the bad stuff out and
the viruses out and the good stuff in
there basically enzyme pumps to
establish different concentrations of
minerals inside the cell and outside the
cell for the purpose of creating an
electrical potential to allow nerves to
be transmitted in muscles to contract
and relax
the cell membrane allows certain fats I
love vitamins to enter the cell to go
into the nucleus of the cell as compared
to water soluble can't get through that
layer also the cell membrane allows
hormones to go into the cell to the
receptors and also it has a lot to do
with signaling different communication
particles throughout the body so this
cell membrane is very very dynamic it's
changing on a constant basis it's there
to protect us against a lot of the
dangerous things that can invade our
cells and I just wanted to create this
video to show you the vital importance
of what cholesterol does in your body so
if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
