I'd like to discuss some very important
aspects of vitamin A um not just the
positive benefits but the dark side as
well vitamin A is typically known as the
non-caring vitamin now what does that
mean keratinization is a condition that
causes skin issues so if you have an
overgrowth of keratin it's not going to
be at the right moisture it's going to
be kind of dry and so this is one reason
why if you have a deficiency of vitamin
A or even an excess it can really affect
your skin in many ways on the flip side
of that vitamin A is also uh involved in
the epithelial layer of the skin that is
the outermost layer of your inner skin
that is lining your body and so vitamin
A has a lot to do with controlling what
that skin turns into is it going to be
normal skin cells or abnormal skin cells
and when we're talking about the inside
of the body too we're talking about the
maintenance of the inner skin your inner
sinuses the
esophagus the digestive system and so
this is why vitamin A is important for
the immune system because the skin both
external and internal is one of the
immune barriers and so if you're
deficient in vitamin A you can actually
weaken that barrier and allow pathogens
to cross over vitamin A is also uh
involved in the immune system
specifically the What's called the T
regulatory cells and that has a lot to
do with whether a person can develop an
autoimmune disease or not and so there's
this associ also with a vitamin A
deficiency and an autoimmune problem
with the thyroid either Graves or Hashim
Modo and so if someone's deficient it
can increase the risk for either one of
those and also vitamin A allows iodine
to be absorbed so there's an iodine
relationship between vitamin A as well
and typically if you're deficient
vitamin A you're going to have problems
with night vision uh if you're severely
deficient uh you may even go blind other
symptoms could include dry eyes a poor
immune system skin problems and even
bone issues so if a child has a
deficiency of vitamin A they can have
all sorts of just abnormal bone uh
development also on the flip side too
much of vitamin A can create symptoms
that mimic a deficiency of vitamin A
abnormal bone formations dry lips dry
skin double vision aloe pcia oily skin
peeling skin heart valve calcification
which could be a big problem hyper
calcemia too much calcium in the blood
normally too much vitamin D will do that
but vitamin A is also involved another
one is inra cranial pressure so you have
this headache with all this pressure in
your skull now here's what you need to
know about the toxicity
symptoms typically you would have to
consume over 500 G of polar bear liver
or the liver from a walrus or a liver
from a moose which is very unlikely the
most likely source is taking it from
some synthetic vitamin A this is one
reason why I never recommend taking
vitamin A as a supplement unless it
comes from a natural source it's in a
food source or it's natural because 98%
of all vitamins including vitamin A are
made synthetically and I'm not just
talking about the retinol version which
is the active form I'm talking about the
previtamin a as beta carotene that's
also sold synthetically and it comes
with its own package in fact there's
some studies that shows that it can
increase your risk of getting cancer of
the lung especially if you're a smoker
or drink more than one glass of alcohol
per day if you're at the same time
taking this beta carotene synthetically
it can increase your risk of getting
tumors or cancer which is crazy so this
is why I'm very cautious about the
synthetic vitamin A as a fortification
in our Foods as well as in our vitamins
it's much better to get vitamin A from
your Foods okay and that would be cod
liver oil egg yolks grass-fed butter
grass-fed cheese and actual liver these
are excellent sources of the active form
of vitamin A which is rol realize if
you're taking the inactive form beta
carotene from food that's good too you
never have to worry about toxicity
because it's never going to happen
because of the conversion from beta
carotene to retinol is not very
efficient and it takes a lot of it to
convert to the active form so there's
some reports that um like you would need
six times as much beta carotene to turn
into one unit of retinol but there's
mixed reviews on that all you need to
know is it takes a lot more beta
carotene to turn into the active form of
retinol but at least if it comes from a
natural source you never going to have
to worry about the toxicity it's only
when you get into the synthetic
antioxidant beta carotene that you have
to be concerned about it but if you're
getting your beta carotene from like
kale or any type of dark leafy green
vegetable or even carrots okay you're
not going to have to worry about
toxicity But realize it takes a lot of
that to convert to this active form the
the other thing about vitamin A
deficiencies uh number one like if
someone's not consuming a lot of of
those Foods I just mentioned they could
be deficient especially if they're
relying on just the precursor beta
carotene but also if there's a problem
in the liver okay let's say for example
you have a fatty liver and maybe you
have a gut you have belly fat and you're
not realizing that definitely means you
have a fatty liver or you might have
liver damage from curosis or any other
type of inflammatory condition condition
with the liver that means you're not
going to store as much vitamin A and so
your capacity to use vitamin A from that
stored vitamin A is going to be
minimized and that can end up as a
deficiency as well especially if you
have a problem with the gallbladder
let's say you're not producing enough
bile or let's say you had your
gallbladder removed or whatever that can
show up in a lack of absorption of that
fat soluble nutrient from your diet and
on top of all that there's one synthetic
version of vitamin A it's in Accutane
for acne I'm not sure if you ever heard
about it before but it's a synthetic
vitamin A compound that has a black box
warning on it of increased risk of
depression suicide and
psychosis yeah a synthetic vitamin A so
if synthetic vitamin A creates those
symptoms not to mention another big
symptom called teratogenic effects which
basically are birth defects so if a
woman is taking acutane while she is
pregnant that child could end up with
birth defects and developmental problems
and even infertility or a still birth so
this synthetic vitamin A comes with its
own problems if someone does have a
toxicity of vitamin A there is U some
antidotes well at least researched on
animals okay so if you take more vitamin
E that can help reduce the Toxic effect
if you take vitamin K K1 that can reduce
some of the effects as well as taking
something called red yeast rice which is
a common supplement that a lot of people
take uh to lower their cholesterol now
because of the censoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my new news
letter by clicking the link Down Below
in the description I will see you on the
other
side
