let's talk about the seven best foods to
prevent and reverse kidney damage the
kidney is a filter this one on the left
is a dirty kidney this one on the right
is a clean kidney we're going to show
you how to go from this to this using
Foods I think the biggest myth about the
kidney is this topic of pottassium I
don't know how this started but people
tend to think that potassium is really
bad for the kidney you have to avoid
potassium foods if you want to protect
the kidney that is absolutely not true
potassium actually protects the kidney
from damage the only time you wouldn't
want to take potassium is when you
started to get Advanced stage kidney
disease you need to consume a lot of
potassium since our bodies require 4700
milligrams a day a couple ways that the
potassium helps the kidney other than
directly protecting kidney damage is
this potassium lowers your blood
pressure and having high blood pressure
is one of the main things that destroys
the kidney if you have an imbalance with
sodium and you don't have enough
potassium that can also be hard in the
kidney the way to handle the sodium on
the kidney is simply to increase your
potassium potassium can help protect you
against kidney stones because it can
lower the incidence of oxalates binding
with calcium the real bad things that
damage the kidney number one and this is
the biggest one consuming a lot of sugar
starches things like that because all
that sugar in your blood ends up in the
kidney and it creates a lot of oxidation
and you can visualize that as something
that's rusting out the kidney damaging
that little filter other things that
will destroy the kidney alcohol nids
like ibuprofen medications a lot of
medications are synthetic prazone or
even antibiotics getting too many
pesticides from the foods heavy metals
food dyes and too much phosphorus from
soda really damaging to the kidney being
in the right diet with enough vitamin D
and pottassium and even magnesium can
greatly help that I'm going to show you
all the different foods that you should
be eating that can help reverse a lot of
the things I'm talking about number one
is really a category of key vegetables
that are really important with kidney
function asparagus some people don't
like it but if you can consume it it's
really good for the kidney it has a
certain enzyme that helps to detoxify
the kidneys the next vegetable I would
recommend is celery celery also has
things in it to greatly improve kidney
function bell peppers are loaded with
vitamin C and a lot of other good
nutrients for the kidney cabbage is
another really good vegetable for the
kidney cauliflower is another great
vegetable garlic is loaded with allisin
which is really good for kidney function
there are plenty of other vegetables but
these are the ones that are very low in
something called oxalates spinach is
high in oxalates you can have spinach
but I would recommend having it with
cheese because those oxalates could
irritate the kidney and the most common
kidney stone is calcium oxalate stones
and one great remedy remedy for that is
increasing your magnesium this number
two magnesium rich foods pumpkin seeds
anything leafy greens avocados are all
high in magnesium I would as a side note
also consume magnesium glycinate at
least 400 milligrams per day because
that magnesium also helps protect the
kidney and it does a lot of additional
things for the kidney indirectly number
three Probiotic foods kefir yogurt
sauerkraut kimchi on top of that there
are two microbes that have a unique
property helping increase a certain
enzyme to get rid of excessive Ura which
is a waste product the first one is
lactobacillus casc and
bifidobacterium Lum both of those have
been extensively used to help take the
stress off the kidney I would highly
recommend them number four having not
just a high quality protein Source also
not overdoing it adding more protein
could stress it out a little bit more if
you're seeing excess waste from protein
in your blood or your urine you're
consuming too much protein cut down the
amount of protein you don't want to go
low you want to go a moderate amount of
protein maybe you do six to seven ounces
per meal and as far as the source goes
wild caught fish sardines and cod liver
would also give you the omega-3 that's
good for the kidney as well and then
also eggs number five high antioxidant
Foods blueberries blackberries
raspberries St strawberries beets are
really good for the kidney as well to
counter some of this rusting out effect
that happens just having high blood
sugar or other things number six coratin
coratin has some really great properties
for the kidney and the best source of
coratin is white onions red onions I
consume a lot of onions and you can
saut√© them eat them raw cors tin has an
anti-inflammatory effect it also then
will prevent scar tissue in the kidney
it tends to put the fire out if there's
oxidative stress so just cook your eggs
with onions or add onions to the meal
and number seven extra virgin olive oil
when it comes to olive oil there are
certain things in olive oil certain
chemical compounds that are just
Dynamite for inflammation kidney support
and it's even good for kidney stones and
I've sampled a lot of different olive
oils and there's a lot of good ones out
there and of course my favorite is the
one from Italy I will put a link down
below of the one that I use it's off the
charts as far as quality as far as
drinking liquid it's also true if you're
consuming too much liquid that's not
good for the kidney because it causes
the kidney to work too hard you need
that sweet spot right in the middle one
additional little tip I'm going to
recommend when you drink liquid pre-make
some tea keep it in the fridge and
consume tea as your main liquid because
the polyphenols in tea do a lot for the
kidney these polyphenols also can bind
with excessive iron that can damage
damage the kidney and of course I'm not
just recommending getting the tea that
has the most caffeine or any caffeine
but there's a lot of different teas that
can help the kidney green tea but if I'm
not mistaken green tea might have
caffeine so you might want to not overdo
that one nettle tea is a great
anti-inflammatory tea dandelion tea is
really good as well it'll help act as a
diuretic to get rid of excess fluid
turmeric tea or even a black tea that is
naturally decaffinated the last point I
want to make is think about this the
kidney is a filter of your blood and
you're eating food frequently it is
going to overtax the filtration it's not
a bad idea to do intermittent fasting to
support the kidney for two reasons
number one you can decrease the stress
in the kidney by just not forcing it to
work so hard and secondly intermittent
fasting will drop insulin considerably
to the point where your kidneys can
start to heal because one of the big
culprits for damage to your kidneys is
too much insulin you definitely want to
do a combination of low carb
intermittent fasting with this program
and if you want information on that you
can check out this video on fasting
right here
