welcome back everyone I have a very
special guest today because I want to
introduce you to something that I'm
extremely interested in right now and
this is a new topic I've never talked
about it I've never done a video on it
and so I want to slowly introduce you to
this because this is going to be the
wave of the future for medicine and this
is called
metabolomics okay metabolomics it's not
a madeup word it's an actual thing it's
fairly new and I'm going to be
interviewing my doctor who actually
evaluated me and who in my family and U
and he has he's very credible he's not
just an MD but he has his PhD in
metabolomics this is Dr
chalas welcome do thank you very much
for the introduction and the good words
you're from Greece and that's we're
doing this remotely and so there's not a
a lot of doctors in America that are
doing this right now but
you're you don't personally do the
evaluations anymore but you have a team
of doctors that do this and so um I'm
you actually train doctors on this but
let's first start out kind of telling
people what is metabolomics okay
metabolomics is the the suffix omix
means the study of molecules with
similar properties so when we apply that
to genes we study it's genomics when we
study proteins is proteomics and when we
study The small molecules that
participate in the chemical reactions
that Keep Us Alive it's called
metabolomics so metabolomics the the
discipline the part the science that is
part of medicine actually is the
combination of biology and medicine that
studies the small molecules that make
all the human reaction like energy
structures the cells the
hormones um the metabolism of proteins
of
glucose of amino acids and so on so if
someone someone were to go to the doctor
and get a just a a regular blood test I
guess CBC or some
test and they would get certain
information then we' compare that to a
metabolomic test um tell me some of the
differences uh that between these two
different tests actually the the usual
test that are done by
doctors um the the idea is to make a
diagnosis of disease of malfunctioning
of the body a pathology not something
that goes away from normal function as a
disease so whenever a value is out of
range we say that we have a a condition
that it's a disease metabolomics studies
various metabolic Pathways and we see
dysfunctions even years before they
become a disease so the basic difference
is that not everything that is out of
order metabolomics is a disease but
could in the future could become a
disease
actually metabolomics give us the needs
the the malfunction at the molecular
level and um before even before they
become a disease they manest as the
disease so when I took biochemistry in
college um of course no one understood
it it was just like very complex but we
have all these biochemical reactions
involved with every single reaction you
have various enzymes and it's all this
stuff deep inside your cells you're able
to visualize and maybe you can throw a
picture up and you can kind of see
what's happening within the mitochondria
the creb cycle and all these other um
Pathways the biochemistry you're
actually see seeing that real time and
in the different stages it's like this
biochemical Machinery we're able to
finally now see each step and which area
has a blockage
correct yes it's completely correct I
don't know if you can see the
humanum um the complete metabolic
pathways in the human body so actually
up until now there have been identified
more than 880,000 small molecules that
are produced within the human body and
these uh molecules are called
metabolites and they give us provide us
information about how the body is
functioning actually what is very
interesting here is that uh the body
needs more than 160 elements um uh like
vitamins minerals amino acids fatty
acids
um even probiotics and um enzymes and so
on which are necessary for the body to
function normally in a healthy
state so what actually we we need what
is needed is to find out what is the
correct uh the correct amount and
proportion of this uh elements
nutritional elements that are necessary
for life um the difficult is that if we
are going to measure those elements
vitamins and so on in the in the blood
which is the more accessible more easier
way to do that is that the body is
trying to maintain the levels of these
nutrients stable so we cannot measure
calcium in order to see if the person is
deficient in calcium because as long as
the body has calcium in the bones it's
going to take calcium from the bones and
throw it in the blood and the same is
for the other nutrients in the body so
we cannot evaluate the lack of nutrients
until it's too late because uh there are
conditions that we see that vitamins are
low or that calcium is low or high and
so on but all these are very late is
when the body has reach a really um at
the end of the of the road so it's it's
very difficult then to to improve health
and make a difference so so let me just
pause I want to pause right there I want
to let sink in because that just blew me
away I mean let that sink in for a
second by the time you you have a
deficiency showing up in the blood many
times like you have a severe deficiency
not all the subclinical deficiencies and
so people are walking around with oh
yeah everything's normal in your blood
but the blood really is not the best
place to evaluate the body because it's
constantly trying to keep things stable
and uh so the bi metabolomics kind of
now we're able to because even like for
example let's just take zinc zinc is
needed in hundreds of different or
thousands a few thousands different
Pathways right so if you're going to do
a metabolomic testing and you're looking
at several maybe not all of the pathways
but maybe several of the pathways and
they all show consistent low zinc
because all these nutrients are
co-actors to allow these steps to go
from one to the another and so you could
quickly see what's really going on is
that am I correct on that yes this
correct zinc participates in more about
2,000 chemical reactions within the body
and magnesium in about 300 reactions
within the cells and another
35 out of the cells but actually if you
want to see the real need or lack of
magnesium or zinc in the body we don't
have to measure each of the
615 uh chemical reactions we just need
to measure a few of them that function
uh as markers for the lack or
sufficiency of magnesium zinc or other
uh nutrients so we measure exact those
markers that give us the picture of the
lack or of the sufficiency of nutrients
actually what we want what we need is to
find out what's the ideal proportion and
amount of this 160 plus nutritional
elements that we have to provide to this
person through diet and so through
supplementation in order to get as close
as possible to Optimal
function this is just my blowing because
um I mean here you have you the medic a
medical doctor that's
using this incredible test to look at
the big picture of what's really going
on and then to correlate the diet you
put a lot of attention the diet and and
you like there's some several things I
want to share with people of what you
found on myself like I I I eat a pretty
healthy diet but apparently there's a
couple things or several things I needed
to focus on um one was my B3 was very
low which is interesting because B3 nin
is needed in um certain biochemical
Pathways so you know because I do a
tremendous amount of exercise and
sometimes I border on overtraining you
know yes I needed B3 more B3 I needed
more vitamin C
glutathione and um and also several
other things but it was able to look at
my you're correlating my lifestyle my
stress level with my foods and finding
out what's missing or you can even look
at toxicity levels but I think this is
like I wish just more doctors did this
because I mean first of all you go to
the doctor in America and they do a test
and do they look at your Foods no do
they look at your nutrition no they
assume that um
you know they just they just look at
symptoms and they kind of like send you
home with a medication and you you also
mentioned like certain
medications can not necessarily support
these Pathways and I'm being very nice
about it but it just really kind of can
mess up these biochemical
Pathways it's true that um and actually
in your case it's not a lack of uh
nutrients it's an increased demand
because
you probably in your body have a lot
more vitamin B2 or B3 or glutamine than
other person but what you need is more
because you do some activities that
increase the demand we could take an
athlete or a person that is following a
very demanding lifestyle and uh see that
uh some pathways are blocked because of
the increased demand not of the lack
because if you are going to measure
another uh fluids or um blood or urine
or saliva whatever the amount could be
even more in relation to another person
but the need the demand of this nutrient
for that specific person is
different and about um the the usual
analysis the common analysis used of
course they are needed and we need to
make a diagnosis and to find out what's
not functioning well in a person but
this at the end is going to handle only
the symptoms and this is not it's not
that this in my opinion is something bad
it's bad if you are only going to do
that because if I need for example I
have a person with rheumatoid arthritis
or psoriasis or Hashimoto thyroid dietis
and I need about two years and a half to
bring a person in a perfect abolic
condition I cannot say the person with
to the person to wait two years and a
half in inflammation and pain until I
handle and I optimize the metabolic
pathway so both the diagnosis the most
the medication the antiinflammatory they
are needed in order to maintain the
quality of life to control inflammation
and pain and symptoms but it's not
enough if you only do that
and this is I believe
it's the things evolved this way also
because in the last century the main
problem was acute diseases was
infections was um and this uh these uh
problems are were bringing most of the
diseases and the most of the mortality
in the past 100 150 years ago we the the
average lifespan was 35 years and this
was due principally to
infections uh to trauma and that we
could not handle now we live uh more
than double we have more than double our
longevity and this actually is a feat of
engineering more than uh medicine
because uh the ability to handle our
environment to handle temperature to
have clean water water to have um
systems uh that handle our residues uh
to have to being able to control the
temperature in the environment to be
able to have our food kept safely during
um until we consume it and all these
things this permitted us to bring down
to zero uh not to zero actually uh while
it was 60% the death rate more than 100
years ago due to infectious and acute
diseases now it's less than 8% so 92% of
mortality is due to chronic diseases and
while with acute diseases what we had to
do is to stop the the disease now with
chronic disease this is not enough we
cannot stop disease we have to actively
do something to improve health so we
need both these things to to Ure at the
same time we have to handle the symptoms
we have to make a diagnosis we have to
stop uh disease progression but we have
to give back uh the ability to provide
the elements of the body to function
optimally and these are things that have
to happen and to occur at the same time
yeah and I think uh I think you hit it
right on the nail because the uh um
what's lacking this this omission of not
creating Health like there's nothing in
medicine that's creating Health oh we're
just going to cut reive what about how
do you create Health but I think this uh
this new method of evaluation solves the
complexities because you have it's
really hard at least when I was in
practice I didn't have this tool in fact
I'm I want to learn it um to be able to
find out it's kind of like a going going
into a car and having plugging this
machine into the database and looking at
all the circuits and going oh yeah your
problem is this that now we can finally
do that and find out where in the
biochemistry is the problem which is so
valuable especially for
complexity uh you know type problems I
mean most people have a lot of issues
going on so and then is the problem the
diet is it toxicity is it heavy metals
is it pollution is it stress is it this
you know and then the danger of getting
the wrong diagnosis then treating the
wrong thing so I I really and can you
mention um one of the things is okay so
you're looking at a certain pathway
you're looking at a certain nutrient
you're looking at a an
enzyme those normals that we're now
comparing let's
say what what they find on your test
versus everyone else how do they come up
with the normals and are these normals
based on just a bunch of sick
people um the the in order to to make
the normal values uh it was probably one
of the most difficult things because
metabolomics was mainly used to diagnose
congenital um dysfunctions this means
that a person uh had the lack of an
enzyme and this enzyme couldn't permit
the the body to use specific nutrient on
metabolite this was accumulated and we
could find that in the urine or in the
blood of the person so when you have a
congenital disease metabolic congenital
metabolic disease you find the
metabolite in huge amount in the blood
so this was not very it was not needed
to have very narrow um range in this
disease because for example you have one
metabolite which is CC is the first
metabolite in the CB cycle where energy
is produced in in the mitochondria in
our cells and this
citric the margin the normal would be
above 2,000 but 2,000 is too much we've
seen after thousands upon thousands of
measurements in people that they ideal
the best function occurs between 67 and
171 this is very very n narrow so first
of all we needed to narrow this for the
basic metabolites we have to compare it
with the general population to find
person with no disease no serious
problems but even in the general
population as you know more than 90%
have some metabolic issue they have some
overweight they could be tired they have
could have SE issues with the microbiome
and a lot of things so it was really
really difficult very tough to find the
normals and at the end we realize that
the people we address and
we um help with the diet they even go
above the normal what's normal for the
average person in the side they go vers
versus an Optimum uh health condition
based of course on the genetics the
environment the personality uh of the
person so uh finding the normal range
was one of the hardest things we have
published data of course were based on
prior publication there been a lot
imagine while the term metabolomics was
first mentioned in 1998 in publ public
scientific article now we have more than
78,000 published articles that um refer
to the term metabolomics and we have
more than 12,000 new Publications
scientific Publications every year it's
one of the disciplines of medicine that
has the fastest uh
growing and the next years we are going
to hear a lot uh about this so the
difficult thing is that it's not enough
to find one element and provide or
correct one element you have we have to
correct everything at the same time
imagine this if you have two groups of
people and this is one of the major
problems we we published that in uh one
of the major journals British medical
journal this concept
uh people we are used to make uh
research about one element at a time one
molecule One Drug one thing but if we
are going to take two groups of uh to
make a clinical Tri trial and we one
group we give oxygen and the other group
uh we give water they're going both to
die because one of lack of water and the
other because of lack of oxygen they
need both you cannot uh say that we had
a clinical trial and one team had
vitamin D and the other had magnesium
and they had no sign ific an clinical
Improvement because they need both in
order vitamin D to function you need
magnesium you need Vitamin K you need
Boron you need B complex vitamins you
need um calcium and so on so the thing
is that each organism needs the whole of
166 nutritional elements that have to be
present at the same time so we provide
this through diet and through
supplementation and then when the person
is also taking a drug this complicates a
medication complicates the biochemical
picture because if a person really needs
to take a medication and of course have
medication that help as I said before
with pain and inflammation and other
things but they are going to block a
metabolic pathway in order to have an
effect you block something so something
else accumulates and this creates an
increased need for something else so you
have to provide the elements in an
increased quantity in order to have the
benefits of the
medication and diminishing as much as
possible the side effects and this
improves a lot the outcome in many many
chronic uh disease so the thing is that
you have to provide everything and then
when you provide everything you change
things in the body so you have to
measure again because now you create new
needs it's not a stable picture it's a
dynamic picture so after a while after a
few months you have to measure again and
the body be because metabolism like the
fire you put wood in a fire and the fire
is small and that as the file the fire
burns more you need more
wood so you increase the need in in
Pathways in metabolic pathways because
you provide you supply now nutrients and
the pathways work better faster you
increase the metabolic rate so you you
create new and increased needs of new
nutrients of additional
nutrients that's why it's very very
important to measure and measure again
and evaluate and um uh readjust the diet
and integration and usually also the
medications that's what I like uh like
you you have your system and you you
have figured out your unique normals
based on your experience from and that's
probably why you're focusing now on
training other doctors getting your team
of
doctors um to be able to really
understand this information because um
there's a little bit of a training curve
I mean there's it's going back and
learning about chemistry but now you're
applying it to the actual body which
makes it much more real um so so just to
let everyone know um the way that um you
have this laid out is you you get
initial test and then I think there's
four tests through the year right every
every quarter you get another test and
then until until we you get things
stabilized over a course of year it's
not just a onetime thing it's like you
you assess it every several months right
yes actually for most of people
sometimes this can vary depending on the
condition or how f this progresses but
for most people we need about two years
and a half to get a person in ideal
metabolic State and most of the Chang we
have seen that occur in the first six to
eight months so we do the first
measurement then after four months we do
a second one and we adjust and another
after another four months we adjust
again and then usually after the third
measurement and adjustment uh we give
more time to the body and we go after
eight months and then once a year or
every two year um as a uh to sustain
good health and and what I like about it
is you have um you don't have to even
your you send us a kit you measure you
can do a dry blood spot and urine and
you freeze it and then you send it
through the mail and um it takes a
couple weeks to evaluate everything and
then you have the consultation but but
anyway I wanted just to introduce uh my
followers to this uh metabolomic which I
think is going to be the wave of the
future in medicine and uh um this is
really correcting the real cause of
problems and I wish I would have had
this tool when I was in practice because
you're just F flying blindly and you're
you're just going off of okay do you
feel better okay good we do a blood test
okay yeah I think he's better but this
really just takes it to the next level
so I just wanted
to I know you're
you have a lot to do today so I just
wanted to take a little bit of your time
and just extract that data and um share
that with uh my follow followers so um
thank you so much for spending the time
to do this and I think uh uh if anyone's
interested in getting this test done I
I'll put the link Down Below in the
description and you can check it out and
um go from there so thank you for having
me absolutely thank you
pleasure to speak with you absolutely
have a wonderful day you too bye
bye
