but uh lately for the past uh seven or
eight years it's been so difficult to
lose even a pound I lose a pound I gain
two pounds and uh this diet Dr bur's
diet has been extremely um easy to use I
thought it will be very difficult but I
was completely wrong and uh I've lost uh
7 lbs maybe a little bit more I think in
the past 3 weeks I've been on a diet for
3 weeks and uh it hasn't it uh does
doesn't give me a way to slip off right
good so what's different um do you think
it's important to shift uh kind of focus
more on the health versus trying to lose
weight because we're trying to just get
you healthy was there anything that in
the book that was like different than
the typical programs out
there um yeah uh because uh it is very
hard to I mean I'm a starch eater and
I'm a vegetarian so it it much it's much
difficult for you to stay on a diet
because most of them concentrate on
protein and without the protein and
without the star you feel very weak and
I think the potassium rich food that uh
that's so good for your health uh and it
kind of keeps you it's a making you
making it possible for you to stay on
the diet because you don't feel tired
