so today we're going to talk about how
stress and sugar can alter your ph now a
lot of times I get all these questions
about pH what pH should your body be
well here's what you need to know every
part of your body has a different pH the
saliva the blood fluid inside your
intestine the fluid inside your gall
bladder inside your stomach all these
different PHS but when we're talking
about pH whether you're too alkaline
or too acid the reference point is the
blood okay the blood has a very narrow
pH of 7.35 let me write this down three
five to seven point four five so seven
is neutral when it goes higher it's
alkaline so if the blood is slightly
alkaline in a very narrow range so if
the pH Rises okay it's more alkaline if
the pH lowers it's more acidic and we're
basing this off of the blood now the pH
varies if you're consuming too much
sugar versus experiencing too much
stress so let's start with sugar if you
consume a lot of sugar or refined carbs
your body will tend to go more acid okay
you develop a condition called lactic
acid where it's a situation where you're
not breaking down all that sugar and
there's certain byproducts building up
into blood lactate and you're actually
just forming in this situation where
you're too acidic
so the energy factor of the cells the
mitochondria have a carburetor in there
so in a carburetor you have fuel and you
have oxygen and you have a spark plug so
this is a situation where you're dumping
too much fuel into the body with not
enough oxidation of that fuel and we're
getting a lot of fuel that's not being
used it's and your body is acidifying
with the byproduct and you are getting
fatigued big-time okay and by the way
you need B vitamin and magnesium to act
as a spark plug to get that to work so
if you're deficient and be one or
magnesium you can be tired if you
consume too much sugar you can be tired
there's many different causes of fatigue
but we have lactic acidosis you may also
experience
restless leg syndrome you might feel
nervous you can't relax it's gonna
affect your breathing your energy level
your heart rate will go up you may get
headaches so sugar it is definitely one
of the things that can actually make
your body too acid here are some other
things having a liver problem being
deficient in vitamin b1 drinking too
much alcohol consuming that Foreman
could actually create this condition
right here and that's for blood sugar
problems but here's the thing metformin
actually also has a side effect of a
depletion of b1 the actual key nutrient
to help you get rid of the build-up of
lactic acid so b1 neutralizes this so if
you're deficient in B one you can
actually develop this condition also if
you're taking that form and you can
become deficient in this so b1 is a
really important nutrient to take to
support the mitochondria especially if
you're doing carbohydrates and in the
metabolism of glucose and also just to
actually increase your energy so b1
deficiencies nearly always create
fatigue now there's one more condition
related to acidosis if you're a diabetic
type one you can develop a condition
called ketoacidosis where the pH really
becomes out of control and causing you
to hyperventilate which then causes the
body to flip and compensate in you start
developing alkalosis like the opposite
of acidosis in your lungs so it's called
a respiratory alkalosis now you didn't
need to know that but I just want to
throw that in there alright so now let's
talk about stress if sugar cause you
need more acid stress causes you to be
more alkaline okay so it causes
alkalosis why because stress increases
cortisol and cortisol causes an excess
loss of the hydrogen ion okay you can
kind of look at that as an acid so when
you lose H+ if you've ever taken
chemistry
you're losing acid and your body is
becoming more alkaline you're also
losing potassium and you're losing
calcium at the same time so you're
losing these minerals right here but the
main thing is you're losing that H+
which
becoming more alkaline so the pH would
be actually going higher okay so what
are some symptoms of alkalosis hand
tremor okay confusion lightheadedness
muscle twitching technique that little
twitch right here just on your skin it
could be on your arm numbness in the
face the hands and the feet what do you
do when you have these symptoms you take
apple cider vinegar okay and you you get
rid of the cause of the stress you also
replace the calcium and the potassium
where do you get that from leaky greens
vegetables are very important so we want
to certify the body because you're
losing the acid and that's gonna
actually bring things back to balance
and you're gonna actually feel a lot
better
and this is why the remedy of apple
cider vinegar helps with that tenure
that twitching and the eye i've
recommended in other videos but now you
understand why so you can see the sugar
and stress have an opposing effect on pH
thanks for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
