hey I want to create a quick video on
why you should add more sardines to your
queue tell plan sardines are probably
one of the best foods you can consume if
you're doing keto why because it has the
healthy fats there's a good amount of
protein and it's loaded with nutrition
especially omega-3 fatty acids okay
I would highly recommend that you get
the Pacific well caught version now I
initially thought that canned sardines
did not have very much DHA or EPA okay
because it was heated so I wanted to
prove that theory so I spent $4,000 of
my own money to send off some samples to
the lab and I did two videos on this one
telling people that it doesn't have the
EPA and then after kind of another video
saying hey listen guys I did the test
and I found no it actually does have a
good amount of DHA and EPA so that was
kind of a rude awakening
it also has d3 and as b12 it has a good
amount of calcium and phosphorus if you
consume the bones okay I highly
recommend you get sardines with the bell
ins or soft they're not hard to consume
and the skin there is omega-3 fatty
acids around the skin and inside the
skin sardines have selenium zinc and B
vitamins so it's a really good source of
high quality protein and high quality
fat thanks for watching
hey before you go would you mind putting
a comment down below to tell me what you
think about this video
