hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the difference between a
Prebiotic and a probiotic okay the word
probiotic comes from Pro meaning for and
biotic meaning life for life okay it
helps you live um those are the
microorganisms those are the friendly
bacteria that live in the colon on the
skin all over the place you have 10
times as many microbes that are living
around your body inside your body then
you do actual cells that make up the
body body so there's a lot of them
another word for a probiotic would be
Flora or
microbiome they also make acids friendly
acids to absorb minerals um they're
responsible for about 90% of all the
digestion that occurs in your body um
they help the immune system they make
vitamins but a preotic is the food that
feeds the probiotic those are certain
types of fibers they're called cable fib
an example would be garlic onions
asparagus leaks dandelion greens which
by the way are very very healthy
artichokes chickery root cultured
vegetables okay these uh plants and and
vegetables actually have certain fibers
that will feed the microbes some of the
benefits of um these prebiotics would be
decreasing
hunger decreasing insulin resistance so
if you're a diabetic itic it's going to
be very essential and decreasing
cortisol okay so I hope that cleared up
the confusion and put your comments down
below hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you report
