I want to talk about how your food
actually turns into poop when you're
eating food you chew your food you're
starting to break your food down all the
stuff that you're eating is giving
information through your taste buds down
lower into the digestive tract and then
you also have the stomach that has to
get ready to break down the protein
let's talk about this valve on the top
of the stomach first this valve is
really important to keep the food in the
stomach and from backing up into the
esophagus because if that food backs up
you have something called acid reflux or
heartburn the real problem is the acid
that you feel is just in the wrong
location it's in the esophagus or even a
little bit higher when it should be in
the stomach the big mistake that people
make is they start taking an acids not
realizing that they're going to start to
neutralize acids in the stomach and the
more you dilute these stomach acids the
less that valve closes tightly instead
if you have any of these acid
regurgitation problems you should be
taking more acid it sounds
counterintuitive but it does work you
can do aloid of vinegar diluted because
you don't want to take it straight
because that's going to irritate your
esophagus but also uh you can take a
really good remedy called Bane chloride
and I have done videos on this but you'd
probably take three or four or five
right before a meal and you're not
actually taking hydrochloric acid you're
taking something that turns into
hydrochloric acid and to really
understand that a little bit deeper the
stomach acid should be between one and
three that is like battery acid it's
super acidic as we age the acid dilutes
and gets weaker by the time you're 50
your stomach acid is 50% of what it was
when you were 20 if that pH is not super
acid then we don't really absorb
minerals as well as we should in that
situation we have too much bacteria in
the small intestine 90% of all the
digestion occurs in the small intestine
and this is where you can also get leaky
gut and leaky gut can occur if you eat a
lot of things that are damaging
especially in the areas of grains gluten
can really create problems with that
junk food refined sugar seed oils all of
these things can actually create leaky
gut and then we have enzymes within the
small intestine that are helping you
digest right at the point where the
stomach releases its juices into the
small intestine pancreas also has to
release something to neutralize all that
stomach acid or else it's going to burn
a hole in your small intestine how do
you know that you don't have enough acid
in your stomach indigestion so you eat
food and it's just like wow it's just
not digesting it's kind of sitting there
telling your pancreas to get ready start
to produce enzymes you have to then
associate that with what enzymes going
to be released because you have enzymes
for protein carbs fats information is
sent down to the liver and the
gallbladder to prepare to digest because
we have the BOS salts that are involved
with that one tip on digestion is the
worse off your digestion is the less
food you should be eating but then we
also have bile bile is not made by your
gallbladder the bile is made by your
liver and so the liver makes the bile it
goes down a little tube and then it goes
goes right into the gallbladder and it
just gets concentrated to help you break
down fats here we have the fat okay and
here we have bile it's a detergent so
we're going to pour it into the fat
shake it around a little bit it helps
you break down fat so you can extract
the fat nutrients bio salts also kill
off pathogens bad bacteria in the small
intestine your microbes actually make
bile salts as well when you become
deficient in bile you start getting
bloating burping belching your vision
becomes a problem and something else
happens too gall stones if you're eating
more cholesterol bile salts will help
kind of get rid of that the specific one
I would recommend is called tudka it's a
very specialized type of Bio salt that
you take on an empty stomach what these
bio supplements do is they start to
unclog the dam and just allow it to
drain properly it gives you a lot of
relief let me just move right down to
the large intestine this is where
something gets digested you have
trillions and trillions of microbes in
your large intestine that are helping
you break down this fiber through an
interesting process of fermentation
feeding the microbes fiber and then
that's being converted into a type of
fatty acid which then feed the colon
cells and these trillions of microbes do
so many wonderful things for you they
give you 80% of your immune system they
help you make neurotransmitters like
serotonin dopamine whatever is going on
in your microbes down here is going to
go on up here when you eat food it has
to go through this entire assembly line
of things that happen to the point where
word ends up as poop poop is like mostly
water the reason why it's brown is
because of the pigment in the red blood
cells that ends up in your stool and the
smell of your poop it's usually some gas
from bacteria and so it has a certain
smell to it but it can smell even worse
at certain times depending what's
happening in your digestion and or a
lack thereof when you look at your poop
you can get a lot of Clues on what's
going on I'm just going to cover some
general things constipation diarrhea and
that relates to missing microbes when
you get an antibiotic people might tell
you that those microbes will come back
eventually that's false information and
just think about how many antibiotics we
take then there's also something else
that acts like an antibiotic Roundup
Ready Roundup Ready has a chemical in it
called glyphosate glyphosate is an
herbicide but they also have a patent on
it acting as an antibiotic because it
kills off your microbes even things that
are non-GMO like wheat are loaded with
glyphosate three times more than
genetically modified foods like soybeans
and corn and things like that one safe
way to avoid glyphosate is just to avoid
anything connected with grains and start
eating more organic foods because the
glyphosate can really mess with your
microbes so eating fermented foods like
sauerkraut kimchi is really important
but also raw milk cheese is a really
good one I also did a video on how to
make your own probiotic uh from a microb
called L ruteri that increases something
called oxytocin it makes you more social
it helps reduce stress it helps your
sleep another really important tip is to
do intermittent fasting because if
you're eating too much and you're
cramming all this food constantly the
poor digestive system never has a chance
to clean out another thing that I think
a lot of people are doing incorrectly is
drinking these uh smoothies with kale
and banana and pineapple and you just
start drinking those in the morning well
again if you have leaky gut or
inflammation you're just going to create
more bloating inflammation because
you're dumping too much fiber down there
of course I used to recommend it and for
some people they would thrive on it
because they they needed that but it's
not a good overall recommendation for
everyone 90% of chronic disease is
coming from your food and most
medications are treating the side
effects of bad food thank you so much
for watching and I will see you in the
next video
