[Music]
everyone having another special guest
with you today we have a medical doctor
andreas Enfield is here he actually is a
CEO of a very large keto friendly
website it's basically diet doctors calm
diet doctor calm that's right so welcome
thank you dr. Berg it's great to be here
yeah and you know I just the first thing
I want to cover is you're from Sweden
I'm actually Swedish I've never been to
Sweden but I hear rumors
okay there's rumors going out like
Sweden has now gone low carbs Sweden is
now high fat like tell me the truth
you're there what is the truth about
this yeah I guess the rumors are
slightly exaggerated it's true that
low-carb has been very popular in Sweden
for about a decade now so I mean
certainly going strong and also we had
this government expert review of the
dietary treatments for obesity about
five years ago and they came to the
conclusion that no carb has been proven
to be more effective at least in the
short term when people actually do it
then the other sort of dietary
treatments and that is the reason why
people believe that the whole country of
Sweden or now is now it's now low-carb
because that sort of report got to be
twisted online with someone sort of
falsely claiming that now this is the
official dietary recommendation for
every man woman and child in Sweden not
true it's just for dietary treatments
for obesity which is a good thing
not quite everyone's switching their
gears to that now like you have
countries Sweden Norway Denmark the air
you're typically the diet is higher in
like fats right like butter and cod
liver oil I'm guessing maybe berry we do
love butter I mean that's great
sure
that's great so yeah so one of these
days I'm gonna have to go over there
because I heard it's beautiful so yeah
your mouth with them come by anytime I
feel you Stockholm
absolutely absolutely I I rarely went
out of the country I did one trip to
Italy and that was quite incredible so I
want to convince her out but I just I'm
not crazy about the long flights but you
know we'll deal with that I I mean I
come to your place all the time you know
you have so much we appreciate it don't
only fair that you're coming with the
Delft good point okay okay that's right
all right you talked me into it so we
both have something in common we want to
spread Quito we want to get this out
there you've you've done this for quite
a long period of time and you basically
you you see the results all over the
place so what do you feel is some of the
barriers that were up against to get
this message out there
what are you running into yeah it's a
very good question I mean that as you
said I'll be doing this yes for 15 years
I spent 10 years as a family doctor
treating patients with low carb and you
know the latest five years mostly
focusing on this this company actually
more than that I think when I when I
started this I cannot believe that this
this is gonna be maybe five years you
know a paradigm shift is going on it's
gonna happen and every year it's like
yeah sure we're getting a little bit
closer but it's very very slow right so
I guess I'm a bit more of a realist now
it's just gonna take an awful long time
I'm afraid I mean depending on how many
people work trying to make this happen
it could be another five years it could
be another 50 years it depends you know
I'm hoping for five but I fear it could
be longer so the thing that's in the way
I think there are at least two big big
things
and that's still this fear of natural
fats you know saturated fat cholesterol
that kind of thing people fear that
eating you know saturated fat from meat
or butter is gonna give them high
cholesterol and then the heart attack
and that's what the cardiologist is
saying as well right it's not true I
guess you know it I know it most of the
people listening
I guess know that modern science shows
that there's really no strong
correlation between eating butter and
heart disease and you know telling
people to avoid saturated fat doesn't
seem to make you know do any good really
whatsoever so it's just a mistake but it
takes such a long time to to change your
thing like that when every expert used
to believe it and now you know a lot of
people are starting to question it them
say maybe it's not so bad after all but
it just takes a long time so that's the
one thing and then the second thing I
think is this notion that weight loss
it's just about calories and it's all
about eating less and moving more and we
all heard that problem is that when you
look at it in in scientific studies it's
actually more effective to avoid carbs
than to just count calories and it ends
up resulting in you eating fewer
calories because you're less hungry
that's what the science shows and it
ends up resulting in quite often that
people actually burn more calories at
least according to some really good new
science showing that on a low-carb diet
people tend to under certain
circumstances at least burn 500 calories
maybe already at least 200 calories more
per day which is a huge so a low-carb
diet can result in eating less because
you lost hungry burning more because the
body just burns more calories and and
the bottom line is study after study
shows that people lose more more weight
on Lokar so yeah two things standing in
the way this sort of obsolete fear of
that we do that and is sort of fixation
on calories when it's really about
hormones and and the quality of their
calories you yeah I agree I think it
says we're up against fixed ideas and
it's ingrained it's really really hard
to change someone's mind about certain
things be especially when it conflicts
with what didn't talk for so many years
and but what's interesting is that I
recently was invited to do a webinar to
general industry in the food industry
now I didn't know any details about this
all this is we need you to do a webinar
to food manufacturing companies I'm like
okay just just to do a general webinar
on keto ketosis so I did it and then
after it was done I I said can I have
the list of who was on that webinar so
they sent it to me 400 of the top food
manufacturing companies in the world
was I was on that webinar so what I was
fascinating is that the food
manufacturing companies are seeing a
trend they follow the trends so the
market follows them money actually and
so to get them to change of course
they're now looking at developing keto
friendly stuff sugar free stuff I mean
look at coca-cola so that there is a an
interesting shift in the manufacturing
companies at that level so you know that
there's a change being happening right
now so I just found that interesting so
I had no idea like certainly things are
happening all the time and I think every
year I mean I've been doing this for
more than a decade in my you know
experience every year people are a
little bit less inclined to eat sugar
and a little bit less inclined to be
afraid of fat right just keeps moving
slowly in that direction it goes for the
general public and it also goes for you
know name your expert on average they
are
more worried about sugar and less
worried about butter for every passing
year right exactly when you started
medical practice did you will you
low-carb right at the beginning or is it
something that you involve involved in -
yes I actually I started practicing
medicine in the year 2000 and then I
took about two years after that until I
became really interested in in low-carb
and I'm quite rapidly you know I tried
it myself read a lot of science books
you know talk to friends and family and
lots of people tried it them you know
eventually I just felt I have to try
this on my patients now to try this
recommend is to two patients with type 2
diabetes with obesity with high blood
pressure because it seems like you know
slam dunk saying it just makes perfect
sense and the science backs it up
and and really that transformed my idea
of practicing medicine because you know
starting as a new doctor I just got into
this world where where's expected that
your patients come back every year
slightly older slightly thicker and then
need a little bit more medications right
you just add some blood pressure
medications and diabetes medication and
then you send them home and then they
come back another year later and same
thing repeats and everybody nothing
nobody questions it you know my my you
know teachers they were all you know
this is this is where it's supposed to
be my metrics like yeah nothing strange
but then when I started telling these
patients you know you may want to try a
low-carb high-fat diet this this could
be great and and they were like bit
skeptical at first but a lot of people
ended up trying it and then they came
back suddenly healthier like you could
actually remove medications and I think
all doctors who do this they have
experienced that many many many times
you know you have your patient come back
and they're healthy they're happy she
lost weight they feel great and then
oops their blood pressure is down you
have to remove
a blood-pressure drug for their sugar
has blood sugar has normalized and you
have to can remove one or two diabetes
medications it's just remarkable and
it's just so much more fun I think
that's the doctor and it's more like in
line with what I thought medicine was
supposed to be from the being is like I
mean practicing medicine the the regular
way just prescribing medications is kind
of depressing but I agree I think I
think that's really what people want is
they want to go to their doctor and have
them look at the root cause they want
them to they want diet advice that works
and they don't get it all the time and I
think I mean even I I went to
Chiropractic College so I don't know
what it's like going through medical
school but I know in Chiropractic
College they don't they give you maybe
one class in nutrition you get a
toxicology class you get a good amount
of biochemistry but there's nothing
related to food at all so you have to
basically relearn everything when you
get out I don't know what it was like
for you know some thing I mean with a
medicine for five and half years in
Sweden and one week is nutrition which
is I think a lot more than in the u.s.
because you have like a day or something
in medical school
it's just crazy when you think of it as
sort of one of the true pillars or
foundations of good health is is a
healthy diet and doctors learn almost
nothing about it it just it's just crazy
it really is now you you're doing you're
involved in a lot of symposiums and
conventions are you seeing more doctors
medical doctors coming into this and
kind of looking at it what do you what's
your experience with that I think it's
more and more common lots of doctors
using our website I have been to a
number of conferences where there are
you know perhaps half the audiences is
doctors or other healthcare
professionals and they're all very
positive to this at least the ones
coming to
if convention through that I go to you
know yeah it's a little bit of it
selection bias that but but still I'm
feeling that this is getting much more
popular compared to say five or ten
years ago oh yeah I see it too
what about protein what's your viewpoint
there's always I always like to ask
people in the Quito feel about
recommending certain amounts approaching
higher or lower or moderate what's your
take on the protein yeah I think it's
interesting I mean I'm not the biggest
protein expert out there you can find of
course experts with any kind of
viewpoint I tend to end up somewhere in
the middle you know you take care or no
it said nine men on one side and then
you have Jason trying on the other and
then you have 13 in the middle I'm more
like in the middle but generally I would
my feeling I think there is no really
good evidence to my knowledge that
proves this either way but my general
feeling is that there's quite a wide
span of cocaine in tech that can work
really well for for most people and then
maybe if you're extremely insulin
resistant you may some circumstances
maybe do better with starting less and
if your insulin sensitive and you do a
lot of resistance exercise for example
you might do better with a little bit
more but for most people I think there's
quite a wide range yeah because it's
it's one of those things where people
always want to ask me how many grams do
I need like you just have to test it out
you have to find out your sweet spot
because once you do it yourself it takes
like three or four days to figure it out
and then you'll know what works for you
instead of trying to follow some some
opinion that you don't really know I
mean in practice like you have a lot of
new gurus coming out there that have
never been in practice and so if you
haven't worked with people one on one
for over the years it's a whole
different ballpark you can't stick one
theory into everything I'm talking like
even like within the keto field
like you have different versions of it
sometimes you have to go over here
sometimes you go over here because you
just when you think you figured it out
there's going to be that exception to
the rule that person doesn't get results
I'll give you an example you know I was
recommending seven to ten cups of
vegetables to my clients and with great
success for a period of time and then
you get one lady who comes in that
completely and utterly gains like ten
pounds within a week and I see your face
it's all red obviously she was reacting
to from an allergy or something and blew
up like a balloon and then I'm like wow
okay well that I'm not gonna recommend
that again to everyone so it's one of
those things we have to if people have
weaknesses when didn't digestive system
they don't do well on all ten cups today
even that fiber just tears them up so
I'm like very flexible to go this
direction or that direction because I
want to do what works and sometimes the
body of these bodies there they don't
always respond you're the same you know
right I think it's interesting where
we're in the process of of more
thoroughly evidence basing our or low
carbon and keep your godson and what
becomes more and more clear is that we
don't really know a lot of these things
with any certainty like for example
we're saying that a lower carb diet
tends to be more effective for weight
loss and that might not be true but
there is really no high-quality
randomized control trial that ever
compared to true low carb diets with
varying levels of carbs head to head you
know you really comparing you know in a
way apples and oranges or whatever
you're looking at different studies and
you're saying okay maybe and lower it's
more effective it seems like but there's
no good high-quality evidence for that
even and a lot of the other things where
we think we know we don't know you know
I mean you get two things you got number
one who's gonna fund the study like that
number two it's so hard to isolate
combinations of foods to know this is
what did this I mean it's it's almost
impossible because you're
well how do we know it's this versus
that and then I mean yeah it's like
you're not isolating one more and it's
hard and it's expensive but these are
important questions I think eventually
they would be studies to test this it's
just a question of time but I guess
we're gonna have to wait a bit longer
are you familiar with his name is Thomas
Seyfried yep sure so he does a lot of
research on cancer and I mean he can't
even find a cancer cell that can survive
like something like 14 days on his
protocols
so he's like it's seeing amazing amazing
amazing results but the problem is the
funding who he's running he's basically
just running on a shoestring as far as a
budget he's trying to get funding so
he's people donate here and there but
and that is the problem like you're up
against this huge industry and for yeah
same thing there there are interesting
findings in test tubes and and
everything you know but again your
cancer and ketogenic diets actual
testing on humans randomized trial I
don't think there is any there are a few
pilots small pilot studies uncontrolled
with you know yeah not really slam dunk
findings a lot of these things we don't
know it's really promising right but we
don't know yes I think the bottom line
still kedo in cancer it's such an such
an important and exciting area for
future research you see what they come
up with absolutely there was some good
data from dr. Ludwig study right yeah
you mean the one with weight maintenance
on different levels of carbohydrates the
one from a month ago
yeah just touch on that I think it was a
very quality study yeah I mean that's
that one I haven't studied it in detail
but I think it's fair to say that is the
best support yet for for the notion that
you can actually influence how many
calories your body burns per day
depending on what kind of diet you eat
so it's not just about the number of
calories you eat it's also about the
quality of them because that can
influence how many calories you burn so
the bottom line of that study was that
people who have lost lost weight and
then they were were maintaining they're
trying to maintain a weight loss if they
went on a low-carb diet they burned more
calories per day than if they went on a
higher carb diet making the weight loss
maintenance probably significantly
easier because you know burn more
calories you can eat more calories and
still maintain your weight loss
absolutely and the difference was quite
big like 200 calories on average at
least but if you looked at the people
with a high insulin levels the insulin
resistant people and and the people
actually had a high compliance with the
diet then it could be up to 500 extra
calories per day which is an enormous
amount interesting fascinating from your
viewpoint and for those of you that are
watching that I knew how necessary why
do people why should they run their body
on ketones what why should they do
ketosis that's a very good question I'm
not sure you know I think it's that for
some people there seems to be a benefit
it's certainly it seems like a very
effective way for people to lose weight
without hunger it seems like a very good
way to reverse a type-2 diabetes for
certain other diseases it can be very
beneficial like epilepsy and then some
people just feel better but that is a
little bit tricky because there are no
good studies to actually prove that
so it's very subjective thing you know
you better and you feel more mental
clarity more energy something it will
say that they do they do and you know
that's great
but we don't have any good quality
evidence to to show that that's a sort
of general thing that most people
experience so I guess in a way it's like
if we can try it out and see if they
feel great that's that's good well have
you had cases that you put people on
ketosis and it didn't work for them they
didn't do well they I need to go back to
the carbs yeah I think for some people
at the very least it's like it's too
hard to do and it's not worth it to them
and then of course some people can get
get side effects like you know you can
get bad breath for example or some
people might get constipation or or leg
cramps things like that and feel that
you know it's not worth it for them so I
think it's up to the individual to see
you know what what are the benefits what
are the goals that they are trying to
achieve and you know how do they feel
ill do they get any any side effects or
not then you have to try to balance that
and see if it's it's worth it no
personally for me I mean I'm you know I
guess I'm in life ketosis almost all of
the time but I've experimented with
trying to be in deep ketosis you know
eating almost no carbs for a month or
two and it for me it's not worth it
i I really don't experience the kind of
benefits that that make it worth it for
me you know I am relatively insulin
sensitive I don't have any major weight
issues you know even though I and it
lose like 15 pounds on on low carb not
really I mean I do great on low carb I I
always stay on a low carb diet because I
enjoy it and you know I'm not hungry and
I ever closely maintain the weight I had
when I was you know 25 which is good
getting close to 50 but III do really
well on a low-carb diet but going super
low eating almost no carbs you know
below 10 or 20 grams a day I don't feel
I need it and you know if I if I did I
would eat it because it's fine but but I
don't feel I need it what type of carbs
do you get into or do you need yeah sure
it's like not lots of vegetables
obviously you know some root vegetables
berries nuts that kind of thing mostly
occasionally perhaps a potato 50 grams a
day on regular day sometimes love
sometimes more you know but I go forever
I've reached wrong there interesting
yeah I personally um I become my house
hit rock bottom that's what forced me
into some like keto I just got into it
and I'm pretty strict but you know I'm
always trying to experimenting you know
and recently last night we made this
cheeto bread and you know what it really
messed me yeah so my body is like a
human testing test too because I can
tell if something just has too many of
this like I consume this and it didn't
have any necessarily I thought I think
it was some ingredient that we that was
new I have to isolated but it was just
like wow that did not work so I
instantly noticed like not just
digestive issues but a crash and blood
sugars when I wake up in my like my eyes
are sticky or I feel sensitive I'm like
okay what didn't what did I last night
there's something that my body doesn't
agree with so my body reacts very
quickly to things so I can kind of like
I'm not going to be recommending that
that recipe so I was like just enough
verse so some people get these
gastrointestinal issues where the with
these breads we were like psyllium husk
in it questions I don't know my my god
that can take can take quite a lot so
I'm like you know that we were lucky
yeah I'm envious
you know another thing that I tested out
because I did a little interview with
Frank Tufano
and he had this a great recommendation
which is that was basically cod liver in
a can now in America it's not I don't
know if it's in Sweden but I've never
seen anything like that so I ordered
some and my body loved that is actually
calm that her not even the oil but the
condom are in a camp so I took that in a
man did I feel good it's like all day
long I was like what the heck was in
there's probably just loaded with DHA
but look the good nutrition I go yeah so
so I'm always testing things see what
works and then you know pushing it out
there on the video and seeing people
like it yeah very impressive your
YouTube channel is huge now you you know
what how many like hundreds or even
thousands of videos now what is it but
we we get about 110 110 thousand new
subscribers every month mammoth muffin
and then we're getting close just under
I think 300 million views and noisiest
no carb focused or keto with somewhat of
a low carb Akita focus YouTube channel
the largest in the world right yeah I
like to call it healthy keto doing keto
healthy because you can do like a
version that's not very healthy but yeah
so I focus on that now and that's I I
spend a lot of time researching
compiling that's all I do it's kind of a
lonely existence where I'm researching
all day long on a computer work on your
own or do you have a big team nah I'm
the only one doing the research I'm the
only one doing the videos that have the
videographer a producer on the I about
my own studio and I have some
some staff that do customer service and
my website and things like that but I
don't have anyone at this point helping
me with the research I'm doing that just
because I I mean I think would
beneficial be beneficial to be able to
get someone to kind of narrow down but I
have I have some little packs little
secrets that I do they speed things up
like one of the things that I do is I
use a lot of Google patents a lot I
don't know if you to try that but good
Peppa yeah if you ever if you take a
topic on anything let's just take DHA
and you just someone's gonna try to get
a patent on that and what they do is
they summarize all this data for here
all the research everything in one
location so I can kind of help narrow
down some research and start looking at
at least some research that they've done
already and that saves me a lot of time
rather than try to search you know one
by one it's a little secret don't tell
me if another than prick there yeah
saves me a lot of time and then yeah and
so yeah yeah any topic I mean someone's
trying to get a in order to get a patent
you have to it has to be somewhat
credible to begin to get actual a
fulfilled patent so you have to kind of
lay out some good stuff like even the
the data on Hopkins getting a patent on
broccoli sprouts well you can get a
tremendous amount of information from
that one patent on phytonutrients like
they go right into a hard core in cancer
and of course they got sued in Supreme
Court and they got their patents taken
away but so you can get a lot of data
that way interesting strange thing to
Pithom yeah well I really appreciate
your time I know you're probably flat
out busy during all sorts of things I
really appreciate your time doing this
interview I hope people got some great
ideas from it and also I want to mention
you you have I think you have one of the
one of largest actual Kino websites in
the world
and you get a lot of traffic and you
have a program I'll put a link down
below you have a program very reasonable
that people can check out and it's you
know recipes your videos tons of videos
I think it's 400 videos mass amounts of
recipes great content people can become
a member so definitely you guys want to
check it out I'll put the link down
below yeah thank you so yeah it is the
largest website devoted to low carbon
and keto in the world diet comso and you
know everything that people need to do
low carb Aikido is free so you don't
have to become a member to to get access
to all our recipes and lots of other
stuff yeah you have a lot of great stuff
so I really appreciate you putting out
there because it's helping a lot of
people so no it's been a pleasure thank
you for having me on absolutely
