hey everyone got a special guest today
and he is the CEO and the founder of a
company called keto mojo and that's one
of my favorite units I use it I promote
it it's one of the better ones because
it has several things and that's why I
wanted to bring you on to kind of
explain everyone what is it why is it
different and what can you do that it's
different than other meters but when
you're when you're doing keto or
intermittent fasting it's really really
important to know where you're at you
know and also do testing especially in
relationship to eating and I mean
fasting the worst thing is like well
it's not working in my in ketosis am I
not in ketosis and the other thing is
when you actually do the urine strips
people have a confusion about this like
what's the difference between a urine
strip and actually a blood test you know
at first you may show ketones in the
urine but as soon as you become more
efficient and you adapt you're gonna
want to get a unit that's the blood type
blood tests you can actually have a more
accurate so why don't we just just go
ahead and address that point and then
we'll have a series of questions that I
want to ask you yeah thank you dr. Burke
for inviting me on so you know we have a
phrase here at keto mojo that
measurement is the first step that leads
to control and once you can control
something you can improve upon it so
there are three types of ketones you've
got acetyl acetate acetone and beta
hydroxy butyrate so the acetyl acetate
is what is spilled into the urine when
you just mentioned when you are first
starting and it's very kind of like
subjective you know like what shade of
pink do I have and realize that you're
only measuring what was spilled over a
period of time since you lost
urinated and hydration can have effects
on that so some of these dehydrated
they're going to look like wow I'm
really deep from herbally it must be
great but no you might actually just be
a little bit dehydrated so acetone
represent represents about 30% of the
energy that's available to the body and
then he gets quick very volatile
chemical that quickly gets shunted into
beta-hydroxybutyrate
which is far more a stable compound
and that's what we measure in blood and
that represents about 70% of the energy
that is available to to the body and so
that's why in all clinical trials and
all studies they measure blood because
the blood as a quantitative analysis and
it matches to an international standard
that is laid down for it
the last method of testing is acetone
which is which is done in the breath and
we've seen we've seen the rise of
different breath analyzers and that the
challenge with those as much people
don't know that unless the sensor is
replaceable in that if you've had any
sugar alcohols in the last 60 minutes or
chewing gum or alcohol itself and a
variety of other things you can actually
blow out that sensor because what you're
basically is coating the sensor with all
the sugar alcohols that are on your
breath not allowing the acetone to come
on in and those breast senses were
originally done for actually as
breathalyzers fault for alcohol which is
a much bigger if you will molecule and
that's the problem with those so you can
end up there having just an expensive
paperweight really on your desk so all
studies all doctors all clinicians blood
is definitely the way to go but with our
meter we don't do blood as well in the
blood we've measured not only the
ketones
but the glucose as well as two strips to
do that yeah that's what that's one of
the things that when people get a meter
they they do I do get the blood I get
the ketone well this one actually does
both which is really cool
now you do need two different types of
strips yeah so so yeah and using two
ships you know if you're only measuring
one part you're only seeing half the
picture and you can actually you know
first of all and the basic part is like
how close am I getting to ketosis so
measuring your ketones for that you see
yourself gently rising up once you get
to the threshold of 0.5 millimoles
that's the threshold of nutritional
ketosis and between 0.5 and roughly 3 is
sort of like the optimal zone higher
isn't is not necessarily better and
don't go chasing ketones out there you
to work out what your bio individuality
is and and to do that it sort of let get
to learn what your baseline is so first
you get the joy of the gamification if
you will like how close am I getting to
ketosis if you're not getting there
what's going on in in your diet and what
you are doing to help you that's
preventing you and that's where glucose
can come on in and I liked it you call
it's looting out your trigger foods so
Glueck glucose moves really quickly in
the body you know if you have ice cream
or carbohydrates that very quickly
within 60 minutes is going to be
converted into glucose and then the body
has to have an insulin response to that
to manager otherwise you get diabetes so
you will see your glucose spiked on up
really quickly if you've had a food that
contains glucose on it and then that can
tell you pain maybe I should avoid that
don't generally keep weak say keep the
the swings under 30 milligrams per
deciliter for Americans well that's
roughly 1.7 for Europeans and millimoles
and glucose you want to keep those those
Rises very kind of like small so that's
like number one you can do with a
glucose drip and one point about that
like the higher the higher the glucose
reading the less ketones you're gonna
actually have because the body is going
to be running on that glucose and not
the ketones bingo it will preferentially
say hey I've got to use the glucose and
manage that which means it won't produce
anymore ketones and then you'll slowly
see your ketones drift down ketones move
very very slowly you gotta think of them
like a slow-moving Tortoise and the hare
thing in that respect so the second
thing you can do is I have a perp
personally I have an issue with sugar
alcohols sorbitol respiratory towles any
of the towles what I find is I might not
get that glycemic spike what I do so I
find is that my my ketones start to
drift down and what that tells me is I
may not have been having a glycemic
response glucose going up but might I
have had an insulin response to those
sugar alcohols and this is one of the
things that really comes into play just
because it says keto on the label
doesn't mean it's keno for you
everybody's a little bit different in
that respect and that's why we relate to
proteins about bio individuality you
know one size does not fit all and you
kind of like need to work out what right
for you and your body some people have
an issue with dairy - this is
interesting so you have two things you
have glucose you have insulin people
have this idea that well glucose is the
only thing that will stimulate insulin
there's actually non glucose things that
can stimulate insulin even protein can
do it so then the low fat protein like
even whey protein so if the insulin goes
up but your glucose doesn't go up that's
gonna knock you out of ketosis as well
so this is a great tool to be able to
identify what foods Mike you can't eat
on your program and even with the Aquino
Fritz so-called friendly foods you have
people using multiple dextran dextrose
Tex what else Lee is to use um tapioca
starch like these yes yeah yeah all of
those those fiber fillers can that can
have an effect on some people but not on
yeah I mean if you can get away with it
like all power to you you know I mean
I've tasted that a lot of the Congress
is some of these keto foods and like I'm
like mmm that sounds that's so delicious
but the things like probably eating
entire plate cuz that's what triggers me
and so like I I personally steer clear
from those and and do but you know the
highest of desserts for me is
strawberries and cream hey that's great
I I can do this sugar cause I can I like
salat all I even like alamos but I don't
do well with Murray throat all for some
reason so it's just one thing that I've
discovered yeah monk fruits I kind of a
go-to one for me that that works out
really really well yeah but we all have
our own way so when you are able to test
with glucose and ketones this this
sleuthing aspect is a really useful tool
especially when you're first starting
out
but as you said you've got to get that
baseline first to learn what is your
right because you can certainly say we
people run at different levels on their
glucose and so normally what I say to
people is find your baseline and that's
about an hour after waking because when
you first wake up you've got that dawn
phenomenon which basically gives you
that cortisol spike in the morning so
when you get a a cortisol spike that
will actually increase your glucose so
just to clarify people that don't know
what the dawn phenomena is you when you
check your blood sugars they should be
low if you're fasting but in the morning
sometimes they're high like you're going
wait a sec I didn't eat anything I got
high blood sugar in the morning that's
because the adrenal hormone can produce
cortisol and release it mobilize it and
say also you sugar goes high it's not
that you eat sugar precisely yeah and so
that so that's the challenge with that
part there and now most people saying or
I see a lot of literature that states
dawn phenomena is about an hour but on
some people we've seen that role for a
lot longer and so that's why it's sort
of like hey you've got to work out what
is right for you and that's that's the
what I call the curiosity testing to
find out your bio individuality so there
so you've got your baseline there so
then a lot of people ask well when
should I test I went to test if I like
to do that in the morning just before
breakfast so I get my baseline and your
ketones are generally lowest in the
morning and then they rise up during the
day if you've been eating nice and clean
and they get to their Zenith just before
your your evening meal so I like to do
it like a low and high just to find out
how I'm doing the second time is when
we're sluicing out foods I would then do
about 60 minutes after eating and I do a
double test on that to see what's going
on with that particular meal now do you
have to test after every meal no who
wants to be a slave to the meter I mean
I certainly don't but you want to work
out what is right for you so we find a
lot of people test a lot to begin with
work out they test they adjust the diet
workout they tested
the dire until they get to the point in
the test they're in ketosis they test
they keep them there their glycemic
response low and if there happens
repeatedly and you're a creature of
habit you don't need to test because you
know you've learnt it you know you and
your body and then from then you can
move on so I find think IDO mojo is the
training wheels in life you know you're
not going to stay with them all the time
and eventually you're going to be
shooting on and if we're doing great and
you're gonna be healthy and it's like
hey yeah job done that's what we started
what we got into this forest revolution
to cut revolutionize the cause yeah I
own some use that when someone's having
trouble and also in they're like oh I'm
stuck okay so do you are you checking
your teaches well no are you checking
your blood sugar man look I need that
data to evaluate there's two things that
I want to mention one is let's say for
example you have coffee in the morning
and you have MCT oil your how to do fat
right which turns into ketones so you
also have eating a meal let's say for
example you're eating more carbs in that
male versus really low carbs more fat
your body will turn some of that fat
into ketones and you could be in a
situation where your ketones are high
but you may you may not lose weight
because you're burning up your dietary
ketones your dietary fat and that's like
that's like a big thing that people get
frustrated sometimes so so if you're
really in the ketosis and you get your
blood sugar down okay good that's to the
side but you're still not losing weight
well maybe you need to adjust your
dietary fats absolutely and you know
there there's the whole sort of like
macro saying that comes into play there
when I first started here I did I did
track my macros I calculated my BMI and
all of that stuff with a macro
calculator and then every month after
that I did a recalculation as my weight
dropped because it's going to change
over time and also your satiety changes
as well and I kept myself in a slight
caloric deficit only by about maybe 5% 5
10 %
something like that because I knew that
then I would be metabolizing my my
bodily fat and so yeah so there is
there's a misconception when people say
that a ketogenic diet is a high fat diet
moderate amount of protein lots of above
ground leafy vegetables it really is an
adequate amount of fat for you and for
your journey and what you're looking to
do because remember that there are
people who are looking for a ketogenic
lifestyle for for weight loss then there
are those that are using it maybe for
traumatic brain injury or for epilepsy
or because they're using it for
psychological reasons as well I mean I
used to be on antidepressant meds for
many many years but I found that when my
key turns are between one point one and
one point seven and this is me
personally everybody is different that
when I was between one point one and one
point seven this was my sweet spot and I
was able to come off all of my anti
depression meds and and so when you look
at the use of MCTS you know which is I
like to have caproic acid see eight it's
really bioavailable to the liver and can
make you a nice pop of endogenous
ketones really really quickly and and so
for me if I'm looking to get into my
optimal zone for reason I just have a
little bit of MCT oil in my my keto
coffee in the morning so I want to just
give people a really cool tip about this
without MCT oil in general there's
something unique about the brain the
brain does love ketones um but when
you're trying to get into ketosis
sometimes it takes some time especially
if you're like evidence of the
resistance or you're pre-diabetic or
diabetic and your body is just making
more sugar and you just can't seem to
get the sugar down one thing you can do
is take some MCT oil a little bit more
than usual to spike your ketones now
what's gonna happen your brain will
choose the ketones more than the glucose
it'll actually as a preference feel a
tap hold and ketones up the brain and
use that
and usually if you have a problem with
instant resistance you're gonna have
instant resistance in the blood-brain
barrier and those ketones will bypass
all that it'll feed the brain cells and
you'll start feeling better right away
cognitive and your mood because your
brain is starting to get the fuel that
it needs so it's a little pack that's
very powerful and something you can
speed things up
as you're trying to get any ketosis you
can actually just you could take ketones
to keep on salts if you want the only
time I recommend that is if you're like
an athlete or you're maybe have some
type of Alzheimer's Parkinson's or a
dimension that you want to just give
some straight fuel to that brain it'll
it'll suck it up in preference to
glucose so that's cool yeah I mean and
so the exogenous ketones you know they
can be quite expensive depending on your
pocketbook and you know I will see at
one packet might get about a million
more to a 1.5 minute mole
rise for about an hour hour and a half
whereas MCT will for for what is 32
cents retail can if you already fat
adapt it can give you over a minimal
rise and last for a lot longer you know
for five hours from that because your
livers making it and obviously but also
don't go crazy on MCT oil because I've
seen people do that it's like what your
tolerance is go like if you're also one
thing with the acute mojo device is
really good to use if you're
pre-diabetic or diabetic to see your
improvements pre and post meal by
several hours so if you start looking at
the dynamic fluctuations of what happens
to your blood sugars and your ketones
before and after meals like say one hour
after 2-3 hours you can start tracking
that the trends and you're gonna see
like well I'm getting better
Wow it's a great tool to in measure
improvement and so evaluation is about
comparing two things okay you
so highly Mohammed by the way has the
ability to actually tag a cm EC so post
pre and post basically your mule mil so
there's an icon that is on that so you
can do a little tag just to remind you
hey what was going on on that one there
and we all obviously have our Bluetooth
connector that now you can connect all
of that data and you know you're going
to you can share it put it onto your
phone and then put it on to other
platforms as well we've got some
exciting news that's going to be
happening in on that front very soon
very nice what's the exciting news so
we've been working for the last six
months to build a secure HIPAA compliant
encrypted health cloud and in that house
cloud you're going to actually be able
to track all of your data and then what
we're also going to be working now once
we have built this this health cloud we
better do air simple API calls as the
tech boys say it and that means we're
going to restart into linking to all
different electronic health records and
other systems as well so basically we
want people to have access to the data
but they also need to share it with
their caregiving team so say for
instance you've had a cancer diagnosis
and you're using a ketogenic therapy as
an adjunct to your normal standard of
care you're gonna want to have your
integrative medicine doctor you might
wanna have your chiropractor you have
your oncologist your radiologist and
maybe even your your health coach have
access to all of that data at the same
time so one of the challenges of going
hero is self accountability you know
it's it's a psychological and a
physiological game that gets played here
and you have to change some of these
lifestyle habits and that takes 30 to 60
days to really ingrain that habit and
that accountability so you don't fall
off the wagon during the time is where
glucose and ketone measurements can come
on in because then on a daily basis you
wake up in the morning new tests and you
know in your state of ketosis great that
means what you were doing
it was right then if you're using the GK
I because you want to have a very low
ratio for maybe for cancer therapy
professor Thomas Seyfried fine what that
means yeah that's a good question
glucose ketone index is the G ki and it
is the relationship between your glucose
measurement in millimoles and your
ketone measurement so in America you
will take your glucose measurement which
is in milligrams per deciliter and you
divide that by 18 and that will give you
millimoles and then you then divide that
by your ketone measurement so
nutritional ketosis is defined anywhere
under 9 so a nutritional ketosis kind of
gki will be somewhere anywhere from
maybe 3 4 2 to 9 that top and then
therapeutic ketosis maybe you're using
this for epilepsy or for peacocks or
something like that that's gonna be
roughly 1 2 3 cancer you're gonna try
and get it under 1 but that is really
really really hard usually you need to
be you will definitely need to be under
doctor's supervision for that you'll
definitely be for doing caloric
restriction one meal a day you might
even be on on metformin as well and some
other stuff to really get that glucose
down low because the Warburg effects is
what comes into play here that I wanna
touch on that one point just so people
have a little reality on this this
cancer thing dr. Thomas Seyfried who was
he's doing research in Boston
fascinating book it's called cancer as a
metabolic disease but when he's done he
he can't find how he's doing in animal
studies but you can't find a type of
cancer that can survive after 15 days of
his protocol so he's basically the thing
about cancer cells is they're they're
hyper glucose
consumers they consume glucose at a rate
I think if I'm not mistaken it's like a
33 times more than normal cells so you
know you have to start them and then if
you start them they they go they can't
live so to do that you want these tools
to measure your blood sugars you want to
get a really low metformin probably
would help but you know have all the
drugs I think that one probably is if
you should take the B vitamins for b1
especially are the least amount of side
effects or else if you don't it could
create a big side effect as a warning
label on there for lactic acidosis but
b1 is what you would need to prevent
that problem but yeah so it's about
dropping the glucose so you can actually
attack this cancer and then have the the
cells the good cells live on ketones so
it's a great strategy there's videos on
this data but there's also a recent
paper that on the Seyfried just recently
posted up along with Dominic D'Agostino
Miriam Callum Ian and Ally nadir all
about their their press pulse a pro
approach and protocol so I encourage
people to to read that because it goes a
little bit more into detail about how
they did low the glucose there and how
they were using hyperbaric oxygen
therapy at the same time because
different cancer ferments the glucose in
the cell and aerobic Li so they wanted
to make a very aerobic environment so
they're trying to make it as hard as
hard as hard as hard and hard as
possible for that cancer to survive
until eventually it's weakens down so
much that the body's wonderful immune
system can really get get into play and
get his arms around it and necrotize
that tumor and I'm just going to say
that since you brought the topic up on
cancer there's that's one thing I'm
gonna be talking about at the summit
you're gonna be at the summit you're
gonna be testing people a lot of people
that are watching now are gonna be there
it's gonna be a great event but he's
I'm going to be touching on some
interesting data with cancer because um
here's the thing with the cancer there's
a this conventional view point where you
have a genetic mutation and then you get
cancer but this isn't really pan out
there's too many holes in that theory
and also all the different chemotherapy
drugs have not really panned out to wipe
out cancer because there's too many
mutations it's all over the place well
just to get to your point there I mean
if you look at the rise of the cancer
cancer rate since the 1970s in direct
correlation to the rise of cheap
carbohydrates because you'd and the
obesity rate you know has our genetic
code changed so remarkably since the
1970s no way no and it's not it so it's
not like that so it's really think that
that's a bit of a fool's errand of that
that some of the doctors are going down
on the fact that saying it's a genetic
thing yeah that can that can kind of
like tip the scales a little bit but not
to the extent that we can see that is
you have genes that are passed on from
your parents that potentially could be
cancer genes but it's very small
percentage the great majority of genes
are affected by our environment I'm
sorry the gene but the great majority of
cancers affecting about our environment
which means that it's something else and
so see free talks about this Warburg
actually started it the whole concept
but he said there's at first there is a
shift of metabolic in your mitochondria
that the new metabolism starts
fermenting glucose and then after that
you start getting mutations which is
fascinating in work so it's like what
this is a whole new concept so what I'm
going to be talking about is exactly
what you said but the other the
nutritional deficiency is that are the
perfect storm because there's there's
eight nutrients that are really
important in
repair and chromosome stability and
preventing breaks in the DNA and also
the cellular machinery with mitochondria
and if you're deficient and I'm not
talking like fully deficient like you
would be in scurvy but if you're
deficient just like sub clinically um
that alone could create the same damage
as radiation therapy which is like mind
blowing you mean that the nutritional
efficiency could be just like getting
radiated I mean this is like huge so
anyway I'm gonna talk about that at the
summit which is fascinating data and I
just wanted to mention that yeah I'm
really looking forward to the summit
last year it was absolutely fantastic it
was super well attended the quality of
the speakers is is excellent and so
we're really honored to be invited back
again for that so thank you yeah I think
you also noticed that people that were
tested there was more people in ketosis
than other totally it's funny I was at a
convention in England England I'm not
gonna say what it was
but it was full of doctors and nurses
and I tested them and no one was in a
state of nutritional ketosis and I asked
the group has anybody actually practice
this or lived it and they were using it
as therapies for the epileptic community
and I go oh I don't need to do it
because well maybe in 20 years and I'm
thinking like oh my god the damage that
you're doing but this is - no this is
where they I love the work that you're
doing and others in the community is by
sharing the information we can put it
out there and this is what I call about
weaponizing the consumer we need to give
as much information as possible to the
consumer so they can make them well
judged choices of what they need to do
but I'd like to come back to what you
said about radiation therapy there a
little bit my wife was diagnosed with
breast cancer
she's now seven years clear which is
fantastic for that but we wish we had
known then what we know
because it would have been a massive
game-changer I think in recovery time
and whether or not we would have gone
for the standard of care there would
have been something really up for a much
more heated debate than what it was
because the effects of the radiation
therapy can be pretty harsh to the to
the body and I think I think when you
talk about nutrient density and making
sure that we have all of that good which
to give our bodies what it needs is
vitally important people I don't talk
about in the Canadian community that's
nutrient density but I always want to
touch a little bit on that ketones is
not just energy it has a signaling
effect within within the body and when
we talk about cancers and rise of
cancers is it can up regulate gene
expression and down regulate are the
gene expression and just as the converse
can glucose can do that so if you were
predisposed to have a cancer and now
you've got a large amount of glucose
with whether you can be up regulating
those genes that you don't want to be
doing that alarming for that that room
for that to come on into play I think
the work that's going to be done on the
signaling aspects of ketones is going to
be really exciting especially in the
neurological world coming up in the
future I love it I love it well this has
been really good is there any last
points that you wanted to mention
anything new well I think the next 60
days and key to mojo are going to be
probably the most exciting 60 day since
we first launched we have a brand new
website that is coming on out on there
and that's what we talked about the
weapon a team of the consumer with
recipes how to information what's going
on in the in the Kino community clinical
trials papers it's it's something that
the team have been working on for the
last five months and we're super excited
with that that will be also paired with
the the new dashboard in which you can
track your health data because that
measurement will lead to control and
then there's something very exciting
coming for Europe can't give you
yet but that will be coming up in a
little while you know what but it'll be
pretty exciting we haven't forgotten
about our European friends well there's
gonna be a lot of people from Europe
watching this so I'm sure they'll want
to I'll put the link down below guys for
what he's talking about so you can check
it out
but anyway thank you so much for taking
the time out I think we got a lot of
great data out there and I appreciate it
when watching this and stay tuned for
more updates
absolutely okay
