hey guys welcome back uh today we're
going to talk about how to get rid of
your mucus especially in the sinuses now
in the sinuses you have an internal
lining of skin um that's called a mucous
membrane and it's highly sensitive to um
irritants and allergies so you're going
to have to find out if there's an
allergy or is it just always stuffy all
year around now it could be either a
food allergy or environmental you'll
know if it's environmental if it's food
every time you consume milk or grains
you get stuffy or sugar so if that's the
case you're going to have to avoid that
right now now there's these little cells
in the mucus membrane called goblet
cells and that's the cell that makes the
mucus and it's controlled by vitamin A
so what what I would do if I if you have
this problem is start making sure you
have enough vitamin A in the diet other
symptoms of vitamin A deficiency would
be uh night blindness you can't see at
night in the dark um that would be a
symptom a lot of problems with skin U
but vitamin A primarily um the active
form is called retinol um if you eat if
you're vegetarian you're not really
going to get as much the active form you
only probably absorb like 4% but vitamin
A is in um like Coda oil it's in butter
it's grassfed it's in grass-fed Dairy
that you might be allergic to but it's
in a lot of animal uh products so
because it's a fat sble vitamin now if
you're taking and I recommend if you
want a really good source of vitamin I
get the CO virgin cod liver oil it's the
best vitamin A it's great to take during
winter to help for the immune system
colds U but it's uh it's really awesome
now also believe it or not grass-fed
butter has vitamin A too you can do that
but here's the thing that I'm finding if
you're taking vitamin A and it's still
not working it could be that your
gallbladder doesn't
digest vitamin A too well because you
might be missing the bile b i l e that
helps you absorb it so um you always
want to make sure if the person has a um
like if you have no gallbladder you have
bloating after you eat you have
constipation you have right shoulder
pain all the symptoms of low bio then
that means you're going to have to take
bile to be able to absorb it and that
way you probably don't even need Vitamin
A you just need to take little bile
salts to be able to pull it in I put a
little link down below for more
information on bile uh if you've never
heard about that so so those are the two
things now there is one more thing uh
there's another thing in the in the
sinuses called um microbial biofilms now
what does that mean that is basically a
bunch of microbes that hang together and
live in your sinus cavities and um they
create like all sorts of mucus and
crusty stuff uh if you have that which a
lot of people have that there's an
enzyme you can take that's called
serapeptase get it in 200,000 IUS and
you want to take this on it empty
stomach it's probably the most powerful
protein uh enzyme that you can get and
it's going to go in there and start
cleaning the mucus liquefying the mucus
getting out of the the Deep sinuses and
other places as well so it's really good
for the lung it's probably one of the
best remedies that I would recommend if
you suffer from a lot of sinus issues
and also sleep apnea okay all right so
hope you hope you uh got something out
of this and put your comments below
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the Subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
