I guess I wanted to do a little video to
compare myplate.gov which I think the
websites called choose myplate.gov which
is the USDA Dietary Guidelines their
recommended foods versus healthy ketosis
okay just so you can kind of see the
differences so you can see roughly of
the 25% of the food should be fruit 25%
should be vegetable and then you have
the greens which is between 40 and 60
percent of the plate and then the
protein would make up the difference
plus some dairy out here so and then
healthy ketosis you have vegetable fat
protein with the carb outside the plate
okay because we want a very small amount
so with healthy ketosis you're doing 7
to 10 cups of vegetables now with my
plate you're doing about two to two and
a half cups of vegetables but you could
do those vegetables in a vegetable juice
like in a v8 you can do canned
vegetables you can do iceberg lettuce or
you can do potato starch okay so that's
acceptable over here we want you to have
leafy greens and we want you to fill up
the entire half of the plate now what's
interesting is that if you look at my
pie chart here a vegetables account for
5% of the total calories but if you look
at the volume of vegetables it takes up
50% of your plate so it's this large
amount of vegetables with very low
amount of calories so when you look at
this chart this is 5 percent this
appears to be not very significant but
when you look at the volume it's
actually pretty significant because it's
going to fill up half the plate now when
we get into healthy ketosis with the
fats we want roughly about 70% of your
total calories okay now in this chart
you can see it looks quite large right
it's like more than 50% but you have to
realize that one gram of fat is more
than double the calories protein in
carbohydrates so the volume of fat is
going to be a lot less because if you
look at it here like 70 percent looks
like a huge amount but an actual volume
it's going to be a lot less and I think
that's the confusion people think it's
this massive the quantity of fat when in
it's not and of course we keep the carbs
down 5% we want to keep those very small
between 20 and 50 grams per day and our
protein moderate between 3 to 6 ounces
per meal
the myplate.gov they recommend low fat
lean proteins over here we recommend
fattier proteins because we know that
the leaner the protein is the more it
can spike insulin and we're also not
combining protein and sugar or protein
and fat so over here we're combining
protein with the grains which if you
combine these you're going to really
spike insulin because of this fact right
here so what they're recommending with
the grains at least half of those grains
be whole grains now what that means is
they're gonna allow the other half to be
refined grains why do they even let that
in there I have no idea
other than the fat and people up because
that's exactly what's going to do so
they're recommending between 6 to 7
ounces of grains as a requirement every
single day it's just part of that meal
now let's take a look at this 1 ounce
would equal 1 slice of bread so they're
gonna allow 7 slices of bread a day ok a
half a cup of cereal is one ounce one
pancake is one ounce so they're gonna
allow 7 pancakes you can have 7 pancakes
today let's see we have 3 cups of
popcorn so you're allowed 21 cups of
popcorn incredible or one small piece of
corn bread so we can do 7 small little
slices of cornbread wow that's a
incredible diet high in carbohydrates
and of course they're also allowing the
vegetable oils the GMO soy and corn and
cottonseed oil and canola which are all
GMO unfortunately so I just wanted to
create a quick video to give you a
visual distinction on these two to show
you why this plate is a thousand times
healthier than this one over here thanks
for watching
if you're enjoying this information and
getting something out of it please give
me an unbiased Google review I put a
link down below thanks
