so I'm going to talk about grains grains
are seeds of grasses okay so you have
you have the grass which is the plant
the vegetables then you have the seed
that that turns into this vegetable well
out of all the things that are full of
nutrition and void of nutrition the
grain is not very nutritious believe it
or not especially if it's been refined
or milled or ground down but grains when
they are sprouted to four days old a
plant like you have this little sprouts
that you can get at the health food
store they go they there's nutrition
increases by four thousand percent so
when you consume grains you don't get a
lot of nutrition okay especially after
there's some nutrition initially when
you grind the grain but the nutrition
lasts it gets oxidized by oxygen but
within six days it's gone and how many
people make their own bread so here we
have some bread here and this is whole
wheat bread and whole wheat bread
obviously is better than white bread
right but they if you do if it's not
organic they spray this with four times
the bug sprays yeah so you be better off
eating the white bread so you have white
bread which is basically just good good
for adding water into it and mixing into
this ball and picking up glass that's
about the benefit of white bread or you
can have little fights with people like
rocks or something when you let it go
hard but again I'm actually I don't want
you to eat bread I don't want you to eat
bread right now we're going to put this
to the side because it's we're trying to
get nutrition and we don't want to add a
starch plus this is refined carbohydrate
and it can turn into sugar at a certain
rate obviously not as high in sugar but
it's still a starchy thing that can put
weight on you okay so if you're addicted
to bread you're deficient in B vitamins
and if you take a B vitamin make sure
that it's not synthetic most B vitamins
are synthetic but when you eat
refined carbohydrates like bread or
pasta or cereal or crackers or biscuits
or waffles that depletes B vitamins okay
so it depletes B vitamins and the B
vitamin is very important in the
cardiovascular system especially
preventing rhythm use and heart problems
so a lot of heart problems come from
eating too much rain refined grain all
right
so then we have this thing right here
called Ezekiel bread now if you have
children this is what you want to give
your kids I know you probably would like
to have some too but why don't we focus
on losing weight first and then once
you're in the fat-burning mode see how
much of this you can get away with a
couple times a week if you want a
healthy bread Ezekiel bread this one is
um I think this one is cinnamon raisin
it's high it's sprouted bread so it's
all alive that's why it's not even
cooked it's actually sprouted so if you
want to keep it in the freezer and keep
it frozen until you're ready to eat it
and then you would slightly toast it or
just eat it thought out but this has a
lot of nutrition compared to this
because this is sprouted sprouted means
you take the seed and it grows into this
little tiny plant plant this baby little
sprout and then they make bread out of
it this they just take the grain and
grind it and it's it's the flour sits on
the shelf for about six months to a year
so there's not a lot of nutrition in
there
I mean look go to the aisle go to the
store and look down the aisle of all the
pasta I mean you know how long that's
been sitting there I mean a long time
and you're going to eat that so this is
fresh that's why it's frozen so that's
why it goes bad really quick see the
reason why we're we made these foods is
there to preserve them so they won't go
bad so they can sit on the shelf
all this canned food in pasteurization
will you kill the food the nutrition so
we're going to raw we're going to live
foods we're going to high density
nutrient foods so on my side of a lot of
recipes there's an
in cracker to die for I mean it's just
onions dehydrated it tastes great like a
cracker so there's a lot of things that
you can do so I hope this helped stay on
track and good job so far
