so in this video we want to talk about
what's really behind varicose veins why
do certain people get them well there's
a common thread you'll see them in
pregnancy menopause
obesity when you take birth control
pills that's one of the side effect HRT
hormone replacement therapy what is the
common thread
it's estrogen I want to show you some
interesting research high endogenous
estradiol and by the way endogenous
means made within in other words it's
estrogen that is coming from within your
bodies making it is associated with
increased venous distention and clinical
evidence of varicose veins and
menopausal women the veins actually get
distended they balloon out they get
twisted when you expose them to too much
estrogen now let's talk about how your
body can make more estrogen there's an
enzyme called aroma taste in your body
it's in the adrenal glands it's in the
ovary it's in the breast tissue it's
also in your fat and what this enzyme
will do it'll take testosterone that's
in your body and convert it to estrogen
so one of the challenges people have is
if they have too much fat they're an
estrogen machine their own fat it's
making this estrogen and that
potentially could start creating
problems with your veins all right so
what can we do about this okay number
one you can stop getting pregnant so
often what is it that what do you have
nine kids now I'm being totally
sarcastic okay it's okay they'd be
pregnant okay I have as many kids as you
want
all right so with obesity just realize
the less fat you have in your body the
less estrogen dominant you're going to
be so you want to do the healthy version
of keto and intermittent fasting and
that should be very effective okay but
there are things you can do to inhibit
this enzyme along the way and you
guessed it cruciferous vegetables like
kale broccoli Brussels sprouts cabbage
aromatase inhibitors okay there's also a
con
and traded version of cruciferous called
dim it's just more powerful garlic will
also work as well the other thing that
you're gonna have to do is you're gonna
have to start an intense exercise
program and really work on that because
the veins are the returned blood flow
from the extremity back up to the heart
and you want to stimulate the blood flow
coming back to the heart a lot of times
when people sit for many many years and
they don't get enough physical activity
they will get this problem in the veins
so you can actually undo this over a
period of time it might take a few years
but you want to include regular intense
exercise to do it alright guys thanks
for watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
