today I'm going to talk about skin
diseases and dermatitis dermatitis comes
from the word Derm which means skin itis
inflammation of there are many many
different types of dermatitis and I just
want to share there's a common
denominator with every single one of
these conditions but here's the thing
you have this skin inflammatory
condition there's redness there's
itching might be blisters there might be
flakiness each one has its own
scientific name name but in this video
I'm going to make this whole topic
extremely simple and I think it could be
very useful for anyone who has any type
of skin problems I mean you have contact
dermatitis contact means you come in
contact with it and you get some
itchiness or some rash and then you have
something called atopic dermatitis then
you have something that's called sabic
dermatitis and the derivation comes from
a word that means discharge or flowing
and you have many different types of
dermatitis Len planus in pyo candida
dermatitis psoriasis eczema so you have
all these very scientific sounding uh
descriptions of various symptoms that
revolve around your skin but basically
when it boils down the skin problems you
either have some type of reaction to
something like an allergy reaction or
you have some type of immune reaction
that's reacting to bacteria a virus a
fungus Etc many of the symptoms from
skin conditions are really coming from
our own immune system that is reacting
to something so you can consider a lot
of these conditions as an overreactive
immune system so what's the most common
treatment steroids topical or oral it
suppresses the immune system and then of
course the next most common treatment is
an antibiotic so you kill only bacteria
and this is why many times you end up
with a secondary infection an overgrowth
of C
an overgrowth of fungus mold or Yeast
what you need to know is The Superficial
part of your skin is a universe of
bacteria microbes all different types
it's called commensal relationship where
they don't bother you you don't bother
them and everything is just fine and
then the skin itself is a barrier
because right underneath the skin you
have a huge network of lymphatic tissue
blood vessels capillaries which is just
filled with immune cells ready to
protect you against foreign Invaders so
what's the common thread or problem in
all of these conditions they all seem to
significantly respond in a positive way
to taking vitamin D for example when you
have hives from something called contact
dermatitis so you got this itchiness
well vitamin D inhibits the cells that
make histamine they're called mass cells
vitamin D lowers the histamine response
vitamin D is the main regulator or
controller of your immune system and
even if you look at almost every single
one of these skin problems are worse in
the winter what a coincidence when we
have the lowest amount of vitamin D
they're also worse under stress it just
so happens when you raise cortisol from
stress you deplete your vitamin D levels
now even with acne for example that
involves the sebaceous gland when you
take vitamin D it can help shrink and
normalize the sebaceous gland and help
regulate the over production of that oil
sabic
dermatitis one version of that if it's
on the scalp is dandruff and you can use
vitamin D cream to successfully treat
dandruff eczema
psoriasis vitiligo as well as alopecia
are all related to having a vitamin D
deficiency in fact it's usually the low
vitamin D that triggers an autoimmune
disease but here's the interesting thing
about microbes because if you have a
type of infection on your skin or
anywhere in your body with a microb what
some of them do is they start to reduce
the vitamin D receptor in your skin and
ultimately that's the end point where
vitamin D can connect and be activated
and if the microbe can keep that not
working that well then the microb can
survive but also I found out that
certain fungi will do it as well the
real solution is just to take more
vitamin D vitamin D increases a certain
enzyme that helps you make melanin and
melanin is the pigment in your skin so
when you're deficient in vitamin D
you're more susceptible to Vitiligo
vitamin D has a very potent anti- fungal
effect it
directly inhibits fungal growth
from preventing the development of a
fungal infection to preventing biofilms
which is a condition where you have
microbes that start to develop these
little calcium shells to help them evade
the immune system but vitamin D helps
prevent the biofilms even when you don't
have enough vitamin D your skin becomes
drier and less hydrated and this whole
area of Dermatology is seems to be very
very complex but there's a common theme
between almost every single skin
disorder and that would be a vitamin D
deficiency and since we're on the topic
of autoimmune conditions on the skin if
you have not seen this video on
psoriasis check it out I put it up right
here
