hey guys dr. Burke here in this video I
want to talk about ulcers and how you
can figure out if you have an ulcer
okay first thing I want to talk about is
the causes of ulcers aspirin ibuprofen
refined foods in college the only thing
that I consumed was refined foods I
started getting an ulcer probably didn't
help from the five pots of coffee that I
would consume the stay awake but too
much coffee can also create an officer
alcohol will do it and h pylori which is
a microbe that occurs when your stomach
pH is too alkaline so when you have an
ulcer it's kind of an advanced stage
it's like you have a hole in your
digestive tract using the stomach or the
small intestine so that's a kind of
advanced problem that requires getting
to the root of it one of the symptoms is
basically burning on an empty stomach
and also if you have an ulcer when you
eat it'll actually give you some relief
with the burning okay so let's say let's
say you have you're trying to rule out
two problems an ulcer versus low stomach
acid okay when you eat and you have an
ulcer it feels better if you eat and it
feels worse that means you have low
stomach acid and you want to add outside
of vinegar but a real simple test would
be to drink up soda vinegar and some
water and if it gets worse chances are
you have an ulcer okay a last thing you
want to do if you have an ulcer is to
add an acid to add retain how to
chloride adding apple cider vinegar not
a good idea because bur a pouring acid
on a hole that's in your in your stomach
is not smart so you want to heal the
ulcer so you want to remove any of these
things that are causing it primarily I
see a lot of people eating refined foods
because when they were eat refined grain
pastas bread it doesn't have the vitamin
E and they start developing a stomach
problem so the best remedy is cabbage
and cabbage juice if you could actually
juice the cabbage and drink that there's
certain properties that actually heal
and alter sauerkraut is good coleslaw is
awesome but it's also high in
l-glutamine which I
we helped heal leaky gut and an ulcer
but the other thing that's really good
for an ulcer is chlorophyll in the
wheatgrass juice okay if you do that
what will happen the chlorophyll has
healing properties for skin not just
external skin but internal skin so those
are the two things I'm going to
recommend without any outside of vinegar
or acidifier for a period of time you
might need to do this for three months
to heal that ulcer then start to
acidifying your digestive tract without
cider vinegar and that will actually
bulletproof yourself as well okay I hope
these tips helped you put your comments
below ll see in the next video
