so let's talk about fat okay because
what we want to do we want to keep the
carbohydrates way down there uh no more
than 50 gram per day uh hopefully down
like 20 grams we want the proteins to be
at a a moderate amount not too much uh
because they can convert to insulin um
and then now we want the fats to be
about 60 to 80% of the total calories
now let me just expl explain what I mean
I'm not talking about total volume I'm
talking about calories if we take one
unit of a fat unit uh it had more it has
more than twice as many calories as the
carbohydrates or protein so I'm talking
about daily calories I'm not talking
about just quantities so it's not going
to be like you're going to have drinking
liquid butter or lard but you're going
to have um a good amount of fats in the
diet and we're going to have healthy
fats there's some things to talk about
uh regarding fat and understand because
people are freaked out because they've
heard for a long time uh that this
eating fat will clog your arteries
probably the biggest study um I think
his name was Anil keys and he was uh he
did the the study back in the 50s and
started this whole phobia of fat and so
um what we found out now if someone has
ever read this study that he omitted
several countries in this study so we he
didn't show the full picture so he
basically took what he wanted to and
then he omitted the other stuff that he
didn't want to so it was we found now
that um found out that that study was
altered and fat now is okay to consume
and this is after years of putting
everyone on lowfat diets but let's talk
about clogged arteries there is no study
whatsoever that is independent study
that shows that eating fat will cause
increase in cholesterol or heart
problems in any way shape or form okay
so that's interesting because that goes
against what people have been telling
you now they did some studies and they
found that eating fat will cause insulin
resistance and possibly some diabetes
but the types of fats that they use use
were corn oil okay well of course cor
corn oil is genetically modified it's
really bad I'm not going to recommend to
consum it so we have healthy fats and we
have unhealthy fats we'll get into that
a little bit um the next thing is that
why do we have to eat the fat number one
there's a lot of nutrients in fat that's
where you get all your fat vitamins fat
soluble vitamins vitamin A d e k K1 K2
those vitamins are essential for health
and you can't live without them and yes
you consume vegetables but those have
the precursor of vitamin A for example
they don't have the the actual active
form of vitamin A which is F type of
vitamin I'm going to do a video on that
you have have to be converted so really
it would take four pounds of car carrots
to equal one teaspoon of beef liver for
vitamin A so again I'm talking about
available fat CYO vitamins uh most of
those are in animal products it's in the
fat and we must consume products with
with these fat cyal vitamins so that's
the nutrient we have essential fatty
acids Omega-3 Three fatty acids we need
a little bit of omega-6 those are
essential because our body can't make
them uh we also need cholesterol our
body does make it but it's a beneficial
thing because it helps to heal uh parts
of our tissues that's part of the
purpose um and now uh we get into the
raw materials for the body do you know
that your brain is mostly fat um so we
have to constantly replace that your
brain uh sucks up 20% of of all the
calories that you eat go to your brain
so it's a very hungry organ and it's
full of fat the nervous system all the
mile and sheath that surrounds the nerve
is made from fat all of your cell walls
you have trillions of cells and they're
all made of fat so we need that fat to
protect the cells and the immune system
fat is a um an immune protector as well
there's a lot of properties that help
the immune system even and a baby when
they when a baby is given or an infant
uh breast milk there's just tons of
healthy fats to help that baby develop
and lastly the raw materials of fat
build up your hormones so without fat
you're going to starve the body of those
hormones and have all sorts of problems
with
fertility with u memory uh
cognitive especially the stress hormones
and the sex hormones your libido's going
to go down so we need these fats okay so
that's the benefit of fats and they also
will satisfy you nutritionally and
you'll be less hungry so that's
important because you don't want to be
doing any type of program that you're
hungry and then the question the big
question is this if I eat these fats
will those fats convert to more fat
that's the big question that people have
well yes or no it depends what type of
fats that you consume the type of fats
that I'm going to recommend are mainly
uh medium chain
triglycerides um which or smaller so
we're not doing the long chain
triglycerides they're just basically
shorter fats that will show you how to
get that in your diet that convert to
energy and they don't most of that does
not even convert to Fat at all very
small amounts if you consume large
quantities but you're going to be
consuming the right amount of fats
that's going to convert to energy so
what we want as an ideal scene is we
want you to get the energy from the fat
and we want you to get the energy from
the the stored fat of your body okay and
so that's what we're going to do we're
going to actually use some of that to
run their body on and we're going to use
some of our stor fat as energy so you
can lose the actual fat and we'll make
adjustments till it's perfect and it's
true if your activity is very low and
you're a little bit older you may not be
able to consume as many fats but you
need some of this fat to be able to to
supply the health of the body because
the body if it's in an unhealthy state
if you try to lose weight unhealthily
you're not going to lose weight so our
goal really is to make you healthy and
part of that is to feed the body what it
needs
