so today we're going to talk about the
benefits of vitamin E okay make sure
that when you're actually getting about
a mini supplement make sure it's
actually a food base make sure it has
all the different things in the complex
versus just a synthetic version alright
so let's talk about the benefits one of
the biggest benefits of vitamin E is its
ability to dissolve a fresh clot okay it
actually prevents clotting which if not
corrected can lead to a stroke so
vitamin E helps keep the blood in the
right consistency so it's not too thick
number two it decreases the need for
oxygen in your tissues so if you're
deficient in vitamin E the need for
oxygen goes way up and this is why it's
connected to angina chest pain heart
attacks so if your vitamin D deficient
you have a lot of problems with the
vascular system you don't have the
healing that you need inside the artery
you could get pain on the left arm
because the heart cramps so the heart
muscle needs vitamin E for oxygen and
also all the muscles do so vitamin is
really good to help keep your muscles in
good shape to make sure they don't cramp
and make sure that they are strong
vitamin E helps increase collateral
circulation now what does that mean so
let's say for example you get a clogged
artery your body will then regrow
additional blood vessels around that
artery that's clogged so apparently you
have some built-in backup system if you
need it that your body will start to
develop but vitamin E actually helps
this process to keep the muscle filled
with oxygen and blood flow number four
vitamin E has the capacity to prevent
infection so it's good for the immune
system it's good for inflammation and it
can even prevent gangrene but you have
enough vitamin E in the system alright
number five dilation of capillaries so
vitamin E can actually increase
capillary expansion and oxygen number
six
it helps heal burns alright number seven
it can soften old scars so let's say for
example you have stretch marks or you
had an old injury you can take vitamin E
rub it into that scar and it breaks down
the scar pretty cool number eight you
can actually help prevent bedwetting so
if your child is wetting your bed
give them some vitamin E okay so now the
question is what is the key food that
depletes you of vitamin E and that would
be refined grains okay refined
carbohydrates now that leads me to the
next point which is what foods will give
me vitamin E the top of the list is
wheat germ oil now this is interesting
because when you consume the refined
wheat it depletes you a vitamin E but if
you consume the germ of that wheat berry
that grain it gives you incredible
amounts of vitamin E and that is because
refined carbohydrates in the form of
like wheat or other grains don't have
anymore vitamin E so when you consume
them it actually caused your body to use
up your vitamin E reserves leaving you
high and dry so we trim oil is a good
source sunflower seeds second best
source of vitamin E okay number three
almonds now what I'm doing right now is
I'm actually making my own almond milk
and it's actually quite delicious it's
really simple you just soak the almonds
overnight in water the next day about 24
hours later you drain them out you know
you actually put them under water just
get rid of all the enzyme inhibitors
then what you do is you take these
almonds that have been soaking they're
there now
germinated which means they are ready to
sprout but before that you're gonna
stick them in a blender add some water
blend them up add a little tiny bit of
sea salt a little bit of stevia with
vanilla and you have yourself some
amazing fresh almond milk it's delicious
and it's loaded with vitamin E I'll put
a link down below of how to make it it's
real simple before the seeds and nuts if
they're raw have the vitamin E okay
because if you cook them and roast them
you destroy the vitamin E because
vitamin E is sensitive to heat okay
leafy greens
thus the salads avocado has a good
amount of vitamin E
alright guys thanks for watching hey if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
