so welcome everyone we have another
amazing interview Michelle welcome so
you sent me here before and afters there
I'm very impressed I wanted to do I
wanted to find out about your your
history of what what happened that you
start gaining weight when you're a
little bit younger maybe you could tell
me about that and tell me your story
okay well um I I would say that I always
had a weight problem but looking back in
pictures I think it was in my mind right
and I really started noticing it in my
college years you know the famous
freshman 30 well nine when grew up there
it could be because I'm from Louisiana
and I was going to school in New Orleans
so okay that makes us yes it could have
been that but what I did notice was over
the years I had all of the stuff that
you explained the high estrogen the
heavy heavy cycle fibroids all of that
stuff and I always had to struggle with
weight I wasn't really a dieter because
I just I just don't believe in it but I
would try to do what I thought was
healthy eating which in hindsight it
really wasn't I had a lot of high stress
jobs after college and grad school and
it just it kind of like inched up you
know so I was okay here then in my 30s I
guess you know who does better I'll tell
my age I have a problem with that I just
decided to you know like by sheer force
of will go to the gym everyday and get
it you know get it controlled and that
was still struggle I changed careers so
now I'm a full time on author and
consultant and I sit all the time and I
will just tell this quick little story
if you'll permit me um it was December
31st 2016 last year
and I had just come back from a cruise
and normally when I take my cruises I
can walk I can do all the stuff dr. Berg
I was so um sick I slept like two days
straight on the ship it was a chore to
walk from my side of the ship to where
the food was and I had the nerve to be
upset about that and it was just a
different different thing I didn't even
get to get off the ship to go to any of
the ports and that kind of stuff and I
kept getting severe leg thigh and calf
cramps and by this time my brain fog was
so bad I remember I would like get up to
go and get something and by the time I
got to the next room I would have
totally completely forgotten why I was
in there Wow
yeah and so it was really bad so get
back from the cruise and I get on the
scale and that was my my breaking point
I think because the scale said are you
ready for this I'm only five I'm am five
six some more like five five and a half
and my scale said I was 249 pounds oh
wow that was probably freaked me out
right there yes yeah that's what I was
just like you know okay I can't do this
and like I said I write for a living I
write you know novels and so I sit a lot
what I realized was something had to
change and I was watching a YouTube
video on doing some research for a book
it was December 31st and this ad comes
up are you having these symptoms no way
yes and I never really watched ads and
then it has a little pictures of the
people's you know little play-doh bodies
and it had click here to take this
evaluation and right am I getting punked
you know because it was everything I was
going through and no one had ever
explained that to me so I went through
and all of that and I'm going to just
you know you can edit this out if you
want to dr. Perry felt a little hot with
you and the reason why was because you
got it kinda like you get your mouth and
I want to do the sweet here you get your
mouth all ready for that cake and you
bite into it and there's nothing so I
was so excited I wanted more information
I tried to get on the membership website
and it told me it was an error and what
I found out was like I said this is a
little embarrassing I was trying to sign
in on January 1st and whatever program
was running the membership had not
updated to be able to reflect 2017 Wow
it kept telling me you can't get in here
so anyway one of your staff persons just
happen to come in on the on January 1st
and saw I guess mine and a few others
and got a soft subtle and I will tell
you I spent all day January 1st of this
year 2017 just Netflix in dr. Burke I
had never heard of you before then to be
honest and I just want to say Nestle say
I'm talking about I stopped writing all
I did was that and I will tell you I
realized I had become a sugar addict
when I went back and looked I had not
eaten real food in about three days it
was so bad I was sitting there with a
can of sweetened condensed milk just
eating it out of the can so you know I
mean I just be open right hey
I mean I would go I would go like to
Walmart late at night because I needed
my fix because I was writing books on
pure sugar and I would like to have 50
bucks worth of candy and when I say
candy I like
the hard crunchy you know like cinnamons
and you know and that kind of stuff
because I was like just
I was mainlining sugar basically now
doesn't so you definitely were not oh
that's amazing yeah I remember uh
actually my thing and college was the
jumbo bag of Doritos I would eat the
whole thing I'm some serious like one
big pack down it just like that and I've
always wondered what my fingers were
swollen like like blow up like balloon
and I was retaining flour I'm like it's
all the MSG I was like addicted yeah you
helped me get off of the nuri toes
bunions the lady's chips and all of that
and I'm just going to tell you now I
walk down the sugar aisle at Walmart now
and I just do it just to see you know
just you know and I'm like yeah I got
nothing on me wow that's control well
you know I don't know if it's control as
much as it is reframing and when I say
reframing you don't I yeah my years of
therapy
yeah a therapist I'm you know consulting
myself and making sure I use the I word
I did not realize how thick I was until
I started getting healthy
I had tingling in my hands and feet I
had on the like except tux before the
heavy cycle the brain fog the muscle
spasms all of the stuff that is
indicative of having just being right at
the point of having the issues and I was
winded all the time because I really was
not moving I was like I am like self I'm
in a self-mummification kind of thing
here yeah um was that when you were
still writing too were you writing them
as well keeping rewriting at that point
yeah see that was a thinning
because I'm a self-published romance
author and that cycle is very fast so
for me I need to basically publish a
novel each month and so sitting 14 hours
a day writing on average anywhere from
five to ten thousand words because when
I say novel I mean I'm writing hundred
and ten thousand more novels and
publishing each month so it was just
like just feed the Machine to get it
done and I was on this this rat race and
I could not oh one other thing I when I
would take my shower and you know how
hot water will raise your pressure I had
to be careful because I fell a few times
you know from just being so out of shape
having the hot water affecting my heart
and everything and I was like I don't
want to die in the shower and if someone
have to come find me and I'm this bad oh
my gosh how did you how did you because
you have to have creativity when you're
right you have to really how did you
because it with all that sugar it would
put someone literally in a brain fog on
steroids how did you do it like I said
it was pure force of will and you know
when I had deadlines and there were such
a big penalty if you don't know if you
don't make the deadline like you know
penalized and this kind of stuff um I
would do what I could and then take a
nap do what I could and the old that was
another thing my sleep quality was
horrific I could not get good sleep I
would try and I just could not get good
sleep Wow
yeah so like I said it was it was really
really bad and I don't know if you can
tell I've got this mic in the way but
I've got this mic in the way but the
little thing that I didn't take for
granted like neck you know the stuff you
can't fake right right like the neck
rolls it doctor
so now yeah now I'm like a cheerleader
for all things Kido
all things dr. Berger genius
I just tell everybody like this man just
just go he is he is doing a universal
good wow that's awesome so so okay you
started watching the video to start
becoming aware of what you need to do
realize you're a sugar crack I mean a
sugar a junkie and yes Oh sugar crack it
was and so then so then basically you
started and did you start with the keto
first or the intermittent fasting how
did you like do this okay
so what I did was first I started off
and I got your supplements I mean when I
said I've got the supplements I went
full bore in and got the supplements and
started with Keogh and I have to thank
you and Karen for the wonderful recipes
and so I had to relearn how to cook for
myself and started with all those
recipes and you know I had to like go
and figure out where to find some of the
stuff but I did and I will say January
and February I didn't really exercise I
just ate and I did not stop the snacking
and when I say the smacking it wasn't
sugar or the bad stuff but it was things
like okay so for instance January I had
to learn that you cannot eat a bag of
extra gum I don't believe the sugar-free
if a lot of people it's a lie and I'll
say okay why why is it not working I
mean I lost nine pounds at month but I a
not wanted to I want us to stuff like
the other you know big girl the big
fluffy girls like me and okay oh we lost
nine pounds well I was eating thirty
pieces
gum a day because I still knew that you
know that choo-choo kind of thing so I
learned that you helped me with that
Febuary see you can tell I had seen four
hours to winter in February I had to
learn that dr. Byrd is not trying to be
mean stop snacking so I went down to
three mill I lost 12 pounds in February
now mind you I was still not walking I
was still in exercising snow that March
I had to go to a conference and I was
like you know what if I should look like
this this is not gonna be cute and so I
started trying to walk and I would get
so winded it was really bad but I
actually started saying you know if I
could just get a mile in I'll be okay
so in March I started walking
it wasn't until and I'm gonna just be
honest with you it wasn't until the end
of April this is four months the end of
April then I was able to even consider
looking at intermittent fasting
so in May Oh so from January to April
I lost 28 pounds which was phenomenal
for me and I started feeling better but
I'm still doing the three meals and not
really consistently doing daily movement
in May and June and now here I actually
started walking each day and now I'm
working up to what I call vlogging and
doing some little weights and stuff in
so as of today I'm just under 60 pounds
total loss
since yeah since and so for the women
out there you guys I was killing a size
18 women and now I'm in a loose size 10
wow that's fantastic so on I just want
to say that I think one of the
breakthroughs for me was not about the
gold it wasn't about the objectives of
trying to lose the way it was more so
you said and some of
videos that weight gain is indicative of
illness or disease disease and so I
focus on that and I was like you know if
there's weight here it's because I'm
unhealthy and so that I think the reason
why I can walk down a little sugar aisle
and go on to these conferences and
everybody around you is ordering
cheesecake and just all the sugar and
I'm like no I'm fine and I've gone to
two two conferences this year and was
still able to eat keto on my trip that's
so that's so fantastic you know the when
they say an average person ate 145
pounds of sugar and you probably fit
that and more but then I can tell you I
probably because I started trying to
calculate it and I got depressed because
in a given day now I don't really
this is this is how you can trick your
mind I don't drink sugary drinks or
sodas and stuff never never really help
so I was telling myself I was okay but
when I could eat a bag of Twizzlers in a
day high Smalley's and red hot candies
and you know a little cinnamon dead skin
the Werther's high you know choc I mean
terrible and all of that I mean I'm
talking about bag wow that was I was I
was amazed I was still alive to be
honest yeah I'm just blown away are you
funny now how many meals are you doing
now I'm one wow that's amazing one meal
a day um and you actually helped me
understand that it was my metabolism
because all through my life I would
actually forget to eat and so trying to
do the three meals I felt pressure to do
it and I felt like I'm doing this
because someone said to do it and so
when I decided I was going to go to
intermittent fasting in May
what I'm feeling I think healthy enough
I tried that Emil it was still too much
and because I wasn't hungry I was like
why am i eating if I'm not hungry and so
now what I do is based on what I've
learned from you and the membership and
you know getting making sure I have my
supplements and stuff I feel a little
more empowered to do the one meal
because I make sure that I have the
necessary component so in order to get
you know my seven cups of vegetables I
always have a kale and spinach shake so
that's three of my cups there and then I
have the other four cups in a healthy
salad and my proteins I'll do um oh you
taught me a little bit about you know
the different types of proteins with the
meat I was never real red knee person
but I was killing chicken and so now I
have learned to mix up chicken with
other meats even you know breakfast
chops and things like that that all
black in and those types of things and
just really having a variety my my
relationship with cauliflower has
blossomed and so just a lot of great
things and so what I try to do each day
is make sure that I have a meal that's
between 12 600 1200 and 1600 calories
and I do that by having cheese nuts my
kale spinach shake a salad and then a
healthy fat so like if that means I'll
have like a little bit of avocado or you
know guacamole but you know a soup or
something like that you know just a
supplement then that's how I do it
awesome now right now you're continuing
to write how was your creativity now
compared to before
okay so last year I struggled through
and I wrote nine novel for the year this
is July and I have already written seven
all of them sugar-free and Wow it's not
Apple so your cognitive function is much
better of course
yes definitely I have actually had
conversations with authors for just that
fact and the reason why is because with
the way creativity works you know bear
patients with me on this you find that
and and I tell them look we are mortal
beings pooping out immortality there is
a price to be paid for that birth and a
lot of times it will trigger anxiety
depression panic attacks and those types
of things because you have to be
creative on a dime and in time and when
you have that pressure it can mount and
all of those hormones and all of that
stuff going on inside if you're sitting
you're not eating right um
it's bad and so we have bad habit as
authors that I think this way of living
just a minute uh nature of it eradicate
that you know so that's that's another
thing that I would say about the
creative process it is a hand-in-hand
kind of thing because of the clarity
that you get because of the energy that
you're able to sustain because of the
guilt listening of okay oh one of the
things that I want to say is when I talk
about guiltlessness when we write you
know and we're forgetting to eat you go
to what the quickest the easiest and
traditionally that is going to be
something that's not very helpful
whether it be fast food or snacks or
those types of things and so now because
of eating ketogenic Lee and for me in a
minute fasting if I pure quote unquote
forget to eat I know what my meal is
going to be and I know that I am eating
to really actually feel the machine to
make sure I get my potassium in and my K
me too thank you for teaching me to make
sure I take those by the way and all
those other things so yeah I hope I
answered that question yeah that's
amazing that's awesome so you know it's
there's a common thread like your
awareness is so high now and now you
have the knowledge of exactly what to do
and how to get to where you really need
to go
and now you've felt that you've
experienced it you know it's true
because you you see it and wow it's what
a story amazing um it must be something
about the eating because now when people
see me and they see my skin and all of
that kind of stuff they're like what are
you doing and she really opened it up
you know for whoever might see this I am
NOT young I am I'm 48 and to be able to
have all of the like collagen I mean
none of this is going on it's no
flabbiness and you know that's weird I
set up this this was the true test that
it was working I always and I don't know
if you can see this they guess that back
ok so you know you can't fake the neck
or like arms and stuff and for women
this is gone you know you get the little
fat pocket right that's one of the
weirdest things when you notice a fat
pocket is going you like yeah yeah
you're I mean I just saw the picture of
your face before and after me like you
could just see this everything's coming
down it's dramatic it's it's amazing I I
mean I have people saying you know you
look so much younger I mean of course
I'm rocking my gray and of course this
is my workout hair doctor bird but right
but it's something when other people can
see the health and that's what I
wouldn't want to say I'm not concerned
as much about you know them seeing oh
you're losing weight no it's the health
it's the quality of the clarity in my
eyes and my
and you know the vitality that's coming
back and that's one of the biggest
things that I'm very grateful for um
what if Bob Marley's saying his death
you can't buy life you can't and
so for me being preventative now is a
blessing and it's it's really a gift
that it just keeps on giving it's
helping me be you know able to produce
and do what I do and chai is really
something that's awesome yeah I think
the just if anyone is watching this and
they haven't watched some of the other
videos the principles you're talking
about is get healthy to lose weight not
lose weight to get healthy it's a simple
thing but it's an altered sequence that
we've been brainwashed to say that oh
yeah obesity is a health risk and you
know you need to lose weight to get
healthy well oh really going to starve
yourself to get healthy but if you get
healthy the right way fixing insulin
resistance that's the big thing the
weight will come off and and you start
feeling good and you get all the
benefits I mean the benefits are huge
but until you do it you don't really
know it so anyone watching just you just
need to bite the bullet jump in do it
drink the kool-aid no not the kool-aid
sugar free cooling exactly so I wanted
to just really thank you I mean I you
know words can't even express it but I'm
going to attempt to say that it's not
even about weight loss again it is about
the fact that I am I have been freed
from a lot of the haunts of my family
diabetes heart condition high blood
pressure in those types of things and I
mean
flirting that closely with those
symptoms who's a wake-up call for me and
I mean it's only been six months I mean
I'm not where I totally want to be but I
am on a forward consistent movement and
this is not a diet
this is sustainable for the rest of my
life
I'm very helpful and I don't have that
and why I don't have that I didn't
recognize how much of a burden in the
back of my mind that that was a worry
that I would end up with those symptoms
or those conditions and now I don't have
that concern well so doesn't you're not
in the fear of constants here am I going
to get this that whole thing cuz you
know yeah yeah awesome Michelle thank
you so much for the interview this is
going to get a lot of people hope and I
really appreciate it your if a wonderful
personality oh thank you and so thank
you so much for sharing your platform
with me I'm very humbled and so just my
pleasure
thanks thanks have a great afternoon you
see Emma
bye
