alright guys I'm back and in this video
we're gonna talk about the 15 reasons
why you may not be losing on a low-carb
keto plan okay number one you are losing
but you don't realize it because your
muscles are repairing okay now weight
loss is not the best indicator of
getting healthy and the principle you
have to really get is that you have to
get healthy to lose weight not lose
weight to get healthy so the best
indicator of health is energy level
it's the cravings go away you're no
longer hungry versus just losing weight
in the repetitive actions when your body
actually heals you have all sorts of
proteins replacing other proteins and
you may have atrophy which is a loss of
muscle which needs to be replaced but
when you take the situation where your
weight loss is stopped really focus on
are you losing inches okay so you're
shrinking but the weight of the muscle
is making you look like you're not
alright so number two you are eating too
frequently just because maybe you
haven't done in a minute fasting yet
this is a very very very key thing right
here I can't emphasize this enough
intermittent fasting is probably even
more important than keto okay as far as
health benefits so we don't want to do
snacks we want to go less frequent you
should be eating two meals and some of
you maybe one meal with no snacks okay
number three your carbs are too high if
your metabolism is slow if you're going
through menopause if you have a thyroid
problem you need to go down to like 10
grams of carb or less just because you
have to do it because the metabolism is
slow so we reduce the carb we make it
easier to get the weight off okay number
four doing keto partially so many people
when I talk to them you ask them are you
doing keto yeah I'm sort of doing it
like and you find out they're not really
doing it like they should or they're
having cheat days on the weekend that's
gonna really shut down your results for
not just for a day for probably for
several days and if you're cheating
every other day you're not gonna see the
results
so you just need to do it perfectly
that's all all right number five sugar
alcohols these are alternative
sweeteners that can cause disruption in
your gut in the flora because some of
them act as a fiber and you can retain
fluid and just that digestive stress can
keep you from losing weight so just make
note of this but a lot of people when
they start out doing keto they need this
because they don't like to give up their
sweets so they have a dessert
replacement all right number six stress
that includes losses trauma surgery okay
because you're gonna spike cortisol and
cortisol turns your muscle into sugar
which then raises your insulin number
seven sleep if you notice when you're
not sleeping that well your hunger goes
up your blood Sugar's go off so a lack
of sleep will totally keep you from
burning fat number eight your thoughts
too high now in the beginning you want
to increase your fat because you want to
be able to make it from one meal to the
next without getting hungry but as your
body adapts to fat burning you want to
cut down your dietary fat to force your
body to burn its own fat okay alright
number nine your protein is too high too
much protein will stimulate insulin and
keep you from losing weight a moderate
amount of protein will not okay ten
dairy and nuts potentially could create
inflammation in your digestion in your
gall bladder and your colon and that
inflammation can keep you from losing
weight alright number eleven your
vegetables are too starchy you may need
to avoid squash or piece or a pumpkin or
carrots or even tomatoes and beets you
might want to stick with the leafy
greens if your metabolism is slow number
twelve medications especially those
medications that are anti-anxiety
anti-depressive antibiotics there's so
many different medications that will
keep you from losing weight why because
they stimulate insulin okay thirteen
you're not exercising you need to
exercise
everyone needs to exercise alright 14
you're over exercising you're doing too
much and you're not recovering I
remember a patient and practice that was
came in and she was working out I'm not
kidding
six hours a day she was working out six
hours a day and she was concerned
because she wasn't losing any weight so
we cut it way back okay to an hour and
then she started losing weight I had
another guy come in he was working out
every day
I switched him to two times a week and
that was the only thing that helped him
lose weight so if you're getting sore if
you're getting tired don't exercise on
top of that okay because the benefit of
exercise is in the recovery phase after
you're working out so you don't want to
over train number 15 restaurants this is
the crapshoot because you don't know
what you're getting you got hidden sugar
you have different oils like soy oil
which is high in omega-6 that are in the
sauces and the dressings you just don't
know what you're getting so if you're
going out to dinner too much this could
throw you off alright guys there you
have it
now 15 reasons why you may not be losing
on keto alright number eleven vegetables
too starchy what do we have a dog
parking here
