hey guys today we're gonna talk about
chlorine in tap water okay now if you
have city water hopefully you have a
filter underneath your sink or in your
whole house one point I want to bring up
is that you actually if you if you don't
have a filter in your shower you can
absorb a tremendous amount of chlorine
[Applause]
so it does go through the skin so
there's some complications to chlorine
one is lung problems increase your risk
for bladder cancer decreases your immune
system of course the CDC says it's safe
so we know it's safe right but it's very
toxic to fish but I do understand that
you need to actually disinfect
whatever's in the water but you just
need a good filter in your house but
here's an interesting point
you want to call your water company and
you want to find out do they use just
chlorine or a chemical called chloramine
because the problem of chlorine is it
evaporates easily and then it's gone but
what they did is they added ammonia to
make a new chemical compound called
chloramine and which is highly
persistent it stays in the water a lot
longer but the problem is means it's
more toxic and regular activated carbon
filters will not pull this out you need
something a little different so if you
have chlorine in your water supply you
need to get a high grade catalytic
carbon filter just a different filter
you want to add either underneath the
sink or for the whole house alright
that's my tip of the day thanks for
watching
you probably already subscribed but if
you haven't press this little button
down below and I will keep you updated
