so today we want to talk about
surprising GMO foods now what's a GMO
basically it's a living organism whose
genetic material has been artificially
manipulated it could be either a plant
an animal or a bacteria or even a yeast
which is made to withstand direct
exposure with herbicides especially
glyphosate which isn't Roundup Ready and
or produce and sucked aside so certain
plants that are GMO can actually put out
an insecticide that's crazy
okay so now we're not just going to talk
about foods we'll talk about just things
that they actually can make GMO
synthetic insulin certain enzymes that
make cheese are genetically modified
certain yeast that makes acidophilus
okay the probiotic in your gut and when
you consume certain meats or fish or
chicken those animals consume GMO foods
and grains that you're actually getting
the GML indirectly when you consume
those products and then we have B
production and then we have eggs of
course because what - chickens consume
grains
okay soy and corn milk because the
animal consumes grains meat we talked
about that seafood corn syrup certain
flavorings certain vitamins typically
you may already know that corn soy
canola cottonseed and sugar beets are
all GML but you may have not known these
right here so I just wanted to do this
short video and all the things that are
GMO that you may not think are GML so
definitely start reading the labels to
make sure it's non GMO or organic
consume a lot of Christopher's food to
help detoxify this stuff and also you
can get something called fulvic or humic
acid which is great to help detoxify
these GMOs alright I'll see in the next
video so if you want more knowledge on
how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
