I'm going to share the best remedy that
you can use for hyperpigmentation dark
spots on the face there are bleaching
agents that people are using on their
skin that do get rid of these dark spots
but they end up destroying the cells
that make the pigment the other big
problem is we're blaming these dark
spots or aging spots on the sun this is
why they tell you to completely avoid
the sun to prevent this
hyperpigmentation right now they
actually put sunblocker SPF chemicals in
literally all the moist izers facial
creams to block this UV radiation
they'll tell you that you can get all
your vitamin D from food or a few
minutes in the sun this is a complete
lie if you actually have a skin cream or
a face cream that has this sunscreen in
it I wouldn't use it on your face if you
take a younger person and you compare
them with an older person and you're
looking at this hyperpigment issue you
basically don't even see it in younger
people you only see it in people over
the age of maybe 35 40 50 60 as we get
older becomes more of a problem in our
skin we have a pigment and it's called
melanin melanin is made by cells called
melanocytes if you compare someone who's
like 18 or 20 years old to someone
that's 60 the concentration of these
little melanocytes is much different
when we're younger we have a lot more
concentration we're older we don't what
causes the melanocytes to produce
melanin vitamin D what's the primary
trigger to make vitamin D the sun where
we're going to talk about What vitamin D
does to melanin in a second but I just
wanted to show you this apple right here
you can see this apple on the left
versus apple on the right slightly
different colored both of these apples
are being oxidized by oxygen but this
one has protection I put some lemon
juice on it it's an antioxidant this one
had no protection against oxidation
oxygen so it's going brown same thing
happens with the skin see oxidation
triggers melanin there's other things
too there's environmental pollution
there's stress the key factor that you
need to know about is this word
oxidation because that gives you a clue
on how to correct this problem what's
the opposite of oxidation
antioxidation from antioxidants what's
interesting about antioxidants is that
melanin is like the ultimate antioxidant
to protect against DNA damage what
happens is you naturally expose yourself
to the sun you get a slight tan the
darker the skin the more the filtering
effect of the V radiation also we get
more filtering of the production of
vitamin D because the way that you make
vitamin D is from this UV radiation
interaction on your skin with
cholesterol that's all interesting
information but what's really important
about this topic is What vitamin D does
to your melanocytes but vitamin D helps
protect against the oxidation factor
it's a very potent antioxidant is there
research on this yes there is but it's
mixed but if you look at the research I
think the reason why it's mixed is
because the dosage of vitamin D that
they're using is way too low and way too
infrequent because they're basing it on
an outdated RDA for vitamin D A lot of
the confusion with vitamin D revolve
around this RDA what our bodies require
each day to survive right and they have
it at 600 IUS which is a crazy low
number if we're basing our research on
that number and if we do a research
project with low amounts of vitamin D
we're probably not going to see much
result because to create a therapeutic
dosage you need more than 600 IUS I did
a video recently on autoimmune diseases
one that pertains to this topic is on
Vitiligo that is like the opposite
condition that we're talking about it's
not a
hyperpigmentation it's a loss of pigment
you have areas around your skin that are
kind of like bleached or white targeting
the melanocyte so we get these little
areas of lack of pigment remember I
talked about vitamin D helps modulate
the melano site it can increase or
decrease melanin well guess what there's
some fascinating information to show
that you can actually greatly improve
vitil Lago by taking 20 to 30,000 iuse
the vitamin D3 every single day the
bottom line is vitamin D greatly
influences the cells that make melanin
if you have enough vitamin D in the skin
you will have protection against this
over production of melanin the problem
is if you're following the main
recommendation of avoiding the Sun and
and using these Sun Blockers you are
going to be severely low in vitamin D
there's two things I'm going to
recommend number one is kind of a quick
fix and it's a very safe thing to do and
it's a home remedy and it's very
effective for many reasons which I'll
get into but number two I would start
working on building up your vitamin D
levels consuming at least 10,000 maybe
20,000 IU use of vitamin D3 each day in
addition to that I would start to build
up antioxidant networks in the body to
make them you need high quality protein
high quality amino acids fish eggs meat
these antioxidants also are made from
trace minerals zinc copper iodine you
can get that from shellfish as well as
sea salt of course you need other
nutrition too like the B vitamins
vitamin C vitamin E all of these will
start building up your antioxidant
Network Works what would be a good
remedy to use as kind of a quick fix to
see change in the tone of our skin the
remedy is plain unsweetened yogurt of
course I would get the grass-fed organic
yogurt rubbing it all over the skin
leaving it on the face for 5 minutes
washing it off and just doing that once
a week some people do it three times a
week it really depends on how bad your
problem is the first thing it has is a
key ingredient called lactic acid lactic
acid in yogurt is a lot more gentle than
putting pure lactic acid on your skin
lactic acid dissolves the bonds between
dead skin cells that have this darkened
pigment on them the yogurt also adds
another cool effect it gives the skin
more probiotics you have this living
ecosystem of this microbiome on your
skin not just for this hyperpigmentation
but just to keep the skin healthy if
there's excess inflammation or red
that will go away if you have a real
serious problem with this you can always
make it stronger by adding in just a
pinch of turmeric to the yogurt mix it
up apply it on the face now we have the
extra benefit of adding a more powerful
antioxidant to this to speed it up but
it's not necessary the yogurt is going
to create a really nice effect over time
that's going to be safe gradual and it's
going to make your skin feel really soft
and very healthy I know some people are
saying well should we be putting acids
on our face and the answer is yes
because the pH of the skin is acidic you
don't want to alkalize it you don't want
to put a sun blocker on your face you
don't want to avoid the sun you can be
out in the sun just don't get burned
regular exposure to the sun is extremely
healthy and our bodies were designed for
that taking more vitamin D and building
up the reserve of vitamin D is going to
help modulate that little melany so your
body can get the right amount of melanin
thanks for watching and I will see you
in the next video
