today we're going to talk about the six
foods that can kill you okay now I'm not
going to talk about the obvious foods
that can kill you like the refined
sugars the refined carbohydrates like
grains refined oils like seed oils no
I'm going to talk about some other foods
that I haven't talked about in the past
I think you're going to find this quite
interesting so the first food that can
kill you is basically consuming a puffer
fish it's a Japanese uh delicacy called
Fugu now the Japanese chefs have to go
through special training to have a
special license to be able to cook this
food correctly because the lethal dose
is so tiny it's like a drop of a pin
head that can actually kill 30 people
and if you don't prepare this correctly
this toxic chemical called
tetrodotoxin which is a neurotoxin that
will paralyze your lungs accumulates in
the ovaries the intestines and the liver
of a puffer fish and it's 1,00 times
more lethal than cyanide so be careful
the next time you consume puffer fish
all right number two the death cap
mushroom now there are a number of
deadly mushrooms out there but death cap
is number one in fact 90% of all deaths
from mushrooms come from this death cap
and this can happen either consuming it
raw or cooked and the most deadly toxin
of several of the toxins in this
mushroom is called uh Alpha am mantin
and what it does is it starts creating
necrosis of the liver and eventually the
kidneys you start off with jaundice and
then seizures and then you go into a
coma and then you die and if somehow you
live you know they can do a liver
transplant but it pretty much destroys
your liver check this out this is what
happens the first stage does not begin
until 6 to 12 hours after ingestion
often the foragers comment how good the
food tastes and there's no signs of any
problems for at least 6 hours after the
silent phase it is followed by an onset
of nausea abdominal cramping and profuse
watery diarrhea a physical exam May
reveal some dried mucosal membranes and
even tacac cardia Which is higher pulse
rate and even uh low blood pressure but
after the GI phase the second stage
appears where the patient appears to
recover momentarily and the GI symptoms
resolve but ongoing liver damage
continues this St AG May last 2 to 3
days and is characterized by higher
liver enzymes a higher Billy Rubin and
liver swelling in the third stage both
the liver and the kidney function become
compromised and there are more and more
uh laboratory signs of liver damage and
death occurs within 3 to 7 days now this
is interesting there's an antidote that
you need to know there's actually two
antidotes one is called NAC which you
may be able to get get over the counter
as a supplement I think you can at least
in the US because NAC eventually turns
into glutathione but honestly that's not
the best antidote the best antidote is
milk thistle now if you look around my
farm right now milk thistle is all over
the place it has these purple flowers
pricker bushes and this little white
little um look like parachute type
things at the top with these little
seeds there's something in the seeds
that are the antidote and there's a
certain doctor which I'm going to put
the link down below who developed What's
called the Santa Cruz protocol in which
he injects people with the the extract
from U milk thistle to help protect the
liver and so if you're out and about
somewhere and you just have this urge to
consume a mushroom and you find out it's
the wrong one you better find some milk
thistle really quick and start chewing
on the seeds immediately okay number
three the Korean baby octopus now the
Korean baby octopus has these tentacles
and certain people that eat these
sometimes get them prepared they're
still writhing around like they're still
alive well the suction pads can still
work maintaining suction even if you
start chewing them they can actually get
stuck to the root of your mouth and even
in your throat so basically you choke
and you die because you can't breathe
anymore so again if you have the
temptation to consume Korean baby
octopus take this into consideration the
next food I'm going to talk about is the
green potatoes if you happen to see a
potato and there's some green stuff on
it uh don't eat it it has this uh toxic
compound called solanine which by the
way is colorless and cooking it does not
destroy this poison between 200 and 400
milligram can kill an adult but only 20
to 40 Mig could kill a child the next
thing I'm going to talk about is uh
consuming raw commercial chicken like
let's say you buy some chicken breast
bring them home you have to be careful
because uh there's a higher level of
this Campa bacteria as well as
salmonella many times in this chicken
and so if you're picking up the chicken
and even washing it uh some of the
residue some of the bacteria can get on
your hands or The Cutting Board and you
can get very sick and you could even die
from the Salmonella poisoning in fact
there's over 450 deaths per year of
salmonella poisoning initially you might
get abdominal cramping diarrhea nausea
but some people don't survive depends on
their immune system now I do want to
make note of these two microbes that
could be in our body okay at any one
time and campala bacteria many times
lives in our body and it doesn't bother
us just like eoli it can live in our
body and it doesn't bother us it doesn't
irritate US unless we piss It Off by
taking something to um irritate it and
make it Thrive and so you have other
microbes that help to keep these
microbes in check like lactobacillus
this is why there's so many uh side
effects from having antibiotics and also
consuming animals that have been fed
antibiotics in fact 80% of all the
antibiotics are fed to animals
unfortunately so you always want to make
sure you buy your food or your Meats
without antibiotics and the reason for
that is that um if you go to the farmers
market and you're buying a chicken from
them that's from a really great
environment chances are you're not going
to have the severity of these pathogens
compared to the commercial type of
chicken farming that they do in these
large barns the point is that if you buy
very inexpensive commercial chicken you
get what you pay for it's not quality
and you can be at risk of getting some
of these microbes in your body and it
can be potentially deadly so if you
happen to consume that you better make
sure that you thoroughly wash your hands
and uh keep things very very sterilized
and also keep things very very cooked
don't eat raw chicken and the last thing
I want to talk about is things with
cyanide in them you have the pits or the
seeds of apples of peaches aars apricot
pits bitter almonds and even cassava has
Cyanide and so chances are you're
probably not going to die if you consume
um some of these things but if you're
chronically consuming them it can build
up and it could create a problem uh even
uh smokers like tobacco naturally has
cyanide so if you're a chronic smok
right you're constantly getting this
Cyanide and it starts to shut down the
mitochondria the energy Factory of the
body and uh a couple little symptoms
that could occur when you're
consuming a bit of or being exposed to
cyanide on a chronic basis or the
smoking is visual problems hearing loss
poor muscle contraction but there is an
antidote methylene blue uh is something
they use in emergency rooms to counter
both cyanide poisoning as as well as
carbon monoxide poisoning because
methylene blue cleans up some of these
um electrons that are escaping from the
mitochondria and so it's like a sponge
and allows the oxygen to work better in
the mitochondria now because of the
sensoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my new newsletter by
clicking the link Down Below in the
description I will see you on the other
side
