hey guys Dr Berg here in this short
video we're going to talk about
migraines and also to let you know it's
not in your head your migraines are not
coming from something inside your head
most the time now it is true that
migraines can come from the sinus issue
which is seasonal they can come from a
menstrual issue which comes
cyclic come from a head injury it can
come from a tumor which is very rare but
the majority of time it's coming from
something else it's being referred
from your digestive system and you can
see in this chart here this is the
gallbladder Meridian okay so meridians
in Chinese medicine are nerve channels
that travel through the body you got one
on the left and you got one on the right
and guess where they go they go up into
the head okay so we know if that
gallbladder is irritated or a part of
the digestive system is irritated it's
going to stem all the way up into the
head
so this is an area that a lot of people
don't really talk about they don't
mention you're not going to find a lot
of data on the internet but I'm going to
show you how to fix this is if this is
the problem it's very simple here's what
you do you can do this to yourself lay
down on on the couch or your bed go
ahead and press and massage gently
underneath your right rib cage like in
this little picture this little video
right now so you just massage that for
one to two minutes G gently okay then
what you want to do is do the left side
one of the sides is going to be more
tender okay that just tells you where
most of the digestive stress is present
it could be more on the left side which
is the pancreas it could be more on the
right side of the gallbladder so you
just want to massage it out gently for
one to two minutes okay now if your
problem is coming from the digestion
your headaches will go away
instantly if they don't go away your
headaches are not coming from the
digestive system this is just another
angle to give you some relief uh if it
is coming from digestion then the next
thing is to actually correct what you
are
eating if your gallbladder and digestive
system is a problem that we know you
might be eating something that you
shouldn't be eating I know that's hard
to believe but that's a possibility okay
so this is just a little tip to maybe
give you some relief with migraines go
ahead and apply it and give me your
comments below
