hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about the common medications or drugs
that can make you fat okay first one you
have cortisone or prednisone okay this
is mainly for inflammation you can get
it orally or an injection a lot of
people are on this it's also for
allergies and things like that but
inflammatory conditions you would take
this steroid right here number two we
have thiazide that's a diuretic which
also is used for high blood pressure
then we have beta blockers okay for high
blood pressure
SSRIs for mood disorders like anxiety
and depression then we have statin drugs
for high cholesterol so these
medications all have a side effect of
increasing insulin gradients and
resistance first and then high insulin
which then make you fat but what's even
more fascinating is the deeper cause of
inflammation high blood pressure mood
disorders and high cholesterol as high
insulin what's fascinating to me is the
underlying deeper cause for each one of
these ends up being the symptom of the
treatment that you're taking to get rid
of these so I wonder what would happen
if someone were just to fix this lower
this with natural waves with diet and
things like that I wonder and I'm
curious if that would actually get rid
of these so the need for these would go
away something that you might want to
try thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know hey that rhymes
