let's talk about the number one most
powerful remedy in the world out of all
the natural remedies that you can take
this one has the most broadspectrum
benefits and I'm not talking about
vitamin D we're talking about a very
powerful compound in turmeric called
curcumin there's such a wide range of
effects that curcumin can do to your
body in the end of this I'm going to
show you a recipe that is delicious and
you can just add it to your food it's
keto friendly
but super delicious everyone in your
family will love it this plant through
Evolution developed all sorts of amazing
properties let's go through the various
things that it can do for you number one
on the list probably one of the most
potent anti-inflammatories it inhibits
five major enzymes involved with
inflammation improving your arthritis
tentis btis anything related to itis
chronic inflammation whether it's
inflammation in your gut number two it's
a very powerful antio oygen it can
increase longevity I'm not going to get
too technical but I just want to show
you this book right here it's on this
drug called deanol okay deanol the
anti-aging drug I want to share
something with you that's actually very
interesting there's something in her
body called M
a-b this is a compound that eats up
certain neurotransmitters in your brain
and can put you at risk for Alzheimer's
deanol is an inhibitor of of mao-b what
you should know is cumin is also an
inhibitor of that
mao-b this is why cumin helps anything
related to brain degeneration I want to
just share something with you they
injected these mice three times a week
at an older age which would be
equivalent to 65 years in humans and
there is a restoration of sex activity
in these animals and ENB them to live
far longer than the control an animal
the longest living rat in Dr n's control
group survived for 164 weeks with the
longest living rat in the deanol group
surviving 226 weeks that's 56.5 months
we correlated that over to human years
it's 130 years old curcumin can decrease
neuroinflammation in your brain there
are many chronic degenerative diseases
that relate to degeneration of your
brain which can affect your cognitive
function memory and mood cumin also
increases a compound called bdnf brain
derived neurotrophic factor that is a
compound that actually helps increase
the growth and survival of neurons AKA
brain cells lower levels of bdnf were
found in people that were depressed and
have cognitive decline there's also some
data to show that cumin can help inhibit
beta amid plaing which is seen in
Alzheimer's let's switch to the benefits
of the heart curcumin directly protects
and helps the function of the inside
layer of your artery called the
endothelial layer this is where a lot of
things happen the start of clotting the
start of plaing in the arteries the
start of high blood pressure curcumin
protects that layer being a powerful
anti-inflammatory can decrease scar
tissue that can grow inside those
arteries cumin also helps the LDL and
I'm talking about the small dense
particles that can invade the layer of
the inside of the artery curcumin
protects against that it also protects
against something called oxidative LDL
which is another thing that kind of
rusts out the inside of your arteries
curcumin can decrease the risk of
getting a fatty liver as well as an
inflamed liver cure cumin also has the
ability to help stabilize your blood
sugar because it increases the
sensitivity to insulin cure cumin can
help speed up wound healing powerful
antimicrobial effects it can help with
our gut but it does affect the good
bacteria just the bad curcumin is also
good for the eyes why because it's a
good anti-inflammatory cucumin is
awesome for any type of inflammation in
your gut bloating and even for ulcers
cucumin is also good to help allergies
probably because of its effect on your
immune system especially if you have
eczema or psoriasis or even acne C cumin
also can help bind with heavy metals and
then allow the liver to help remove it
and get it out of the body one of the
problems that people mention about
curcumin is its poor bioavailability if
you take it with black pepper you're
going to get better absorption but
taking major major high doses is not
probably what you want to do think about
what this compound really is it's
something that helps the plant survive
it's a powerful thing that Wards off
insects bacteria viruses don't
necessarily need to take large amounts
in fact you don't want to do what I did
right I grew tur in several pots dried
it out in a dehydrator and I started to
chew it thinking that wow I'm just going
to take a lot of this it's probably
going to really help me big mistake I
got really nauseous after the second day
of of just chewing on this stuff not to
mention my tongue and my lips were just
stained yellow this is not about taking
large amounts you just want to take
regular amounts of it and you're only
going to absorb a small amount but
that's all you need just make sure if
you're taking with a supplement take it
with black pepper cuz you'll get a
little bit better absorption curcumin
also helps you repair so all night long
you're repairing your body when you get
into these deep sleep cycles you're
actually cleaning the brain of all this
toxicity taking a turmeric uh supplement
before bed is fine but there's other
ways to get this curcumin as well you
can take a teaspoon put it in some
boiling water let it cool off and make a
tea out of it and sip that before you go
to bed there's something uh from India
called Golden milk with turmeric you can
put turmeric in a smoothie or put it on
your food or would I like to do is make
a curry out of it put it on chicken with
other spices and consume that as your
last meal of the day and if you wanted
to learn about an amazing recipe that
you can make butter chicken without
sugar let me show you this clip right
now now while making your butter chicken
you either got to start with the butter
or the chicken and we're going to start
with the chicken so we're going to be
taking boneless leg meat and cutting it
up into nice bite siiz pieces don't use
chicken breast because it will dry out
buy some leg meat buy some thigh meat
buy any meat except the breast meat
anyway once your chicken has been cut
into nice small bite-sized pieces it's
time to marinate it we're going to
marinate the chicken with some salt some
turmeric some red chili powder some
garam masala powder some cumin powder
and some dried fenu Greek leaves or as
we say in India curri M then you just
give this all a good mix and you want to
let this marinate for at least 15
minutes the next thing we're going to do
is take some garlic some
ginger some
onions some tomatoes and we're going to
put it in our blender and make a fresh
and delicious puree to use in the butter
chicken make sure you get that lid on
and Blitz this till it's a nice fine
puree and and that's ready keep it aside
till we start cooking now it's time to
make that butter chicken and I'm going
to get my pan on the stove and of course
I'm going to heat up some olive oil a
good whole tablespoon and now you want
to keep your pan on the highest setting
and it's time to fry the chicken so get
the chicken in the pan and fry that
chicken don't touch it don't touch it
just put it down and let it cook and get
some color on
it after after about 2 minutes of
cooking it on the highest heat you're
going to start flipping that chicken
over and oh yeah look at that beautiful
crust on the chicken you want to get
some nice color you want those spices to
get cooked you want to create the Mad
reaction or the malard reaction color is
everything on the chicken and then I'm
going to generously drop in butter all
around the pan in different places and
we're using about 50 g of butter that's
almost like 4 tablespoons well 3 point
something but you get the idea 50 g of
delicious salted butter and just let
that butter melt into the chicken oh
yeah that's food porn right there anyway
give it all a good mix you'll see the
chicken has got a lovely color on it and
then we're going to add in that lovely
puree that we made with the onions
ginger garlic and tomatoes and don't
forget to rinse out the blender way
taste none of it so take a little water
shake that blender and pour it into the
pan and give it all a good mix once
you've mixed everything together nicely
just cover it and let it cook for a good
10 minutes you want to cook out the
rawness and the tartness of the tomato
and the onions and the ginger and the
garlic so after about 5 minutes take the
lid off give it all a good mix taste
your sauce for seasoning and let it cook
some more
once it's cooked for a full 10 minutes
open it up give it all a good mix cuz
that's what we do here on Headbangers
kitchen then what we're going to do is
we're going to turn off the stove and
we're going to pour in 100 ml of cream
this is just normal heavy whipping cream
and if you live outside India you don't
need to turn the heat off this cream
that I use curdle so I don't keep the
heat on but anyway mix that cream in and
your butter chicken is almost ready the
only thing left to do is garnish it with
some fresh coriander cuz coriander is
delicious anyway enough jiber jabber it
looks like our butter chicken is ready
and it looks absolutely mouth watering M
yum yum
