so welcome San Diego it was a pleasure
finally to meet you I saw you before and
after I was blown away I had to meet you
and just find out your story um can you
just tell me a little bit about like
growing up did you ever have a weight
problem yeah pretty much Eric a blessure
to meet you by the way I'm a I'm a
follower of you for a long time and I
appreciate the work you do so thank you
for that great yeah growing up all my
life including my family um we were kind
of chubby um only late now 45 uh we
became healthy conscious including my
brother as well and frankly like any
normal family um there's a lot of like
misinformation out there as to what's a
healthy diet um primarily I was brought
up in Argentina you know middle class
family we had uh all kinds of good
treats and things uh my family has
definitely a sweet tooth um we used to
have Staples like everybody eats based
out of flour wheat and uh sugar or three
or four meals a day and things like that
and uh all my life it was a struggle to
keep awake I would do the typical JoJo
diet stop eating starve myself and then
go back right as to where I I I began
extremely frustrated and see my finally
got well I have a question about that
because it I always have you I'm in the
states and I have this illusion
that people in other countries it's a
lot healthier There's No Junk that's not
true right well it's not and I'm I'm
blessed enough to have traveled most of
the world because of my business and my
studies and what has happened with
globalization and the distalization of
processed foods you find that just about
everywhere you go um even aborigin in
the middle of the Amazon you start
eating you know purely refined products
they become a balloon like any normal
human being we were just is not meant to
eat that kind of food and that's the end
of the story whether we want to accept
it or not it's a different story but the
fact is that our organism is geared to
only do one thing and that's our
survival and what's in us the hormones
and the way our cells and the whole body
works is programmed for hundreds of
thousands of years and all this food has
only been uh a product of the last 50
years yeah that's so true so so you're
going along and then how recently ago
did you say you know what I need to
figure this out I need to find a way to
lose weight what what was the Turning
Point well it was right after my divorce
about three and a half years ago I was
miserable the picture I shared with you
was literally um months before it and I
have totally riched bottom in terms of
my self-esteem and pretty much just
giving up I was eating whatever and as I
was finding myself having to restart
from stretch my life I said well I
really want to become the Santiago that
I once envisioned and part of that
Vision was actually having the body I
always wanted and frankly nobody before
me in my family that I know of had had a
six-pack and I said well I'm going to
figure this out and it was not an easy
road because I work so some people don't
work for others and myself my metabolic
syndrome was quite acute as you can see
for my belly and my I was the kind of
person that facilitated day if I were to
eat a a pasta or rice I would swell up
literally within 2 hours i' be retaining
water and I will be back into the
cravings and whatnot and realizing that
food addiction is real thing I mean uh
sugar likes up the brain more than herin
I have never tried drugs in my life but
certainly I can tell you that I'm a
sugar addict because the minute I have
it the whole cycle starts once again and
then for two weeks I'm fighting it so
for everybody out there it's in my same
shoes or what's in your shoes I mean
there's no way around it you just got to
stay away from it there's no cheating
there's no all I just have one moral of
it because you know um you can go
against years of evolution and your
brain will definitely triat you into
having
more so what did you uh did you stumble
on something that hey this makes sense
I'm going to use this what what was the
thing that you started well um it was a
process it was a journey of discovering
what worked for me or didn't work for me
but I can give you some of the basic
guidelines that make the biggest
difference once I realized that it
wasn't the food but it was the reaction
on my body towards the food primarily by
the release of insulin and understanding
what would trigger that release of
insulin um was the key detrimental
factor in in me actually achieving my
goals I went through different sort of
equilibriums until I reach where I'm at
today and you know obviously you always
want to push yourself and you want to go
for more
so sometimes depending on hey am I
having a glass of wine every Friday or
am I going out with my girlfriend and
eating some treats here and there yes of
course I'm human and and then my body
fluctuates right and then I accordingly
I adapt to that but the biggest the
biggest has been being in a ketogenic
diet uh staying away from all refined
products uh not eating anything that has
grain related or comes from kind of a
grain process kind of of meal I stay
away from dairy although I must confess
I love cheese although cheese has a very
high uh insulin response in my body so
that's always a challenge for me um and
I'm generally staying away from dairy
products uh and eating primarily greens
vegetables and and healthy proteins
mostly
organic obviously when you go and you
eat out in a restaurant you don't know
what you're getting but I tend to look
for that and then primarily doing
intermittent fasting um generally it's
my Mondays my Tuesdays and my Wednesdays
I do full fasting I only have one coffee
in the morning one coffee um around noon
time with a tablespoon of coconut oil
organic coconut oil and just PL in water
and what I've noticed is that that has
the greatest benefit because it
regulates all my hormones increases my
testosterone increases my growth hormone
my performance in the gym actually I
stopped going to the gym now I'm doing
cross
think that I could never Envision you
know before uh and I'm in the best shape
of my life at 45 and I so thanks to
changing my diet so so on the days that
you eat how many meals do you have oh
that's a very good question I start my
feeding window between 4 p.m. and 800
p.m. and like you always say I don't do
any grazing so I generally start with a
huge salad I have like about four or
five cups of mixed greams with a tomato
a full avocado and then I prepar my own
vinegret I don't have any vegetable oils
I do um balsamic vinegar and apple cider
vinegar with a tablespoon of almond
butter and that actually creates a
really flavorable vinegarette and I have
that huge ball with about I would say no
more than 8 ounces of protein because
for me I'm also very sensitive to
protein so my insulin goes up with if I
have high amounts of protein and I tend
to vary and that's sort of my staple
really um then I also realized the next
effect of fruct at least um with me um
for whatever reason I'm extremely
sensitive to um all kinds of sugars so
now I try to keep my fruit intake only
to a Sunday more or less so for example
on a Sunday I would have a a bowl of
about I don't know about one or two cups
of mixed berries just to to get the
benefits of the antioxidant effects and
all the good stuff that Beres have but
uh with that I've been managing to keep
all the weight off my my wave TR traes
um depending if I'm bulking up at the
gym or not and I try to keep it between
you know 1,800 to 2,200 calories and I'm
anywhere between 10 to 12% body fat and
and it's mattered quite well my TR
everything actually if you look at my
bro profile today is 10 times better
than what it was three years and a half
ago wow and um I feel great now how
would you um like what would you say to
someone who has this idea that if you
don't eat you're going to lose your
muscle
mass well actually this T of of of
proven medical studies that show that
the body actually increases your growth
hormone and increases your testosterone
to protect muscle mass yes in the first
few hours of fasting until the body
switches um and deat your glycogen
levels you tend to lose volume but
that's because you're burning and
releasing water so because you're
burning your glycogen in your muscles
you kind of shrink on the first day but
the reality is that the reason why we so
predominant in Earth and we haven't G
EXT is that mother nature provided us
with the right systems in our bodies to
preserve ourselves through station and
actually the the interesting and most
mindblowing fact is that diets don't
work but understanding why diets don't
work I'm an engineer by trade so I
always try to go to the basics of how
systems work and the biggest aha moment
was when I realized that if I were to
lower my calorie intake for my basic
molic rate let's say it's 2,200 today
and I would say oh I'm just going to eat
20% less calories well over a period of
a week my body would adjust and all of a
sudden my basic level break would go
down so I kept going to like this sort
of corner to where at the end I was
eating very little feeling weak feeling
cold and my performance in the gym or or
whatever I was doing was non-existence
and I felt really bad but when I started
fasting and obviously didn't jump into
this kind of fasting routine day one
this has been an adaptation over two and
a half years of my life and the first
thing I I got rid of was breakfast and
actually well people are saying you're
having breakfast at 4 p.m. right people
don't get it but the reality is what
normal American diet caus breakfast you
know when you wake up and I started
pushing those windows until it became
400 p.m. and then eventually I realized
I was I'm hungry because I was in full
koses and I could go on one 2 3 days
without eating and my energy level will
go up my awareness would go up my this
my whole system would be on a higher
alert mode and I would feel great in
fact my last meal was this past Sunday
at 6:30 p.m. and here I am talking to
you whatever today Wes there 230 and the
only things I have has been 6 cups of
coffee and 6 tbspoon of coconut oil and
I feel great and in fact if I touch
myself I feel like I have a fever
because my metabolism is through the
roof and it's great yeah I think the the
the in you do uh coffee right uh in
Miami they have some really good coffee
uh Cuban coffee right but they uh um I
guess for people they have this idea
that um well how am I going to go from
one meal to the next and it really has
to do with um you're actually your body
is using your own fat as the fuel
between the meals and so you're not
starving you're keeping your calories at
enough so your body is never sensing a
starvation but you're manipulating the
frequency of eating to
optimize you know growth hormone and
testostrone so correct correct the whole
trick here is actually when you fast and
you eat less than 500 calories um a day
I mean there I forgot the name of the
study but there there's a study out
there and I'll email it to you later
they actually
measure both the the oxidation of fat
protein and carbohydrates in the body
and they track that over a period of
five days and what they realized was
that oxidation of flos to the roof 24
hours into the fast uh oxidation of the
protein meaning your muscles is almost n
and nonexistence and they measure that
by how much re you treated and then
basically uh you have no more glycogen
so oxidation of carbs also was minimum
and what they realized was that we
actually buil to go through processes of
eating feasting doing going about our
life and then fasting but in modern
society and obviously because of the
food industry and partially because of
the medical industry quite frankly uh we
have grown accustomed to be eating and
gracing constantly and and many many of
today's diseases including diabetes are
primarily based because we just simply
don't give ourselves the time to process
the energy we ingest and we don't give
our bodies the chance to um do their
natural thing and we constantly
constantly feeding ourselves more than
what we need well that that that's a
very good articulate way of explaining
it because um it's like this is the
original diet that we should be on and
people think when you going to start
eating normally I'm like uh I am eating
normally so it's it's just a big
confusion it's an educational problem
that I think it's on my side now um that
we're actually dealing with and trying
to
uh um oh yeah there we go yeah we're
trying to get the word out because
there's so many people that are just
wasting their time doing the wrong thing
and when it's so simple once you get the
facts and you do it there's a little bit
of a transition phase but the other
question I was going to ask you is um
how many times a week do you do CrossFit
um only three really I don't want to
over
exercise and and one of the things that
I notice as you age obviously you don't
recover as quickly but I do push myself
significantly meaning there those days
that I go I I wear a heart rate monitor
and my heart on average um and shandel
my coach can attest to that ranges
between 160 and 170 and I push myself
because that also pushes my system
pushes my hormones and keeps me young um
and in fact I lower my metabolic age to
an age of 25 being 45 versus where
before I was a metabolic age of 52 at
age 41 and it was very interesting I
think the most important people need to
understand is that exercise helps
regulate the hormones and helps your
body but it doesn't dictate the shape
you have I mean once people people
understand that a six-pack is made in
the kitchen or actually the absence of
being eating more than anything else is
that you're going to lower your body fat
below 10% and you you you're simply
going to melt away you wouldn't believe
and the biggest transformation for me
was when I started this I went I went
through all kinds of programs and
Clinics and things nothing seemed to
work until I went unbeknown to me on a
40-day fast they were feeding me um less
than 500 calories a day what now I know
it's considered a ketogenic diet at the
time I didn't know and frankly the first
week I went to the keto flu and I was
feeling weak and whatnot but by say day
six all of a sudden this great feeling
of Awesomeness started kicking in and
then by I don't know day 20 it was like
every morning I would like literally
when to wake up early to go and we
myself I have this you know iron mind
scale that shows me body fat and whatnot
and I couldn't believe the changes and I
couldn't believe how awesome it felt and
how effortlessly was to draw pound after
pound after pound after pound of pure
fat and by day 40 I have my first SE SP
I think that's so the key that once you
actually experience this correctly and
you feel what it feels like you're not
going to go back because you now you
know it's like I I mean I feel like I'm
kind of just up all the time I'm just
feeling up just mood my mood everything
is like energy like I would never go
back cuz it was just like but I at the
time I didn't realize I was stuck in
this blood sugar issue so but now that I
know I'm like man if you could only feel
what it feels like and the weight loss
just comes right off yeah yeah and and
frankly once you understand the Dynamics
of how the body responds then you start
making the right decisions right like
for example on one of your videos you
mentioned about the proof coffee I read
the book I was in great shape I said hey
why not this is fad it should make sense
so I went I got the organic breastfed
butter what and I actually started
gaining weight because what had happened
that try triggered my insulin and I just
didn't know better that butter although
being a fat is supposed to be healthy
for you it triggered my insulin response
so here I was I was following protocol
eating that fat yet I was gaining weight
the minute I I left the Bulletproof
Coffee and I just went back to my own
you know regular coconut oil whatever
tablespoon my body immediately responded
positively so I guess the takeaway is
that follow protocols always be curious
enough to understand the why behind it
and adjust based on how your body
response not everybody responds the same
to everything yeah and then then you
you're basically you're You can predict
things you can understand you can see
how your body responds you can build up
a health Reserve so if you want to go
off on a Sunday you know what's going to
happen you know I can get right back on
but it really puts the person in control
versus being in a trap of stuck in this
body that I can't lose weight I'm stuck
and it was just terrible but I wanted to
mention I I noticed um on your website I
checked you out and you have a a very
cool thing that I wanted just to ask you
about it's a it's actually a grill that
you have and I'm I want to put a link
down below because I think one of the
challenges that I'll have when I cook
especially like
Meats it never tastes like it should
like like I go to a restaurant and they
cook this steak that's just perfect or
this piece of meat or hamburger like I'm
always struggling with that but there's
an interesting little I guess a kind of
a grill that you have that is very very
even you cook it very even right you can
drain the grease out tell us about that
it's an invention of mine I've been
telling with it enough believe it or not
for 5 years to get it what it is and
it's patented and we're going to bring
it out to the market pretty soon but
being myself originally from Argentina
you know we're born grillin and our
Grill system is pretty different than
the American system and when I started
grilling here in United States I love to
entertain friends and families when I
can I was always very frustrated with
three things one my food would always
get charred because when the fat melted
it would hit the combustion system or
whatever it was and it would just simply
create a big ball of fire two the
nastiness of the flame flavor of the
briquettes instilled in my protein okay
and and three having to clean that mess
so I said it had to be a better way and
I went in this quest to creating what
was unbeknown to me today was called Nal
grill that had a whole bunch of other
healthier benefits that end up
transcending from the very simple design
and what it is is it's simple an angle
wedge grade that because of it's very
heavy actually 17 lbs it's made out of
cast iron
it collects both radiant heat and
convection heat and allows the protein
to cook much quicker more evenly and
creates a barrier between the fumes that
the fuel produces where you use gas
charcoal whatever and the protein so not
only does it cook evenly across the
whole surface it also is healthier for
you because the fat never gets charred
and that has a lot of cancerogenus on
substances on it and you get to enjoy a
healthier leaner uh cut of of protein
and obviously works with fish and
vegetables I think that's cool I I saw
it I said this is a really cool
invention I I I have a grill I um and
the problem is like you you put this
meat on the grill especially I like
fatty meat and I love hamburger and I
make my own hamburgers and the the the
fat goes down and it mixes with the
charcoal comes back up I mean that right
there that's causes cancer so anything
that could reduce your cancer rate and
make it just a good
tasting piece of meat I'm I'm totally
into it but I think I think he did a
good job well you you should try it out
I'm actually going to send you one and
then I'll looking forward to your
comments okay cool listen I want to
thank you San Diego for this great
interview your before and after is
amazing and uh um awesome so thank you
so much and uh I'll talk to you uh real
soon we'll do a followup s good and
thank you for the work you do I really
appreciate your videos oh my pleasure
okay have a good one and
