I have a quiz for you today and I want
to see which one of these do you think
is healthier we're mainly only looking
at the nutritional facts so we have
product a and product B on the left
there's 29 grams of total fat on the
right there's eight grams of total fat
on the left there's four grams of
saturated fat on the right there's only
one gram of saturated fat on the left
there is 17 gram of
carbohydrate on the right there's 16
grams carbohydrate on the left there's 1
gr of sugar and on the right there's
zero gr of sugar So based on that data
which one is healthier now you're
probably going to pick B right well
let's take a look at what a is a is
avocados what's B Doritos that's right
Doritos tip number one you cannot
determine the health of a product by the
nutritional facts you must must look at
the ingredients let's take a look at
these ingredients the first one is corn
and then we have vegetable oil corn
canola and or sunflower oil and then we
have maltodextrin then we have a bunch
of other things and then we have mono
sodium glutamate and then dextrose and
in a minute I'm going to simplify this
whole thing for you so really there's
only three ingredients you have to watch
out for everything else is a side note
but let's just do one more test okay we
have label a and label B on the left we
have 0 g of total fat on the right we
have z g of total fat of course there's
going to be no saturated fat on either
one of those so now we're at the total
carbohydrates a is 25 gram of total
carbohydrates B is only 13 G of total
carbohydrates a is 19 g of sugar and B
is 11 g of sugar based on that data
which one is healthier if you said B
okay let's take a look at a hm a is an
apple let's take a look at what B is oh
what's that that is something called
Sunny D it's like an orange drink but
let's take a look at the actual
ingredients in this orange drink oh we
have the first ingredients which is
water and then we have high fru toast
corn
syrup and then we have like 2% or less
of all these concentrated juices right
and then we roll right into the modified
corn starch and canola oil if you just
depend on the nutritional facts that
would be healthier than an apple all
right so what are we dealing with we're
just dealing with what is called Ultra
processed foods AKA junk Foods processed
means removal so you're taking away the
fiber the vitamins the minerals the
trace minerals the phytonutrients the
enzymes we're taking everything out out
of it and we're leaving some basic
material and then we get the word Ultra
Ultra means severe so when we're
severely taking away things we're going
through many different industrial
processes or chemical reactions
including uh grinding something down
pulverizing it uh high pressure high
Heats adding chemicals like solvents to
extract certain things taking out the
colors with chemicals taking out the
flavoring or odors from it and then
you're ending up with this something
that doesn't even resemble the original
food and so this is why they have to add
flavoring they have to add coloring they
have to add textures they have to add
preservatives they have to add some
synthetic vitamins to prevent certain
diseases and then they have to package
it and make it look really amazing for
you to eat so the big question is if we
compare Ultra processed food to the
definition of food food which is this
food is that which is eaten to sustain
life provide energy and promote the
growth and repair of tissues so it has
to keep you alive give you energy help
you grow and help you repair so can
Ultra processed calories actually do
that no it can't in reality Ultra
processed food is not food now out of
all the things that cause disease
that destroy your health I would venture
to say that Ultra processed foods are
the most significant factor in causing
health problems if you disagree please
make a note down below and tell me what
you think is it infection is it old age
is it lack of activity or is it more
junk food simply because 80% of the
calories in the grocery store are alter
processed food so the countries that
consume the most alter processed foods
have the most health problems and United
States is right up there at the top so
how can we make this really simple
number one ignore the nutritional facts
okay go right to the ingredients and
there's three things that you want to
avoid seed oils all the forms of sugar
and you want to avoid the starches a lot
of times when people Define junk Foods
they throw in the saturated fats but
when I went to the store last week and I
was looking at all these junk Foods I
didn't see a lot of saturated fat I saw
a lot of unsaturated fat seed oils our
diet is about almost 30% seed oils
that's creating a lot of damage
inflammation insulin resistance
neurodegenerative problems and by the
way I have a link down below that you
can download a little cutout for your
wallet that basically describe in detail
the three things you should avoid and
all the other kind of names for the
sugars starches and Seed oils that you
might not recognize so you can pull this
out of your wallet and just have it
right there when you go shopping all
right let's move to sugar and a lot of
times when you see sugar it doesn't tell
you if it's beet sugar or cane sugar or
other types of sugar but sugar is also
other forms glucose syrup high fructose
corn syrup dextrose and just straight
glucose now let's move to the starches
corn corn starch modified corn starch
Arch modified food starch molto dextrin
dextrin
cornflour wheat flour modified wheat
starch now there's two more things that
are kind of on the side that I would
also recommend not consuming as well soy
protein isolate this is kind of a an
ingredient that fits into the definition
of alter processed food because it's so
altered and so refined and then model
sodium glutamate because that's a flavor
enhancer so go ahead and click the link
down below and uh download uh the little
card cutout so you can put it in your
wallet and start reading labels and
start getting the stuff out of your diet
