hey it's me again in this video we're
gonna talk about a special situation
with diabetes type 1 okay and potassium
there's a kind of a rare situation in
which your potassium levels in your
blood go too high with diabetes type 1
and we'll explain how that works
insulin controls potassium in the cell
so if you have more insulin there'll be
more potassium goes in the cell now if
you have insulin resistance it's not
going to go in the cell because it's
blocked okay
but normally insulin drives potassium in
the cell where it should be stored 98
percent of all your potassium in your
body is inside the cell not outside the
cell or even in your blood you only have
2 percent in your blood so in diabetes
type 1 where you don't have enough
insulin okay because you have to inject
yourself that means that you can't drive
the potassium in the cell anymore so
inside the cell you're going to have
very low amounts of intracellular
potassium and I'm gonna put a link down
below which I highly recommend if you're
type 1 to get this test it's an
intracellular potassium test and it
checks all the minerals but I think
that's very important because if you go
to the doctor and you get your blood
tested and it's high that doesn't
necessarily mean it's high in the cell
okay
it means it's high in the blood why
because you don't have enough insulin to
drive it in the cell so we have the
situation where this cell is starving of
potassium but it's all just loaded up in
the blood it's called hyper too much
Colima or potassium it's rare only 1% of
the people in the hospital have it more
commonly it's hypo kelly me a low
potassium but it's very rare and ick but
it can happen especially if you're
taking massive quantities of potassium
in your type 1 and your your body's just
it's just not working it's not able to
drive it in the cell I mean the symptoms
are palpitations muscle pain muscle
weakness numbness I highly it's highly
unlikely that you're going to get this
condition from consuming vegetables okay
even if you had seven to ten cups of
vegetables a day it's usually if you're
doing massive maths of like five
thousand ten thousand milligrams of
potassium
so I just wanted to bring your awareness
up that if you're at a diabetic type one
potentially your potassium could rise
and you could have a problem especially
if you're trying to increase it and then
you should just know that that's the
function of insulin is to drive
potassium cell but because you don't
have enough it's not going in the cell
creating a situation ok so again I think
the most important thing to do is if you
have any of these symptoms and if you're
concerned about it get a blood test see
if it is high it might not be but
definitely also get an intracellular
test to measure how much potassium and
other minerals are inside the cell
because that's that'll give you more
data alright thanks for watching hey I
just wanted to take a moment to thank
you personally there's so many of you
that have gotten this book and the
feedback that you're giving me is
mind-blowing thank you so much I really
appreciate it and if you wouldn't mind I
have one quick favor to put your
unbiased review on Amazon I would really
appreciate it thank you so much
