hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about how to get your wife to lose
weight this is per men only if you are a
female click off right now okay guys the
absolute best way hands-down to help
your wife lose weight is by using cash
now $5,000 works really good but if you
can use 15,000 it's even better the more
cash you can give her the more compliant
she is going to become all right guys
I'm just teasing okay so first of all
let's talk about what not to do okay
number one the next time you hug her do
not pinch her fat okay that's really
really bad that's terrible
don't do that number two stop giving her
candy stop feeding her Donuts those
things make her fat okay it's not the
way to do it number three if you're at a
restaurant and she eats some bread or
order something she shouldn't eat
don't say honey I thought you're trying
to lose weight she already knows she
needs to lose weight
that does not help okay cuz this is
gonna make her wrong you're gonna start
a fight so don't do that for Christmas
or at a birthday don't give her presents
like a scale or a tape measure or a
membership at the gym those are all bad
things okay
don't do that all right so what do you
do okay I hope you're taking notes okay
number one you be an example you
yourself get in shape okay get off the
couch stop drinking beer get in shape
lead by example okay number two you know
you could mention like hey honey I'm
going at the gym do you want to come
with she says yes great if she says no
drop it like a hot potato
don't get into it you got to use a very
light touch okay another thing that I
think you should do is send her one of
my videos on metabolism okay you can say
honey
have this great video by dr. Berg you
want to check it out if she does great
if she doesn't drop it okay because in
the video I actually show people how to
lose weight probably why they're in the
situation that they're in because
they've tried other things that don't
work and then they give up now another
thing you could do is validate her tell
her she's beautiful okay you have to
build her up if she comes out of the
dressing room with this dress on and
asks you honey do I look fat in this you
better say no despite whether she says
she's lying whatever you have to say now
and I know some people will say well I'm
just telling her the truth well she
doesn't look skinny well guess what that
doesn't really work okay so don't even
use it now here's another tip if she
just she puts on this new dress right
and she asks you how do I look honey and
you say oh that looks fine no that's bad
because fine means terrible from their
viewpoint okay so don't use fine or
that's okay that's acceptable now bad
now if after all these things that
you've tried don't work use the cash so
I hope you're coming to the keto Health
Summit coming up in October so I want to
quickly comment on what we're gonna do
that's different from other conventions
okay the problem with these other
conventions is they give you information
over a load okay it's so much data that
you're basically swimming in a sea of
information we're going to do things
very differently we're only going to
cover the most important things that
make a huge difference now there are
three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory in concentration
that's going to blow you away and number
two I'm going to show you how to
increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three in most
certainly if you have a slow metabolism
if you've dyed it for a long time and
everything is kind of just really slow
I'm going to show you how to get
complete control over your metabolism so
you can literally turn up the dial as
high as you want and control as much
weight as you want to lose and these
three things are just a tiny bit of what
you're going to learn in the summit so
click the link below get signed up and I
will see you in October
