so I wanted to create a quick video on
the difference between sweaty palms and
dry palms okay so if you have the sweaty
palms that is a condition called Palmer
hyperhidrosis and that is a sympathetic
dominant situation there's two parts of
the autonomic nervous system you have
the sympathetic and the parasympathetic
the sympathetic is the flight-or-fight
and part of that system is involved
controlling different glands the sweat
glands and that's really what's behind
sweaty palms so what can you do about it
well realizing that it's an overactive
adrenal anything that you do to help
your adrenal is going to be a good thing
there's another condition called Potts
okay which involves one of the symptoms
is getting up too fast and you're
feeling really dizzy that is also a
sympathetic dominant situation a person
who startles easily or they can't
tolerate stress would have sympathetic
dominance one key vitamin that supports
that part of the nervous system is about
mb1 I put a link down below another
treatment that seems to get pretty good
results is called iontophoresis I'm not
recommending a certain machine you're
gonna have to do the research on that
but you should look this up it seems to
be very very successful now dry palms
okay this has to do with a vitamin A
deficiency vitamin D deficiencies will
also cause dry eyes but also dry hands
and you usually see these people putting
tons of lotion on the hand and it lasts
maybe like a minute and then it dries
out again what you should look at is by
them name okay and and and your diet and
are you consuming foods that have high
vitamin A and are you avoiding foods
that are depleting by them an A a
vitamin A is in fish oils especially
column oil it's in fatty fish beef liver
it's an animal products it's in dairy
it's in butter egg yolks those foods
which you know a lot of people do
consume fat in their diet but usually
it's the other foods that are countering
that process okay so let's say you're
consuming a lot of refined foods or
sugar that is messing with your liver or
your gallbladder and then the
gallbladder doesn't work or you're
consuming too much alcohol that can
affect the gallbladder and liver that
alone will prevent by the man apron
being absorbed okay it could also be a
problem with your digestion internally
some inflammatory condition in your
colon that will not let you absorb
either than a and causing this dryness
now the last point I want to bring up is
that if you use lotion on a regular
basis the fact that you're using the
lotion which usually has either alcohol
in it or some other solvent in there
you're going to have to stop that for a
while before your skin can heal because
it it pulls out the oil it's going to
dry up despite how much vitamin A you're
consuming so you're gonna have to avoid
putting lotion on your hand for a while
you may want to put some vitamin E oil
in your hand as a temporary thing to
start healing the skin simply because
all the oils are pulled out and vitamin
E is a really good oil to put back into
the skin and I think a lot of people
have this idea that if I have dry skin
I'm dehydrated but in actuality it's
usually low fats either in the diet or
you're not absorbing the fats alright
thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
