today we're going to talk about the
tomato versus that carrot what is better
on keto the reason I created this video
is to show you a couple things about the
total carb the net carb a fiber and the
sugar okay so if we're talking about
vegetables there are certain vegetables
that are a little bit higher in sugar
less fiber than other vegetables like
for example celery for example has a lot
of fiber very low sugar not a heck of a
lot of carbohydrate so you really have
to kind of think with it when you're
doing key tell because we want low carb
as much as possible low sugar of course
but check this out we're allowed some
carbohydrate between 20 and 50 grams
okay
I'm gonna recommend counting the net car
but not the total carb why because the
net carb is basically the total carb -
the fiber and fiber does not have any
influence over insulin it will not
affect your insulin levels so we don't
have to include that in this formula so
let's start with the tomato if we
compare that to a carrot it's 11 grams
of carbs okay
the goal of keto is to keep your carbs
low but so far within we're within the
range then if we get the fiber it's 1.5
karat has 3 grams of fiber so obviously
the carrot has more fiber the more fiber
the less the insulin response because it
buffers the carbohydrate so if we take
the net carb with the tomato we're only
dealing with 3.3 grams it's pretty low
right now with a carrot we're dealing
with 8 grams more than double so
obviously right off the bat tomato is
better than carrot on keto but let's
look at the sugars 3 grams of sugar 5
grams of sugar over here so obviously
the tomato wins but if you compare these
two we're still well within our limit
right here so if you're doing keto I
would not necessarily try
to restrict this either one of these
unless you have a very slow metabolism
and it's not working and you want to
find an area that you need to bring your
curbs even lower now I want to show you
one more thing I want to show you the
potato the potato is also a vegetable
but it's also a starch so we start out
one potato this is basically one cup
right and this is one cup of potato 37
grams of carbs and that's almost four
times a cup of carrots so it's quite a
bit of carb now as far as fiber it's
four point seven grams not that much all
right with the net carb of thirty two
point three grams if we compare that to
a tomato it's ten times more than a
tomato and then we have the sugars one
point seven grams that's pretty low
that's actually less than a tomato right
less than a carrot so you're like wow it
has less sugar it must be okay but wait
a second we have thirty two point three
net carbs and 1.7 grams of sugar but
what's the difference here it's starch
okay
starch would be compared as your stored
sugar in your body or glycogen okay
that's where the starches like rice is
the starch now if we look at a carrot
okay we have the difference between five
grams and eight grams so we're getting a
very very small amount of starch right
compared to this one point seven 232 now
look at the difference between three and
three point three so we have a very very
tiny amount of starch in a tomato a
little more in a carrot but a tremendous
amount of it in a potato this starch is
a type of carbohydrate that can affect
our blood Sugar's if we cook it okay if
you fry it if you bake it because it's
gonna break it down it's gonna release
it if you did a raw potato chances are
it's not going to actually affect your
blood Sugar's too much but who is going
to want to consume a raw potato
but another point I want to bring up is
the way that these foods are prepared
the more you cook the tomato the more
you're gonna release the starch the more
you cook the carrot the greater the
breakdown of starch the higher the blood
sugars but this is going to be the worst
right here so you'd want to avoid
potatoes in the form of the potato chip
the French fry the baked potato or the
mashed potato because you're gonna
massively spike your blood sugars with
that all right guys I hope that's
clarified a couple things thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
