hi guys listen I've recently had a
question about parasites what are some
good home remedies for parasites
well first let's talk about the symptoms
sometimes you would get blood in the
stool anal itching distended abdomen
pain in your abdomen a lot of digestive
issues fatigue sinus issues
sneezing craving for milk products moody
because you have insulin resistance
rashes skin issues hungry all the time
because you have these parasites or
worms eating up your food and I would
definitely recommend doing keto and then
fasting because this sugar will keep
feeding these microbes so there's three
main remedies that I'm going to
recommend and sometimes you could find a
remedy with all three of these combined
okay so number one wormwood extract I
don't recommend getting this in an
alcohol base but get it in the tablet
base because the alcohol sometimes gonna
throw off the liver but this is
extremely bitter there are a couple of
side effects but only if you consume
them in very very large amounts
generally they're safe but of course if
you're pregnant or you're nursing you
don't want to consume this because
you'll detox black walnut hulls again
great for parasites good for worms and a
lot of other related microbes and clove
okay so the combination of all three of
these are excellent for parasites but
again make sure you also clean up your
diet and focus on building up your
immune system alright thanks for
watching hey if you enjoyed this video
press subscribe and I will definitely
keep you updated
