hey I'm back we're going to talk about
using olive oil and never soy oil now
even now olive oil is an omega-6 oil
that's normally inflammatory it's this
is the one that is not inflammatory but
the other vegetable oils are because
they're heavy on the omega-6 if you
consume too much but if all the oils soy
oil is the absolute worst not just for
inflammation but it can cause insulin
resistance which is a pre-diabetic State
it can make you fat in fact studies on
mice show that it can make you fatter
than consuming fructose so it's pretty
bad it'll increase your triglycerides
your macrophages which basically lead to
artery disease and clots and things like
that which heart problems it can cause a
fatty liver because then it spikes your
insulin and 90% of it is GMO so of
course we want to avoid that so just
realize that soy is not a healthy oil
despite what the American Heart
Association told us that we need to
replace our saturated fats with more
unsaturated oils like soy and corn and
canola which is all GMO but it's really
hard to find food nowadays without the
soy oil especially if you go out to
restaurants I mean all the things that
are fried have soy oil breads
in the grocery store infant formula they
put soy oil on their dressings yeah try
to go to the grocery store and find a
dressing without soy oil get the olive
oil one or make your own snacks desserts
tons of soil oil soups hummus now they
put soy oil and they don't put olive oil
unless you have to go to a healthy store
for that different spreads like
vegetable type dips mayonnaise they use
soy oil because it's cheap unfortunately
it's not very healthy alright so thanks
for watching and definitely stick with
the olive oil you're gonna be totally
safe with that hey tell me what you
think about this video go ahead and
comment below and give me your feedback
