what would happen if you used rice water
on your hair for 2 weeks this is
actually one of those ancient secrets
that have been used in Asia for hundreds
of years I'm going to show you the
biggest mistake that people make when
they do this as well as the exact way of
how to do this to maximize your results
making your hair stronger your scalp is
going to be much healthier big question
is how can the water from rice do
anything really you're not actually
eating the rice and you're not even
drinking the water if you look this up
there's several ways to do this some
people will take a cup of rice in two
cups of water and they'll mix it
together and then they'll let it sit for
a couple hours they'll strain off the
rice and then use that rice water on
their hair that's really not going to do
anything there's a way to make this rice
water that you can turn that into a
probiotic what's interesting is you're
not actually adding any microbes at all
the microbes are already on the rice the
microbes are actually in the air and so
what you're going to do is you're going
to create this probiotic liquid which is
going to be made over a period of time
of 48 Hours where these microbes are
going to eat the starch from the rice
and they're going to reproduce at a
massive level and you're going to use
that probiotic with all the additional
byproducts that are created on your hair
and your scalp a lot of great things
occur from fermentation of course you
have yogurt kefir cheese all these
wonderful things occur when you ferment
them let's first talk about what is in
this rice water that's so good for your
hair and your scalp rice normally has a
lot of B vitamins and B vitamins are
essential for the hair there's amino
acids in this solution as well one of
the interesting byproducts of
fermentation is called petera a lot of
people use petera on their skin petera
is the antidote to dull hair because
it's going to make your hair look really
bright shiny healthy if you had uh dandr
for example or itchiness or some type of
imbalance in the microbiome on your
surface of your skin that's going to be
greatly improved as soon as you start
sterilizing it or putting shampoos that
actually kill the microbiome in your
scalp then you get an overgrowth of
unfriendly yeast and that's why it takes
a friendly yeast to help put that back
in check there's another really
important thing in this liquid and it's
called lactic acid that comes from
lactic acid bacteria and I know people
are like oh the body should be alkaline
and anything that's acidic is unhealthy
no not when we're dealing with hair in
your skin we need your skin and hair to
be on the acid side and lactic acid is
an acid that will help the skin and hair
and decrease that dullness and frizzy
hair that you may have and there's other
nutrients in this liquid too like
magnesium and selenium for example this
liquid also increases something called
nitric oxide which can actually help
bring oxygen to the root of the hair
overall it can do a lot for your hair
your scalp and your skin if you want to
put on your skin as well let me now show
you how to make it so simply add two
cups of that rice in a bowl add four
cups of water and I recommend taking
your hand and massaging a little bit
just so you can clean out any dirt dirt
or excess starch then you're going to
drain the water so what's left in the
bowl is 2 cups of this wet rice at this
point add two more cups of fresh water
mix it up a little bit and let it sit at
room temperature for 2 hours you're
going to drain out the fluid into the
glass jar cover the jar lightly that way
it has a chance to breathe and what's
happening is the yeast and bacteria from
the air and on the rice is starting to
eat some of that carbohydrate in that
rice water and they're eating it and
they're giving all these amazing
byproducts vitamins minerals
antioxidants when you're fermenting a
solution you can fermented for 24 hours
and still get some benefit you'll have a
lot of the bacteria that's growing in
there then in the second 24 hours you're
going to have more of the benefits from
the yeast and their byproducts which are
really going to help your scalp and your
skin as well as the hair but here's the
thing you could continue to ferment this
for a much longer you can go a week some
people even go for a month you may
notice that it starts to give some smell
or odor that you might not like and that
has to do with some of the overgrowth
that can occur in that mixture you
really don't need to go past 48 hours
but if you do it will still help you you
just might want to add some spearmint U
essential oils or something to offset
the smell then at 48 hours you can take
the cheesecloth or paper towel off the
top screw the lid on it and then put it
in the refrigerator so it can then be
preserved for a longer period of time
the colder temperature will slow down
the bacterial growth then you're going
to leave it on your hair for about 20
minutes after 20 minutes rinse out your
hair and then you can dry it and you're
good to go I would recommend doing that
twice a week let's say for example
you're doing it twice a week for 2 weeks
you're going to need roughly about four
cups of this material then you have
enough for four applications over the
next 2 weeks this is a great solution to
help repair your hair to put the
microbes back into the hair and like I
said before you can also apply some of
this on your face okay with a little
cotton swab apply it to the face wait 20
minutes and then rinse it out go ahead
and try this I think you're going to be
highly impressed and then please comment
down below and tell me how it worked for
you
