[Music]
hey everyone listen I have a special
guest today this is Tim Payne and listen
he's basically a veteran he is I don't
know what year it was it's 2013 11 2011
okay
he was actually in Afghanistan and
stepped on a mine actually was a was
that was a ie D 30-pound ie V gosh and
basically blew up he landed into it like
he blew up like what 10 feet or
something
I tell people on the lucky bottle so
like you throw a ball up in the air and
sometimes one a million chances it lands
directly on the top or the bottom at the
top like you know and nothing spills so
I got blown up a mile it and I landed
right in the crater like head fell and
my legs were like up in there you know
yeah
in a tree but well I was I was in the
ground yeah well my legs were up in the
air and the guys just got on top he just
started like random you know going town
so basically yeah he he lost both legs
and so anyway I wanted just to do a
video on this because he also is doing
Quito and but first I want to just talk
about his story you used to play with GI
Joes that's we have in common right all
the way I dunno yeah you probably know
you don't still deals but so the point
is you got into the military after 9/11
right you got in there you Army Airborne
you you did training and then you
basically tell us a little bit about
whatever at that point
okay so 9/11 happened I'm like I'm gonna
go fight for my country like nobody
comes and attacks our backyard nope not
on my watch I'm from New York sorry
buddy
I'm going in so airborne infantry then I
will try it out for Army Rangers got
hurt but being from New York we just
keep on going back right how many times
you four times and never made it oh God
and you know what I wasn't for
punishment
I'm from Niagara Falls right Buffalo
Bills yeah go into Super Bowl four times
or our loss I actually have four Special
Forces four times never made what what
about with civil forfeiture that is
internal right
fascinating Wow so I was uh yeah I
remember in high school I had a
recruiter come to my house and he say
you want to join the military I'm like
oh yeah I want to shoot grenades I want
to do this so I signed up went to Fort
Jackson South Carolina and then I went
to Fort Sam and became a medic and then
uh and an x-ray tech and so I did that
for five and a half years but it was
reserved so there's nothing really
happening back then in the early 80s
still service yeah it was a great
experience so have a little common
thread there so so tell us what happened
at that point you in a second were you a
sergeant did you thank you officer no I
was not at that point time they did
enlist
chiropractors okay yeah I was just going
through Chiropractic College mm-hmm the
time so I wasn't quite graduated so I
couldn't quite do that anyway um but the
cool part was every two weeks you go on
the job training right and they knew I
was in school so at that point there
they pulled me right into the hospital
yeah and I was working on patients and I
didn't even have a license yeah I'd work
on people and they were like wow that
really felt great because I started
teaching in school I was like teaching
students how to manipulate you know just
people so I did that for a while and
they were really pissed off in the other
division because I was supposed to do
like the medic training stuff and I got
pulled into the office started hanging
out with the officers and playing tennis
with the commander in the hall that's
awesome so that was fun they have it to
me did it really yes so I I try for
Special Forces all these times I didn't
make it so I got reassigned to different
jobs right and I got moved to this job
called personal recovery missions and
then I was working in a nuclear missile
silo in Italy doing this job where it's
supposed to be a Chief Warrant Officer
four or five it's like like the highest
ranking chief warrant officers rather
than an officer of like a major or above
that's a feel great position I was a
staff sergeant going to this school for
program management and directing and
then I go back to Italy and then that's
when Katherine Phillips is going down
the whole thing with a smiley pirates of
the motion stuff yeah so I'm like then
years later I get blown up and
I see a commercial like well part of
that you were part of that cool Wow yeah
incredible yeah as I said the hey you'd
like hey you're going to do it hey yeah
so so so give me a little background
before this happened you were um you
were basically over and Afghanistan and
the other basically you'd went this is
the third time or second time it's not
yes
infantry squad leader leading guys in on
patrols after four months of fighting
our unit became combat ineffective
meaning that we couldn't go on patrols
anymore we lost too many people so crazy
interest because of the the mines that
were yeah the four or five IEDs a day
good five enemy of mine sweepers and we
would still have guys getting blown up
the Taliban got so clever they started
developing IEDs with nonmetallic
initiation devices so you cannot know
yeah that's so dirty that is that is
terrible they're pretty slick yeah so so
you're you're going out its last time
and you did you have it you have any
warning or anything or any knowledge or
I definitely had a weird feeling good we
were premonition like there's something
that was like there's something nothing
out right and then will you by yourself
I know I was with my squad I was with my
squad I was walking the line to make
sure they were in the right positions
yeah and then is the third walk back
that's nice it by yourself or yeah the
group I was by myself just to make sure
my guys were in the right places and
then as when I got Lana
so was it what was this was it just like
a massive confusion like right away like
happening oh so great remember
everything you do I was so fit back then
house like six feet tall 245 pounds bent
around with 400 pounds like super tough
bandits 405 almost yeah that's like a
mass
Wow so when I got blown up I knew
exactly what happened and I'm like land
I'm like oh my god blown up I'm trying
to sit up and I was like looking through
my arm and I could just see like the
bones yeah I'm like yes right no pain
all the nerve endings completely go home
so I didn't feel anything and I'm like
it's so surreal that blood coming out no
it was on my arm what
like more charred okay put my legs it
was really bad I had femoral bleeding
and it was shooting all over the place
and my I don't think people are when we
go into detail about it's that yeah it's
pretty great isn't it look it was bad
yeah yeah this this book right here I'm
gonna put a link down below so basically
you're you're laying there obviously
they came and put a tourniquet or
something to stop tourniquets 8 you're
gonna cut and the guy slid his hand
inside of my abdomen to pack with combat
Goss the public clock and then they
picked me up and because of the
explosion it's split my pelvis openly
bicep 5 centimeters so I could feel
everything moving when they're like I
wasn't pain my last name is pain yeah
yeah yeah because there's a you're like
oh my god I can't even imagine so then
so at that point did anything up of your
face or your no no I'm so fortunate
oh just kind of I watched you to have a
look at the ground and I'm like my arms
are like this that's what my arm died
like the brunt of the blast
I was camouflaging a wire because we're
setting up a claymore mine it's an
anti-personnel mine to cover our flank
so if the enemy are gonna tag on so you
were you're dismantling our claymore
mind we were setting it up or you're
setting it I'm setting it up yes okay so
we were taking icon cheddar which means
that we were intercepting radio
transmissions from the Taliban and
they're like we see the in there against
we're coming into attack and we're like
alright guys let's get ready and so we
set up like our main fields of fire and
then we want to have our our flanks
covered and so we put this
anti-personnel mine but at the same time
we were killing dudes the day prior and
we were trying to blow up trees - kind
of like destroy the dead space so they
couldn't come in attack our base and
that was the last patrol so we I think
they knew what we were gonna do so then
I prior they went out there and buried a
bomb and when I was walking back and
forth mmm there he is
gloomy Wow was it was the force just
like this incredible pressure this
pushed you up yeah it was it it's having
so fast I went up and I on the ground
and I knew exactly what happens I saw
the flash
I could feel the pressure mm-hmm but
there was no paint it was really surreal
only when they started moving me that's
when it really started to paint yeah and
and then at that point they brought you
to the hospital then you have how many
surgeries did you have okay so it was I
counted up so it was seven days worth of
procedures but some of the days it'd be
five separate procedures and that'd be
like a daily routine for us 70 days so
seven days so they had they either put
you under or was it local two weeks
medical comatose what and then there
give me ketamine and I was waking up
from this ketamine like state and I was
young I don't like stuck in the ketamine
and I think how do you know what give me
ketamine and I was like I never was I
was I wasn't always the same so
basically they stopped and then I
started you know long story short
they're like hate you want to heal it's
the mind the body and the spirit you
know the first years all the bodily
surgeries and then the mental part was
just getting off all the medications
that were clogging my mind and then the
whole spiritual side of just like
looming values you know fine faith move
out with it Wow so you're on these
medications and obviously it's just
messing up your your focus and your
brain probably some psychiatric drugs I
would imagine many yeah so they had me
on like three or four different types of
antidepressants and then antipsychotics
also and I asked them like why you give
this to me and then they won't be
proactive
those were verbatim words or being
proactive I was like I don't feel
depressed Wow
yeah until you probably started taking
up right so you so my god so you had
major probably rehab the whole thing did
you kind of did you get depressed at
that time from the site remission okay
so after I retired I took took the step
back and really serve right now
everything I went through and I just
realized that when I started weaning
myself off medications that's when I
became suicidal mmm and I didn't want to
live anymore I started while my field
and then that's where adaptive sports
and beauty pure mentorship really came
in or guys like keep on going come on
let's keep on doing this and it was a
huge motivation where it's you know the
whole support network really comes into
play right yeah yes so so then these
other guys that are competing in sports
and things and you in at that time you
probably you're probably in bed for I
don't know how long I mean you're or not
physically probably lost some of your
strength you know oh man how did it I
was like 245 pounds of just like you're
lean mean fighting machine down to
nothing I was like a Holocaust patient
because like when I woke up I was
looking at like like what happened and
the daughters like your whole body
absorbed everything
how are you to live he's like you're
lucky to be live man and interest
yeah and then and then it took about a
year and I just guess extremely obese
really extremely up like suit I like 200
pounds no legs
my other wheelchair was it was like I
think is like 34 inches wide it was huge
it's just it just from the C part not
now the wheels and then my doctors just
kept on I guess come on let's got more
and more more medications and then it
got to the point where I was like down
with it so there was something that just
collect it's like that's it I'm done
yeah and then that's when I was like
forgot who I was I was like I was a I
was a paratrooper I was like I'm going
back on my old mentality doing this
right now right yeah awesome so then you
you started to you know do start
searching stuff on on the net YouTube
and stuff and you started to see you
stumble on keto yeah so it was all about
eating clean they start with non-gmo
Vosges like so so that's what I learned
eating clean and then I started like
okay so how can I get better and eating
clean and then that's where it's like
okay you wear this you get rid of all
the processed carbs more vegetables
clean your meats
cut pork out start eating chicken fish
not as much beef and stuff as I used to
but it's it's Atreyu lighter foods let
on digestive system and just be you know
I want to be a lean mean fighting
machine
rolling on wheels because that's
normally when you go to the mess
that's what they have is high-quality
food that you're eating now I'm just
kidding
they have a lot of cars right a lot of
cars a lot of cars so so you started to
eat healthy and then did you see this
thing keydown like what is Keita what's
this Keita thing y-yeah yeah I was like
I was turned on to it I saw his guys
super ripped and I was like man I'm so
chunky like I hate this and then there
was like that Kido crash where you like
you had just get through it and then
you're and then you're in it that was
the biggest struggle right there yeah
when you're adapting to fat-burning
you're like and so you had to adapt and
you start doing it you got some benefit
and then what happened mentally did you
actually have more energy mentally I was
on fire I was doing training for acting
I was performing in front of people I
was doing speaking engagements I was
traveling all over the country and then
you don't have it holidays cookies
Turkey yeah true was it was what's that
uh that that tryptophan benefit that's
uh obviously right next wristing well
it's so funny for those of you watching
tryptophan what makes you tired during
Thanksgiving is actually not it's not
the trip okay it's a combination of the
protein and the starch and the sugar all
that stuff you're gonna spike insulin
you're just gonna go well you know go
out yeah that's one thing totally pay
attention to is like some of the foods
that I eat I've noticed in my body we
just get really hot kind of like again
really quickly I'm like all right when I
eat these foods and I started eating
more greens and I'm like I noticed a
trend and then the apple cider vinegar
with a little bit of lemon juice the
volcano lemon juice stuff mm-hmm awesome
in good isn't it yeah love it so that
helped you and then so you're you start
eating healthy and then you started to
compete and you actually add some
serious successful success you had like
a goal adil and different competitions
what type of sports are they like
swimming races around a track around
well what do you know we have hand
cycles okay we have swimming we have
filled the bones we have track events
others archery there's even like a air
rifle type of thing the Invictus
Foundation they have like Samba hits
alien Australia
so there's a whole smorgasbord of
different Paralympic style events I did
swimming and cycling seated discus and
then the shop incredible okay so so to
build up your cardio with swimming I can
imagine like it's all upper body you're
gonna you're gonna have some serious
lung action going on that's like yeah oh
man
yeah but the hand cranking yeah that
thing is awesome
I love it could imagine that's yeah so
so you started doing that now you that's
what you do like you compete like all
over the world or okay so there's
there's a couple organizations Achilles
freedom team they take the other guys
that got blown up to different marathons
around the country and then team Semper
Fi is the notarization does the same
exact thing but we also have training
camps and then also other sporting
events that they help provide and then
the organization helps get us the
identity equipment that we need so that
we can go do these things off amazing
organization they're like they're like
the underdog that's really running the
show of like providing stuff or a lot is
it that about athletes all right now Wow
yeah so now what happens when you're
doing these high intense type activities
and you're on keto you mentioned this
already before let's just kind of talk
about it you don't quite have the
endurance or you drive okay yes so I
have an amazing workout I feel really
good but it'd be shorter and I would
only have to do it three times a week
but my energy wasn't like how I was
before when I was eating carbs you know
food I could just go and go and go but
then I would crash later and just be
completely like done or like I don't
long for your time but then I can just
continue to work out every single day
well I don't I just need a fine-tune my
diet a little bit more I think it out
okay so there's a couple things I want
to bring up just on that point just to
help you so what what you have going on
is you have the mitochondria that's the
energy Factory that's where all your
energy is produced so you have the food
that goes in there and then
converts to your energy which is called
ATP that's how you get your energy
currency of your body right now you've
adapted to Kido and then also you do the
same thing and then you might kind of
like putter out a little bit the spark
plug that helps ignite the fuel
especially the fat fuel yeah is vitamin
b1 yo in magnesium babies okay so I have
a I have something that's called
mitochondria support I'm gonna actually
send you some sweet I wish I had it here
I may have it here I'm gonna send you
some and then I want to actually see how
it helps your energy okay because you
get your fatigue could be coming from
you just need a little bit more spark
plug to ignite this fuel a little bit
more especially since you're running on
fat like why isn't it being burned is it
a spark plug problem what happens
sometimes you have to add more you know
different types of fuel but there's it's
kind of an unknown territory right now
with more time we'll know more about
certain types of athletes and
performance however there are quite a
few high-intensity athletes that are
really strict and they finally got their
bodies to burn the fat but if you're
kind of doing it sort of you're not
consistent and I don't know if that's
your situation but you will find that
like even if you go off of it once a
month it's like it's really hard to get
through it that's what it is it's it's
those cheat days yeah that's exactly
what it is yeah because it's like your
body will then start going back to this
other way like wait a second so and you
might think it's might be a little thing
but it's it could last a long time so
especially if you're you've been
cheating like once a week you're pretty
much never gonna wholly burn that just
reminded me because uh all right now now
I'm seeing it because I was on heel for
a while and then I had that break from
the holidays and then I finally got back
on it I remember when I was traveling
and just riding the marathon so I was
the only keto nothing else and then that
I was going nonstop on the marathons so
that's what it is then you just brought
it yeah totally
alright yeah I think that I'm a cheater
I think you have brought your
you change any steps you yeah exactly
the the thing is like I think you'll
have the unfair advantage of course
hopefully none of your competitors are
watching this right now
but if you could run on fat fuel only
you'll actually fat fuel is very
different it has more than double the
energy so you could basically it's more
efficient fuel so these guys run on
glucose they're gonna run at a gas so
fast and they're gonna hit hit this wall
and you're gonna have a buildup of
lactic acid so I think you you you could
actually out you know just have better
endurance if you actually do that and it
may be like when you're off season maybe
if you wanted to do a cheat day but when
you're a training like if you just a
hardcore you'll be really hard how
you'll be good yeah I mean I'm actually
I was telling you before about it but
I'm starting a new training regiment
next week on Monday oh yeah with a
trainer and we're going to what we're
mapping out a whole plant and we're
gonna document it - oh that's gonna be
awesome so it's me bit body building
more body oh wow yeah awesome and then
you also brought up another point that I
think is a common problem when you're
doing them in the fasting so here you
are like you want to compete but you
feel better when you don't eat I think
then when you eat I don't know what
right yeah think about that it's like
I'm not really hungry I'm never really
hungry I mean I can just write and then
I just like okay well you know I don't
even eat a lot like a lot of vegetables
so I go to Whole Foods and just riding
mountain of vegetables Wow and then that
do you feel better or worse when you eat
I feel great oh okay a little tired a
little bit afterwards yeah and then but
you know I feel better probably but an
hour later okay yeah okay yeah I know
it's kind of weird like um once you get
into this it's like it's what this whole
food thing is like Wow
no I ate I know I was feeling good one
if I didn't eat but then she got to eat
you know and then you're have you found
that your muscle density or your you are
you trying to bulk up with muscle or is
that not English
everyone I feel I just feel great I feel
great all the time
everyone's like do what are you doing
I'm like well I'm actually a work I work
out less I eat us and
just you know you know I'm staying
productive like how you doing I'm like
well ketosis and like you can watch Erik
Berg on YouTube there you can go on that
guy
check that guy out be honest oh cool
yeah that's great so for those of you
that are athletes
the secret is just to stay consistent
that's one thing and then the b1
magnesium is another little tip there
and that will help you especially if
you're like if you drink coffee or tea
whatever you need a little bit more b1
and if you and the more carbs that you
consume if you don't do b1 you're going
to just you're not going to have that
endurance so b1 will also help your
cognitive function your endurance and
then let me just take a call here from
Milla from the Netherlands she's been
waiting or he's been waiting for 19
minutes are you there
she sorry hi can you hear me so I'm
pretty short question actually it's
about for trace minerals so I've been
prescribed trace minerals from the brand
chemical trees which is which are salt
base minerals what I would like to
switch to your minerals because their
plan base and therefore a more
bioavailable what I would look like to
know if there's any information about
the amount of any of those trace
minerals that's present in Wow let's say
one serving yeah I think there's if you
go to my site there's an FAQ on there
that you can see the amount of trace
minerals trace minerals are minerals
needed in smaller amounts and like
selenium iodine versus calcium magnesium
things like that but if you're taking a
plant-based mineral a plant basically
reaches down with the roots pulls up the
mineral the rocks and converts into a
plant-based mineral so the type of
minerals that I have are prehistoric
they're actually 70 million years old
yeah take it from the earth a layer of
the earth where they had all this
prehistoric plant food back then and
that's where I get the minerals and
so they're very easy to digest their
15,000 times smaller than regular
minerals so they go in a hundred percent
versus some of the other minerals do how
much do you need you don't need much
maybe a half a dropper full per day
that's all you need but the you may not
feel energy from them they're more for
enzymes and supply enzymes to make
protein so your nails your hair your
skin your muscles in fact if a pregnant
woman is deficient in a trace mineral
that future child is gonna have so many
problems structurally with their spine
they might have abnormal that scoliosis
flat feed teeth problems their overbite
underbite so we need these trace
minerals for proteins thanks for your
question all right let's see here we
have we have our Facebook Kido lab I up
and let's just see if there's any good
questions no it's going yes Kido would
be better for our military I I think um
just there's a lot of military that are
doing Kido you should see the Special
Forces cafeterias like so you know
Special Operations they have every when
you're talking about like oh it's not a
good food you you know that guy's a joke
I'm like yeah because Regular Army units
they don't have good food that's what
when you go to the Special Operations
yeah it's the best really crime like
really thing I didn't know that they
feed you like you would not Bob that is
so great
it's awesome that was so good well I
never made it there I was actually
enough different deficient I just went
for the hood absolutely there's a by my
house there is a huge facility of to I
think it's the seal training they have
this building it goes on for like miles
and I don't know what they do in there
at this confidential but yeah it's all
water training and it's a Maryland yeah
so I want to go scuba diving
are you diving you know I did it once I
want to get into it but I think I just
have you know
haven't done it are you into it yeah
yeah there is an organization called
such service members undergoing to say
it was good having been to Cuba Hawaii
and the ABC islands a curse out of
course oh wow yeah world means beautiful
there oh that's awesome
our military tow and IAF would be
unstoppable
that would be give everyone the unfair
advantage I just remember like in basic
training just eating a lot of carbs and
sugar let's see here okay good mary says
thank you so much for your service you
are an incredible inspiration hey Mary
thanks I'm only half the inspiration you
be God
well you know this guy has a very light
attitude about it which is exactly how
it's very good to survive and the six
most successful people that I know are
very carefree and I guess the word for
it is called insouciant which is like
not serious because you're just gonna
you know it's like the people that are
not so serious and salad they do be
they're more successful things go right
for them you know so you know I learned
what I learned the more I was pushing on
my comfort zone the more I grew exactly
exactly
it's like and once I've realized that
I'm like huh I was like I best I better
get it uncomfortable all the time right
right there it goes out there yeah
that's yeah that's great yeah one time I
had to give a speech in front of 500
people this is when I was serious fear
of public speaking
mm-hmm and so I get up there and I just
completely froze and it was the most
embarrassing thing so I decided at that
point I gotta handle this so I started
doing seminars around the this area and
I did 4700 seminars in a row Wow oh man
how do you yeah see I'm messin I need to
learn how I can schedule that three
times a week
well I actually put myself in the
situation where I started booking
seminars to all the governmental
agencies and then I go well why don't I
just do like a series of 12 Wow and so
it forced me to you know really you know
get out there so I was like all over the
place all that long you're stuck at the
milled like anti-age right yeah oh yeah
yeah yeah cool an edge all the different
agencies FBI I was there and so that was
awesome and also guys I'm gonna put his
link down below of his website
it's chosen leadership calm and there's
some other other ones as well this is a
great website that really is this
amazing story and I mean it's incredible
it's like what you've been through and
then you're able to still be able to
talk about it freely without kind of I
mean just lame you just that your
attitude is just so positive it's
incredible yeah I mean I thought about
the the chosen leadership first you can
so in the Army we have we had seven
Corps Army Values loyalty Duty respect
selfless service honor integrity and
personal courage seven core army values
that illustrate the acronym leadership
providing purpose direction and
motivation that's what we learn in basic
training as like a private and so after
all these bad things happen what I all
at what I had to do was just go right
back to the source what I learned and be
like okay this is what I need to do is
I'm gonna adapt and overcome I want to
push forward if I'm not adhering to
these values then obviously I'm off the
course I gotta get back on that course
I'm just television well I have a
question about that so usually when
someone has a tragic thing in their life
it's like we think it's like all over
but do you feel that if you didn't have
this they would is this like you like
helping people right like yeah go around
the country and you motivate people
right I try to and have you found that
you just like your whole shift in
purpose shift it to like like helping
more people what we had no idea is gonna
do this kind of fell into it yeah I mean
you know you live through all these
things go through all these tough times
but that struggle though you see people
that don't make it if people have died
yeah and it's like yeah I was gonna go
to school bioengineering
stem cell research a firm Armed Forces
Institute or genitive medicine was it
winston-salem yeah Wake Forest
University
there's a Anthony atella is like the
head honcho running the show so I was
like I'm gonna go to school for that as
I want to do and so I had all this huge
plan within my brother-in-law
I was so close with the end of dying
that seemed a retired changed everything
and then I started writing and then I
had a front break himself and like you
know what I'm gonna focus on trying to
help inspire guys instead and and then I
started writing you know the movie
American sniper came out that was
another motivation - yeah yeah so I
think helps at the same time and can't
you give push not here talking with the
Kido master ninja you better recognize
realizing you know so yeah so basically
you're because I think the you know
sometimes you'd never you would never do
what you're doing if this doesn't if
certain things didn't happen like in
your life all of a sudden like I just
push you in a direction that you've
probably never in a million years think
he'd be doing you wouldn't be like
driving around the country you know
doing yeah but it's fun though I love it
I bet I got a big Sprinter van I'm
always cruising I saw that there's no
stuff that is a seriously nice mobile
and home right and it has yeah it's um
yeah I could just I'm almost done
converting a converted myself you did
everything on my own yeah I think it's
incredible yeah right I saw it parked
out I'm like what the heck is four-wheel
drive jeez Wow
awesome thanks so you so you go around
the country though and you you do you
talk I mean you talk to people right I
mean yes so basically um it's it's
multi-platform so faith-based high
schools middle schools colleges special
operations I talked to one of the SEAL
Teams when I talk to combat forces I
always talk about guarding the heart and
that ties into scriptures and stuff like
that
but you know it's really great and it's
all about seem motivated through the
tribulation because right it's we're
always gonna have that rocky life bad
things roars gonna happen push forward
for that legacy because that legacies at
the end uh at a time
yeah that's awesome that's incredible
we're gonna take a call from AG Fremont
California are you there yes dr. Berg my
question is how do you truly know if
you're fat adapted I've been on keto for
the last since September 1st 2018 mm-hmm
I lost about 57 58 pounds I'm no longer
craving anything I eat just to keep my
glucose level okay but sometimes I don't
feel like eating anything sometimes I
eat a little bit how do you know you're
truly fat adapted well you just set it
right there you're not hungry when
you're not hungry
that means your body is eating your fat
and that means you're adapted to fat as
a fuel if you can't go for more than a
period of time without getting hungry
then you're not in bad adaptation that
make sense yeah it does I had one more
other question I have a daughter who has
sinus problems and we've taken her to
the doctor and she just has migraine
headaches and sinus it just bugs her
medication doesn't really help
we've tried homeopathic stuff it's just
it's weird that a lot of stuff is not
working what do you recommend so how old
is your daughter brain freeze
she's a nice girl she's about 14 okay 14
because people usually ask ask these
questions about themselves but no I'm
just kidding
so you she's 14 and then the next
question is is she doing cute or now she
had like a regular diet no she's not not
doing keto she's well you know
proportioned she's not overweight she's
not underweight it's just a sinus you
know it just brings her down she's got
migraines she throws up sometimes and
this she had all year-round or seasonal
all year-round
yeah so this is not everyday but yeah
this is usually more like a fungus
that's growing or some type of yeast
that's growing in the sinuses that's
usually what it is and you can do
different remedies it doesn't really
work until the person fixes the core
eating plan a lot of people think that
keto is just for overweight people it's
for everyone a 14-year old if they did
it now if they did a version of this
let's say she had just three meals a day
and just shift taquito and no snacks
little happened his inflammation goes
down the bacteria goes down in the body
yeast will start going down and you'll
see a lot of things clear up so I would
work on her core eating and of course
avoid milk and because the sugars are
speeding this fungus and then I mean
there's remedies nasal rinses in garlic
but you really need to change the
foundation of what she's eating okay all
right thanks for your call
and let me just see if there's any
really good questions here versus no I'm
just kidding been struggling from
diabetes for a few years nothing made
sense not overweight finally figured out
it's autoimmune any tips be helpful keto
for a for a year blood sugar runs over
200 had to start insulin now not sure
what to do so I'm gonna give this
question to you so basically yeah you're
suffering from diabetes well here's the
thing
autoimmune autoimmune I don't even know
what your autoimmune - but I would
honestly these questions like I don't
even want to give you a remedy because I
want to make sure you're doing hardcore
healthy keto and it comes back to these
basics and also in a minute fasting
that's gonna lower insulin blood sugar
will come down and then you're you're
probably gonna improve your immune
system - in fact autoimmune stuff I
always recommend long-term in a minute
fasting especially like at least once a
month to like 20 or 48 hours but you
just need to stick in the basics nothing
all these remedies won't really crack
that problem anyway
I want to thank you for being on dude I
really appreciate it it's an honor fist
pumping all right
and thanks for watching guys I'll put
some links down below check out his
website and I will see you in the next
video
[Music]
you
