hey guys so if you didn't watch part one
go ahead and watch it because part one
is all about the foundation of magnesium
now we're on part two okay so one thing
you should know about magnesium
magnesium is involved in relaxation
calcium is involved in contraction but
it's also involved in cellular signaling
and cellular reproduction so the
function of calcium goes way beyond just
making bone that's involved in a lot of
different things but as far as the
interaction in minerals when you have
low magnesium you're going to have high
calcium they kind of work opposing each
other so if you're high in calcium
you're gonna cause a magnesium
deficiency okay so they kind of
teeter-totter now when you're low in
magnesium you'll actually be low in
potassium because they they work very
closely together they don't oppose each
other they work with each other and if
you're low with potassium you have low
magnesium so how does this relate so
let's say for example you're taking a
supplement a straight pure potassium
supplement without magnesium you'll end
up finding that it won't really work
without magnesium because you need this
with this and this is why when you eat
food you always have these minerals
together not isolated or when you take
an electrolyte powder you normally see
all the electrolytes together when you
take them they're more functional that
way let's say you have insulin
resistance which most the population has
you'll end up with a magnesium
deficiency you have excess calcium and
you'll have a little potassium okay now
let's talk a little bit more about
calcium now we have the inside of the
cell then we have the outside of the
cell as far as this electrolyte calcium
you have 10,000 times more concentrated
calcium on the out of the cell than you
do on the inside a cell now potassium is
much different because you have 98% of
the potassium inside the cell and only
2% outside the cell the calcium is
different an order for calcium to be
transported you have this thing called a
voltage-gated calcium channel this is
basically just a gate door to allow
calcium to go in and out and also it
controls other things
as well you need calcium to even produce
insulin from the pancreas so it's
involved in a lot of different functions
including signaling certain things now
if you have too much calcium inside the
cell and these this ratio is not correct
you develop the condition called
intracellular hyper calcine OSIS which
is a fancy term for you have too much
calcium inside the cell this is very
very dangerous and it's very common for
a lot of people in fact a drug that a
lot of doctors use for high blood
pressure is called a calcium channel
blocker so calcium channel blockers
basically prevent the calcium from
building up inside the cell and you can
lower a blood pressure from that okay
because the excess calcium makes the
arteries stiffer and it raises blood
pressure because it's no longer elastic
and you get too much contraction okay
not enough relaxation so they use a
calcium channel blocker they're blocking
in this channel right here to reduce
blood pressure calcium channel blockers
are also used in another condition
called Raynaud's and that's a condition
where the circulation at the end of your
fingertips is really bad in poor where
you get this like almost purple because
the smooth muscle is restricting blood
flow to the end of the fingertips
especially if you're going outside in
the cold or you touch something really
cold so Councillor channel blockers
improve that simply because they inhibit
contraction and increase blood flow and
then we have bronchospasm or asthma why
would the calcium channel blocker
improve a spasm in your lungs well
simply because it inhibits contraction
in the smooth muscle in your lungs okay
and you can breathe better so if you
have too much calcium that builds up
inside the cell you can have all sorts
of issues high blood pressure you can
develop anxiety bipolar migraines
myofascial trigger points that would be
trigger points let's say you have
certain knots around the body like
someone presses on them and it's very
painful inflammation cancer because of
the cell signaling problem diabetes
we talked a little bit about insulin
resistance neuro degeneration
degenerative joint disease there are
just so many problems that can occur if
you have an imbalance of calcium with
too much calcium inside the cell and
when you go to the doctor and get your
calcium tested they don't actually check
the calcium inside the cell they may
just focus on the calcium outside the
cell but to do that you have to do an
intracellular calcium test okay guys now
in the last video part three I'm gonna
talk about what to do to get this
calcium out of the cell and reverse this
process stay tuned so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
