today we're going to teach you what's
behind bloating so you can permanently
get rid of bloating when you eat food
you chew it it goes through the
esophagus it goes down to the stomach
where you have a lot of acid and the
reason why it's so acid in the stomach
is so you can break down proteins and
also that acid is going to kill any
microbes that are on the food then we
have this mixture in the stomach that
then ends up in the small intestine
where you digest like 90% of the food
and you have all sorts of things that
are helping you you have the gallbladder
which is releasing something called bio
to start breaking down the fats but you
also have secondary bio salts made by
your microbes on the left side of your
body you have this thing called the
pancreas and that's making certain
enzymes to help you break down
carbohydrates proteins and that's where
you get a lot of breakdown as well as
certain microbes in the small intestine
and the large intestine help release
enzymes I wanted to point that out
because 20% of all the enzymes are made
by the microbes not to mention then we
get certain acids that are created like
lactic acid and that lactic acid also
helps the microbes Thrive because a lot
of the good bacteria thrive in an acid
environment what does all this have to
do with bloating well bloating is
basically some problem in the digestion
you can have two people eat the same
food and one person bloats and the other
person doesn't why is that one really
big difference between these two people
is the the type and the amount and the
diversity of gut bacteria that they have
and a lot of your microbial density and
the health of your microbes has to do
with if you took an antibiotic in your
past and how many antibiotics you took
in your past the greatest lie about
antibiotics is that they do cause a
diminishing of your microbes but within
weeks they'll come back to normal that
is absolutely a lie if you ever had an
antibiotic unfortunately the composition
of your microbes have never gone back to
the original diversity in the amount let
me give you a little more details on the
Whiteboard I wanted to show you
something really quick here's a chart of
all these different microbes you don't
need to know or memorize any of these
but just realize these are microbes that
are normally in your gut the L stands
for
lactobacillus and then the b stands for
bifido bacterium okay so they're just
different typ of microbes after someone
has a broad spectrum antibiotic look at
the percentage of loss of these microbes
50 to 75% 70 to 90% look at this 99%
loss of this microb after you get an
antibiotic if you don't have the
microbes you're not going to have the
contribution they make towards helping
you with certain enzymes just take a
look at all of these microbes right here
and then take a look at how many of
these affect your bile and you need bile
to help you break down the fats and with
this last column right here you can see
all the microbes that are involved in
decreasing the risk of getting small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth and if
you're missing these not only are you
going to have bloating but you're going
to have gas you can have burping
constipation all sorts of things there's
other things that mimic antibiotics that
you need to be fully aware of and
unfortunately that could be the reason
why you have bloating so let's just take
glyphosate glyphosate it's a weed killer
but Monsanto created a patent for
glyphosate as an
antibiotic because it kills microbes
what do you think that's doing to your
microbes if you're constantly exposed to
it and they use three times as much
glyphosate on just drying things out
like non-GMO stuff so here you are you
buy something because is non-mo you
think oh this is good yet you're getting
even more of this antibiotic other
things that can act as an antibi biotic
birth control pills steroids like
prednisone medications for depression
ppis that's used for acid reflux
artificial sweeteners fluoride in the
water supply and even Statin medications
and I want to bring up one point about
antibiotics if you have to take
antibiotics I highly recommend that you
always at the same time take a probiotic
during the time you take the antibiotic
and then after because you're killing
your microbes so we want to replace them
we don't want to replace the bad
bacteria we just want to replace the
good bacteria couple other things about
antibiotics there's some data that says
that oh you have to take the antibiotic
for the full dosage for 7 days or two
weeks or 10 days whatever there's some
new data on that that that's actually
not true you want to talk with your
doctor about this but this new
information the new research states that
you can take it up to a point where
maybe you're feeling better and then you
can stop taking it it could be 3 days
because sometimes they scare you like
you have to keep taking it for this long
period of time that actually creates
more of an antibiotic resistance
long-term antibiotics it's false the
point is we've been taking antibiotics
way too long 80% of the antibiotics are
sold for livestock and other animals
that we eat we're getting exposure to a
lot of antibiotics even people with
kidney stones calcium oxalate Stones
probably from an antibiotic the
probiotic called oxalobacter this
microbe that eats oxalates in fact I
bought some online I had to get it from
Europe but these are probiotics what
happens is we take it antibotic it kills
off certain microbes like that one and
now we end up with high oxalates and it
creates damage to our body so many
people cannot digest food anymore simply
because they don't have all the microbes
in sufficient quantities the solution to
bloating is to take a really good high
quality probiotic to put back in what
has been missing since you took an
antibiotic long ago the other important
thing to consume is regular fermented
products dairy fermented products and
like kefir some high quality yogurt and
also fermented vegetables sauerkraut
kimchi pickles things like that you have
better digestion but you also have
something else the majority of microbes
in someone's body are dormant they're
asleep one way to wake up dormant
microbes is to bring the pH in the right
range to make it more acidic and then
they will basically come back to life
and start working so this is why when
you take something like really acidic
like kombucha or apple cider vinegar
what you're doing is you're waking up a
lot of dormant microbes and now all
these microbes can help to support the
bile that you need they can help support
the enzymes to break down carbohydrates
like fiber and even fats and provide the
capacity to take a lot of stress off
your pancreas your gallbladder
your stomach and your small intestine
once you lose these microbes these other
organs have to overwork to try to
compensate they get tired and you don't
produce the same amount of enzymes so
you end up with all sorts of issues the
solution is to put back in your gut the
missing microbes and I'm going to put a
link down in the description of one that
I recommend that may help you
