hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about the best diet for an overly
critical person now you have people that
are chronically critical then you got
people that are critical sometimes and
sometimes they pop out of it but you
know the type these people are irritable
they're sometimes very nasty and they
usually have either a blood sugar
problem they have an adrenal
issue they're very low and B vitamins
specifically B1 and they usually are uh
have inside IA okay they're always
chronically tired and they have a lot of
anxiety just realize that they're not
critical just to you they're critical to
a lot of people and they probably have
hypoglycemia which basically is low
blood sugar so when they eat they Spike
the sugar and then it drops down here
and when you have low blood sugar you're
not in your right stable mind you're
just you're saying things that you don't
mean and that type of thing so what what
this person needs is um to go to three
meals a day but not snacks because we
want to correct the blood sugar we need
to do intermittent fasting very very
very very important um so they're not
grazing through the day um and also
nutritional yeast nutritional yeast has
the natural B vitamins that they need
and that will chill them out pretty
pretty fast as well walking as far as
exercise they should do low intensity
long
walks uh and also lots of potassium
potassium is essential it's the
physiological
tranquilizer as far as relaxation to the
muscles the nervous system if you're
deficient in pottassium you're going to
your nerves are going to be stressed out
so and that could come from a lot of
greens and vegetables so these are the
things that these people need these this
is the cause if they were to correct
that they would probably be a lot less
critical okay thanks for
watching hey thanks so much for watching
Press the Subscribe button and I'm going
to hold on one second who is this hold
on one second hey honey listen I'm right
in the middle of filming
here she wants to say hi okay I said hi
I got to go Okay bye so if you like the
videos press subscribe and I will keep
you updated with the future events
