let's talk about the seven foods that
have the potential to increase longevity
now the majority of illnesses and
chronic disease relates to the
mitochondria at the cellular level
anything that can help support or
maintain or improve the mitochondria can
potentially help you live longer
anything that destroys the mitochondria
you're not going to live as long and at
the very top of the list there's one
molecule that's very very powerful it's
called pqq what it does is it increases
the number of mitochondria and it is
also involved in the continuous
recharging and
discharging of electrons in the battery
in your mitochondria then you get into
what's called physics which involves
electrons so we're dealing with the
creation of a battery so the
mitochondria has a very important
function of uh creating ATP which are
many little batteries and this molecule
pqq can actually do both it can help
discharge and release energy and help
recharge energy as well it increases the
number of mitochondria it's very
important in your brain in your
cognitive function and if you're missing
this molecule in your food you have a
lot of problems and it's 10 times
stronger than Resveratrol and out of all
the foods that have the most
pqq it's the cacao that is kind of the
precursor to cocoa or chocolate then you
have
cocoa which is heated and chocolate is
more processed but even chocolate as a
finished product even though it's heated
has a large amount of this pqq now the
uh negative part of chocolate is usually
comes in sugar but if you were to get
the let's say the
85% or maybe even 90% You' get just a
very tiny bit of sugar and the other
negative part is that Cacao is very high
in oxalates so if you're proing to
kidney stones probably not a good idea
but even in general if you just have a
small piece you're getting a smaller
amount of these oxalates and it's
probably not going to be a big problem
but just to make sure as an extra
precaution if you were to have this um
you know little bit of chocolate right
after your lunch and you had some cheese
that extra calcium will help reduce uh
the oxalates being absorbed but cacao or
chocolate also has polyphenols it's very
very high in magnesium but polyphen
those are also in berries grass-fed meat
they're in grass-fed uh cheese in fact I
submitted some of our um cattle meat
into a research project and I got the
results back and there was like super
high amounts of polyphenols in the meat
the animal meat so when the animals eat
the plants that have the polyphenols
you're going to get that indirectly so
polyenals are another thing that
increases the number of mitochondria
polyphenols also increase sod which is
uh something that helps to reduce
oxidation free radical damage it also
has an enzyme that reduces hydrogen
peroxide in the cells it has the
potential to decrease inflammation if
your gut microbiome is not very good if
you have a lot of digestive issues you
might not benefit from polyphenols but
if you have a good gut microbiome okay
your microbes will help you absorb these
polyphenols and if the polyphenols are
in animal meat or the goats cheese
that's probably a lot more bio valuable
than consuming them straight from plants
all right co-enzyme Q10 is also used in
our mitochondria especially the part
where you're dealing with electrons
that's the last part of that whole cycle
so this coza Q10 allows for these
electrons to travel through and allows
you to make ATP statins uh block an
enzyme that also is involved in this Con
mq10 and so if you're on the Statin you
better be taking coin mq10 or else
you're going to have a lot of Muscle
side effects it increases the
antioxidant capacity in your body it's
even a therapy for mitochondrial
diseases but it's also in liver it's in
red meat it's also in fatty fish all
right next one is ELC carnitine it
basically helps you burn the fat okay
when you exercise ELC carnitine helps
preserve muscle protein ALC cartine
helps you recover from exercise as well
take well guess where you're going to
get most of the lcarnitine it's very
high in red meat the exact food that
they tell you not to eat so the next
molecule is carnosine this molecule
greatly restores mitochondrial damage it
helps buffer the pH it helps decrease
inflammation it gets rid of oxidative
stress it even decreases something
called glycation which occurs uh in
diabetics and it occurs when you're
eating sugar a lot of people do consume
either sugar in protein or sugar and fat
end up having this glycation which kind
of binds up the protein well guess what
carnosine will help get rid of that and
also carnosine delays aging and take a
while guess what food you're going to
find carnosine in red meat okay the next
um molecule I want to talk about it's
called FICO cyanin okay FICO cyanin this
is in spirulina okay this is not an
animal product it's an algae that
molecule not only improves oxid stress
but also it can increase mitochondrial
biogenesis it can increase the number of
mitochondria it helps protect the DNA it
helps repair DNA number seven EPA and
DHA these fatty acids both directly
improve mitochondrial function they
decrease oxidative stress they improve
insulin sensitivity they reduce
inflammation and you can find these
Omega-3s in salmon
sardines you're going to find probably
the most in cod liver and cod liver oil
now since we talked about the foods that
extend your life let's talk about the
most dangerous food that could shorten
your lifespan and I put that up right
here check it
out
