all right so we're going to talk about
deep vein thrombosis and vitamin E okay
now a thrombus is a formation of a clot
okay in the vascular system and
sometimes you have pain or swelling and
sometimes you have no symptoms until you
get a stroke because that clot could
break off in the body and end up in your
lung and the brain and create all sorts
of problems some of the risk factors
smoking no activity you're sitting
around letting your blood just pool
obesity is a risk factor birth control
pills can also trigger a clot or even
trauma okay or even surgery but I want
to talk about vitamin deficiencies
setting you up for this condition out
here so when you're deficient in vitamin
b12 you can get a thrombus and that
could even come from taking metformin
which is a diabetes medication for a
long period of time you become deficient
in b12 so if you're deficient in b6 or
folate it can put you at risk of getting
a thrombus and vitamin E has the power
to help prevent and dissolve a blood
clot okay it has a couple really amazing
properties anticoagulant anti plaquing
so again it's really good to support the
vascular system to lower the risk of
heart attacks enjoying the pain is a
vitamin E deficiency so now the question
is what could create a vitamin E
deficiency well a couple things
consuming too much refined flour in the
form of bread pasta cereal crackers
biscuits things like that having liver
damage gastrointestinal issues like
Crohn's disease or inflammation your bow
or IBS that can all prevent the
absorption of vitamin E gall bladder
problems it would see your gall bladder
removed well now you don't have enough
bile to absorb vitamin E that could be
one cause and in which case you would
want to take some bile salts to help you
absorb it and also if you had a gastric
bypass that can actually greatly
diminish the absorption of these fat
soluble vitamins now if you're wondering
how to get vitamin E you can get a lot
of vitamin E and sunflower seeds okay
also wheat germ oil make sure that you
keep it in the refrigerator because it
goes bad very quick when it's exposed to
oxygen almonds
chose spinach other leafy greens also
have vitamin E so if you're thinking
about getting about M&E in a supplement
make sure you don't get this synthetic
version and even the natural version
make sure that it's in a complex so you
have many different parts of the vitamin
E complex because in nature
vitamin E never comes as a single alpha
tocopheryl it comes in multiple parts so
to find a high-quality one it's
definitely gonna be worth it alright
thanks for watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has a hundred and fifty six
images three hundred seventy eight pages
full glossary I talk about Kido in a
minute-- fasting the body types in
detail I have a new stressed chapter I'm
going to show you exactly what to eat
and a comprehensive
FAQ I put a link down below check it out
