so I wanted to talk about all the
different reasons why you may have leg
cramps at night it's called nocturnal
leg cramps okay are nocturnal cramps all
right
first one is low potassium okay
potassium is intimately involved in the
contraction and relaxation of your
muscles so if there's not enough
potassium you're going to have a
tightening of that muscle low sodium
which is an electrolyte can also cause
cramping not as common but it can
magnesium another common one potassium
in magnesium deficiencies are probably
the two top minerals that are involved
with leg cramping because these minerals
are needed to relax the muscle it's not
surprising when a lot of people are
deficient in this mineral in this
mineral simply because they don't
consume enough leafy greens they have a
lot of sodium but they have not enough
potassium foods or magnesium foods and
then we have calcium if you're low in
calcium which by the way are also in
greens and dairy but if you don't have
enough calcium that can also cause a
cramp another reason is that your pH of
your blood is slightly too excessively
alkaline okay and there's a narrow band
there but if it goes too far to one side
and too alkaline
what'll happen these minerals can't be
transported so everything kind of locks
up but you're too alkaline you can also
have tetany or like twitching right here
on your arm because the muscles are not
in their normal tone okay so if the pH
is off these minerals can't be
transported into the muscle and you can
have techne spasms cramping and all
sorts of muscle and nerve problem but I
want to talk about another cause of leg
cramps at night that go beyond some of
these minerals and it has to do with a
vitamin okay vitamin e deficiencies okay
a vitamin D deficiency will cause
restless legs now you can also be
deficient in vitamin b1 and have
restless legs as well but vitamin E will
do it too because vitamin E is involved
in oxygen carrying capacity in the
muscle it's also involved in the storage
of glycogen which is the sugar in the
muscle now
if you're in the ketogenic diet you're
still using some of your glycogen
reserve ok so especially at night you're
gonna use that up and then you're going
to burn more fat but I also want to
include a couple studies down below in
using vitamin E to get rid of nocturnal
cramps okay now when you take vitamin E
number one make sure it's not a
synthetic version make sure you take a
food concentrate a blend of several of
the natural parts to this complex and
make sure you take an empty stomach 15
minutes before you eat
it'll just be absorbed a lot better
alright guys there you have it thanks
for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
