in this video we're gonna discuss the
potential benefits of bee propolis okay
what is bee propolis it's bee glue okay
so it's a natural resin that has been
known for a very long time for centuries
used by many cultures and this substance
is created when the bee goes out into
nature and extracts certain flowers and
certain buds and mixes it with saliva so
propolis is basically a combination of
various things in plants in the buds of
plants and saliva and there's a lot of
different chemical compounds in this
substance comes from the Greek Pro at
the entrance and Palace community or
City so the bees will use it as a
barrier or a protective coating on their
beehive so you don't have any foreign
invaders that get in there but here's
the thing there's been quite a bit of
research done on the substance yes it's
been done in vitro and a little test
tube outside the body but a lot of the
research that's being done right now
shows benefit as an antibacterial
antiviral anti fungal anti-inflammatory
and the Occident effect anti-tumor so I
just want to cover a few of the things
that people are getting some great
results with mouth ulcers wound healing
especially topical burns or cuts
allergies sinus problems flu because the
antiviral upper respiratory infections
which usually is viral can be bacterial
to the common cold also just to use it
to decrease fevers so I'm gonna put some
links down below so you can check it out
but it's definitely something to look at
as a potential benefit for any of these
conditions right here alright thanks for
watching
hey guys I'm not sure if you have my app
yet dr. Berg app it's totally free you
should download it okay this is what it
looks like you click it it gives you all
sorts of great resources I have all my
YouTube videos on this out ok and it's
regularly uploading the most recent ones
all the YouTube videos are also
converted to audio versions ok so you
can use it when you're walking
exercising driving your car I have a
mini course on there I'll be putting
additional courses I have a lot of
recipes on there and this is new and
also PBF resources so there's various
downloads PDFs that you can get as well
and if you wouldn't mind after you
download it check it out give me your
unbiased review and tell me how you like
it I want to know
