so in this video I'm gonna talk about
the hidden source of your acne okay now
there's a lot of things people do for
acne that put all sorts of creams
they'll scrub out the dirt and their
pores thinking that's dirt when it's
really not they'll take all sorts of
medications and the list goes on and on
and on and in some other videos I talk
about high androgens causing acne as in
puberty as in PCOS polycystic ovarian
syndrome and that's really high levels
of insulin that's converting to antigen
so just by lowering your insulin you can
normalize antigens and get rid of acne
also estrogen dominance can cause acne
this is why people take concentrated
cruciferous products like dim to help
with cystic acne it works really good
but there's another cause of acne based
on the book and the hidden cause of acne
by Melissa Gallico now she's an
intelligence analyst for the military
and the FBI so she's really good at
figuring things out and for her own acne
she figured out it was the fluoride
there's a couple really interesting
things when you do research on fluoride
number one there's a condition called
floral derma which is almost identical
to acne that comes from antigens it
looks the same
you also have halogen acne and halogen
represents a series of elements on the
periodic table like fluoride chlorine
bromine iodine that are very unstable
elements very reactive and people get
acne from being exposed to these okay
then you have something called perioral
dermatitis where you have acne around
the mouth and if you look this up
fluoride is one of the causes fluoride
like in your water is a byproduct to
phosphate fertilizer and it's kind of
crazy they actually put that stuff in
our water so if you have acne this is
one source that you need to be aware of
so what do you do about it what are some
action steps okay number one get a
fluoride free toothpaste the Florida
that your paste can be very easily
absorbed or ingested number two get a
water filter okay whether it's a whole
house filter one of those pictures or
even like one
for your shower the company that I
recommend is crystal quest I'll put a
link down below I do not get any
kickbacks or any Commission's or any
favors from this company I just think
they're really great because even though
the water pitchers themselves fill
filter of 2000 gallons compared to the
Brita which is only like 40 gallons and
they have a very specific filter that
you can get in addition to the pitcher
which is called the smart fluoride
filter and I would recommend getting
this one with the pitcher it's an extra
I think it's like 21 dollars but this
will filter out the fluoride and
everything else alright number 3 teeth
whitening okay be use a lot of fluoride
in that whether you're going to your
dentist or you're using one of the home
kits I would avoid that and the last one
is something that you also might not be
aware of when you buy tea at the grocery
store or even bottled water and it's
like a filtered water or even canned
water chances are you could have
fluoride okay because they probably are
not using some filter system they're
just filtering the water and not taking
out the fluoride it takes a special
filter to pull out the fluoride all
right guys now you have some things to
do go ahead and do this and comment
below and tell me how your skin improved
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
