hey everyone welcome back I have a great
guest today and his name is Rob kidney
and he was one of the contestants on The
Biggest Loser and welcome thank you
thank you it's good to be here
absolutely I appreciate you taking the
time I I really want to start out just
to kind of hear your story your
background first tell us a little bit
about you know the struggles with weight
and your health even before you went on
The Biggest Loser in a ditch III guess I
was a chubby little kid and struggled
with that when I was a little bit yeah
kind of grew out of it when I was a
teenager and through high school and
college pretty much maintained my weight
pretty pretty well got out into the
business world as a salesman traveled a
lot ate a lot of food in restaurants of
course all the time.they eating out and
just started to put on a little bit of
weight and honestly up until oh I guess
about 1996 or 97 I was maybe 30 40
pounds overweight for a long period of
time and then I had about a 10-year
stretch of uh a whole bunch of events
that just put so much stress on me that
I just realized that my stress eating
got a little bit out of control
so so it's a combination of stress and
stress eating and then eating the wrong
foods right yes yes it's the stress is
big stress is a big thing I always have
have been an athlete and exerciser
through college even when I was in my
first I've been married 36 years my
first uh years of marriage we exercised
a lot together
hiked walk ran is in the gym as much as
possible but I love to work I've always
loved to work I guess you like to work -
I see I see so many videos coming out
every every day yeah finding time to
exercise in that kind of environments
like most people we are
I call them intermittent exercisers we
exercise when we can write what was the
peak weight that you hit like what's the
most you've ever weighed 326 when I the
Biggest Loser Wow
so here you are you hit this way did you
did it when you walked around or sat
what are to feel like on your joints to
have that much weight to do to get down
to it her it was miserable okay point
and and I'll say it over and over again
anybody that asked me about the Biggest
Loser experience it literally saved my
life I really believe that it did I was
in a in a bad situation I've gone
through to cancer surgeries both
prostate and finally got that taken care
of that was in maybe in moms who I was
about 2009 2010 and hold three at the
time I was probably 54 so okay it's
pretty early for prostate cancer but but
I tracked that we caught it pretty early
and and got that taken care of
I had a tornado a freak tornado came
through I had businesses and destroyed
my business and should pay anything so
in a matter of seconds I lost them
couple hundred thousand dollars and
borrowed the rebuild and the economy
just went down and you and I had had a
drug problem for many years which was
probably worse than the cancer and Wow
but several other things but it just it
just all kept building I had I had a
really good friend and best friend and
one of my mentors in life I felt fell
off of a ladder and and died and I just
I just started eating more I would find
myself sometimes and in drive throughs
at restaurants not knowing how I got
there wow wow so you have all these
present time problems and it's just
stacking up and of course you want to
get relief so
turn to eating so when you actually got
on this this show tell us a little bit
experience of how that went
it looked pretty intense wait it was
intense it was to take a 326 pound body
and tell it to go to the gym for 40
hours a week there was there was a lot
of hurt a lot of pain but 40 hours a
week at the gym 40 that's a full-time
job at the gym
yes yes it was I mean some of that some
of that of course was with trainers as
you see on TV but a lot of it's a lot of
it's not but you know again the Biggest
Loser I just have to tell you for me it
was it was a it was a break from life
which I greatly needed maybe some
intervention I just believe it was a
god-sent thing to help me take a
sabbatical from life so so so I didn't
know that I didn't know how much a
person exercised on that program so can
you give me just so like a summary like
you through the day is it just like okay
you're on the treadmill for an hour take
a break okay go back on the lift awaits
go back like what kind of workout would
you do in a given day workouts were it's
mostly staying really really busy all
day long we get up in the morning and
and if if you chose to eat something was
you know we've pretty much prepared our
own foods we didn't have a chat we
learned how to cook they have the best
nutritionist in the world and chefs who
do teach you some things about cooking
but then you're on your own for else you
wouldn't be able to make these decisions
it is a show it is a contest at the time
when it started 12 13 years ago it used
the best possible science available at
that time that was going on so I will
never never fall the biggest loser for
anything but give it credit for saving
my life but we started with a morning
workout was most of the time I fasted
workout just like I do now
then come back eat a little bit of
calories sure we ate we ate frequent
times throughout the day but for the
intensity of what we were doing it was
probably necessary so the the food was
the best produce in the world they've
made a lot of vegetables which which was
new for me one of the things I really
learned how to do well there was was a
really plant-based me oh I ate a lot of
plant-based food it's the the the big
thing that changed for me after the show
and of course going to Quito it's been
carved I've always ate clean since that
point really clean so just I want to
kind of just get you know because I want
to get into that topic but I wanted to
find out just as far as the workouts so
you basically you would eat eat through
the day and then you would work out in
the afternoon well we've worked out we
would work out on our own in the morning
then maybe with a trainer for a couple
hours do a couple are if workout or a
circuit workout it's not all cardio it's
it's some really fun workouts where the
best trainers around and each trainer
has a little different Flair and a
little different style my trainer was
Jen waders Drummond and and she would
put us through some like circuit
training or CrossFit type training and
we had a lot of fun but doing it as a
group also helped double so so then you
would go a period of time and then was
it seven days a week or did you have a
day off well we were working out the
whole time we were there whenever most
of the contestants get on there I mean
everyone gets on The Biggest Loser I
think the biggest motivation is to lose
as much weight as fast as possible I
don't think money is a big thing
it might come into play after if you've
lost a lot of weight but everybody goes
there to lose as much weight as fast as
possible right okay you're working out
all the time there is little pusher to
and once one person does that more exact
everybody starts working out that you
work out every couple hours put a little
bit of food in your mouth work out again
but a little interesting and then I
think obviously the food was fairly
clean but then you had the
the frequency of meals so you had quite
a few meals and then you also or allowed
snacks and fruit right well yeah yeah I
mean it was uh it was like meal little
snack meal little snack meal little
snack and again they have to leave a lot
of that up to you so that you either
sink or swim in the show that's but at
all times you're totally monitored you
log your food it's being checked so that
there they're just no problems no one is
allowed to go to severe calorie
restriction unless they completely
didn't tell the truth in all right
everything is monitored and say okay and
then at the point you lost a total of
how much was the total that you lost
116 Wow and that was over a period of
how long about three months branch doing
the forty hours a week that you
compartment and most people have jobs so
you go back to work and still try to
work twenty twenty for work twenty 24
hours a week x three months and then you
have a live finale and then you come
home and and crash though Wow okay so
you lost all the way and then you
completed that program yes and then you
were done and then um what happened at
that point with your well huh come back
home and that when we finished up we
were of course the last season that the
I guess it was a New York Times that did
that published the report the Biggest
Loser study that came out and they were
aware of that when we got done and and
they did their due diligence of warning
us that we would have to go home and and
the study shows that you know your left
and levels are down your metabolism is
downgraded and you're gonna have to
either exercise for many hours
any really really clean to keep this off
and then we would have regular calls and
group calls for a while after that to
just check on us and to see how we were
doing
and maybe if we needed any any advice
they would give us some advice though
and then and then you gained some weight
back yeah I gained some weight back
probably in 18 months
I gained 88 90 pounds in a 18 months
that was a very very scary time I must
mine my eating was Queen kale shake for
breakfast salad for lunch and a low-carb
dinner of all odd eating eating low carb
for many many many years but I did eat
some quinoa and some rice and I don't
know if there are clean cleaner carbs
but hey pretty well sweet potatoes and
didn't need a whole lot of junk but in
that 18 months it just kept coming on I
exercised a few hours a week a lot less
than I was told that I had to but but
anyway it just kind of just kept
crawling and creeping back on I guess my
setpoint was so low and my metabolism
was so low that it just it was it was a
really scary thing until about January
of first I had started about in January
price of 218 I had been watching your
videos from six months slowly making
changes as you had suggested you know I
looked I watched a lot on Keith that's
all I was hearing was key to this keep
of that but but it really didn't like
some of the things I'm that I was
hearing on the Internet
that's what against ideas of what clean
eating was I mean bacon seven days a
week yeah I think I think and let's just
bring this up because I think um there's
this kind of delusion comment generality
that says oh keto is all just pure bacon
and red mean fat right that's kind of
like that's what I saw it burst right so
but there's what's called a healthy
version of it which is actually a lot of
vegetables high-quality
and it's not all just that right are you
cleaner than probably anybody I know
I eat more vegetables in more kale I
liked your approach your approach helped
me one as I was looking at Kido I was
looking at intermittent fasting as I
determined it was probably the key but I
was I didn't know that I could really
fast and go and and push myself to that
limit because I'd been eating four or
five times a day even small amounts not
big amounts but I didn't know that I
could do it but when you started to say
okay take your 5 mils turn them into
three meals eliminate the snacks then
push your breakfast back toward
lunchtime until you're eating in an 18-6
window that made a lot of sense to me
and the other thing was yes seven eight
cups of greens a day sold me because I
knew from my experience even on even on
the ranch my best weeks were all
vegetables and fish weeks that's right
my best my best weight loss is healthy
fats and greens I love it so for those
of you that are watching that are new
and I want to mention something because
this is like the most important point is
the combination of a healthy version of
keto and then intermittent fasting when
you have to eat so often you're raising
insulin despite if you're eating nuts it
doesn't matter you're just raising
insulin so in a minute fasting forces
your body to actually live off your fat
between the meals when you do that you
actually go into a state of ketosis
which is fat burning and you you think
that oh I'm gonna struggle with it but
no no you actually your hunger goes down
your cratons go down you can last longer
because you're running off your own fat
the way that most people do it if they
snack is they never actually get into a
true sustained fat burning and
the whole key to this thing is lowering
your insulin which will prevent the
slowing of your metabolism I think what
happened to you is that because of the
raise of the stress of losing weight and
then the raising up of insulin that
slowed the metabolism right there so if
you have a stubborn metabolism you you
have to focus on lowering insulin that
is the secret right there and that's
what you did yeah and what one thing you
said there about about whenever you eat
insulin raises I was hearing a lot on
the Internet about you can eat all this
fat and you can eat I mean you can eat a
lot of greens and things but but there
are certain foods that won't spike your
insulin but I found out that every time
I ate a meal starting January 1st of
last year my insulin went up my sugar
when I was I bought me a keto meter and
I was ketones three four or five times a
day fasting days I would eat something
out idiot eat a certain sweetener just
to test it I would eat a kale salad to
test it and even on even on a kale salad
my insulin spike and we know with
someone who is insulin resistant who has
maybe some fatty liver and and some
other problems that that spike stays up
a little bit longer than someone who's
maybe 10 20 pounds over overweight but
that's that's what I found I tested
everything that you were telling me and
and it worked I mean I did not want to
give away all my healthy eating
migraines I'm a big supplement guy I
take I take a lot of stuff and I take
some of your supplements --n and all the
time but it's it's i did not want to
give up really good eating and and the
other thing that kind of bothered me was
you know and and some people don't do it
in in the world of keto but i counted my
carbs I put everything in I loved every
bit of food that I've ever eaten
that's one best thing that Biggest Loser
ever taught us was to log every bit of
food I use my fitness pal but every time
I come up with my fitness now it's
saying I'm eating
4050 Karp today and I think I'm eating
10 15 carbs a day but a lot of my carbs
are good healthy carbs that are coming
from the vegetables and the salads and
things like that so I'm okay at about 50
I stick I stick 40 50 probably if I'm
going to count every car I don't like
the idea or they'll count this and don't
count that I just I count them all I try
to stay 40 to 50 grams a day if I'm
eating vegetables and I'm happy with
that so interesting and one more point
about that the when you eat vegetable
carbohydrates you're dealing with a
carbohydrate but a lot of that's in the
form of a fiber fiber despite being a
carbohydrate doesn't have the effects of
like other other macronutrients so it
eventually indirectly it's fed to the
microbes that turns into what's called a
butyric acid which then helps you fix
instant resistance so indirectly it
helps you so not to mention all the
potassium and the magnesium and the
vegetables in the chlorophyll which
basically also help insulin resistance I
think a real subtle point that I don't I
hope everyone got so far is that we're
not even dramatically changing your diet
we're actually changing the frequency of
when you're eating and probably tweaking
it but did you did you also tweak it
with with cutting out some of the sweet
potato or fruit oh I eat a Mary every
once in a while I don't eat a lot of
food but I think bioflavonoids and a lot
of minerals in but I I don't I eat a
sweet potato that's my my cheat day if I
have a cheat day it'll be half of a
sweet potato something that's really I
enjoy conquering net that that's that's
sweet craving big for me I guess the
best I've been able to identify myself
is is a thyroid type if we're talking
about body types from you from all the
research I did in your health coach
classes
now I think I'm a thyroid type but
that's that sweet craving as well as
something that when you get on keto
first thing you want to do is find all
these sweet alternatives that you can
grow in your mouth at eight o'clock at
night like you used to do ice cream or
cereal or something else and then it
seems like you've it to be successful
you got to progress beyond that and
actually in fact the problem which is
the sweet craving and the facts do help
that they help a lot but I eat today
today I'm over this year let's say I've
taken back off another 50 plus pounds I
still have about 35 pounds to go till
where I got off the Biggest Loser and
it's been slow there's been plateau
after plateau after Plateau and that's
okay I'm eating to be healthy and the
weight loss will follow and that limit
may be a big thing that you said that
it's totally agreed with with my
philosophy I want to get healthy I was
almost dead yeah I totally believe what
they say I was dying and probably didn't
have long to go they found another thing
I'm very grateful for with all the
medical staff that they have they found
free heart blockages my current
bloodwork that I just had and now after
you know I said a year and a half of
keto and a good good year of
intermittent fasting with keto my all my
markers are blood I was back home blood
pressure back on thyroid medicine that's
all gone well my TSH for the first time
and t4 is totally in line calcium's a
little low Mykel seems always a little
know for some reason maybe because I
don't eat dairy I don't know if you can
help me I do supplement what do you
supplement with no I'm not not not the
rocks and other things that not the
carbonates and I'm not get it to citrate
okay good yeah as long as it's a citrate
mineral and it'll be fine
as long it's not people those of you
they're watching you never want to just
take the form of calcium in the calcium
carbonate you'd be better off chewing on
the cement out there so we want to stick
with the citrate but you you have to
calcium is one thing that I'm really
cautious the only time I would recommend
it is if it shows low or you have bone
loss because as people age the thing
that they have always too much of in the
wrong place is calcium and so they have
calcium and the arteries of calcium and
the joints and so you got to be careful
even especially women with with calcium
supplements and iron supplements those
are two that you got to be careful with
question I have about just the
differentiation of the food the foods
like you you were doing probably a lot
of snacking I'm guessing you well just
eating frequently and now you're
lowering the carbs and you're eating one
meal a day right I really found that I
have to mix it up a lot I went to total
oh man for one meal a day for awhile
let's say well we started off the
beginning the year push in the in an
18-6 window with two meals then I
graduated to one mill a day I really
love how I feel on one meal a day I like
it a lot but I did plateau after a short
while and then the plateau I give a
plateaued three or four weeks before I
really panic about it but three or four
weeks later I said we've got to switch
something up so I at the advice of
everybody on the internet they say eat
more fat you're not eating enough fact
you're not enough that one I'm 60 years
old another thing that you have taught
me is that that as you age maybe you
need to look at your fat percentage and
keep it more around 60 percent than 70
or eight so I try to keep it around 60
percent and I function really well there
when it gets beefed up and especially on
snacks
nuts will put on weight on me really
quick or if I get that fat up there
around 7080 percent and you can tell
they're real easy on some of them I want
to push my fitness pal but I have my
fitness penalty the paid-for version
that you can track all your macros and
keep your percentages and and I love
that so Wow yeah that's that's a good
for those people that are platt doing
and I'll just kind of give you a couple
things um you probably already know
number one it's not necessarily a matter
of increasing the fat we want if you've
plateaued we want your body to burn your
own fat and not as much of the dietary
fat so you want to bring them bring your
fat down a little bit not as a low-fat
but maybe maybe have the fat not extra
but just with your protein like you're
out you're getting your fat with the
salmon or the other as as compared to
adding butter or things like that
if you get your fat below 75 grams and I
will be sending out a video of what that
looks like if you want to see but 75
grams is about 55 to 60 percent of your
total calories for an average person if
you're doing like 1800 calories for the
day but here's the thing there's a
couple of things that you can look at
and you you hit it run you talked about
the nuts there's there's carbs and nuts
there's also a vibrant nuts there's
things and nuts that are anti nutrients
that can irritate your gut they can
create a little bit of inflammation the
same thing with dairy so knots in dairy
are the two things that could put you in
a plateau so what you could do is switch
the type of nut that you're consuming
for example almonds might sound like a
healthy nut but I found that their their
high unluck tins which actually create a
little this is kind of inflammatory
thing in your gut so if you did walnuts
and you can soak them overnight in water
that it pulls out all these anti
nutrients and I have a dehydrator you
can dry them out for like
and then you can eat those you'll find
that they bow they digest better they're
easier to digest you'll get some good
fat and protein from that and omega-3
fatty acids and you can then also maybe
as a fat eat olives that would be
beneficial so you can see you're not
hungry all the time and have your
protein and the other thing that I found
with people is that you have to be
careful about certain people cannot just
digest any vegetable that they may be
leafy greens or this vegetable but they
see if they start bloating and they
start getting any type of digestive
digestive problem on that you got to
switch up your vegetable and sometimes
steam ium will help but it's like you
can't just put everyone on the exact
same program so when you test your
ketones I think that's very valuable
because you can find out what foods
agree with you because that could be why
you're not you know progressing the last
thing I want to mention is that within a
minute fasting you know just like I
don't know if they did this on The
Biggest Loser muscle confusion they
constantly changed the workout I don't
know if they did that probably they did
but we want to also do that with fasting
like maybe you don't eat at the exact
same time each day
let your body tell you when you should
eat like even with some people I find
that maybe every third day there they're
not eating
they're like eating one meal a day and
then every third day they skip that meal
because they can go longer so it's kind
of a mini periodic prolonged fasting
every so often but not on a regular
basis kind of like you're kind of
tricking your body into it doesn't
really know what's gonna eat that
doesn't necessarily slow the metabolism
because you're actually you have your
insulin low but it might kind of reset
and your and to lose more weight so
prolonged fasting periodically but not
in a pattern is very powerful to bust
through that Plateau
wow that's exactly what I found I mean
if I look at this week I start off
Sunday night is is Sundays
my kind of high-fat day and then I'll
either go into a and again I worked up
to this point so anybody who's listening
this is this is something that's worked
up over time but I'll do a 48 or 36 hour
fast from Sunday night
so either Tuesday lunch or Tuesday night
I leave my one meal a day that makes
Tuesday one meal a day Wednesday is on
also one meal a day Thursday might be
another fasting day I might eat Friday
morning and then eat and then give it
another 8 or so hours and maybe eat a
little bit Friday night Saturday and
Sunday I eat two good meals on Saturday
and Sunday and some fat and then I'll
switch it up a little bit next week
that's good that's good data do you find
that are you actually hungry when you
eat or you just eat like oh I just have
to eat or are you actually hungry right
before you have to eat well funny thing
about hunger as someone who who never
had an off on switch my whole life I've
had to really learn this Kido has helped
me to really learn this for or into
minute fasting has helped me to really
learn hunger and I find I'm in a car all
the time I exercise at gas stations I
exercise when I'm in the Verizon store
that was in the Verizon store one day
but I am going to get some exercising
because it is it is found to me to break
any plateau that I have if I do a little
bit of exercise now I refuse to do
exercise that I can't maintain every
week of my life and a few hours of
exercise in but I do my squats my
push-ups and go up and down stairs or
maybe some cardio or some of the things
you see behind me bodyweight exercise I
don't do a lot of it I just want to keep
moving and keep strong I am 60 years old
here in a couple months and what the
oils in my body now and the good fats
keep my bones from cracking and creaking
I get out of bed in the morning and I
feel alive I feel my breath and I can
get through my day without a pain
I mean it's it's just really wonderful
buzz def I'm gonna pop that I had I'd
switch it up all the time now but think
back to the Hunger think the hunger does
go away it can make it through a
30-minute time period and maybe drink
I'd rate some of your minerals in my
water so I just hit some more of that if
I get hungry when I'm out there but but
most of most of my success has been
working up here on the things that make
me tea and the things that stress me out
and just if you don't attack some of the
things up here why I'm overeating my
portion control has been a big thing for
me because I've always had what I call a
fat mine I mean he would have sold my
plate before I would have had two big
pork chops on it or a 16-ounce piece of
steak now I have my four ounce piece of
meat and ate red meat a lot less
frequently than I did before
well that I want to just interject
because I think that this whole thing
with calories
Oh calories don't matter listener well
if you look at the macros on the healthy
version of keto you have moderate
protein we're not talking high protein
moderate protein three to six ounces
depending on your size you may be a
little more a little less and then you
have a lot of vegetables and then you
have a certain amount of fat and that's
the wild variable so as you get in the
keto you start reducing that so but
we're not we're not actually this is not
the same as what a lot of other people
are preaching like oh you just got to
lower your calories globally no that's
not about that it's like shifting your
calories to manipulate your hormones so
if you have a low calorie diet with a
little bit of fruit a little bit of the
wrong thing and you snack through the
day you are gonna have a heck of a time
trying to get into fat burning because
it's that insulin spike so it's really
understanding um
how to do this right did you I don't
know what what you had the sign what you
can say what you
can't say with the biggest losers but
was there anyone and I'm just curious
and you can say nothing but was there
anyone like do they recommend any type
of pills or anything to enhance your
metabolism like caffeine pills or
anything like that it was it was
probably the most tightest controlled
environment I've ever been in my life
and and there was never anything like
that okay on that show and in fact if I
could say everything you did even from
weigh-ins they made sure you weren't
dehydrated over dehydrated you weighed
in three days in a row if that's not a
trade secret but the reason of that was
to make sure you weren't dehydrating and
the matreya didn't have a big weight
gain after weigh-in I mean it was it was
total control right and then what about
did you make some friends and follow up
with people did they also gain the
weight back I'm on a a had a Facebook
group I guess with probably 300 other
biggest losers who have shared this
unique experience some of course and the
ones that are weren't happy with the
results that they got but but most
people if not all have an immediate
weight gain at first but most of the
ones I know find a point and come back
to like where I am now 30 40 pounds
overweight and some are satisfied there
some have gone and taken all their
weight back off but we still support
each other because it's it was an
interesting phenomenon that not a lot of
people get to go through and yeah I bet
you I and I'm sure it'd be interesting
to see if they're reaching for keto and
just by your story I'd be interesting if
they're like oh that's a great I'll have
to look into that there there are many
there are many who are and and is at
least low carb high fat synonymous terms
with me I'm you know I'm old enough that
I've been around and remember Atkins and
I remember how popular it was and I
remember being on the Atkins that it
started off very healthy too and it
and I had the same press that Kido gets
now and had a whole lot of people making
comments about it without a whole lot of
scientific fact and and again you're an
expert in the field you make a living
doing this Jillian Michaels is an expert
she makes a living doing what she's
doing she's very good at what she does
she has a lot of really good things to
say but you're always on the spot for
the things that you say that someone
could interpret them in a different
light or you know again I'm 60 years old
I've said too many things with my own
mouth that have got me in trouble my
whole life then I try you know no matter
how hard you try you can't avoid that
sometimes but the I guess the whole if I
had that Jillian Michaels is fantastic
at what she does
I would never criticize her for that but
some of the statements that she said
were just totally not scientific in fact
and and that's okay that's okay
right let's give her a break you know
hopefully with you would you would learn
the science and then come back maybe
stay maybe this isn't true but that that
doesn't happen a lot yeah my only point
with that is that you know there's a lot
of people struggling just like you were
and they're looking at things and
there's no denying that the kedo
lifestyle helps you lose weight but what
happens is what's right now their
pudding is just a little bit of doubt
that it's an unhealthy way to do it that
doubt could be the reason why they might
not even do it because they're operating
off of some completely false information
because they're looking at the ketogenic
diet as the diet that's been researched
over the last hundred years with
children which I believe is not very
healthy but it the fact that you're
lowering carbs does help epilepsy but
you can't just do any type of fat you
have to do a healthy version and of
course no one's talking about that
really important point if you combine
healthy version which is basically
quality foods with
nutrients and the benefit of lowering
your carbs it will solve a lot of your
health problems without having to even a
tackle these symptoms individually so so
this is that's the kind of the beef no
pun intended that I have with some of
the comments out there it's a just to
just you you should these people should
be able to get the truth the facts about
doing it healthily and not have that
doubt in their mind because
unfortunately I did that video and I
read some of the comments and they were
there are a lot of people I mean most of
the people were like wow this is great
but then there was a percentage that
like yeah I'm a little scared now I
don't think I'm gonna try it like it's
too bad because you could probably
benefit from it I said I see what you're
saying in a good case in point was
almost the very second that article came
out maybe thirty minutes later I posted
a picture of what a high fat meal is it
was a piece of fish on a bed of cabbage
that was cooked in butter the fish was
cooked in olive oil and I had a side of
kale salad that had more olive oil on
and the first comment that I got back
with someone sent me Jillian's comments
so you're right people see things and if
it keeps them from from make
experiencing something that will change
their life it doable to maintain the
rest of your life there people been on
keto for 20 years now or eating low carb
rice for 20-30 years and and living just
great and uh I'm fact you just gave me a
good idea I think I'm gonna do a
specific video on what seventy-five
percent or 70 percent fat percentage of
your calories looks like on your plate
I'll give a lot of examples because
they're thinking well seventy percent of
your calories well you have to realize
the calories are more than double other
macros so you're dealing with it's it's
not seventy five percent volume like in
grains yes its calories
so when you look at the plate you're
only talking a a quarter of your plate
is fat but it's mixing with the protein
so it's it's not what people think so I
think I'm gonna clarify that point and
probably the biggest biggest mistake
that people are having it by not logging
in their food is they don't see that if
you log in your food and you're checking
it mail by bill sometimes longer then I
log it in a lot before I eat it dude
just to see where I'm at is Wow I need
to make another choice hmm that's a good
point I love it it's so easy to get 70%
fat in India without without tunning in
all kinds of extra fat now you don't
have to I have learned some other
healthy habits that I do you know a
little bit of olive oil on an avocado
oh what a snack that is with a little
bit of salt but one question I one
question I forgot to ask you when you
did with their eating plan a low-fat
plan what you're taught all kind of
really great things about vegetables and
how to cook them prepare them in
nutrition and and then again you're
monitored and if you get if you say I'm
gonna eat only protein or I'm gonna eat
something you get a phone call or you
get a visit and and you have to
straighten that out right away but the
the meal plan was just to make sure that
you could sustain the amount of workout
that you were doing the frequency of
eating was probably necessary for what
we were doing so but but they didn't
necessarily specifically tell you you
have to go lean protein or low fat
proteins okay interests ahead I mean I'm
what and you watch people who eat
chocolate oatmeal the first few days and
then people were eating and don't that
eating some lunch meat and processed
meats and some I mean most of the foods
there is clean but but you could request
some some special things if you if
you've been eating them for a long time
but you know pretty soon every
the processed foods disappear all the
big grains and some of them will still
be eat some grains and some potatoes and
things like that but but it gets
narrowed down you you know you know most
of the people if we were really high on
knowledge before we went there we
wouldn't be there so we show up they
give us as much knowledge as we can and
the dynamic of the shows is you figure
it out as you go and some figured out a
little bit more than others Wow well I
couldn't go ahead and I'm just saying
when you can sit there though and
exercise 35 40 hours a week and and
you're eating a healthy amount of
calories 16 1700 1800 calories for for a
diet is not too extreme if you're going
to count the calories but when you're
doing that and still only lose one or
two pounds a week something hormonal E
is happening in your body it's not being
addressed and that makes that makes a
lot of sense and again I figured it out
through keto so Wow yeah and I think
because of this this whole experience in
your life you're you're gonna even
you're gonna decided to start coaching
people or maybe you're already doing it
now right I'm working you behind me I
have a big backyard we do every once in
a while just enjoy working with people
one because it helps me keep me
accountable I have had boot camps in the
past we last three or four months and
then on to something else I'll take it
an individual and work with an
individual one on one sometimes I work a
lot I'm a sales manager so I traveled a
lot and I mean someday I hope to be
doing some health coaching full-time or
find another alternative I've got a lot
of things that I'm that I'm working on
now that may come to fruition in the
future but uh yeah we get together here
and have a lot of fun I think you you
took my health coaching course right I
did I loved every bit of it again it
kept me accountable but it helped me
learn
so much and get focused and get nerdy
and I would recommend that to anybody
even if they don't want to be a health
coach Wow
if they really learned that the amount
of information that's put forth I think
it took me a little longer than most
people with my work I probably got
through in about four months but I'm
going over and over that information
about you know it's a one last point
about that it's the way I like to solve
problems is through understanding the
problem and the more you can understand
about it and have the correct knowledge
you that's how you solve problems just
like you can't if you are an expert in
marriage counseling but you've never
been married
I'm sorry it's not gonna work so if you
actually have the full knowledge of
insulin and the different hormones and
it's gonna be really hard for you to
beat poorly it's really hard for me to
eat junk food now because I have such a
deep understanding of what it does in
the body the consequences so on that and
then the other thing is that I think one
of the therapies for myself is helping
others so your you it's a very
therapeutic thing to create a difference
in someone's life and help them it's
like I just love doing and in fact if I
don't if I'm not helping people on a
constant basis I'm not as happy so it's
a it's a good therapy to have a tool
that you can really create a difference
so from that viewpoint it's awesome I
loved it I love to read comments on your
Facebook page and I hang around the
obesity code website a lot for fasting I
love the work they're doing in Canada
Jason funk and seeing people doing what
you're doing just keeps you on course on
that out through the Biggest Loser and
we stay in contact all the time I still
a trainer from the biggest loaners loser
but it's the people who are out there
intermittent fasting every day that I'm
watching them struggle mm-hmm can
comment every once in a while on their
comments help me that's that's all I'll
work love
Thank You Rob so much this has been very
enlightening I think people are gonna
get a lot out of it and I appreciate
your time thank you
thank you very much it was an honor to
be here with you you are my mentor in
this and I thank you for everything that
uh that you've done specially through
the health coaching class to help keep
me centered my pleasure
