[Music]
hey guys we're back with another
interview and this time we have Tara and
Tara is the owner of the ketogenic
Baking Company and I the way I found out
about her is I online I I saw this
incredible I think it was sneaker
snickerdoodle granola and I wanted to
check it out so I ordered it and I was
like blown away so I had to contact her
and see how she made this so that's how
we we met but so you you also had some
health issues so don't want to actually
kind of kind of just use as an example
of how a good evaluation would go and
some of the pitfalls that a lot of times
the doctors when they evaluate people
they just basically list your symptoms
and they connect with what remedy that
you're supposed to take and you gave you
gave me a little history so I can see
what's happening like you go to these
doctors and you just you don't really
dig deep and to find the cause right so
can you tell me like I have some
questions number one was there a point
in your life that you were actually fine
and you didn't have any health problems
I want to say no probably probably
before age 13 I was maybe decently
healthy I don't think I had any notable
symptoms that were consistent well see
this is always important because there's
always a time that things are going
along and then they get worse so the 13
to be interesting and I think doctors
don't ask this got enough because
there's always something that was
triggered now the first thing that comes
to mind when you're 13 is that you
probably are going through puberty your
menstrual cycle maybe you can tell me is
that when your first period was around
there was it earlier first period was 12
and it was pretty normal but 13 was when
I actually began so I developed an
eating disorder
okay so this is what I wanted to know
about because you know you gave me your
history but I want to know is there
anything behind this scene so an eating
disorder and was that did you notice
that your cycle was off first or you
just developed an eating disorder right
away and then all of a sudden things
started to go out of it out of whack my
cycle was actually there pretty normal
from what I understood to be normal at
the time I think looking back I can see
maybe there was already some estrogen
dominance going on just based on the
cramping as well as the flow
so once the eating disorder happened was
when it disappeared for two years right
okay so that was the first thing that
the chain reaction and then as far as
eating disorder how long did that last
how did that how long that problem last
anorexia continued through high school
until I was about 18 and then I
developed bulimia though it wasn't until
a few years ago that that stopped so
from age 13 to 18 you basically went in
a very low-calorie type thing yes
got it so we got all sorts of
nutritional deficiencies that can happen
and then with bulimia how long did that
last
see I'd say six six years okay six years
and did you also go on low calories as
well and oh yeah okay so that that would
explain so we have quite a few years of
that body stress and what's your age now
28 28 okay so so just to kind of
summarize some of the symptoms that you
told me there was a you had hep-c right
okay and then you had a blood sugar
issue I think you said your blood
Sugar's were 177 right yes so that's
some serious blood sugar issues
you got a metformin you're still on that
Foreman right
I was diagnosed with PCOS got it for
those people that never heard of that
that's polycystic ovarian syndrome
it's a condition where the ovaries are
developing little follicles a little
cyst and then there's higher levels of
androgen okay going on and there's
facial hair things like that I don't
know did you get those symptoms as well
I'd actually had no symptoms the loss of
period that's one of the reasons why I'm
considered to be this serious my case
okay so just a little side point on on
that when you went to the doctors
obviously did your research probably
what did the doctors tell you that's
causing PCOS I was not told what was
causing it actually and when I requested
metformin because I'd done my own
research I was told no and that birth
control was the answer Wow interesting
and when you researched online I would
imagine did you find any causation to
that like will cause up the causation
behind the misinformation no PCOS Oh
lutely and I had already begun a
ketogenic diet so I had already started
to see my blood sugar fall it was when I
found the blood sugar the 177 that shot
me into researching and figuring out the
insulin issue was that was that a rest
was that a fasting sugar 177 it was it
was six hours after eating half of a
quest bar so Wow
Oh carb you know yeah so so basically
what causes PCOS is insulin resistance
is high insulin that's really what
causes it so because high levels of
insulin converts to androgens so that's
that's that connection at the time - you
had other symptoms like rage and
depression and all that - right yeah
okay
so then you want an intermittent fasting
and that cleared right up
so we in it so we know it was blood
sugar those and this is I did a video on
this - where you have all these mood
issues
mood disorders that people are taking
psych drugs when in fact it's just a
blood sugar issue also you had the hair
loss constipation weight gain fatigue
right and yes I was prior to
intermittent okay got it now also they
found your t3 was slightly lower right
got it and so you're on are more that's
a natural thyroid hormone which is way
better than synthroid and then you also
had IBS right yes still still would say
that I do there was some suspected SIBO
he want to mention and I'm so I wasn't
actually tested for it because I wasn't
interested in having all that sugar for
but um but my symptoms matched up and I
did end up doing an herbal protocol and
I haven't had symptoms of SIBO since
then okay
and then also oh yeah your insulin you
did the intermittent fasting and your
the depression just vanished and then
three months you lost thirty pounds
which is quite amazing I didn't have to
make any effort Wow well but currently
you have high levels of progesterone
right yes okay and then chronic high
levels of cortisol yes and my estradiol
is very low so now we have low estradiol
okay and I'm gonna come back to that in
a second but you're still on metformin
which is for a pre-diabetes or insulin
resistance and also an armorer for
thyroid let's see also you had digestive
issues or do you have currently have
digestive issues well actually it was
your Apple Center video that taught me
well a few years back and that started
me realizing that it was a low acid
issue so since then I've done I've done
some things like you know slow down how
I eat or when I eat and
chewing you know chewing more but still
taking the apple cider vinegar I also
supplement with HCl and then I had a
test that showed my pancreatic output
was just low in general so I began
taking digestive enzymes okay so as long
as I have those things my digestion is
okay got it
okay do you get any pain or tightness
right here in your upper back like upper
right shoulder not consistently but
occasionally and I have suspect while
I've been told my gallbladder is under
under outputting as well that's what I
was gonna ask you about because the
gallbladder you get a lot of those
videos it goes right to the right
shoulder and sometimes even cause
headaches I mean people that have even
pain in their hand or the right side
it's all gallbladder okay so we have
that oh and terrible insomnia right
mm-hm that's my biggest symptom I think
other than the law of the MN areia okay
yeah no no cycle so and then you also
keep melatonin doesn't help in fact your
melatonin is high okay so you're
basically melatonin doesn't help all
right
[Music]
okay so now
so basically when I evaluate this I'm
looking at all this data and I'm trying
to putting in little buckets to see
where everything falls into and and the
way that you saw problems like this is
you try to take you solve a couple
little pieces of it and then you start
solving a little more of it and a little
more of it then it all falls into place
because there's you're probably sitting
this whole complexity where you know you
get this conflicting data this unknown
information and you're trying to this
someone says maybe try this and you try
that so it's one big ball of confusion
sorry an example of that being that PCOS
you're suggested to exercise more and
eat less
while hypothalamic amenorrhea it's the
opposite right yes right and I have
symptoms of boat right and so here
here's there's things that we don't know
and there's things that I think we do
know we know there's a problem with
insulin we know that your endocrine
system is off we know we had years of
stress on the digestive system and the
endocrine system and nutritional
efficiencies we know that the stomach
acid thing really helped you so let's
just take the thyroid there's two main
big reasons why the thyroid can mess up
one is that high estrogen which can't be
your case right now because it's low so
the other reason would be liver and
gallbladder because you can't convert
can't convert t4 to t3 so have you ever
taken bile salts um so I was taking off
and I had a food sensitivity test the
mediator release test which showed that
I was sensitive to beef so I was worried
that I shouldn't be taking bovine
anything that's what my nutritionist had
said okay I have a lot of food
sensitivities that's another thing okay
yeah yeah well that's that's definitely
related to adrenal gland I'm going to
come back to them but as far as the bile
goes if you get
bile salts I have a gallbladder formula
Chai's bile salts and you can you can
get it straight just bile salts it's
purified bile salts it's not any beef in
there so there's no protein right okay
so you're not gonna have an allergy got
it and let me explain the the importance
of the bile salt if you can't produce
produce in a file you can't pull that
you personal you're not going to convert
your thyroid hormones so then you have
to take that hormones in long-term
taking thyroid hormones cause your
thyroid to go to sleep so now and then
you become more dependent on the thyroid
over time so I always look at fire rat
hormones is a very temporary solution
until you can figure it out yeah that
bile salt ii will also is controlled by
your stomach acid so you're doing the
right thing by taking betaine
hydrochloride and apple cider vinegar
because that's gonna help release more
bile but when women have a problem with
bulimia or anorexia it really destroys
the gallbladder
that's it could just hammers that
gallbladder constantly and so they
usually have gall bladder symptoms down
the road so they're gonna need to kind
of support that because most of the bile
is recycled in the body it's and so when
you lose it you you have to almost put
some back to see you have enough so you
can recycle it because your body can
just not not make anymore
but the bile salts help you will help
you start absorbing all the key fat
soluble vitamins that you need vitamin A
D and K to start supporting these other
glands and organs which is really
important especially a lot of the
hormones that you're having a problem
with our sex hormones like cortisol
estrogen progesterone they're all
steroidal hormones so if you can't feed
them the the essential fatty acids that
you need from the fat because it's not
really absorbed it's gonna have a hard
time thriving so that would be one thing
so by adding the bile salts you'll kill
two birds one stone you'll convert t4 to
t3 and you'll start nourishing
badi a lot better now the other thing is
that your sleep if someone's not
sleeping they're gonna have a hard time
healing especially the adrenal glands so
because there's two glands that make
progesterone the ovary and the adrenal
gland and I think your high progesterone
is coming from the adrenal function
because you have high course all that's
adrenal so your adrenals are just
overworking because your body's probably
still to some degree in a flight or
flight mode it can't just turn off so do
you find when you sleep when you try to
sleep your body just won't relax fully
yeah so that's a flight-or-fight and
that's usually comes from an overactive
adrenal gland so I think the the most
important thing for you right now
would be to get your adrenal glands to
turn off because they've been stimulated
for so long and now the question is how
do you turn them off right right
honestly I think you'll have more
success with more of a physical
technique than a nutritional technique
and there's some I don't know if you saw
the videos on the acupressure techniques
that I have online
did you ever see those yeah oh wow if
you start start researching the ones on
the adrenal with acupressure there's a
there's a technique I developed and I
used to use in my office for years on
tens of thousands of people basically
doing acupressure which is a version of
a combination of acupuncture without the
needles and massage but we used it on
the endocrine system Wow like no one
even connects to that that you can do
that your adrenals are on top of the
kidney and they have acupressure points
that are kind of nerve connect conduct
connections from the outside to the
inside
so I basically show people how to
manipulate these communication lines to
just turn off the adrenals
the biggest effect that people would
feel after I was done is they would go
can I just take a nap and just just
caused them to go to sleep they're just
so relaxed to go home and they sleep
like a baby okay
of course babies repple not crying so
that sometime can be a problem no it's
good but yeah there's and so here I am I
developed this technique working on all
these people and they're sleeping there
they come in with stress they feel
better and it's a way to clean up the
old stress and there's not just one
point there's like five different areas
of the body that you work on and I even
show people in my new book it's all in
the book I put a chapter on the on
pulling out stress and I show people the
techniques but the problem was that
unless I had an associate I couldn't
work on myself as much as I would like
so that's when I developed up like a an
acupressure tool that mimics my own hand
so I can then work myself okay that's
that massage tool that I have that you
bathe it's a tripod and you can lay back
and hit the points on the neck on the
you can use it on the adrenals so I
think that would be a really simple
inexpensive way of working on your
dreams and you'd work on that before bed
each night for a half hour and I will be
in a state of shock
if you don't fall right to sleep and
through sleep through the whole night I
will be like very surprised if you don't
feel that because it's so effective
especially if you've never had it done
and if people want to know like what is
that how would I know if I need that if
you press on your abdomen and it's
really tense especially right below the
ribcage that's usually the adrenals are
just like in a state of like flutter
fight so they're they're tense so when
you work on those points you'll kind of
melt that whole area and you're just
like it'll feel really relaxing okay so
that's one thing I would do for the
sleep so then you could start to heal
the adrenals and turn off some of these
high-level hormones because what's
interesting about the adrenal is it only
has an on switch it doesn't have an off
switch did you know that
it's kind of like what have you like you
go through stress and then it
accumulates like a bucket and you're
just full of stress and then it just
stays there so what's that yeah and then
the other as far as a nutrient thing
goes I'm curious do you do nutritional
yeast I don't that's one of my cities is
yeast I know it's so sad I know okay so
then what you might have to try you
might have to try some type of other B
vitamins like some of the fat soluble B
ones that they have been poach I mean
would be one you could get that source
have you ever tried that
it's called been poach I mean you can
look it up and I and the reason for that
is that that b1 is really good for the
adrenals and it just will it'll help a
lot especially the stress and internal
tension okay so it would you put healing
like I guess I I'm assuming I have a
leaky gut because of the sensitivities
so I worry that I'm wasting nutrients
when I take supplements I kind of
stopped for a while now because I found
out that I had a leaky gut you know what
do you think that what probably caused
leaky gut was the high level of insulin
that you had because it destroys the
epithelial level layer of the inside of
the gut as well as the arteries and so
now could be leaking you develop
allergies so one thing to help you heal
that well there's two things one is
vitamin C from sour kraut sauerkraut has
especially from the health food mark a
health food store or the farmers market
it has like 700 milligrams compared to
everything else is only like under a
hundred so that would be a really good
vitamin C source for you to start
healing that
the other thing that would help heal the
internal lining of your skin and your
colon which would be the wheatgrass
juice powder because the chlorophyll and
the it just it's good for any type of
ulcers it's cancer of the mouth open
wounds itis anything itis inflammation
of the stomach or the colon okay great
that's what I would do and you probably
eliminating all the other things that
will aggravate it like the wheat and
grains the other thing that you are
doing now I think too is you're doing in
a minute fasting right it's been cures
now I've done it every day okay
and how many times do you eat once well
I would say it's one slit up over the
course of four hours so I eat slowly
over four hours okay so I think that is
going to also help heal your gut
overtime as well because you're taking
the stress off your digestive system and
you're letting it heal yeah so I think
the act the combination of the
acupressure which will help the adrenal
which will then create a cascade of
effect and really start calming
everything down adding some purified
bile salts will start converting the
thyroid and then eventually hopefully
you can come off the thyroid medication
and then the other thing that I'm
curious about
you're still on metformin right yes now
what happens if you come off metformin I
don't know I haven't come up with it um
I guess I'm I'm worried that my I guess
I'm just worried I'll be kicked out of
ketosis but I'm eating too many
vegetables or I'm too insulin resistant
or what have you
yeah I think probably the cortisol and
the sleep is is keeping you from being
in a full-blown you know healing of your
insulin I think that's kind of the last
thing that's keeping you from fully
getting there so then you have the
confidence to come off in that formula
because I think eventually you will be
able to because you're you're doing in a
minute fasting so that's the biggest
Factory
you're not consuming sugars right now so
I think yeah I think I know that you had
it for a long time and it's chronic but
I think it would be nice to have you off
that completely eventually yeah and so
it'd be great
yeah so number one the bile salts number
two wheat grass number three
acupressure to the adrenals watch watch
the videos on that I have just a ton of
videos on that and then also the
sauerkraut from the vitamin C for the
gut so we hit that with him to the
thyroid this sleep adrenal and then your
progesterone will start coming down okay
that's coming from yeah so I'm just kind
of connecting the dots and it does make
sense let's see if there's anything else
yeah and just keep taking the support
for the stomach because you know just
years of losing your stomach acids to
heal that it does take it tests take
some years you have to just stick with
it over time
good so does that make sense to you does
that any questions on those
recommendations
no actually it's amazing I finally have
someone to really take all the pieces
and put them together because I've seen
so many practitioners as I've emailed
you about and I just no one has ever
tried to put them all together so thank
you so much you're welcome
yeah and that's the key is you just try
to take one thing at a time and see if
it fits like a puzzle but the mistake
that I made in a lot of other people
when I was when I was really sick when I
was 28 actually was I would just try
this vitamin for this symptom I wasn't
really understanding what's behind
anything but anyway I think let's go
ahead and apply these and then we can
just maybe do another Skype later and
just see how you do yeah that would be
wonderful thank you you welcome and then
anyone watching if they wanted a really
good alternative kind of a pleasure food
if you like granola I'll put a link down
below of your
psychos it's a really great product and
I think especially for someone making
the transition and they want something
good if you added like the almond milk
to that this would be the most
incredible cereal like for a child or
yourself yeah I ate it this morning it's
amazing so I'll put a link down down
below for people to check it out but so
thanks for this interview and I think
hopefully some people will get some tips
on it and maybe figure out their own
body issues thank you so much dr. Burke
you're me really appreciate it sure no
problem
okay cool all right awesome
all right it's good so we'll edit this
and then we'll we'll send it out thank
you so much I'm just like I'm just so
overwhelmed with gratitude for you thank
you I really appreciate it my pleasure
no problem
all right and I will I'll email you I
guess if I in a few months if I wants
everything I've been doing it for a
while yeah yeah give it a couple months
and then let's do another one and just
see how you do
well awesome thank you you're welcome
okay see ya bye bye bye
