[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
let's see I think we're going to have to
walk through this Woods
[Music]
[Applause]
here let's talk about exercise
you know it's exercise does not melt the
fat off your body like baking frying on
a frying pan you know it's interesting
um what people are taught you need to
eat less and exercise
more and this whole calorie concept that
if you just had less calories than
you're using you're going to lose weight
that's not how it works that's
absolutely a terrible myth exercise is
just a stress to your body it's a stress
it really does no good it actually
breaks down your body it's a it's a bad
thing however let's take a look
at what happens when you exercise so
this is like a pulse rate thing right
here over time and what I want to show
you is
that this part is the exercise part
right
here okay all you're doing is you're
you're stressing your body the real
benefit of exercise the happens
after in the recovery part that's when
you
adapt
change that's when you recover so this
is called
recovery so we have exercise and
Recovery very very important most people
are focused on
the exercise part they forget that
recovery is actually more
important what we do is we have a device
that we check you in our office and we
measure
your
reaction to a workout so if you take a
look at here this person's resting and
they exercise and they recovered they
recovered in three and a half minutes
that's that's a pretty much a healthy
person let's take a look at um an
unhealthy person look at this person
right here look how long they took to
recover they took 15 minutes to recover
from a 30 second
workout that's bad now so we're looking
looking at um all the neuro the the
neurological reactions to a workout
we're looking at um how well your body's
able to adapt um simply because you burn
fat in the recovery and we want to make
sure when you do an exercise uh eight
months down the road you actually have a
nice body as compared to what happens
now where people are working out like
crazy they're not seeing any change in
their shape after a year I mean go to
the go to the gym and take a look at
people the the worst thing they do is
get on the treadmill 45 minutes because
that's they're looking at this uh idea
of maybe cardiovascular fat burning
they're not they don't understand how
hormones interact with this so what we
want to do is we want to take a uh a
test on your body and find out what your
recovery is so we can set you up on the
right workout we can find out what
exercise you need you don't want to take
the person you don't want to take
everyone and fit them into one box you
know one workout you want to take um
each person individually and tell the
make it to what they need different
bodies need different solutions you
cannot put everyone in the same program
very important to tell or make it let's
just give you a couple examples let's
take the adrenal body type they're
already in stress mode and you have them
exercised they're not going to lose
weight because they're already
exercising when they're sleeping their
body is so in stress mode it's amazing
yet if you're a liver body type you need
to do short bursts of intense exercise
because short bursts of intense exercise
with appropriate rest increases the
growth hor hormone cuz the growth
hormone works through your liver you
want them to work with their body so we
find out um are you able to handle
interval training are you able to handle
some intensity or should you be walking
should you do yoga uh our testing will
figure this out so we we H we hook you
up and we
measure um your reaction to a workout
and we can find out the type of workout
you need the intensity how long you
should work out how many times a week
and how long you recover that's very
valuable especially if you're having a
hard time losing weight because we're
able to um optimize your time so that
way you never waste any more time uh
with your workouts you know this concept
of willpower I have so many people that
say well I have a low willpower but
actually they don't have a low willpower
two things destroy the willpower not
getting results I mean if you're not
getting results week after week a
natural thing is to give up and stop
doing it cuz it's not working now when
we take your graphs uh we're going to be
looking at different patterns and this
just shows you nine different patterns
these are nine different types of
workouts that a person would do so what
I'm trying to get across is that you
it's not a one- siiz fits all if you if
you check what the person needs and you
have the person do exactly what they
need you can really see good results I
had a I had a patient she came in after
lifting 3 million pound at the gym uh
over the course of a year that was
Â£8,000 lb every other day
she lost she lost 3 lbs very depressing
when she came in her recovery was so bad
we had to cut back the gradient way way
back to the point where she was working
out 3 and 1 half minutes every other day
now you're saying well that's not enough
but she was in 6 weeks she lost 18 lbs
in 3 months she lost 30 lbs because she
stopped stressing her body um her
problem was the recovery so people that
are overweight need to have more
attention on what they're doing and and
be smart about it and be wise about it
um so I'm bringing up a point of this
this technology this is used by very top
athletes and amature athletes they they
just do what everyone else is doing They
Don't Really uh check themselves but we
now have a device that we can find out
what you need personally so we can set
you up on the right program I will be
honest with you for the first two weeks
the majority of people will not be
exercising because their body is so
stuck in stress that we don't want to
add more stress to an already stressed
out body they either look like this or
they're down here so what we do is we
use the acupressure to start stripping
off the stress start moving you back
into a normal balance position and then
we can plug in what's called exercise
recovery training and that's your
ability to recover we have to
rehabilitate your uh ability to recover
so we have to recover your recovery it
sounds weird but people can't recover so
there's something else that we check
we're not checking necessarily your
heart rate reaction but we are but we're
also checking another thing we're
checking part of the nervous system I I
don't want to get to uh Tech High Tech
with you but I want to just show you
something here's a person that's resting
and the exercise and then right after
notice this big wave this wave is part
of of your nervous system it's called
recovery it's that thing that is
supposed to push down the heart rate
it's a thing behind the heart rate so
this is a real strong wave pattern this
is a normal person a normal person has a
real robust wave pattern and they
they're able to push the heart rate down
fast and keep it down there and that's
why they can sleep because they can they
can calm the person down see in a
car you're driving on the street you
just take your foot off the gas and you
slow down and the body it's different
you have to to push the the brakes
down most people their brakes are broken
and they just keep going they're
actually going going too fast so we're
able to uh do before and afters and
monitor the exact workout and then build
up the wave pattern by doing the the
optimum workouts and we do exercise
recovery interval training and when we
put you on this program we're doing a
little tiny little workouts on a certain
gradient that every time you come in the
goal is to keep you getting better and
better and better on the inside of your
body so we never overtrain we never
undertrained and that's how you lose
weight so I hope that uh gives you a
little background on what we do but we
do the exercise recovery training the
ACU pressure and uh this gives a little
background on really what exercise is
and why it doesn't work for a lot of
people
