in this video I'm going to talk about
why certain people get oxalate kidney
stones and others don't
an excellent is a certain chemical that
combines with calcium that then has the
capacity to form these little crystals
in your kidneys and there are certain
foods high in toxins like spinach beet
greens Swiss chard peanuts and there's a
quite a few others but the question is
there's a lot of people consuming these
foods and they don't think you stones
and other people consume them and they
do get kidney stones well there is a
microbe a very special microbe in your
gut that has the capacity to break down
oxalates okay it's called oxalobacter
for Matins so it can break down and
remove auklets from the body and take a
while guess what will destroy this
microbe you guessed it antibiotics
especially cipro which just happens to
be the most widely used antibiotic in
the world the problem is when people
take cipro there's also a lot of other
side effects as well I just want to talk
about this as a side note because so
many people are taking this it actually
has a blackbox warning of tendon
ruptures okay so you get increased risk
of rupturing your tendon so if you're an
athlete for example you're more
susceptible to rupture the Achilles
tendon which is it right in the rep the
connecting your calf to your heel now in
2018 they added two additional side
effects on the blackbox warning
hypoglycemia and mental problems so
you really have to start reading the
side effects of some of these things and
maybe do a natural alternative if you
are getting oxalate kidney stones on a
regular basis you may want to start
taking a good probiotic okay but there's
another thing you can take to get some
immediate relief and there's a certain
natural remedy you can look it up I'm
not going to recommend any specific
brands but you can just find out what
works for you but it's called
hydroxycitric this is a really good
remedy to help break down oxalate stones
as well as uric acid crystal stones
in the meantime I highly recommend
researching a good probiotic so you can
start fortifying your body and hopefully
decrease the risk for kidney stones
thanks for watching so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
