hey guys had another question from
someone that wanted to know why aren't I
losing weight when I'm taking a Janice
ketones
well that's because exhaustion is
ketones could actually slow down your
weight loss let me explain
so ketosis is a condition where the body
is turning your fat into ketones which
is an alternative fuel and there's two
ways that you can have ketones in the
urine one is by taking ketones two is by
getting your body into ketosis so you
burn your fat and then it turns into
ketones okay and that means you'd have
to do the diet part so when you have
ketones in the urine you can call that
ketosis but it absolutely does not mean
that your body is burning fat which is
turning into your those ketones so let
me just get into the simplicity of this
okay it's really simple
can ketones help you get in the ketosis
yes can ketones taking them help you
lose weight no because it bypasses your
own body's ability to make your own
ketones
and when you're taking external ketones
your body is going to be using those as
fuel instead of your own ketones so you
really need to just do the diet cut the
carbs low you get into ketosis from you
causing that and then there's a way
thanks for watching
hey guys I had a quick question
I'm thinking about doing a keto summit
in Washington DC this fall and the
reason I want to do in the fall that's
my favorite time of the year where the
leaves are falling it's going to be
gorgeous in Washington DC but I wanted
to know if you would be interested in
coming out so this will have a chance to
meet you uncover the entire subject of
keto and intimate of fasting so I
haven't formulated all the details yet
but I just wanted to find out if you'd
be interested I put a link down below
let me know
