can't wait to dig into that what's the
harm in a little cheat day and my rider
in my radish plus I know dr. Berg
doesn't recommend it but he's not around
if you'll never find out it's true so
dr. burr
hey I just happened to be in the area
and I overheard something called a cheat
day
yeah that's not on the keto program I'm
sorry we're gonna put these back in the
bag hey have you guys heard about the
keto summit in August you should come
dr. Burke I think we can't come he's
everywhere we can't even cheat anymore
I'm done with this
[Music]
hey I just happen to be in the area
dr. Burke are we doing that what's the
harm in a little cheat day I know dr.
Burke doesn't recommend it but he's not
here we'll never find out do it quick
[Music]
hey the area oh really yeah we're not in
Sweden kiddo what he got
nah it's a salad accomplished get good
sorry oh I paid for that
