so today we want to talk about some
natural alternatives to OCD obsessive
compulsive disorder now why should we
even consider using natural remedies
well simply because there's some slight
minor complications to some of the
treatments involving with OCD so you
have medications like Prozac Celexa
Zoloft Paxil Effexor all of these have
major major side effects and the problem
is once you start them is there ever a
point where you come off them that
you're cured
the answer is no so you're going to be
on them for a very very long time and
for some people as time goes on you need
to take more and more of it and so the
more you take the more side effects you
have other surgeries that have side
effects include deep brain stimulation
which is barbaric because you're
literally drilling a hole in your head
putting a deep electrode into your brain
and if you look this up it says that
it's safe and effective but if you look
a little further it says that it was
approved through humanitarian device
exception what is that well that's a
special little exemption that you can
use when there is no evidence of
Effectiveness so is it really effective
I don't know it sounds pretty invasive
to me especially since when one study I
found 20 percent of the time there's
non-reversible symptoms like problems
with your gait problems with speech
problems with worsening of your symptoms
and there's even a treatment called
cycle surgery which they remove part of
your brain as a treatment and in some
cases they may even use ECT the
electroconvulsive therapy for this
condition which we all know his
extremely dangerous that is why we're
doing this video we're going to talk
about some other Alternatives that may
be much better much safer and more
effective so what is this OCD well it's
a situation where you have these
obsessive thoughts impulses to repeat
routines whether it's wash your hands or
it could be anything but the person
doesn't have a full control over their
thoughts they have these thoughts that
pop in that are constantly there it's
very very introverting which means the
person is kind of stuck in their head
all the time there's a lot of stress
there's a lot of problem solving a lot
of uncertainty I mean if you if you
think about the purpose of the mind is
to help you solve problems right well to
the degree that you have uncertainties
or doubts you're not really resolving
the problem the problem is only resolved
when you have no more uncertainties no
more doubts so it's definitely a attempt
to solve the problem by thinking about
it obsessively but it's a bit out of the
person's control there's some really
good solutions for this problem that I
want to chat about let's first talk
about
the diet that I would recommend now if
you've been watching my videos you know
what I'm going to say it's called the
keto diet right low carb diet now why is
the ketogenic diet so good for this
condition well because there's some
really interesting data on the
relationship between
neurons being
starved or lacking energy or fuel and
this huge link to having OCD based on
that what if we were to find an
alternative fuel source for the neurons
for your brain well that just happens to
be ketones ketones bypass damaged
neurons and can feed the neurons
directly without having to even use
glucose as fuel and so if you haven't
tried the ketogenic diet uh boy I would
try that as the first thing but ketones
do a lot more they actually can act as
an antioxidant because a lot of times in
OCD you have inflammation you have a lot
of excess oxidative damage and so if you
can do something to bypass and use
ketones to as a remedy well that would
be a really good solution also ketones
stabilize the membranes of your nerves
ketones help balance your
neurotransmitters and if you combine the
healthy version of the ketogenic diet
with intermittent fasting together I
think you'll have an excellent solution
I remember when practice talking to
quite a few people who had OCD and
nearly every single one of them was on a
high carb diet they were not on a
ketogenic diet and when you got them on
the diet itself there is a huge degree
of success now to add to that there are
several remedies that I'm going to
recommend that are based on some good
research which I'm going to put down
below I mean significant improvements
okay just by using these natural
remedies and with much less side effects
than medication and of course you can't
patent these and it does take away from
the drug industry so don't expect a lot
more research in this area so I'd
recommend just trying it you have very
little to lose and if it helps you great
the first natural remedy I'm going to
recommend is something called
myoinositol which is part of the B
complex and this remedy is also good
with other things like PCOS fertility
problems anxiety even agoraphobia okay
which is this fear of leaving your house
it's been a really good randomized
double-blinded control
study on using myoinositol that was in
2011 there's also another one done in
2013. another good remedy would be NAC
it's a very powerful antioxidant okay so
I would definitely recommend NAC glycine
is another one you'd want to take that
before bed it's great for the brain it's
good for sleeping good for memory
another one is called l-servine okay
l-servine another good remedy to
potentially help you with OCD in
addition it helps you wake up with a lot
more energy it helps your sleep it helps
your focus now the fifth remedy that I'm
going to recommend is I think a very
essential remedy especially for OCD and
many other problems it's a natural
version of thymine or B1 B1 is awesome
for helping control your thoughts
especially if someone's been on a high
carb diet but B1 helps reduce the this
other symptom called delirium which has
to do with confused thinking a loss of
focus confusions having disorganized
thoughts B1 can help a person with that
I would recommend taking a natural
version of B1 not a synthetic version
but it's a precursor for acetylcholine
which is very important in
neurotransmission as well as the
parasympathetic nervous system which
opposes the flight or fight mechanism
the sympathetic nervous system which a
lot of people are stuck in if they have
OCD and anxiety and stress and then the
last thing is start consuming Probiotic
foods kimchi sauerkraut start building
up your gut because there's a huge
relationship between what's going on in
your gut and what's going on in your
head now for more information how to do
the healthy version of the ketogenic
diet okay I put up this simple step by
Step video right here check it out
