the next question comes from a guy he
says how do I get my wife to lose weight
all right good question first of all
this video is for men only if you're a
female click off right now don't watch
this all right all right good okay now
guys listen the absolute best way to get
your wife to lose weight hands down is
to pay her cash in other words I found
the more money that you pay her the more
motivated she'll be $5,000 does work
$10,000 works better that was a joke all
right now don't worry about the cash
here's what you don't do I mean I hear
the most terrible terrible things that
some men do to their spouses that I'm
just shocked I mean like listen like
you're you're hugging your wife and you
say hey you want to work out and you
pinch your fat
dude that's terrible don't do that
you're at dinner and she orderers
something and and maybe she's eating
something that she should and you go
honey what are you doing I thought you
want to lose weight that doesn't work or
honey why don't you go lose weight like
she doesn't know she's
overweight the more you remind someone
of a problem the more you get more of
that problem you have to use a very
light touch you get what you validate so
if you're validating her being fat
you're gonna get more of that you want
to validate the rightness the times that
she did work out use a very very light
touch so let's say for
example you could you know you could say
something like this honey I'm going to
go work out do you want to come with and
if she says
no totally fine don't make her feel
guilty so you just have to stop
invalidating your spouse because all
that does is it locks in more grief
upset
frustration you got to use a light touch
validate the
rightness bite your
tongue and really try to support her
without reminding her she needs she
knows she needs to lose weight you don't
need to remind
her but if that doesn't work I think the
cash might work
