hi guys I have a question do you have
brain insulin resistance okay now what
is that that's a condition where you're
you're pre-diabetic but it's really
affecting your brain in the aspects of
memory loss okay let's say you're trying
you can't retrieve words as fast as you
want or you're going in a room and where
where what am I going in this room again
like you're losing that where did I park
uh Alzheimer's too I mean there's a huge
connection with diabetics being Al
having Al Alzheimer's and that is simply
because um the
brain is highly sensitive to insulin
okay insulin regulates brain metabolism
so you probably heard that the brain
runs on sugar that's true and what
happens when you eat a lot of sugar or
you're a pre-diabetic with a lot of
people are a pre-diabetic they don't
even know it you're building up a lot of
sugar into the body and into the brain
so the body is going to resist that and
it's going to start to
um block the insulin because insulin is
like the trap door that allows the sugar
in so it's going to create a condition
called insulin resistance in the cell so
you're going to lose the ability to uh
absorb insulin and sugar through the
brain okay what's going to happen you're
going to basically shrink cells neurons
you're going to destroy cells you're
going to starve cells you're going to
create inflammation in the brain you're
going to create plaing in the brain um
it's going to really affect the neural
Communications in the brain I'm going to
put some links down below because there
is a huge uh amount of research being
done on this right now in fact you know
what they're doing they're spraying
through the nostrils uh this highly
permeable insulin to actually help the
person's memory and it's working but you
don't want to do that because you start
injecting the person with insulin or
spraying it you never fix the real cause
you're just going to make it worse
because as the body gets more insulin
it's going to resist it more to the
point where um then you're going to
require more and more insulin to create
the same effect now it was once thought
um and I have this right in guidance
physiology I looked this up and it's
true the common thought was your brain
is insensitive to insulin and then what
does that mean it means that you don't
need insulin to absorb glucose gluc
glucose will go right in and you don't
even need insulin but it's now known
that you do need insulin in the brain
and and when they actually realized that
everything made sense because all all
these pre-diabetics also had a big
symptom of memory loss especially
diabetics have a problem with memory and
just mental cognitive function and then
they start getting Alzheimer's so what
I'm going to say right now is this if
you are starting to lose your memory if
you have Alzheimer's or you know someone
I would instantly put them on an eating
plan that fixes insulin resistance okay
and that involves several things and I
put some links down below
of the details of how to do that and you
will see huge improvements in mental
capacity cognitive function and memory
so go ahead and do that and actually put
your comments below and I'm looking
forward to seeing the results thanks for
watching Press the Subscribe button
press it forget it forget it I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
