hey good to see you again in this video
we're talking about hypokalemia that's
little potassium in your blood now you
might already know that you need a lot
of potassium you need close to about 5
grams it's 4700 milligrams every single
day and that's like 7 to 10 cups of
vegetables some people never reach that
point but you need a lot of potassium
90% of the potassium is inside the cell
so by the time that shows up deficient
outside the cell in your blood you're
pretty low simply because the cellular
reserves actually are there to backup if
there's a problem in the blood so some
of the symptoms of a low potassium
situation would be fatigue leg cramps
because potassium is a main electrolyte
for the muscle and the nervous system
okay weakness constipation because you
have muscles in your colon and you have
nerves arrhythmias like atrial
fibrillation heart palpitations because
the electrical system in the heart needs
potassium and then we have high blood
pressure so in other words you need
potassium to keep blood pressure low but
look at this one of the causes of low
potassium the blood is diuretics what do
people use diuretics for lower blood
pressure you see the problem they're
high cortisol so when you have high
cortisol from stress or taking a steroid
you're going to deplete your potassium
to diarrhea can do it vomiting Dietary
you just don't have enough in your diet
so if you're not consuming enough
potassium in the diet you need to start
increasing the amount then we also have
a ketogenic diet so this is why we
talked about the key to adaptation you
have a lot of like keto flu or keto
rashes or any symptoms like headaches
that can occur in the transition phase
usually means that you need more
potassium or electrolytes or B vitamins
but with the ketogenic diet you use more
potassium in the transition of
fat-burning diabetes so here this would
be like diabetes is like the opposite of
the ketogenic diet so when you have
diabetes or pre-diabetes like an insulin
resistance you have high insulin what's
going to happen that's going to
deplete potassium too and block
potassium from from going inside
yourself then we have something called
alkalosis this is not the whole body
being alkaline it means that your blood
is excessively alkaline now normally
your blood is alkaline but this is
excessively too alkaline
make sense well guess what low potassium
will cause this and by the way high
cortisol will cause us to in fact almost
every single person who has hypokalemia
also has alkalosis so they go hand in
hand in fact the symptoms of alkalosis
and hypokalemia are almost identical
then we have sugar sugar will deplete
potassium and especially high fructose
corn syrup okay so the theme of this
video would be consume more potassium or
if you're if there's any of these that
you're like if you're on diuretics for
example well you might want to increase
more potassium get your blood pressure
improved so you can come off that stuff
alright thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press this
little button down below okay thanks
