hey Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about the relationship
between your breathing and stress okay
there's two things going on you breathe
in and you breathe out what happens when
you're in a stress State your breathing
actually changes to a more forceful
inhalation but a very shortened
exhalation and if there's any doctors
watching um you may have studied this
already and this part of the nervous
system called the autonomic nervous
system that's basically the system that
is automatic and it's called um two
parts one is the sympathetic which is
the activation or activation of reaction
to stress States and that would be the
breathing in and then the opposing which
is the parasympathetic nervous system so
if you've never heard that word before
don't worry about it but all that means
is a system of the nervous system it's a
part of the nervous system that relaxes
you helps you sleep it helps you breae
breathe out uh exhale and when you're
exhaling you're releasing carbon dioxide
and you're breathing in you're you're
pulling in oxygen okay so you have this
constant thing going back and forth but
when you experience chronic stress what
happens is this whole breathing thing
changes now breathing is uh involuntary
and voluntary so in other words you
don't have to think about breathing it
just automatically happens or you can
think about and actively voluntarily
breathe in and breathe out
but in a stress state it you you'll
you'll kind of fall into this breathing
pattern that's more like
this it's a shortened exhalation with a
kind of a desperate inhalation you're
trying it's called air hunger you're
trying to breathe in to try to balance
out this this stress State and what you
need to know is that during chronic
stress States you're going to develop a
lower oxygen in your tissues and a
buildup of CO2 also so we have the state
where you're kind of starving for air so
you're constantly trying to get oxygen
and that's why when you do exercise like
high intensity it's very bad for stress
stes What's better exercise would be
long walking where you're not inducing a
stress State you're getting a lot of
oxygen in and you're releasing a lot of
CO2 out but I want to talk about the
chemistry of what happens during stress
and relationship you're breathing you
start losing um
certain acids over a period of time so
it goes out to the urine so if you ever
check a person when they're in massive
stress their pH of their urine is always
way way too acid but what happens is The
Blood starts going the opposite starts
becoming too alkaline so we get this
thing where you might think that you're
too acid but really you're too alkaline
and there's a lot of false information
about this too on oh you have to
alkalize your dye or everyone's too acid
whatever but that's true and false you
what the question is what part of your
body is too acid or two alkaline but in
a stress State you will tend to have an
acid urine but your blood is really to
alkaline now what does that all mean
that means that without that correct pH
in your
blood you will start losing the ability
to regulate oxygen into to the tissues
that's why when you climb stairs you
might get out of breath easily that
that's why when you climb stairs your
muscles especially the leg muscles might
get heavier that means that you also
have an inability to mobilize minerals
specifically calcium so the calcium
doesn't go in the muscles that's why you
get cramping that's why it's hard to
relax at night um that's why you might
get tetany or twitching on the left
eyelid like that or you could even get
an irregular heartbeat uh because the
calcium is needed to regulate the
heartbeat so there's so many things that
can occur with the nervous system with
the muscular system with the oxygen
system uh with the ability to sleep all
that is inhibited just by having this
altered pH because you're not able to
regulate the balance of carbon dioxide
and oxygen from simple breathing but
taking it back earlier it's a stress
date okay so now what are we going to do
with all this all right we're going to
show you a tool that you can use on a
regular basis to train um your breathing
in a way to induce a nice relaxed State
okay so this is a great tool because you
can voluntarily control your breathing
in a certain pattern to uh totally undo
and reverse this process okay so this is
something you can practice before you go
to bed in the car uh after a stress
event so here's what you want to do
there's a I developed a little piece of
a software and you could click down
there and get access to it on a link
right down on the bottom page there and
when when you click that link it's a
simple little ball that goes up and down
uh like a little leaf that goes open and
closes and it has synchronized music to
it either ocean wave or music to train
your body to breathe in a certain way so
what is that trained method or timing
pattern well first of all it's a
5c
exhalation uh with a 1 second pause and
a 5sec inhalation with a 1 second pause
so what you're going to be doing is just
timing your breathing and you can just
watch this little leaf open up and then
pause and then close and breathe with it
in it's self-explanatory so I'm going to
show you how that works so you're going
to be sitting there in relax date or
driving and you're going to be like
breathing
in 5 seconds in so you're going to go
slowly pause a second breathe out for 5
seconds pause for one second now just so
you know you want to breathe through
your nose not through your mouth and you
want to breathe through your stomach not
from your upper chest so I recommend put
your hand on your chest and your stomach
to practice this so you can literally
push your stomach
out as you suck in the air through the
diaphragm
slowly 5 seconds in pause one
second and have the stomach push the air
out at a 5-second exhalation with a 1
second pause okay so you want to make
sure your clavicle up here doesn't move
so we want to breathe in because if
you're breathing through the chest it's
a lot more stressful so we want to
breathe
in breathe out through the St stomach
okay 5 seconds in 5 Second 5 Seconds out
and you will find over a period of 2 3 4
even five minutes your whole nervous
system is going to start to relax you're
going to be able to go to bed a lot
faster I do this every night before I go
to bed that's how I do is I practice the
breathing and it puts me right out
within about probably two minutes
so get access to this tool it's a free
tool you can use at any time and
practice this until you can develop a
pattern of it and I really think it's
going to going to help reduce your
stress and and help you sleep a lot
better I hope you enjoy this I'll see
you in the next video
