i'd like to share
15
incredible benefits of exercise that
goes way beyond
just weight loss exercise is an
epigenetic
uh stimulus what does that mean it means
that it it actually can affect your
genes in a very positive way our bodies
were definitely meant to exercise we
have over 10 million sweat glands that
is our air conditioner we have that to
adapt to
heat while we're exercising and be able
to cool down we're able to sweat at
least a liter every single hour if we
need to to maintain these temperatures
and exercise really activates a lot of
different repair systems in our body but
your results with exercise
depends on your rest and recovery so if
you're over training you're not going to
see
much benefit from these things i'm going
to talk about so let's dive right in
number one
benefits to the autonomic nervous system
what is that that's the nerve system
that works on automatic
and there's two parts well there's three
parts i'm going to talk about too you
have the sympathetic nervous system and
the parasympathetic nervous system and
certain body parts are more heavy in one
system than the other like your
digestive system is heavy on the
parasympathetic side which is rest and
digest
whereas the inside of the adrenal the
adrenal medulla gland is a hundred
percent sympathetic
but the heart is a nice 50 50 split of
both sympathetic and parasympathetic and
so there's a test that i used to do in
my clinic called
the heart rate variability test which
measures the balance of the sympathetic
and parasympathetic
and the reason i'm talking about that is
that relates to the next few benefits
number two it decreases the risk of
heart attacks and this relates to the
test i just talked about see normally
um the heart beat has this rhythm lubbed
up dub lubbed up and you would think
that the
timing or the distance between the
heartbeat
should be all the same when you're at
rest
but in a healthy body it should be
varied okay let me explain what i mean
let's say for example your heart rate is
60 okay that's 60 beats per minute and
so each beat would be a second right so
heart rate variability is measuring this
distance between the heartbeat it's not
all the same and the more varied it is
the more flexible your heart is the more
elastic
your heart tissue is and the in the
vascular part of that when the heart
gets older or inflamed
it becomes rigid and that's when you see
the exact distance between the heartbeat
and that's not very healthy and so when
you stress the body there's no room for
elasticity so exercise
strengthens the elasticity of the heart
it strengthens the variability between
the heartbeats and it decreases the risk
for heart attacks it also decreases the
risk for getting high blood pressure
because your vascular system is more
elastic in fact just exercise being a
variability alone can decrease the risk
of getting high blood pressure by 35 to
50 percent number four it can decrease
the risk of getting a stroke number five
it can decrease the risk of getting
certain types of cancer lung cancer
bowel cancer by 16
uterine cancer by 16 percent it can even
decrease breast cancer by 11 percent
because of how exercise stimulates the
antioxidant network to protect all this
free radical damage that's occurring so
you're actually building up networks of
antioxidants when you're exercising
to keep the damage to your mitochondria
at a minimum and just to explain and
i'll just jump to the last benefit which
is
increasing your energy
you actually increase the number of
mitochondria when you exercise so you
end up with more mitochondria and bigger
mitochondria which gives you more
capacity for energy so exercise
increases your energy alright number six
decreased risk for diabetes why because
in the muscle tissue the genetic effect
of exercise actually makes insulin more
sensitive so if you have insulin
resistance which is a condition
responsible for so many health
conditions a fatty liver weight gain
high blood pressure diabetes etc using
exercise to improve insulin sensitivity
is a huge benefit this is why it can
help your blood sugars so exercising
will burn off this extra sugar that you
have
and just in lower insulin all right
number seven
exercise decreases the risk for
anxiety and depression because you're
improving
all sorts of neurotransmitters including
dopamine you increase endorphins as well
and you actually help lower
cortisol so this is why it can greatly
reduce your stress
and i think you should exercise for that
alone that benefit which is actually
number nine so as you're exercising
you're taking your mind off all your
worries
which is extremely therapeutic all right
number eight it can decrease your risk
for dementia and improves your memory
because part of the brain that atrophies
when you get dementia is called
hippocampus so exercise slows down the
shrinkage of that part of the brain
that's responsible for dementia
and that's that's huge so exercise
improves your cognitive function it can
even increase something called brain
derived neurotrophic factor and help you
grow new nerves all right number nine i
already mentioned that it lowers stress
decreases cortisol which will help you
sleep better i notice that the more i
keep exercise consistent the better i
sleep number 10
exercise improves your willpower people
that cannot stay consistent with
exercise people that cannot do
intermittent fasting for a period of
time
or keep their diet clean for a period of
time um usually have a low willpower so
you can use these things to strengthen
it all right number 11
exercise helps reduce inflammation as
long as you recover from the exercise if
you're over training and your muscles
are sore and you keep you keep
exercising and you keep having
inflammation then it's not going to work
you must rest to recover after the
exercise number 12 exercise can help
increase longevity because of all the
things i just talked about decreasing
risk for heart attacks strokes cancer
etc number 13 exercise improves
fertility which is a very cool thing
number 14 exercise helps rid low back
pain it did for me recently i'm doing
the sled exercise i'm pulling the sled
walking backwards and i have absolutely
no more back pain it will also greatly
decrease joint pain and number 15 which
i already mentioned exercise will
greatly improve your energy on that note
i think it's time for you to start your
exercise routine if you haven't seen
this video on exercise i think this
would be the next best one check it out
