okay we're going to talk about a very
important mineral potassium okay why is
it so important well number one because
we need so much of it um out of all the
N nutrients vitamin A vitamin B calcium
magnesium potassium being a mineral is
needed in large amounts I'm talking
4700 milligrams okay it's used in all
the cellular reactions it's also used to
store your sugar in your liver and your
muscle now let's explain what I mean by
that uh stored sugar is a a good thing
we need to store some sugar um to be
able to handle quick release of energy
and glucose being the molecule of sugar
um if you stick them together in a group
they're called glycogens so glycogen is
the storage of glucose mainly in the
liver mainly in the muscles and it's
used like you know it's very instant so
you can regulate that so we need that um
it just so happens potassium is the
mineral that allows glucose to be stored
as glycogen so for every glucose
molecule you need one potassium molecule
or element so that's one thing okay so
let's say you're deficient in
potassium um that means you're not going
to store the glucose as well so if you
don't store glucose your body then
stores more fat yeah so that's
interesting so a couple other points
um where do you get your potassium
mainly from vegetables but you can even
get it from animal proteins as well but
uh you know like the greens the leafy
greens beet tops are really high
avocados are very very large amounts in
avocados um so how do we know we're
getting enough
potassium well one cup
of greens vegetable or um salads on
average equal uh one oun okay one cup
equals 1 ounce and you need 4700 so
you're going to you're going to need
about between 8 and 10 ounces or eight
seven well actually seven to 10 cups
okay or 7 to 10 ounces that would be
like one of those uh salad containers or
bags of salad that you see at the
grocery store just need one of those per
day it's not too much right um when you
take a cup of salad I'm not talking
about like pack it down extremely tight
just kind of like put it in there like a
good handful that's like one cup or 1
ounce you need at least seven up to 10 I
consume more than that I consume
probably 20 so it doesn't hurt if you
have more because the kidneys will also
get rid of anything that's too much
especially when it comes down potassium
a lot of people supplement potassium
because it's hard to get the potassium
and they get it straight into the body
and also in certain conditions um you
need more potassium to improve these
conditions one is rheumatoid
arthritis big time you go up into the
6,000 7,000 milligrams you can really
put those symptoms in
remission another one is diabetes or
insulin
resistance why because insulin does
control it's like the door that allows
insulin uh potassium to go in the cell
so insulin controls the level of
potassium and um when you have insulin
resistance you can't pull that potassium
in the cell so if you don't pull
potassium in the cell you have a lot of
problems to make a long story short uh
and make it really simple if you
increase more potassium in the diet you
decrease the stress on the insulin
dysfunction you decrease the need for
insulin so having a little more will
actually help insulin
resistance and diabetes okay so they
both work kind of like a teeter totter
um if you have enough
potassium you won't have sugar
Cravings why
because you're going to store the sugar
and you're going your body you're going
to have better blood sugar levels
because potassium stabilizes blood
sugars so you don't have this dip down
so potassium helps blood sugars insulin
dysfunction and cravings for
sweets if you crave for sweet we know
you're pottassium
deficient so we need more
potassium um when I consume a meal I
always have the vegetable first not at
the end of the meal why because I've
experimented if I do the protein first I
tend to keep eating more and more
protein there's like no turnoff switch
versus the vegetable first which gives
me the potassium and it kind of turns
off that hunger and and I don't eat as
much protein my son for example he'll
sit down and eat chicken wings he can
eat I'm talking like massive quantities
so I get him to have the vegetable first
and he doesn't need as much protein
because we just need like 3 to six
ounces so I always have the vegetable
first for that reason when you consume
potassium you help get uh you balance
the sodium okay so we need this
potassium sodium ratio so we need four
times as much potassium as sodium and
that's why we need this most people have
way too much sodium and not enough
potassium so they're going to retain
fluid when you have low potassium retain
fluid and your salt sensitive high blood
pressure if you take pottassium your
blood pressure comes right down probably
is in in many cases the cause of high
blood pressure low
potassium now as you do a ketogenic diet
that's real low carbs it's low carbs and
you're going to dip a lot of fluid
because one of the things one one thing
is that carbs especially refined
carbohydrates sugars cause retention of
fluid okay because when you consume
carbohydrate you also deplete your
potassium so when you have like cakes
and cookies and sugar and donuts and
Breads and pasta you you're
automatically depleting the potassium
now why is that well because in
nature sugar cane is probably one of the
one of the highest things with potassium
that you could consume not one of the
highest but it's very very high okay so
there's a lot of pottassium in sugar
cane but what they do is they refine it
and they get rid of the potassium and
other minerals like iron into
molasses and they put as white refined
sugar and brown sugar as a really
depleted potassium deficient
sweetener when you consume this refined
sweetener over here without the mineral
you tend to your body almost like starts
deplete it's a potassium depleter it's
almost like your body will start um
trying to recombine that glucose with
sugar and starts pulling from reserves
so in other words to make a long story
short when you consume sugar I'm trying
to make this really simple when you
consum refined sugar junk food you're
depleting your potassium and you're
you're increasing your sodium and you're
increasing your fluid retention so when
we cut that out you dump a lot of fluid
okay so you can you can drop a lot of
weight in one week um that's good but
you better put your potassium back in
there because um um if you're dumping a
lot of fluid you need to put the um the
hydration back in there so you have the
volume of fluid not just water you need
the electrolytes okay that help the con
so when people do the ketogenic diet and
they feel really tired boy you just need
to add a little potassium and boom the
energy comes up sometimes a little
sodium um even with low blood pressure
you know you need potassium and sodium
to help get more fluid in there not just
water so our bodies need
fluid um okay so I wanted to just give
you an overview of potassium and what it
can do and how important it is so make
sure you eat your vegetables on this
program thanks for watching
