hey guys in this video we're going to
answer the question what is normal blood
sugar levels okay a lot of times you've
been told that it's between 8090 but it
really according to the American
Diabetes Association it really depends
on what year you're looking at because
in 1925 it was a hundred basically
between 90 and 120 okay that was normal
in 1968 it was 130 then in 1978 it was
115 milligrams per deciliter okay and in
1997 to 2003 it was 110 milligrams per
deciliter and then between 2004 and 2007
it's back to a hundred okay so my
opinion is that you need it between 80
and 90 but up to a hundred but here's
the thing there's an amazing book that
I'm gonna recommend you can get as a
Kindle it's called diabetes epidemic in
you by Joseph Kraft MD here's a guy that
tested over 14,000 people over 25 years
and he evaluated their fasting blood
glucose levels and their glucose
tolerance test and their insulin levels
and he found something fascinating he
actually describes three patterns of
insulin okay so because he actually
checked fasting insulin and then post
meal insulin levels two three four I
think five hours and he found something
quite incredible
back in the 70s actually this is what he
found the absolute best indication for
pre-diabetes is not high fasting blood
sugars it is high fasting insulin levels
okay in other words you can have normal
fasting blood glucose levels and have
high insulin at the same time in fact
that was the case basically observed
that insulin high insulin comes first
then it's the high sugar okay but here's
the problem the doctors aren't testing
the insulin levels it's one of the best
indicators for pre-diabetes
so check this out when you have high
insulin levels what do you think that's
gonna do to your blood sugars it's gonna
bring it down not up so high sugar is
not going to show up until later you
might more likely end up with low blood
sugar hypoglycemia especially if the
adrenals are weak but of course the
adrenals if your Drina 'ls are strong
enough it will counter the hypoglycemia
so it'll bring it to a normal range and
this can go on for 10 15 or more years
so here you are you have you get tested
you have normal blood sugars and you
think everything is fine but you have a
lot of other symptoms you're tired after
you eat you're fatigued you're getting
fat you know all the other symptoms but
your glucose levels are normal I would
recommend the next time you go to your
doctor get your fasting insulin test and
see where the level is at all right
thanks for watching
hey guys I want to personally invite you
to a new Facebook group that I just
started called dr. Berg's Kido and in a
minute fasting lab okay so I created
this so we can share our successful
actions what worked what didn't work
your results so I put a link down below
so go ahead and sign up and I'll see you
inside
