hi guys dr. Berg here in this video I
want to share with you some unique
insights in preventing diabetes now in
most of the videos that I have I talked
about instant resistance and how to get
Ana ketogenic diet how to do
intermittent fasting to help you with
this condition but I want to give you
some more understanding of of the
effects of insulin resistance and what
precedes that okay the first thing you
need to know is instant resistance is
really a defense mechanism of the body
it's a protective mechanism against the
toxic effect of sugar that's what it is
what happens your body develops
resistance against insulin to stop the
sugar for going in the cell because too
much sugar is really bad for the cells
so one of the problems with insulin
resistance is the body will make a lot
more insulin to try to create the effect
so we have this protective mechanism and
if you don't change your ways your body
just makes more insulin to drive it
through to make it connect because it's
trying to it's trying to lower the sugar
so eventually become a diabetic type 2
and your sugar starts going higher and
higher so you have a combination of all
this sugar in the blood and all this
insulin it's not a good picture so
there's four main cells that are
affected by sugar one is the arteries
the endothelial layer of tissue is
affected by high levels of sugar then
the retina in the eye the capillaries
are affected then we have the kidney
cells specifically the messenger cells
then we have the nerve cells the
peripheral cells on your fingertips and
your toes and your bottom of your feet
so that's why in advanced stages of
diabetes you have loss of vision your
blind blood clots that's heart attacks
and strokes you have a lot of people on
dialysis so that you lose the kidney
function you have severe burning and
pain on the bottom of the feet and
tingling and loss of sensation in the
fingers as well it's and gangrene so you
lose your toes and the foot and that is
because these four types of cells or
parts of the body do not regulate sugar
like other cells other cells of the body
can balance and release sugar these four
cells
not so the sugar builds up and creates a
massive destruction now in order for you
to get insulin resistance something
precedes it and that's mitochondrial
damage so in the mitochondria you also
have something that helps prevent the
excess waste build up from the altered
pathways okay so this is a new word I'm
going to give you it's called trance
keto lace activators okay you don't need
to know that all you need to know
there's something in the mitochondria
that helps decrease the waste from the
damaged pathways so it prevents this
buildup of this toxic waste that causes
destruction right here now there's two
main nutrients that can greatly reduce
the damage to the mitochondria number
one is b1 okay b1 can reduce the damage
by 25% but there's a type of b1 that I
want to bring your awareness up it's
called benfotiamine
okay bent fo to mean is that type of b1
that is made fat-soluble it's a
synthetic b1 which normally I never
recommend but this specific type of b1
is very beneficial and it has the least
amount of side effects especially if
taken with the whole B complex but
benefit Amin can reduce the damage from
250 percent to 400% then we have another
nutrient vitamin b3 which is called
nicotinamide okay I'm gonna put some
links down below but there are some
studies that show that b3 can delay
diabetes type 1 and prevent diabetes
type 1 which is an autoimmune disease so
if I had actual diabetes I would be
taking benfotiamine n b3 on a regular
basis so if you wanted to prevent it and
you didn't have diabetes I think you'd
be fine with the regular b1 but make
sure it's natural so now I put some
links down below of what basic eating
plan you need to be on if you have this
and that has to do with the combination
of a ketogenic diet within a minute
fasting but these are two other
nutrients that I think are very
beneficial if you already have insulin
resistance diabetes or you're interested
in preventing diabetes so thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
video hey if you're interested in
finding out the underlying cause of your
body issues click
the link below and take the evaluation
quiz
