hey guys so today I want to talk about a
very important topic if you're a
diabetic you need to watch this whether
you're type 1 or type 2 you need to
watch this if you're pre-diabetic you
need to watch this very important if
you're a coach you need to watch this
and the topic is why diabetics need to
decrease the need for insulin so the
goal should always be to take the least
amount of insulin possible and I'm
talking about a type 1 and a type 2
that's also taking insulin in medicine
the goal is to normalize blood glucose
that's the goal as long as your blood
sugars are normal you're fine but here's
the problem here we have insulin that
takes the sugar or the blood glucose out
of the vascular system but the question
is where is it going is it just
vaporizing is it vanishing in thin air
now it's being converted and hidden in
other places in the body around the
heart around the liver around the organs
around the pancreas as visceral fat so
wow you achieve your goal you actually
normalize the blood sugar but you just
you just took one problem and you pushed
it somewhere else it's well known that
when someone is diabetic and they're
taking insulin that their risk factors
for cardiovascular events do not
decrease in fact the more insulin that
they take the more cardiovascular
problems they have the more the blood
pressure goes up the greater risk of
dying and taking more insulin
accelerates arterial sclerosis now if
you take someone that's not a diabetic
and you increase the insulin you
increase the risk of a heart disease why
it's because insulin destroys the heart
in many different ways so yes it's true
that high sugar causes problems in their
nervous system and the eye and the
kidney and even the heart but high
insulin will do the same thing if not
worse and every diabetic who is insulin
dependent knows the more carbs they
consume the greater the need
for insulin right so what is the
elephant in the room it's basically the
carbohydrates you need to lower the
carbohydrates
there's just real no emphasis on this
really simple solution if we decrease
the carbs we decrease the need for
insulin we improve the cardiovascular
risk factors now I don't know about you
but doesn't isn't this logic 101 this is
so simple to understand so if you're
diabetic get with your doctor and start
questioning these things yes your blood
glucose is normal at the expense of high
levels of insulin and you should work on
some program to do whatever you can to
decrease the need for insulin and that
would be in a minute fasting and healthy
keto thanks for watching so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
