let's talk about the number one best
food for your brain now the brain is a
very interesting organ it's the fattiest
organ of all of your organs in your body
it only makes up two percent of our body
weight but it consumes 20 of all of our
fuel and the size of your brain does not
equal your intelligence another
misconception of the brain is that the
nerves cannot regenerate what you're
born with you have you can't change but
that's absolutely not true certain parts
of your brain can completely regrow and
lastly there are no pain receptors in
your brain this is why sometimes when
they do brain surgery that you're wide
awake now related to the best food for
the brain we should probably Define
exactly what we're trying to do with the
brain we're talking about the food that
improves memory concentration Focus
thinking problem solving learning mood
disorders brain inflammation so I did a
deep dive into this topic looking at all
the key nutrients that the brain needs
and also there are basically three foods
that destroy the brain in fact when you
go to the grocery store you're going to
find the majority of these three
ingredients okay so let's start with
number one
omega-6 fatty acids now what is that
that is like soy oil corn oil canola oil
cottonseed oil these are the fats or
oils that create a lot of inflammation
in your nervous system the second
ingredient is you guessed it sugar and
even if you look at diabetes which is a
a diet of consuming too much sugar you
have something called type 3 diabetes
which is Alzheimer's so they now know
that Alzheimer's is really a situation
where the nerves are starved of a
glucose now you might immediately think
well I thought diabetes was high sugar
so that should be feeding the nerves all
the sugar and fuel it needs right well
unfortunately when you start feeding too
much sugar to the nervous system you
have this thing called insulin which is
kind of like the gatekeeper that
controls the absorption of glucose that
starts going up and up and up and then
you develop this protected mechanism
called insulin resistance so more fuel
more insulin resistance less connection
of that fuel to the neuron you literally
end up starving the neurons of fuel this
is why there's such a high incidence of
Alzheimer's or dementia with diabetes
and the third ingredient which is kind
of a large category refine carbohydrates
this is those lovely breads pasta cereal
crackers biscuits waffles pancakes
muffins things like that not only do
these carbohydrates turn into sugar
really quick but they have gluten and
gluten destroys the gut for most people
and if you've ever heard of something
called the brain gut access whatever's
going on down in the gut is going to be
going on in the head there's been a huge
link between gluten problems in your gut
and dementia and of course these refined
carbohydrates just completely deplete
you of the trace minerals that the brain
also needs and I'm talking about zinc
selenium
and iodine and just as a side note if an
infant is deficient in iodine their IQ
becomes much lower unfortunately because
the full brain development doesn't occur
so all three of these ingredients
omega-6 fatty acids
sugar refined carbohydrates all
contribute and create insulin resistance
and again insulin resistance starves the
nerve cells of their fuel creating death
of the neuron so now let's get to the
number one food that would
heal the brain and all of these problems
so I looked at a lot of different foods
and analyzed them from different angles
and the best solution or the best food
for the brain is wild caught
salmon now there's other types of
seafood that you can use too like
sardines but wild caught salmon is at
the top of the list the question is why
because the brain is mostly fat it's 60
percent fat and 20 percent of that fat
is made up of something called DHA that
is the omega-3 fatty acid that that
builds the structure of a lot of your
brain so salmon is very rich in omega-3
fatty acids not just DHA but another one
called EPA which is involved in the next
benefit lowered inflammation so salmon
lowers your inflammation salmon provides
the omega-3 the building blocks of your
brain the fat that it needs and as a
side note cholesterol by itself is very
important in the membranes of your brain
and this is why drugs like statins which
block the production of cholesterol have
massive side effects for cognitive
function mood disorders neurological
issues hormone issues things like that a
very important food would be wild caught
salmon because it's very very fatty it's
rich in cholesterol it's rich in omega-3
which helps inflammation as well as
insulin resistance you can help correct
insulin resistance by this omega-3 fatty
acid remember insulin resistance is at
the core of a lot of brain problems
these Omega-3s are really amazing
because they can directly improve memory
learning cognitive function like Focus
as well as your mood so if someone has
depression anxiety one of the things
they use that's pretty successful and
well researched is by using fish oils
high in omega-3 fatty acids and because
there's a lot of protein in Salmon you
get all the building blocks for
neurotransmitters for the brain and on
top of that well-cut salmon is is keto
friendly it's low carb good amount of
protein super healthy protein with other
nutrients and ketones bypass this
insulin resistance damage in the nerve
cell and feeds the neurons directly
without having to involve any glucose so
the brain has this other fuel it can use
more efficiently which is ketones which
by the way is great for seizures in fact
the ketogenic diet okay has been
proven to improve seizures
and lastly it's the pink pigment that is
in Salmon if it's wild caught okay
because if it's not well caught it is
farm raised and they have to use certain
dyes to turn it from Gray to Pink that
pink pigment
is a phytonutrient called
astaxanthin and this is a powerful
antioxidant to help protect the neurons
against the damage from
omega-6 fatty acids refined
carbohydrates and sugars so there you
have it salmon is absolutely the best
food that you can eat for your brain and
also with that salmon that doesn't
really complete the meal so you want
some dark leafy green vegetable with it
the probably the best one if you want to
look at the brain health that would be
kale and because kale is loaded with
folate vitamin C beta-carotene all these
antioxidants now if you had that as a
salad and you put some nutritional yeast
on it okay unfortified you'll have all
the B vitamins necessary for the brain
too the brain loves and needs B vitamins
talking about B1 B5 B12 B2 B3 B6 add a
little olive oil to that and you'll have
a super Health brain supporting meal now
I created another very popular video on
the brain if you have not seen this uh
check it out I put it up right here
