so I wanted to talk about why it's
necessary to add fat to your salads and
your vegetables okay in vegetables in
general you have certain phytonutrients
you have carotenoids you have flavonoids
there's over 600 types of brought notes
there's over 4,000 types of flavonoids
these are phytochemicals or plant-based
chemicals that go way beyond vitamins
and minerals and give you extra health
benefits but the crowd noise are fat
soluble these are water soluble but
these are fat soluble so you have 600
types of these in your vegetables in
your salad that are fat soluble which
means they need fat to be digested and
you need fat to extract some of these
wonderful flat of nutrients from the
vegetables in the salad you're consuming
so you have beta carotene which turns
into vitamin A lycopene which you've
probably heard that earn tomatoes but
they're in a lot of other vegetables
lutein is the Anthony which is good for
the retina and the brain these are off
that Seibel so to support your your
vision your brain your health prostate
glands start adding fat to your
vegetables so that would be butter
coconut oil if you're doing the kale
shake I like coconut oil your salad do
olive oil palm oil so don't omit that
don't do low-fat dressings consume a
little bit more fat and you'll actually
pull more of this nutrition out for the
benefit of your health
the average American consumes 1.1 3
servings of vegetables per day that's
pretty pathetic now a lot of times I'll
talk about you need 7 to 10 cups of
salad a day right so I want to just
clarify what a serving size means when I
talk about consuming 7 to 10 cups of
salad I'm not talking about 7 to 10
servings of salad I'm talking about cups
because one serving of vegetables is one
cup one serving of salad is two cups
okay it's just an FYI
alright so apply this and put your
comments down below hey you probably
already subscribed but if you haven't
press this little button down below and
I will keep you updated
