so today I'm going to talk about what's
different between the ketogenic diet and
intermittent fasting as far as their
benefits okay
they're not actually the same let's
start with keto so when you drop your
carbs you produce ketones from fat when
you're do in a minute fasting well guess
what you're dropping your carbs so
you're also going to produce ketones but
you're also doing something else you're
not stimulating a hormone in your small
intestine called the GIP hormone which
will increase ketones even more because
when you eat you do trigger this GIP
hormone and that increases insulin so
when you do intermittent fasting you're
going to produce more ketones than you
would if you're just doing the ketogenic
diet and this is because the combination
of not doing carbs and not stimulating
that extra insulin alright let's talk
about cancer cancer lives on glucose and
glutamine that's an amino acid so when
you do keto you actually starve the
cancer cell of glucose and the tumor
cells cannot live on ketones
so that's good right but here's the
problem cancer can also live on
glutamine but doing in a minute fasting
or periodic prolonged fasting can less
than the amount of glutamine that that
cancer can live on so you basically
starving the cancer cell alright next
difference is when you keto hopefully
you're doing the healthy version of keto
you're not doing the dirty keto okay
you're providing nutrients essential
trace minerals vitamins minerals
building blocks like amino acids
essential fatty acids to build the body
within a minute fasting you're not
eating
so basically you're not providing
nutrients now it is true when you do
them in fasting you're recycling these
nutrients more in the need for them goes
way down but in a minute fasting itself
does not provide any nutrients it does
by the way increase more antioxidants
which is another benefit alright next
one is something called the tofu Jie a
toughie Jie is a condition where your
body is recycling old damaged
proteins okay it's cleaning up all this
old stuff and it's bringing into a new
state so it's really important in repair
you're getting way more tough OG when
you do in a minute fasting then when
you're eating okay so for all practical
purposes you're really not getting any
major etapa G winger even when you're
doing low carbs okay but when you're
doing it a bit fasting you are so that's
one huge benefit especially when you get
into anti-aging now in addition to that
you have something really cool that
happens there's actually longevity genes
that get expressed or activated when you
do fasting so actually you live longer
when you do in a minute fasting all
right the next one is you drop
inflammation significantly now with
lowering your carb you're also going to
drop inflammation but imminent fasting
you're going to drop inflammation even
more and inflammation in general is
really a key thing in so many chronic
illnesses autoimmune diseases all the
arthritis diabetes neurodegenerative
diseases like Alzheimer's and
Parkinson's and even in atherosclerosis
which is people think about the heart
disease is just plaquing but that
plaquing starts after you get
inflammation and you get a lot of extra
damage when there's inflammation in the
body and there's also a lot of
inflammation in cancer as well so
dropping this inflammation is really a
key factor next benefit with
intermittent fasting is you get a
massive spike in growth hormone
now you also get a spike of growth
hormone when you do a little carb but
not near as much as when you do in a
minute fasting it could be between 1300
up to 2,000 percent more and the last
point which I already mentioned your
body actually starts building up more of
your antioxidant reserve the
antioxidants can come from your diet but
your body can also make them so when you
do in a minute fasting you actually are
strengthening that system which is
really important in preventing damage to
your genes to the DNA to the
mitochondria
okay I'll show you one more thing okay
let's talk about the brain for a second
your brain prefers ketones if you have a
damaged brain let's say you have
dementia Parkinson's Alzheimer's are you
starting to forget things and by the way
Alzheimer's takes like 15 to 20 years to
develop so it starts off small and then
they gradually gets worse if you have
any type of damage in your brain you
need to be aware of this fuel source key
chance because your your brain loves
ketones and ketones can bypass the
damaged nerve cells which by the way the
damaged nerves are not getting the
glucose and that's what's starving them
so you can bypass that whole thing and
feed the neurons ketones and they can be
very very happy so there's two things
you need to know about this number one
it's the level of ketones in the blood
that determine if the what the brain is
going to use is fuel if you have a lot
of ketones in the blood despite having
even a lot of glucose in the blood the
brain will eat up these ketones in
preference to the glucose so that's good
news right and then we also have the
level of glucose in the blood so let's
say for example you go on the ketogenic
diet and you cut down the glucose then
your body will start making ketones
raise ketones then your brain will be
happy but what happens when you consume
too much glucose because you're in a
high carb diet well you're gonna run
your brain on glucose the problem is
you're gonna have insulin resistance
eventually and the cells are not going
to get the fuel and then they're going
to die so you're gonna starve off the
brain cells when you do a high carb diet
and there's one last really important
thing I want to tell you if you have
brain damage okay and you start keto an
intermittent fasting and it's taking a
while to adapt to ketosis and you may
not have the level of ketones that you
really want in this situation I would
highly recommend taking MCT oil okay
that will provide a lot
more ketones to jumpstart the engine
I would also recommend you take
exogenous ketones now I normally don't
recommend those but if you have
Alzheimer's or Parkinson's I would
definitely recommend that because that
would give you just more ketones to work
with and satisfy the fuel part of the
brain anyway thanks for watching I will
see you in the next video hey if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
