the philosophy that people have is if I
just work harder and burn off these
calories and I'm more energetic it's
going to come off that's not how it
works what happens when you exercise all
you do is you release hormones that get
triggered 14 to 48 hours later in the
deep sleep if you could sleep that's how
it works so it's a delayed effect it's
not during the workout so if you weigh
yourself before and after a 2hour
workout it won't be anything less at all
it'll it'll be like zero even if you
burn 800
calories so the fat doesn't melt off
it's like a Time release thing it's a
Time relase hormone sent to the blood
that does all the work later okay so
this is a adrenal um buffalo hump back
here cuz that's stabilizing the belly
from falling forward it's down here this
the legs the legs get thinner why
because the body is stripping off
protein muscle protein from the thigh
muscle first so if you watch the person
get up from a seated position they kind
of they get up a little more difficult
also climbing is difficult for them
because the front of legs are getting
smaller and smaller um so the legs get
skinnier and their midsection gets wider
and then after the body starts eating up
these muscles it goes after the next
muscle called the glutamic Maximus what
muscle is that your rear end so we have
a situation with that and a situation
with the leg now you probably have seen
people with like hips thin waist and
then they get older and then no waste
all
midsection that is what happens that's
adrenal because adrenal gland backs up
the ovaries during menopause so they do
the same work how many of ever fell on
your tailbone before okay how many fell
on your knees okay how many had ever had
Mono okay many had their tonsils removed
okay now we stack up all those injuries
over time we stack them up over the
years and then when you get 25 what
happens you starts to wear down the
adrenals and then 30 starts wearing it
down and all of a sudden now you have
this High cortisol level and you got all
the stress stick sitting in the
background and you're wondering why it's
accumulating in the midsection because
the cortisols start going higher and
higher and higher that's the one that
causes stomach weight through here so um
what happens the old injuries that you
have had as a kid start kind of being
reactivated as stiffness or pain cuz
sometimes like later in life you're like
why why do I hurt here I didn't just
fall down it's being reactivated other
things get reactivated too as adrenals
go down like mono mono is um like a
virus that you get in your tonsils and
the symptom that that will create later
in life is uh
fatigue tired for no reason if you have
rheumato arthritis for example you need
a lot more than 4700 Mig of
potassium because because adrenals are
so tired they're dumping the potassium
all day long dumping it right out it's
just coming in and out so it's you're
wondering why people have problems it's
they're not looking at the nutrient part
um of the picture one of the things that
we do is we we I just created a test a
computerized test that you can take very
quickly some of you already took it to
find out if you're getting your basic
daily nutrients from the food and then
it tells you what food to focus on so
far no one has got a perfect
score um now some of you said well I did
I did because I took your test you was
one of the first ones who took the test
well there was a bug in the system with
a decimal point so now we got that
corrected like it's like cuz everyone
was like coming 100% I'm like you just
ate a carrot how could and I go oh we
had a little bug we cracked it and then
all of a sudden like wow interesting you
know you wait you go to the doctor and
you get a blood test everything comes
out normal right and he says you're
healthy come back in six months right
you have to be about dead to have
anything show up on the blood yeah so
this this test measures what's going in
the body not waiting for it to show up
on a ex in a in a urine down the road
which is a lot more preventative so
that's valuable because I like I don't I
like to prevent things it's a lot easier
than waiting till it shows up with
adrenal the calcium doesn't go into the
muscle or it doesn't go into the bone so
it shows up as bone loss and things like
that the other place it'll show up is
right in your your trap peius muscle so
I want you to check the person in front
of you check their muscles right here
and see if that it's hard go ahead and
do it now this is part of the drill part
of the exercise
you can't tell well she's fine she's a
patient okay
good you can get you can get your
massage therapist number when you get
down here
just now the muscles these muscles these
are the adrenal acupressure points one
of them right here and also this area is
a point where you have a lot of
tightness
because of lack of calcium it shows up
here and right here in the
calf so the question is where all this
where does this calcium go it goes on
top of the eyes as early cataracts on
top of the joints is arthritis btis
tendonitis heel spurs pler fasciitis
which is the pain in the bottom of the
foot um twitching on the left eyelid
right
here um also so um calcium Stones gall
stones um what else oh artery plaing the
same okay so we have adrenal uh would be
um oh the adrenal loses
collagen just like the thyroid so you'll
see your skin you're losing your skin is
getting a little bit uh
thinner um that would be more adrenal
that's stress your muscles it's like you
you Lo that tone that's
adrenal so calcium oh craving salty
foods give me an example of a salty food
crackers chips crackers pretzels peanuts
cheese puffs pocorn popcorn pretzels
yeah um if you ever take a look at these
uh the the person's ankles they take
your socks up at night and see that
little ring around the ankle you should
never see the ring around the ankle
because that's fluid retention coming
from the imbalance of
sodium
yeah all the time one of the things that
I did to come up with some of these
philosophies is that I I took what's
known to be truth right and then I look
at the variables like the exceptions to
the rule like how come it doesn't work
in this person work in that person and
then I pull the string and that's when
you find a huge Discovery behind the the
person it didn't work on that's how you
make these huge discoveries so the
problem is you have to have some
persistence to keep pulling the string
you can't give up on the person like oh
you didn't get well see you you know
bye-bye so that's that's kind of how I
came up with some of the stuff
especially with some of the symptoms
we're talking about the next body type
would be this body type this is the
ovary body type take a look where the
weight is it's down here saddle
bag hip
weight um ovary take a while to guess
why I don't see very many men that look
like
that they don't have
ovaries cellulite that's estrogen
estrogen makes fat
superficially where does estrogen come
from ovarian cyst
fibroid excessive ovary production
imbalance HRT hormon placement therapy
birth control pills plastic plastic
don't eat Plastics anymore don't chew on
plastic toys or um also also um soy milk
one glass of soy milk is equivalent to
one birth control pill I don't know if
you saw in the paper the guy was he was
drinking so much soy milk he started
lactating that was enough for me to cut
down the the environment is so filled
with chemicals you are a big sponge for
these things walking barefoot on the the
uh golf course I'm sure you don't do
that but the sprays and the the
chemicals and the food there's a lot of
people that come from other countries
and move to America and they get large
uh I've see them all day long and they
uh I was fine until I moved to America
welcome to America so we have a lot of
chemicals in the environment so these
chemicals go into your fat cells and
they go into the liver and they start to
overload the liver and and the body and
starts messing up with our own hormones
because it destroys the gland starts
enlarging the prostate and creates
fibroids that's what comes that's where
it comes from this is all in the book of
Toxicology the study of poisons luckily
there are C certain things that pull
these poisons out does anyone want to
know what that is it's a it's in a it's
in a type of vegetable can you take a
wild
guess cruciferous yeah that's right the
cruciferous family of vegetables
naturally has compounds to
deactivate these poisons
