now today I'm going to show you 17
different deficiencies that you can
handle or correct with 17 different
superfoods so I'll show you the symptom
the deficiency in the superfood for each
one but here's the big problem with this
you may have the tendency to want to
evaluate friends family people in the
street please don't ever mention my name
when you do that so don't do this um you
know honey I noticed that you have some
flakiness some redness right around your
nose right there have you had that check
you know Dr Berg said that's an omega-3
fatty acids and you probably should be
eating more fish or oh you know you look
like you have some puffy eyes there Dr
Burg said that could be a potassium
deficiency so you may want to eat an
avocado so use it on yourself friends
but just don't mention my name all right
number one scaly flaky skin now this can
be around the nose it could be anywhere
on the face it could be anywhere in the
body that is usually an omega-3 fatty
acid now it could be that you're not
consuming enough of these omega-3 fatty
acids or it could be that you're
consuming too much of the omega-6 fatty
acids which they both compete so if
you're doing too much of the seed oils
the other stuff won't work and I would
say that out of all the foods that
create the most damage on your body not
just your skin it's the seed oils it can
actually make you gain weight it can
create insulin resistance it can create
arthritis and it's in so many different
foods start consuming more fish oils Civ
oil but salmon is loaded with it all
right number two um twitching underneath
your eyelid or anywhere in the body now
as far as a nutritional deficiency it's
not really a nutritional deficiency even
though it it is a problem with nutrition
it's a problem with calcium that's not
able to be mobilized correctly because
your pH is too far on one side so when
you become too alkaline calcium doesn't
seem to work within the nervous system
so you get this little tetar twitching
and a lot of times it's right right
underneath the eyelid don't ask me why a
simple remedy is just to change the pH
take some apple cider vinegar one
tablespoon and a glass of water drink
that a few times a day for a couple days
that should correct it all right number
three pink toothbrush you're brushing
your teeth and you notice wow it's like
pink what's going on and you look in the
mirror and your gums are a little bit
red or swollen or bleeding or you dental
floss your teeth and it creates some
blood this is a very mild version of
scurvy that's kind of like subclinical
version of vitamin C deficiency vitamin
C helps the collagen around the arteries
so if your capillaries are weak because
you don't have enough vitamin C to
create this collagen um protection
around these capillaries uh they're
easily uh inflamed and they can bleed
easily if you irritate them so The
Simple Solution is to start consuming
bell peppers now you could also do uh
sauerkraut uh but it has to be raw but
you need more vitamin C one thing that
creates a vitamin C deficiency Beyond
not consuming vitamin C foods like
salads vegetables things like that is
that you're consuming too much sugar
sugar competes with vitamin C so if
you're consuming vitamin C and sugar
vitamin C won't go in it'll become
blocked all right number four panic
attack okay if you have a panic attack
which is kind of like a severe form of
anxiety you're deficient in B1 and so
the best remedy for that would be
nutritional yeast okay and find out how
you're becoming deficient it usually
could be that you're consuming too many
carbs but B1 will give you within
minutes a sense of relaxation it'll pull
you out of a panic attack all right
number five constipation there's this um
natural acid called rolic acid which out
of all the things that have a lot of
that it's Castro oil so this is why
Castro oil is really good for
constipation because it helps The
receptors in the colon mobilize calcium
to allow the normal contraction and
relaxation that you need to eliminate
number six decrease libido and erectile
dysfunction this is a zinc deficiency
and you need to consume more oysters you
can also do red meat uh it's loaded with
zinc couple things that deplete zinc
sugar and stress and phytic acid from
Sur as in grains which can block zinc
all right number seven bruising you
bruise easily this is a vitamin K1
deficiency okay you just need to start
eating dark leafy green vegetables any
vegetable that's green is going to have
vitamin K1 number eight menopausal
symptoms so if you're going through
menopause and you have any symptoms
related to hormones and this could be
anything from like estrogen progesterone
testosterone cortisol so what's that a
deficiency of usually the raw material
that makes these steroid hormones you
need more of that raw material and that
is cholesterol that's right cholesterol
could be considered a nutrient because
it's the building block of all of the
steroid hormones and when people go low
fat or they don't consume animal Foods
they're deficient in cholesterol now our
bodies do make cholesterol but here's
the problem when you go through
menopause or early menopause because you
had surgery and they took out the
ovaries so now your adrenals have to
compensate and if you're going through
stress your body will allocate the
cholesterol to the adrenal hormones and
maybe not these other hormones giving
you other symptoms like hot flash
depression um low stress tolerance Etc
bone loss cholesterol is the thing you
want to increase and the way to do that
is grass-fed butter all right number
nine anemia the two types of anemia are
related to a B12 deficiency or an iron
deficiency the best food for that would
be beef liver if you don't like beef
liver you can get this from red meat
make sure it's grass-fed grass finished
number 10 is muscle loss and that is due
to eating foods low in amino acids like
junk food and carbs the best thing for
that is consuming red meat all right
number 11 you have a slow thyroid 90% of
all hypothyroidism is Hashimoto this is
an autoimmune problem and the usual
deficiency is selenium not iodine
selenium helps regulate these antibodies
this immune system problem it also helps
convert the inactive T4 to the active T3
so the best food for selenium is eating
one brazilnut every single day all right
number 12 insomnia and this could also
be um related to leg cramps as well this
is a magnesium deficiency many times if
you're low on magnesium your cortisol
tends to go up and that can affect uh
your sleep uh one of the best foods for
um magnesium is spinach and almonds 13
you're driving at night it's dark it's
rainy you can't see that well you're
starting to lose your sense of seeing in
the dark this is a classic vitamin A
deficiency the best source of vitamin A
that I would recommend comes from egg
yolks so start consuming the whole egg
but make sure they're pasture raised
because the commercial eggs they don't
have uh the best quality of vitamin A in
fact they use certain dyes or synthetic
pigments to make the yolk very brilliant
golden or yellow or orange but if you're
consuming pasta Rays organic eggs you
don't have to worry about that 14 lower
back pain this is classic vitamin D
deficiency best source of vitamin D
dietarily is cod liver oil cod liver oil
will not only give you vitamin D but
vitamin A and omega-3 fatty acids which
are anti-inflammatory 15 puffy eyes I'm
talking about the lids on top and the
bottom they're puffy that's usually a
potassium deficiency because you're
consuming too many carbs which are
locking up your potassium as well as
retaining your sodium so the solution is
to increase more potassium and cut out
the carbs avocado is a great way to do
that all right number 16 prolonged
muscle soreness especially after
exercise this is a vitamin E deficiency
a real simple way to get vitamin E would
be to consume more sunflower seeds make
sure they're raw and they're not like
stale and old you want some fresh
sunflower seeds now you can also get
vitamin E from leafy green vegetables
and certain nuts and number 17 the last
one overall weakness in your body let's
say you're exercising and you just you
don't have that inertia you don't have
that ability to climb upstairs this is a
sodium deficiency you need c salt I
would recommend Himalayan sea salt now
if you have not seen my other very
popular video that I did on nutritional
deficiencies you should check that out I
put it up right
here
