hey guys in this video I want to answer
another question from someone that
wanted to know about how these macros
are influenced by insulin there's been
just a lot of conflicting information
confusion so I'm going to make it really
really simple in this one little video
ok so there's there's three main macros
and macros are macronutrients carbs
protein and fat micronutrients would be
like vitamins and minerals things like
that these are macronutrients okay
there's many different types of carbs we
can take these carbs and list them on
another scale called the glycemic index
which basically is the carbs effect on
raising blood Sugar's and if something
is high in fiber and low in not very
sweet it's going to be low on the list
okay so you have you know vegetables are
down here and then you have berries and
then fruit and then you have grains and
then refined sugars and processed foods
up here so it really depends on the type
of carbohydrates so the carbohydrates
have the greatest effect on raising
insolent especially if it's refined
sugars and starches okay so that's that
okay so now let's talk about protein
does protein increase insulin yes to
certain degrees it really depends on a
couple factors because if you're
consuming a moderate or a small amount
of protein it's not going to trigger
insulin that much okay so the more
volume a protein you consume in excess
the more it's going to trigger insulin
like when you start going over eight
ounces 9 ounces 10 ounces 12 ounces like
you'd go to a restaurant and they bring
you this steak this 16 or 22 ounce steak
right you talk about a massive amount of
insulin spike right but it's also
exaggerated when you add sugar or starch
to that so if you're running a baked
potato dessert some sugar glaze barbecue
sauce now really will enhance the
insulin now if we add on top of that msg
which you'd get in a fast food
restaurant because a lot of these fast
food restaurants they they taste really
good because they add the flavor
enhancer
which is basically MSG monosodium
glutamate and it dilates the tastebuds
and it makes it taste real good but you
really dramatically increase insulin so
if you're at a fast food place and
you're doing coke with ice cream with a
burger with fries with high fructose
corn syrup ketchup and a bun oh my gosh
you're having a massive insulin spike
okay or you're to Chinese restaurant and
you're doing the white rice with all the
sugary coating sauce over the protein
and the breaded meats massive spike in
insulin because they too will also add
msg usually hidden is modified food
starch it's the same thing okay so the
excess amount a combo of what it's
combined with a and number three very
lean low fat proteins have a greater
effect over insulin there's a something
called the insulin index and the insulin
index are all the foods ranked in order
of how much insulin they will spike so
the glycemic index is how fast the
carbohydrate will spike blood Sugar's
insulin
index are all the non carbohydrate foods
that will increase insulin like protein
and fat okay so the less fat in that
protein the leaner it is the more effect
it has on insulin so if you took for
example whey protein powder you're gonna
have the most insulin spike because
there's like no fat in there so that's
interesting versus something fatty or
like a an egg yolk or the whole egg for
example you mix the protein with the fat
it has a much lower effect on insulin
than the low fat protein okay so that's
another point about that then we get to
fat the fat has the least effect on
insulin of these two okay and like a
pure fat like butter for example
probably is like a zero effect over
insulin coconut oil things like that so
the more fat something is the Lord is on
the insulin index scale okay so you got
that all right just one more point I
want to bring up and that is that every
time you
anything of any significance I'm not
talking about like you know drinking
water or unsweetened tea or your
vitamins things like that I'm not
talking about coffee I'm talking about
something that has some calories okay
every time you do that you spike insulin
and of course the more food that you eat
the more insulin you're going to spike
so it doesn't matter what it is if it's
a keto bomb that's all fat with a little
protein it's still going to stimulate
insulin not as much as a pure
carbohydrate like sugar or bread
something like that but it's going to
spike insulin to some degree so this is
the added layer that I want to add to
these when you eat anything you're going
to stimulate insulin so even though fat
has the least effect on insulin just the
fact that you eat it will trigger
certain things in your stomach certain
hormones that will trigger the insulin
on a cascade of effects so the point is
you want to cut down these okay low as
possible moderate protein make sure it's
not too lean and you can consume fat at
the meal but just don't eat it as
frequently so that's called in a minute
fasting so we basically reduce the
frequency of eating and you're going to
be fine now as you do this and you
consume two meals yes you're going to
consume some fat and you need some fat
and we need some insulin we just don't
need the excess amount but over a period
of time when you start squishing these
together where you have let's say a
window of four hours okay and then you
have 20 hours of fasting even though
you're going to stimulate insulin a
little bit from some fats amount of
protein even some healthy vegetables
it's not going to be a problem because
it's a minimal it's not significant what
really gets people is the routine
snacking every one hour and a half even
if it's a small meal even if it's
so-called healthy protein even if it's
some fat in there you're just constantly
raising the insulin alright thanks for
watching so we've been getting a lot of
success stories but I don't have your
success story yet so click the link down
below and
upload you before-and-after I want to
actually hear about your success story I
want to see your before-and-afters and
every week we do featured success
stories so click the link down below and
share your success
