hi guys I'm going to talk about why
women get diabetes during pregnancy okay
this is called gestational diabetes what
happens late in pregnancy there's a lot
of stress going on you're gonna get a
spike in something called cortisol
that's the adrenal stress hormone and
other hormones too which then will
release protein which converted to sugar
and spike insulin which leads to insulin
resistance okay so that's really a
situation insulin resistance is really a
pre-diabetes situation but when it
becomes worse or more chronic develops
into diabetes so this is the mechanism
it goes from cortisol then right to
insulin resistance okay now if you take
a woman whose insulin resistant and she
becomes pregnant it can worsen that and
flip right into a full-blown diabetes
because of the stress that happens
during pregnancy now my advice to you is
before you become pregnant make sure you
don't have insulin resistance and if you
do get it fixed it's not hard to fix
that I have a lot of videos on that you
can do a search on that but instant
resistance will set you up for a
diabetic situation while you're going
through this additional stress and if
you have any adrenal issues let's say
you're stressed out and you're not
sleeping and then you become pregnant it
just puts a lot of stress on your body
so do whatever you can to get as super
healthy as possible before you get
pregnant all right thanks for watching
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know
hey that runs
