hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about how much sugar is really
needed by the body okay sometimes when I
ask people this they'll have say a
random thing they five grams a day a
gram this many milligrams so it's all
over the board okay well here's the
thing you should know and the answer is
zero grams you don't need any sugar
there's no such thing as an essential
sugar or even essential carbohydrate
there's essential fatty acids there's
essential amino acids which are protein
but there is no such thing as an
essential carbohydrate the reason why we
need carbohydrates is number one a lot
of the vegetables are fed to the
microbes to feed the microbes food
that's what they live on is fiber not
necessarily grain fiber I mean I don't
recommend that I recommend vegetable
fiber but also we get our uh in the
carbs especially the vegetable family we
need the vitamins and minerals and trace
minerals that's why we need those Foods
okay we don't necessarily need the
glucose energy from those Foods why
because we can run our bodies on fat
fuel if you're eating sugar your body
will not burn your fat so we we can also
your body can also convert dietary fat
and dietary protein
into glucose and sugars okay but
typically you've heard of normal blood
sugars right it's like oh 90 to 100 is
normal right like what that means that's
only really one teaspoon of sugar in
your entire body that's one teaspoon per
all of the blood in your body you have
about a gallon and a half of blood in
your body and all you need is one little
tiny teaspoon that doesn't mean that it
has to come from actual sugar you can
get them from eating you know a piece of
um protein so the point is the amount of
sugar you need is zero but the average
amount of sugar that an average American
consumes every single year is
150 pounds of sugar 150 pounds in one's
lifetime that comes out to a dumpster
full of sugar that's 31 teaspoons a day
yeah when our requirement is zero so
when we consume so much sugar you're
going to create problems with the
hormone that control sugar called
insulin okay now most of the diseases
out there right now six of the top 10
Killers included are insulin related not
only do we have belly fat we have
Alzheimer's that's that's called uh type
3 diabetes and then we have actual
diabetes that's coming from a insulin
problem then we have heart disease high
cholesterol clogged arteries all these
things even Strokes that comes from high
levels of insulin so your brain goes
your heart goes your arteries go and
then you get this big belly other than
that you're perfectly fine so the point
is you don't need any sugar but because
we're addicted you know we need that
sensation of sweet but there's so many
things you can do to get off the site
and also you know alternatively have
like certain pleasure foods made with
Zol or Stevia or arrol um those are the
things that you want to consume to
transition off this okay all right
thanks for watching I'll see you later
