today we're going to talk about the
difference between good and bad LDL now
normally someone is taught that LDL is
the bad cholesterol but that's not
actually true LDL is divided between two
different parts and just so you know LDL
stands for a low-density lipoprotein
it's not cholesterol it's a type of
protein that is carrying cholesterol
through the body from the liver out to
the tissues HDL takes the cholesterol
from the tissues and brings it back to
the liver so we are so brainwashed to
think that LDL is the bad cholesterol
but they're not differentiating the
specific types of LDL it does take a
special test to get this information but
I would highly recommend that you do it
I put a link down below for more
information so when you go to your
doctor you can ask for this specialized
test so here's the two types s d LDL - P
this stands for a particle and SD is
small dense okay so the LDL is a smaller
dense type and this is the type that's
the real bad one that can invade the
arteries deep into the tissues and
create all sorts of problems this is the
one that has the oxidized cholesterol
which will increase your risk of getting
heart attack by four times this is the
type that you normally see with the
diabetic because it comes from a high
carb diet but especially high amounts of
fructose fructose will create more of
this more than glucose so also realize
that sucrose like table sugar is like
half fructose and half glucose so a lot
of the sugars contain fructose and this
type is called type B just so you could
actually differentiate now we get 2 lb
LDL / p which is particle right here lb
is large buoyant the large fluffy type
of LDL okay it's type A you're gonna see
this when someone does the ketogenic
diet because it's a higher fat diet when
you're doing ketosis when you're doing
in a minute fasting
you're releasing a lot of fat in
cholesterol from the fat cells so you
need these these LDL carriers to
transport cholesterol in different
places but this type of LDL is benign
it's not the type that clogs up your
arteries or creates damage okay this is
the bad one this is the good one I
suggest to do your own testing on this
and you will see that if your LDL is
high it's going to be over here if
you're doing the healthy version of keto
and in a minute fasting if you're doing
carbs you're gonna probably see more of
this right here the other thing to look
at is the triglycerides you want them
low and you're normally going to see
them low if you're doing keto and I F
which is a good indicator because you're
using triglycerides now for your energy
source
also you want your HDL higher and you
normally see this when you're doing keto
and I F
alright so that's the summary I try to
keep it very very simple and I put an
additional link down below for more
information on this but definitely get
it checked and if you're concerned about
it you're gonna see that if your LDL is
high you're gonna see this one right
here you're gonna see this one as normal
or on the low side thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
