start Ken start on your
[Music]
Marketo all right so today you're going
to learn how to make these amazing
cranberry pecan muffins and they are
okay they're legal they're there's no
sugar there's no wheat I like these I
mean these are made in a blender so it's
really appealing you just throw
everything in the
blender if you don't have a blender
honestly it's just a simple in a
bowl it really is but they're
lovely and they're yummy and when my
kids come home and they smell these in
the oven they're like what are you
making what are you making what are you
making and what are what's really good
is you get to put the butter grass-fed
butter we always try
but oh yeah because the cows in the
back car gold at the store okay anyway
let's try it I think you'll like it
they're aren't you going to put butter
on it well I'm going to open it up first
I'm going to break
it oh I guess this is for you that's
yours oh thank you I'm me try this thing
here now tell me why a little bit ofam
cranberry is okay well first of all
cranberries are tart so they don't have
a lot of sugar compared to other berries
secondly you're allowed between 20 and
50 grams per day so a small a couple of
carbs in a ketogenic diet so we're not
this is not going to bump you out it's
small amount so we're talking about like
three cranberries you know it's not a
big deal and uh
so it's just
that that muffin
num if you breathe it in it's even
better in the lungs it's really
[Laughter]
great no there's something about a
muffin you know and I just think um you
know there's so many things you can make
on a keto
diet and that are delicious and nummy
and fill a home with great smells and I
mean there's just no it doesn't have to
be boring or or depriving or anything
like that yeah yeah so but you know what
I do want to know what kind of recipes
people would like so put your comments
below of what recipe you would like uh
and your eating plan given within the
range of celery or spinach or kale and
let us know and then we will create it
for you and celery yeah no but I would
like to know what kind of recipes we've
done a lot of different things but if
you have a request or something yeah let
us know yeah okay cool okay make it
[Music]
hey you probably already subscribed but
if you haven't press this little button
down below and I will keep you updated
