now I've done quite a few videos on the
heart I've talked about
coronary artery classification vascular
calcification but there's one additional
cause that I recently found through
reading a book which I'm going to put a
link down below which I think is pretty
common and I haven't made the link yet
and I think you should know about it
especially if you want to prevent
calcification of your arteries and this
additional cause is called lactic
acidosis now when I mentioned lactic
acidosis or maybe lactic acid you might
associate that with
um kind of a burning you feel after you
exercise in your muscles right you might
think of that but lactic acidosis goes
way beyond that lactic acidosis
occurs as a byproduct of glucose
metabolism and both lactic acidosis and
lactate in your blood are associated
with a lot of additional problems okay
like
sudden death from heart attack
thrombosis which means you're clotting
in your arteries panic attacks autonomic
nervous system dysfunction which could
include a lot of other problems even
like in bipolar schizophrenia sepsis
which is a systemic infection certain
arrhythmia problems like ventricular
fibulation and liver disease and
definitely diabetes and even cancer and
restless leg syndrome but my primary
focus today is to show you this
connection between lactic acidosis
and hypoxia in your arteries okay
hypoxia that's a lack of oxygen and then
the next consequence of that is a
calcification so vascular calcification
can definitely come from this hypoxia
which is caused by this acid situation
in your blood called lactic acidosis and
so calcification in the arteries is not
just from old age it's not just from
you know consuming too much dietary
calcium or even just a lack of vitamin
K2 now there's two primary common
reasons why someone might develop
some version of lactic acidosis one is
they're just on too many carbohydrates
too much sugar in the diet can then
cause this abundance of lactate and that
can develop into lactic acid so anything
that can increase the metabolism of
glucose is called glycolysis like
consuming too much sugar can create this
problem the other common link that was
discussed in this book which you just
need to be aware of is an overactive
sympathetic dominant situation you're
too much in the flutter fight and
basically we're talking about chronic
stress
chronic stress is very similar to
constantly eating chronic large doses of
sugar because stress puts you into this
flight of fight mode and you're just
basically using sugar okay as your fuel
source both from adrenaline as well as
cortisol cortisol is a hormone
adrenaline is a neurotransmitter but
another name for cortisol is a
glucocorticoid because it it uses
glucose right but adrenaline also will
activate and release a lot of sugar and
this can very easily develop this lactic
acidosis situation metformin causes as
well metformin has a warning sign on the
label uh it can cause lactic acidosis
why because one of the big problems or
side effects from metformin is lactic
acidosis now even Warfarin a very common
drug to block vitamin K1 to help thin
your blood so you don't develop clotting
has a side effect of vascular
calcification because it can produce
lactic acidosis also statin drugs which
help block cholesterol also have a side
effect of this calcification problem as
well and lactic acidosis also drinking
too much alcohol will do it and even if
you over train if you exercise too much
you can develop a lot of lactic acid
I wouldn't say that you're going to
develop calcium deposits from that but
it can definitely put you in a state of
lactic acidosis and when you have lactic
acidosis the pH of your blood starts
going down that means it's becoming
acidic and probably the first symptom
you're going to notice is breathing
problems it's going to be
hard to breathe hard to get oxygen
because you need a certain pH for that
you're going to feel very restless
especially in the leg muscles but there
is an effective remedy for lactic
acidosis that you need to know about if
you have enough B1 thymine chances are
you probably won't even develop lactic
acid in the first place so of course the
deeper remedy of lactic acidosis is to
find out what's causing it are you
consuming too many carbs are you eating
too much sugar well then go on keto are
you going through stress are you in this
chronic flutter fight mode
well there's a lot of things you can do
to lower that but B1 can vary
effectively pull you out of this lactic
acidosis and also it will counter the
complications from consuming
high amounts of carbohydrates as well as
the complications from diabetes
as well as the side effects from being
under this chronic state of sympathetic
dominance or stress B1 is the best
vitamin for stress in fact I've talked
about this before when you take B1 it
really helps nervous agitation this
buildup of energy this restlessness so
B1 will help with that because you're
actually
curbing or reducing this these effects
of lactic acidosis you're going to even
breathe better when you take Natural B1
so B1 is really good to pull someone out
of anxiety and the symptoms or side
effects from lactic acidosis so B1 can
actually also help you with hypoxia
which is a lack of oxygen in your in
your vascular system it can help balance
out the pH B1 has also been known to
directly help inhibit thrombosis or
clotting so it's really really good for
the heart and of course B1 is also good
to inhibit this calcification buildup in
the arteries and we all know that
consuming too much alcohol will really
deplete your B1 and so that's another
common cause of why someone would end up
with a B1 deficiency you know I live in
a farm and we have cattle and when we
first bought this cattle we
you know we were asking Farmers around
what do we need for cattle do we need to
supplement their diet with vitamins
whatever and many of the farmers around
our area said you you should also buy
large amounts of baking soda and I'm
like why do you need baking soda oh well
because they can develop lactic acidosis
so if you look up why a cow would
develop lactic acidosis you will find
it's the side effect from consuming too
many grains okay
too many refined carbohydrates a cow is
meant to consume grass in plants and
weeds not grains and if a cow has lactic
acidosis they can
become very depressed and active not be
around the rest of the cows they can get
diarrhea they can get dehydration and
they can die and unfortunately some of
these Farmers just go ahead and treat
these cows with baking soda or some type
of alkalizing agent okay instead of
really looking at the underlying
mechanism a cow's stomach is not
designed to be actually that acidic like
our stomachs it's designed to be
slightly alkaline in its fermentation of
grass so this is just another example of
how grains and sugar and refined carbs
are not meant to be in our diet and
number three make sure you have enough
B1 natural B1 not the synthetic thymine
but natural B1 in your diet if you
potentially could have this issue now I
think the next most important video for
you to watch would be to learn all the
underlying causes of a B1 deficiency so
that way you you understand the whole
picture and I put that video up right
here check it out
