hi guys Dr Burg here listen I wanted to
do a video on high pulse rate because uh
I talked to this one lady on the phone
and she went to the doctor and they said
uh they ruled out heart problems from
her symptom of high pulse rate she has
no heart problems and they don't know
what's going on so I wanted to I told
her I'd create a video to show her all
the possible causes okay so a lot of
times if you're stuck with one thing we
need to kind of know all the potential
things that it could be number one you
have to realize that an average a normal
rate of 72 but it could range between 60
and 80 or higher or a lot lower if you
are a really professional top athlete it
the pulse rate can go down to 35
sometimes even lower that's incredible
um but I've I've seen people have a
resting puls rate of
110 just like when they're resting just
boom boom boom now in a little infant
normal
is20 uh but as you get older it should
come down and what creates the pulse
is part of the nervous system it's
called the parasympathetic nervous
system that's in the background that's
literally developing and pushing your
pulse rate down in an infant they
haven't developed that system strong
enough to keep the pulse rate in check
so everything is a little bit higher I
know my dog Charlie has a pulse rate of
probably like 200 when he's at rest I
don't know guy's that little guy is
hyper but here's some here's some causes
hyper thyroidism okay so the thyroid is
in hyper mode it's working too much that
can C be a potential cause of high pulse
rate okay low potassium very very common
potassium is a it supports the
parasympathetic nervous system so it
pushes the pulse rate down many people
that have high pulse rate have really
just low potassium and that would be a
simple solution to fix that medication
so let's say your pulse rate is high
right after you got a certain
medication that could be causing it or
it could be a food allergy something
you're allergic to epinephrine let's say
you're an EpiPen because you have
allergies boom that could be one of the
causes or caffeine you drink five pots
of coffee a day you know that's the
obvious one or you're nicotine you're a
chain smoker well that can increase the
pulse rate and then the heart problems
it could be some dysfunction in the
heart itself or adrenal issues adrenal
controls a lot of hormones related to
the flight or fight mechanism it can
either increase adrenaline it could
increase cortisol it can deplete
potassium a lot of things these are just
things to look at if you're trying to
get your pulse down thanks for
watching Press the sub okay jeez let me
do that over again press the Subscribe
button press just press this button
right here subscribe okay that one right
there just do it right now
