hey guys welcome back we had a special
guest it's Nadia petiguana and nice to
meet you I'm glad that you're here
you're a naturopathic doctor right
that's right thank you awesome
absolutely you know the reason I wanted
to bring you on is two reasons one is
that you are gonna be one of our special
guests at the upcoming summit which I'm
really excited to have you attend and
you have a lot of great experience in in
Quito and in a minute fasting and
polycystic ovarian syndrome actually you
you work with dr. Fung right Jason come
in Megan yeah awesome will welcome your
you're right now living off the coast of
Africa right no I'm from the coast of
Africa I'm living in Portugal so I okay
great well welcome I so what's the
lichen in your country I've never been
there is what's the food like
so I'm from a country called Mozambique
which as you said is on the coast it's
on the east coast of Africa it used to
be a Portuguese colony so there's a
connection between Mozambique in
Portugal that's why I'm importing right
now because I speak Portuguese and so
Mozambique isn't on this it's right on
the border with South Africa so it has a
lot of influences it had a food-wise
three major influence is obviously the
African influence all around Portuguese
the Portuguese warn Mozambique for 500
years and Indian because there's a very
large Indian community of Pakistani I
guess that part of India but back in the
day it was it was when they came from
India was India and so that's what the
food is like it's a mix of Portuguese
which basically it's a kind of food that
has a lot of pork a lot of seafood a lot
of olive oil
that's the Portuguese type of
Mediterranean type of cooking mixed with
very spicy food like Indian spicy food
and then African food at least in our
country and
a peanut based type of curry sauces
[Music]
you're getting me hungry this designs
really good sounds amazing
so compared to American foods I'm sure
it's healthier I would imagine well it
used to be I think which is part of my
journey my professional journey I I grew
up in Canada so I'm from this lovely
tropical exotic country but I grew up in
Canada so I only went to I left
Mozambique when I was one so I only went
to eat in Mozambique when I was 25
turning 26 when I finished naturopathic
College as soon as I finish as soon as I
finished my board exams I was dying to
go back to my home country really
because I thought I was gonna do all
these great wonderful humanitarian
things which is a very North American
kid mentality to be totally honest and
then when I got there I realized that
wasn't really gonna be the case and so I
started working against my will but that
was the only thing that was available to
me then I started working as a
nutritionist dietician and what did I
learn I learned that the people in my
city of course cities are very different
than the countryside but in my city were
very much exposed to the western-style
diet so right now the diet is very much
KFC coca-cola heats in that kind of diet
of course they still have their
traditional dishes and but the funny
thing is the only these traditional
healthier dishes on holidays it's much
more of a holiday type food during the
week people tend to eat a very Western
based type of diet in my opinion and so
the people that I was seeing in clinic
and that's why I had to kind of learn
this cuz I didn't I wasn't taught this
in school was how to treat metabolic
syndrome I was seeing people that were
obese diabetic with cardiovascular
disease and eventually just by luck
stumbled across sort of fertility
struggles and got into that because of
my own personal journey but really the
diet is was wonderful
it's a wonderful diet but it's been very
like every other country it's very
influenced by globalization in the
Western culture yeah hey we I know that
very I'm like I'm from the Midwest and
this is what we were raised on I didn't
have a chance to even start in a nice
good healthy country but um the you had
infertility issues and then you why
don't you just stumble on some things
that just turn things around for you
well actually because like I said I
because I didn't really I wasn't taught
in naturopathic College just like no
it's it's different than medical doctors
right or the instruction education of a
naturopathic college is very much geared
towards natural therapies and
acupuncture and homeopathy and of course
we do all the medical sciences and we do
we do have nutrition probably more than
medical doctors but it's not just like
you probably got in school you know for
your 3 whole 3 hours and I got a little
bit more than 3 hours a lot more but it
wasn't it still wasn't the way that
we're hoping today that people are gonna
learn nutrition so it was very much like
you know this food has this vitamin and
that food has this and so when I went to
Mozambique and people wanted help to
lose weight I had to make it up I didn't
have any face to go on oh you know I I I
was given everybody at the beginning the
very same eat less move more more Whole
Grains sort of I really was until I
started to figure out ok this is not
gonna work and then I had some basis a
natural at the college we did talk about
gluten and so I started to remove some
grains and eventually I started to make
up my own plans based on just trial and
error point very early on in my journey
I would say within the first year or two
I've been a naja path for 15 years now
so right at the very beginning I had
this person get pregnant accidentally
quote-unquote and that was that's when I
started to realize that there was
something there way before I started
trying to get pregnant and their story
was very interesting because it was a
couple that had it was a South African
couple had been married for 13 years and
six or seven years into their marriage
after many IVF it's funny because South
Africa is a very big IBF medical
community they're not they have very I
have family members that have gone
through it very successful they're very
good at it I'm not sure why but that's
just an aside so the this couple had
tried IVF numerous times I'm
successfully and they adopted a little
girl so by the time they came to see me
in Mozambique they were living in
Mozambique at the time your daughter was
already six or seven so anyway they've
been married for about thirteen years
and she's never got pregnant with IVF
and whatnot then she did my diet which
was an ethos it was a very low carb diet
I mean at that point I'd already figured
out that in order to help people lose
weight I had to go low-carb I figure
that moves less move more eat less thing
wasn't worth thinking that I am going to
get away but I had to call it in detox
mm-hmm do is I would throw in this eat
dogs once a month and then the rest of
the month we were eating healthy cards
and then you know and I was doing this
carb cycling thing with them so that was
I don't know 12 13 years ago and then
three months later this woman and her
husband come to my office and the
husband is the one that's wanting to
know what's what's going on how is my
wife pregnant it's been 13 years we've
done IVF we've done what happened here
and I didn't know nor was that the
intent she just wanted to lose weight so
that was my fruit and that that of
course stayed in my mind and then it
started to happen more and more often
and then it became a dope like don't go
to that doctor unless you want to get
pregnant and then it just kind of
happened and and somewhere down the line
I had my own issue and I and I went back
I said you know I don't know what it is
but that's what I gotta do to get
pregnant and it worked for me as well so
by the second time I try to get pregnant
I did have a doctor a friend of mine and
she said she made a connection for me
she's like it's insulin resistance
that's what it is and I was like
Wow and so then for men of course you
know it was very clear and it coincided
with the time that I went back to Canada
I had my second child
I met dr. Fung and I started working
with them so fascinating so let's talk
about PCOS we it's polycystic ovarian
syndrome and they always say that
insulin resistance is associated with it
but actually it causes it I mean it's
like thank you yeah yeah and then when
you when you say you you got her
introduced to Jason Fung and then use
I'm sure that at that point I would
imagine that you started to implement a
lot more innovative fasting or he was
already well very well known to me maybe
not as well-known as he is today but in
naps but I had already been
quote-unquote stalking him okay cool I
knew enough about him I had started
fasting I I did start keto way before
that but I started fasting we were very
interested in his work my husband had
already started looking at to fasting
and actually my husband's very first
fast was a super long fast it was a 12
day fast so we were very into it and
then I went to a conference and I knew
some people in South Africa and they
introduced me to him and so it was you
know but I had already contacted him
before I was in Toronto and I wanted to
work with him you know IMing was off and
and so it all worked out so there's a
lot of women now that are getting some
ideas somewhere to the internet I don't
know what article they're reading but
yeah well women shouldn't do fasting
because it's going to mess up their
hormones what's your what's your take on
that well most people that I've worked
with over time not because I wanted to
to be honest this fertility thing as I
said just kind of stumbled upon me
mostly I worked with people with
metabolic syndrome right but the reality
is that people most people that look for
this kind of help or the photo and
nutritionists are still women and
probably you know pre perimenopausal or
postmenopausal around eyes
probably been you know the highest
percentage of people that search for
people like me and since I've been
working with Megan and Jason Megan and I
worked very closely together in clinic
when I first started with them I was in
clinic because I was a natural path I
could work in in clinic and couldn't
work which was great that's how I got my
basis right
and same with them when the majority of
their of their patients are women so
Megan and I'm gonna give me this source
here because way better than anything I
can tell you is just to go to the source
she's got a series of blogs on women and
fasting because because of this and so
if you go to IDM program comm slash blog
and you search women and fasting there's
a series of blogs that Megan has written
as a woman number one she's a young
woman she's in her mid thirties but
she's a woman nonetheless and she has
treated thousands of women you know
adult women in all age groups and so
what she says and then I'm gonna leave
this out there for you I know your
listeners and the people that follow you
or very informed people and so it would
be easy enough for them to understand
this but what she says is that every
time she reads something but women that
shouldn't be fasting and then she goes
in searches that person and their
repertoire and their experience
you just can't compare their experience
to her experience I mean she's been
doing this for over eight years both
personally and professionally they have
thousands of women that they have
followed so it's really a myth why would
I leave it there I agree a hundred
percent in fact if you pull the string a
lot of times I said well I'm doing I'm
doing fasting and it's making my
hormones worse you find out it's like
the five and two I said oh so you're
basically five days of the week you're
pretty much eating than normal whatever
you want and then two days you're doing
a low calorie diet and you're sorry yeah
and you're you personally you're not
gonna have a chance to adapt secondly
it's not the way to build fertility I
remember you know when I was in practice
I was um putting people on fasting and I
noticed would improve fertility I
remember one lady she she actually
was scheduled to come in she didn't come
in called her offices and her husband
answered says oh yeah I told my wife she
can't come back to you
I said why because she's getting worse
oh yeah after you know you're treating
and she's getting worse she's feeling
sick like oh well sorry to hear that
two weeks later they show up my office
we're sorry that was morning sickness
she got pregnant and I'm like you're
welcome
so yeah it does improve fertility
because you're especially if you do it
healthily I mean you'reyou're not just
starving you're having nutrient-dense
foods and but the main thing is the high
insulin what that does to a female's
hormones and a male hormone I mean it's
just messing everything up
so so that's like we need to talk about
androgens for example um I guess people
actually automatically think well they
didn't they can't seem to get their wits
around how insulin can trigger antigens
but it does since the resistance
increases antigen so yeah there's great
diagrams out there q if you look it up I
mean dr. Frank and I are doing some work
together on PCOS it's something that's
gonna come out next year but and so
there's a lot of there's there's some
significant research out there I mean
from my friend in Mozambique in in 20
whatever year it was 2012 to say to me
what do you mean it's insulin resistant
I think Barcelona I think that's what
she did her her oh it she was like so
obvious like wrong and it really if you
look it up insulin we think of insulin
and we think Ivy's right we think
insulin and we think obviously metabolic
endocrine hormones but it has major
reflective functions and yes does affect
both female women and men and what you
want to do is balance out that insulin
you can't have too little but you can't
have too much either and so that's
exactly we're trying to do and it is
true that in the process a lot of women
feel like their cycles make it longer or
make it shorter I mean they're there
it's still balancing out right there's a
there's there's a sort of balancing act
that's
on there and when insulin is is leveled
then your your reproductive hormones
work out better there's other things do
move it if insulin affects mood because
it affects the sympathetic nervous
system it has other functions except
that we all think of or many people
think of insulin as just being an
endocrine or metabolic hormone but it
isn't no it's actually one of the most
it's probably the most dominating
hormone because in the presence of too
much insulin you get a nullification of
thyroid all all the of the growth
hormone testosterone you have all these
hormones or just get nullified
especially when you're dealing with fat
burning too so it's you know you can do
all these great things you could try to
stimulate your thyroid hormones your
growth hormone your anti-aging hormone
but if your insulin is too high those
things get nullified you cancelled out
you don't see the benefits so yeah it's
um I think just a matter of educating
people on the truth of this so and then
with fasting you instantly have this
additional benefit of repair action and
genes that get turned into start turned
on to start to repair all all different
parts of your body so that's like huge
so the combination and that's what I
always recommend you know if you were to
do the key to a little carb and then
just eat constantly all day long you
know it's not gonna help you so you want
to do both that's just that's my opinion
I'm sticking to it
well your opinion though is is not just
an opinion of course it's based on a lot
of experience and seeing this firsthand
a lot of people are talking about eat or
they're talking about fasting but then
as Megan says if you go and look into
their experience they have no experience
right this subject matter they're giving
a lot of opinions no experience for
whatever reason whether because it just
didn't want to get into it or because
they read something a long time ago and
they were just turned off by it so now
they're just repeating what they've
heard but what experience do they have
have they actually as anyone has any
medical doctor or any health
professional that's people through the
ketogenic diet or intermittent fasting
how about
say Oh No you know I was wrong it's
caused them harm I haven't seen that yet
no one I have not seen that absolutely
not
yeah I mean like unless you're in
practice and you work with real people
over and over and over over a period of
yours you're not gonna see this like
even with me I didn't accept insurance I
was all cash practice so it forces you
to you know people are gonna pay you
you better get results or they're not
coming around so it forces you to take
it to the next level where you're doing
everything you can to research and
figure things out because unfortunately
in school like you said I think I got
four and a half hours of nutrition less
sorry it wasn't it was so it was just
all the wrong information I think there
was a little nutrition class and then
there was a it was a joke and so you're
graduating going okay how do I do this
so you just have to figure it out when
you graduated so there's there's not
enough time to really learn everything
while you're in school because you just
have to get through the tests I mean
unfortunately that's how its rigged you
know so yeah so that's interesting I
mean as a naturopath I I look at my
colleagues now I don't practice as a
naturopath anymore only because I've
moved out of Canada and now I'm in
Portugal I have to figure out getting a
license here I did get a license in
Mozambique in about six months let's see
how long it's gonna take me here I mean
I I like to keep my my license active I
do like to see people in clinic so it's
something that I'll probably look into
but since I've been working with IDM its
it's gonna be three years coming up very
shortly the first two years I was in
clinic but during that time we already
had this online program so you get to
speak with a lot of people all over the
world which is wonderful and for me
that's really all I want to do I
consider myself a dietary educator I
don't necessarily work as a naturopath
so it doesn't matter to me whether I
have a naturopathic license or not does
naturopath tend to do many other things
you know they're running Theriot
specifically they're considered primary
health care providers this is
in Canada and the province where dr.
Fung and Megan are at so I was actually
supposed to be following people as a
primary health care provider but that's
not really what I do I provide dietary
education so I help people as you said
with low carb diets and intermittent
fasting and I can do that anywhere
online what works out really well
especially because people need constant
support when they're starting out they
have questions they want to be able to
you know call you and so this is the
program that Megan and dr. Fong have set
up I think that's smart you're gonna
reach more people and you don't you know
we with the internet you eliminated
space so you can pretty much contact
anyone anywhere without having to drive
there or travel or anything like that
it's so nice and and I'm sure I don't
know how to get that if this happens
with you but you have someone that might
meet some help and they they start
presenting all their symptoms and
everything and it really comes back down
to okay well let's first make sure
you're doing the basics okay you know
boom boom boom and usually they're not
you get them doing the basics nothing
fancy and they start seeing amazing
results so that's one of the things that
frustrated me frustrated me because I
didn't do enough education in my clinic
so they were constantly just dependent
on dr. Berg what do I do for this what I
do for that and now it's just what I'm
doing videos put them out there this is
how you get the basics in there and then
the amount of results and you don't have
to necessarily treat every single
symptom because they it gets better by
getting in these basic really vital key
things which I think if they were
implemented it would just you know
create a huge dent into all these these
problems now and the drugs and
everything it's just insane I mean
the simple thing of cutting your carbs
down fasting those two things right
there okay so you're gonna handle so
many issues yeah and it sounds I mean
today when we tell people well let's do
some fasting but let's cut your carbs
they you know you know get unless it
come to you right once they've already
done their own sort of processing and
journey and they come to you and they're
ready beautiful it works out really well
it's simple you know it's this is what
dr. Fung is always saying it's simple
it's free you know fasting is super easy
once you exercise that muscle of course
when I'm talking about fasting there's
many different schedules for many
different people and you can you know
you can start with the basics which is
just cutting out snacks for example this
is huge and then you know all the other
intermittent fasting scheduling
protocols can be implemented over time
depending on people's comfort level
depending on their goals etc but when
you tell them tell somebody who's slowly
not ready or hasn't been properly and
educated they think you're completely
nuts and brought it it's so funny
because just this weekend or I guess
today's Saturday but just yesterday it
was it was a holiday here on Thursday so
for me this is a long weekend but I was
looking at the history of sort of the
Canadian dietary guidelines because it's
the same as everywhere else in the world
right the dietary guidelines are very
similar all over and influenced by a
whole bunch of stuff I was looking I
wanted to see what it would it look like
before you know the famous 77 1982 sort
of guidelines like Amen started all this
craziness that were you know but we're
now kind of having to deal with and and
I found this awesome little thing it's
called it's not a it wasn't a guide live
it was like a food what what you should
eat basically for Canadians in 1949 and
it was they had breakfast and they had
some instructions basic stuff it was
like an egg and bread yes they did he
carves it's not that people didn't eat
carbs but if you look at this just this
basic it was a breakfast with you know
with an egg and it was a piece of slice
of toast I think with butter and it was
cereal with milk
I was breakfast
was it said lunch or lunch or dinner
assuming that people weren't having a
whole bunch of meals which many very for
me this doesn't shock me because I
always use the example of Mozambique
people in Mozambique
not in the city but in the country still
live a very rural obviously life me can
live off the land okay they don't have
money to go to grocery stores and buy
stuff so they live off the land if I
basic things there's basically two or
three things that they buy a month and
then the rest of the stuff they grow and
they have one or two meals simple and I
think people think of fasting is this
like oh my gosh craziness but not too
long ago people were having two maybe
three meals and that was it and that was
normal no snacks snacking was completely
ridiculous
there was no packaged stuff anyway you
know most of the time there is people
just didn't they live off of normal
stuff you know they could have bread
they did have rice they had potatoes
potatoes was on this pie line I think it
was pretty important back in 1949 in
Canada but it was yeah within their
meals and dr. fun talks about this all
the time you know every culture let's
have a staple you know like in parts of
of Africa sweet potato or it's Tsavo
which is a root whatever and in Asia we
all know they eat a lot of rice it's
within their meals the main thing there
is that they were eating main meals not
snacking so they were eating two three
meals a day what's happening now with
your patients and my clients doctor is
that they're already insulin resistant I
already have a metabolic syndrome so now
we're not talking about healthy diet now
we're talking about therapeutic eating
and how our therapeutic fasting right
because now you're gonna you're trying
you're trying to help somebody reverse a
situation that's been caused by eating
too often so now you need to eat less
often right
yeah our bodies were developed ten tens
of thousands of years to not eat and
that's how you know we're not like we're
specialists at starving and surviving
under conditions where where there's not
a lot of food that's it's in our DNA and
we do very well with that we're really
good at storing fat we can store an
unlimited amount of energy and that came
that environment but now I know it's
hard to believe but you can actually
call someone in order food delivered to
already cooked within a half-hour that's
incredible it's amazing eats even
existed it to lemon was to Portugal I am
sure they have any Canada but I just I
didn't know it's like you can get food
instantly because I got to eat every
hour and a half I just have to
constantly eat if it's the situation
it's terrible
well I'm really excited to have you come
to our summit have you ever been to
Washington DC I don't think that I have
no not Washington I do have a very good
friend that lives in Washington you'd
think I would have gone sooner but I'm
so excited oh you're gonna love it
you're actually gonna be in Maryland but
it's right over the border but it's just
a simple gorgeous place it'll be at the
Gaylord hotel which is a hotel that I
always wanted to do an event at or a
seminar we're doing our second one it's
just it is just simply gorgeous it's
massive and they'll be the coolest
people that you've ever met will fly in
there and these are people just watching
us on YouTube and they know they're
gonna come and they're all just very
enthusiastic and we'll have a blast some
great speakers and you're gonna be
talking about PCOS in detail but but
making it simple for people to get so
it's going to be exciting I'm super
excited I loved your your YouTube video
there's a proper name for it but your
launch figures it's super it made me
really excited to think about being part
of it
oh great yeah I had um I had Jared who
basically is a guidance never been
trained on video he just watched YouTube
videos he learned how to edit he does
all my he's my videographer he does all
my video and editing and he just did an
incredible job of putting together
the difference between last year and
this year's we're gonna we're shooting
for a thousand people so it's gonna be
double the size so it's just a bunch of
really amazing people that just love the
information and we're gonna have a
really good time so those of you that
are watching it's a mandatory seminar
you have to come though
I'll put a link down below so you could
actually check it out but we're already
filling up pretty fast and so those are
people are sitting on the edge don't
wait too long because I would hate to
have you go our books we can't fit
anyone else in the room because you have
to book these a year in advance by the
way and this is what's happening to do
many of the low carb conferences that
we've been going to right like before it
was like you know a couple dozen people
maybe then it was a hundred two hundred
and now we're seeing close to a thousand
people and then it's you know a month
before or so we're saying there's no
more spots and we've got a whole bunch
of people that are desperately trying to
get a spot but you can't right you can't
magically create more room and we're
spying this hat this is happy it's
happening which is a good sign it just
there's a whole bunch of doctors that
come to these things because doctors of
course you want to make a difference
it's not a big bone right but they want
to learn a and then there's a whole
bunch of people other people that have
been affected by this personally and
just really want to be continued to be a
part of it or people that are learning
about it so I I it is true what you're
saying I think if people are interested
in coming to this one specifically I you
know I'm saying that just based on
experience for my own clients because I
know I had a lot of people really
disappointed that they hadn't weren't
able to go to past ones yeah awesome
thank you so much
