hey guys I want to do a video on hair
loss due to hormones so many people
don't ask themselves what causes the
hair loss they just start taking
something without understanding that
there's a cause and effect relationship
and we get to hormones it's huge and
it's complex I'll try to make it really
simple for you but there's about six
scenarios that you could run into
relating to hormones I'll put some links
down below what to do for each situation
and as I go through this just make
mental notes on what thing might apply
to you okay so the first thing is
cortisol that relates to stress low
cortisol is where you have this major
loss situation you go through this
stress or a shock to the body and you
lose your immune system and then you get
autoimmune so you have alopecia okay so
that's a hair patches coming out because
of low cortisol if cortisol is high it
destroys your protein so you can have
high cortisol or low cortisol and have
hair loss but usually if it's high it's
like it's just general hair loss it's
not patches okay so that's cortisol
estrogen when the estrogen goes higher
as compared to during a a pregnancy or
maybe you you have estrogen dominance
going through your period or you're
taking birth control pills well what's
going to happen is that your thyroid is
going to be inhibited so increase
estrogen decrease thyroid function hair
loss okay and then
postpartum um pregnancy so you had a
pregnancy all of a sudden you lost your
hair what happens in that situation is
you drop the estrogen and that
automatically indirectly increases the
testosterone so now we're end up with
this high testosterone which then turns
to a very powerful testosterone called
DHT burns out your hair okay I put a
link down what what to take for that if
that happened to you and then insulin
insulin can convert to a male hormone
called endogens okay and that's in a
condition called polycystic ovarian
syndrome where you have this facial hair
but then you lose all the hair up there
so um that's a situation because it
insulin converts to Androgen and I have
a video lots of videos on estrogen I'm
sorry insulin and what to do about it
how to fix it it's kind of like a
pre-diabetic situation if you have
insulin resistance or you're a diabetic
you need to watch those videos okay then
we get to menopause menopause is when
your estrogen decreases but the opposing
hormone doesn't decrease as much that's
called testosterone so we have low
estrogen higher testosterone
DHT hair loss same situation with with
this one we just talked about okay
that's during menopause and then having
just a thyroid problem in general
hypothyroidism you're going to lose your
hair and the outer eyelash eyebrows
right here and usually the deeper cause
of thyroid are mainly a liver or
gallbladder problem
and you can't convert the thyroid
hormones or it could just be high levels
of estrogen we talked about that over
here causing the blockage of the thyroid
okay so that's the thyroid connection
and then just
testosterone when you increase
testosterone you increase
DHT and what happens DHT burns out the
hair follicules so there's a very simple
solution to this show you down in the
link down below and what will cause
increased test testosterone if you're a
female is increased insulin because you
have insulin resistance and you crave
sugar and you're eating too much sugar
um or you have lowered amounts of
estrogen if you're a female and
indirectly you're going to always have
the higher levels of testosterone okay A
little complex um video but I wanted to
give you all the scenarios that are
involved in hair loss with hormones see
what you can indicates watch the video
below so we can just make it simple
thanks for
watching Press the subscribe button
press it forget it forget it I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
