if you're looking to lose a couple of
those pesky pounds or a lot of pounds
actually before you hit the beach this
summer we have the solution for you Erik
Berg is here with the answer is new book
is the seven principles of fat burning
Eric welcome here
now before we started in the break you
were talking to us about losing weight
in your sleep I've got to hear about
this how does this work
and is it true well you know that 99
percent of all the fat burning is
occurring when you're sleeping not none
during the day in fact if you're way
yourself when you wake up in the morning
before before and you compare that to
before you go to sleep it'd be like zero
but if you have a good night's sleep you
weigh a lot less so if you're doing all
your fat burning it
sleepy time the more you sleep the more
you lose exactly exercise doesn't burn
fat it triggers hormones that do the
burning 24 to 48 hours later when you're
sleeping is that right now you also say
that in order to lose weight you need to
know your body type and you break it
down into four different body types one
is adrenal one is liver ovary and
thyroid and the way you know which body
type you are what we've broken it down
for you they're adrenal has a sort of
saggy stomach liver a protruding stomach
ovary if you have those saddlebags that
women have and then thyroid is weight
all over and basically you have a
different prescription for each one yeah
and and basically we do eat differently
we do exercise differently depending on
your body fat you do everything
everything is different exercising for
example the sagging belly here lives
with that graphic up again and go
through them one by one starting with
the adrenal if you're the adrenal body
type what do you do what you do exercise
is not good because that body type is
already exercising 24 hours a day
they're stressed out they can't sleep
they go up the stairs they can't get out
they're out of breath easily they crave
salty foods right the liver body type
it's the protruding okay they have their
right shoulder pain they have issues of
craving for that was is that protruding
and what can you do about it
well a lot of things cause it's not just
alcohol but you see usually see the
protruding effect that's usually liver
leaking fluid into the stomach and those
people you say should eat high quality
protein lots of veggies the one for the
adrenal they should sleep more than they
should exercise I'm going to try that
yeah for people who have the ovary type
body what should they be should avoid
soy su is estrogenic more soy estrogen
causes fats is especially cellulite on
the hips
sure and fire-eyed thyroid should be
careful about chemicals because the
fiber is very sensitive against
environmental estrogens and things in
the food supply very interesting your
clean if people would like more
information you're going to website it's
Berg diets calm the book is the seven
principles of fat burning Eric Berkeley
thank you very much like a tricky
concept fascinating stuff thank you
