hey guys today I'm going to talk about
one of the dangers of having glucose in
your urine so let's say for example you
have a glucose tester and you find
glucose in the urine that means that
your blood sugars the glucose in your
blood is minimally at 225 okay or more
and it's spilling off into the urine so
this is one of the ways that the body is
trying to get rid of this toxic glucose
okay by just peeing it out
it's called osmotic diuresis and the
complication of having this is that it
pulls out minerals specifically
potassium sodium chloride and other
minerals and it leaves you dehydrated
okay that's what happens with a diabetic
and not having the correct mineral in
fluid ratio gives you a headache you can
start having fatigue confusion your
nails become purple that's one of the
symptoms and a lot of heart problems
arrhythmia problems because you need
these electrolytes to keep the heart in
rhythm and so it sets you up for
increasing risk for having a heart
attack
now on top of that usually a diabetic
has high blood pressure and they're
taking diuretics which also pull out
these electrolytes and many times they
also have digestive issues they might be
in some anti acid which also blocks the
absorption of minerals from the stomach
level so we're gonna actually have even
less minerals and if they're drinking a
lot of water without these minerals
they're flushing out more minerals
they're actually diluting the urine you
have to understand that we need these
minerals to help reverse the blood sugar
problem in the first place in fact if
you take potassium it actually can help
your blood Sugar's improve also one of
the symptoms of a low salt diet is
insulin resistance so having these
minerals with salt and potassium and
magnesium are crucial in helping your
blood Sugar's so if you're noticing you
have glucose in the urine now you
understand what's really happening so
don't just stop by taking these minerals
to prevent dehydration symptoms actually
fix the reason why it's occurring in the
first place so I'm gonna recommend two
things for those of you that are new to
my channel healthy ketosis and in a
minute fasting I'll put a link down
below for more information
all right
hey I just wanted to mention something
real quick a lot of you have questions
about all sorts of things in the body
chances are I have a video on that
already so what I did is I created a
document based on categories and you can
click the link down below to get this
document so it'll help you find and
understand the specific information that
you're looking for I think I have over
3500 videos so click the link down below
so if you need it it's there for you
