in this video I want to answer the
question is it bad to crack your neck
okay you see people all the time they're
cracking their neck here's the problem
in your neck you have joints that are
either hyper mobile that means they move
too much okay usually in the mid part
right through here and then you have
other joints that are hypo mobile
they're moving too little they're
fixated so when you just yourself most
of the time you're gonna get the wrong
one you're gonna be adjusting the
hypermobile joints and it's going to get
looser and looser and looser and it's
gonna cause the need to continue to do
this over and over and over and over
again now I got interested in
Chiropractic College when I was in ninth
grade my grandfather was a chiropractor
he graduated in 1920 never met him and I
don't even know what chiropractors were
so his ninth grade was in wrestling hurt
myself mother took me to the
chiropractor so I laid on this table I
didn't know what to expect
he gave me an adjustment I got this
incredible relief from this pain that I
had so I set it pretty quickly and
started talking to him about it and I
decided right there I want to do this
because the amount of a relief you can
give people so I decided I wanted to be
a chiropractor when I was nine great so
when I got into school the last year you
basically had to practice on each other
so for the next year we became human
guinea pigs for getting adjusted and of
course when you first start out you
don't know what you're doing so I have a
lot of people working on me that are
doing it wrong and it basically took me
two or three years to recover from
having severely hypermobile joints in
fact I remember one time my roommate
adjusted me the wrong way and my sinus
got clogged up so I went into the clinic
and had someone readjust it the other
way and it just cleared right out
so my viewpoint is this and I know that
sometimes chiropractors get a bad rap
you know once you go you also have to go
but if you find a good chiropractor that
is honest that knows what they're doing
that is very competent that can only
adjust what you need to have adjust it
there's
nothing better I remember after I
graduated going back home and going to
visit the chiropractor that used to work
with my grandfather so he's been a
practice for something like 65 years
right he's an old-timer and he's still
in practice he's pretty much treated
everyone in town so I wanted him to
adjust me and he laid me down he just
put his fingers right down my spine went
in there it was the most incredible
treatment that I've ever had from any
chiropractor so if you can find someone
that's competent it's definitely gonna
be worth it but here's my viewpoint if
you have to be treated over and over and
over because that your T bro segment is
not staying in place there's usually
something else going on either
nutritionally or with the diet or
referred pain if the gallbladder for
example is a problem that can refer pain
up to the right side and literally pull
these vertebra out of place if your
teeth aren't fitting right because you
went to the dentist and you have some
teeth work and now they don't quite
close right that will put tension on
your jaw and your neck and it can throw
off the entire spine so there's a lot of
problems that can be referred there's a
lot of inflammatory things can happen
for mold injuries this is why we do
intermittent fasting in ketosis so
instead of cracking your neck I would do
more stretches and if it cracks in the
process of stretching that's totally
fine anyway thanks for watching
