can you really get enough pottassium if
you're doing carnivore well let's go
into it first I want to explain a little
bit about how potassium Works potassium
is not the most abundant mineral in the
body calcium is because calcium is
stored but potassium is the mineral that
you need the most out of any nutrient as
far as a daily amount you need like
4,700 milligrams a day that's a lot so
why do you need that much because
potassium is involved in something
called the sodium potassium pump and
that's in all of your cells it's a pump
that allows the contraction and
relaxation of your nerves not to mention
the fluid inside and outside the cells
let's talk about if you have too much
potassium or too little potassium okay
so too much potassium the word for that
is called hyper calmia it's too much
potassium not enough potassium that's
called hypo cium so what you need to
know about both is that it's very very
rare to have any symptoms even if you
have low or high unless it's like
extreme most of potassium like 98% of it
is inside the cell there's a lot of
factors that can uh make it even lower
in the blood even though they're
measuring only 2% of it uh what are the
symptoms for low potassium versus high
if you have high potassium you can have
diarrhea low potassium constipation so
with HP potassium you have more muscle
pain or muscle numbness but with low
potassium you have more muscle cramps
and just an overall tiredness so you can
imagine like especially if you exercise
like you need potassium to allow things
to work it's going to help your
performance and if you don't have enough
you can feel kind of weak kind of tired
and just as a side note one of the
causes of low potassium is low magnesium
because they work so closely together
all right so what would cause a high
level of potassium well mainly it's
going to be be kidney disease because
the kidney can't get rid of the
potassium and so it just builds up in
the body it's extremely rare to develop
too much potassium in the blood from
dietary potassium or even taking
supplements of certain blood pressure
medications and it can also be a side
effect of a an adrenal condition called
Addison which is a condition where your
adrenals just aren't working and you
have this hormonal problem where you're
retaining more pottassium and you're
losing a ton of salt this is why people
with Addison's disease need to take a
lot of salt so in other words the more
potassium you have the less ratios of
sodium you're going to have and so
typically we need a 2: one ratio like
two times as much potassium sodium we
need both but we need the right ratios
now what's interesting is one of the
side effects from taking too much
potassium is diarrhea because it creates
like a laxative effect diuretics are a
common cause of low potassium steroids
are another cause of low potassium
another interesting cause is a crush
injury so you have this injury we have
trauma you you lose a lot of potassium
from that hallucinations and depression
are a common cause of low potassium in
fact when you get a surgery the
requirement for potassium goes up too
now that you know a little bit about
potassium and the need for potassium
most people think that potassium only
comes from Plants that's not NE true but
you do get a lot of pottassium from
plants like for example beet leaves one
cup has 1300 milligram beet leaves are
loaded with oxalates as well and people
don't normally consume a lot of beet
leaves um you also have swiss chard
which also has oxalates that has like
over 900 milligrams per cup then you
have spinach also high in oxalates
840 milligrams of potassium avocados
have between 500 and 700 milligram of
potassium and actual beets have like 520
milligram per cup of potassium and then
you have also just regular salad you can
get a good amount of potassium it's
usually between 350 to 500 milligrams
per cup so if you're doing several cups
you're going to get a good amount of
potassium and I don't recommend getting
your potassium from bananas because it's
high in sugar and you only get like 300
milligrams per banana so what about this
carnivore diet where are you going to
get your potassium well bone broth one
cup of bone broth can give you 500 Mig
of potassium that's just one little cup
32 ounces of beef can give you 350
millgram of pottassium 3 and half ounces
of octopus can give you like 650
milligrams of pottassium 3 ounces of
salmon can give you 300 milligrams of
potassium now realize you're probably
consuming more than 3 ounces or 3 and a
half ounces of these animal products one
large egg is about 63 Mig of potassium 3
oz of liver will give you about 125
milligram of potassium and even 3 oz of
chicken can give you about a little over
300 milligrams of potassium and so I
hope I sufficiently answer that question
and since we're on the topic of
carnivore if you have not seen my video
on the benefits of consuming beef you
should check it out I put it up right
here
