okay so here's a question how do I get
motivated how do I stay motivated how do
I get my willpower back all right well
first of all most people are they lose
their motivation because they don't see
results there's nothing more frustrating
than hitting a plateau or doing a
program and it sto working so that is
normal to lose your motivation when it
doesn't work when you don't get results
it's normal to stop doing it because if
you kept doing it you're going to
destroy your metabolism so right there
it's good that you stop because you're
doing something that's not working I
mean who wants to starve thems for eight
months or go to the gym when it's not
working okay so number one no results
that's why people lose motivation number
two they don't know what to do they
don't have a plan they don't they're
operating off of all the trivial stuff
I'll give you an example I had this
patient come in and she told me I know
what to do but I just don't do it and
then I come find out she's she's like
getting her information on WebMD which
is pretty much just all Pharmaceuticals
and it's just a bunch of honestly just
general information confusing
information um it's not the good stuff
so she learned that there was a study
that if you fidget while you're watching
TV you know fidget in the chair you'll
burn an extra couple calories every 15
minutes
okay crazy so in other words you don't
want to focus on the trivial information
you want to focus on the Vital
Information you need less information
not more okay so please don't just go do
your re research on Google and get more
information find someone that's done it
successful and follow in their
Footprints and that way you know you can
learn what to do so we have knowing what
to do we have getting results and then
we have cravings because if you
crave I'm sorry it's going to be real
hard to do it
now you might think Cravings can't go
away like they're just part of life
they're normal they're not it's not
normal to Crave anything unless your
body is out of balance so the best way
to get rid of Cravings would be to
consume a lot more greens vegetables
like 7even cups of vegetable or Salad
per day do the kale Shake in the morning
of course have the protein as well but
your craving should go away within 48
Hours okay and if they're still there
then you need to add a little protein
okay also all bad habits occur when
you're stressed hungry and tired so
focus on that focus on getting rid of
your stress take time for
yourself go for a
walk you know put energy and invest in
you um do things to get more sleep so
you can have more energy so you can
stick with it better all right so the
way to get motivated is not to get more
hype but to learn how to do it correctly
realize the thing that you did didn't
work so don't keep doing it find
something that does work and thirdly get
rid of the Cravings to make it easier
all right so that's how you need to stay
motivated and of course you need
to find a reason to lose weight um I
think uh people are um are very excited
to get younger as they get older so
maybe you have a goal of getting younger
maybe you have a goal of getting in a
bikini or something like that but you
need to set a goal and then when you hit
that goal you better have a new goal
because what's going to happen is that
you're you have no more goal you you
achieve your goal and it's over so when
you lose your weight then you start
another goal like get more fit get more
toned so you have to keep actively doing
it especially as you age every year you
get older you really need to get more
fit and younger to survive the hormones
that are coming at you this way because
if you look at the hormone graph it's
this Ting so you can't just maintain it
with a little effort the I guess what
you have to do is you have to increase
your estimation of effort to overcome
all the counter efforts coming in with
family stresses with your kids with your
work with the health of your body and
the aging process okay so that's how you
get motivated
