hi guys I want to talk about the
relationship between testosterone and
button mushrooms okay now if you're
testosterone is low okay and you're a
guy and that can lead to all sorts of
erectile dysfunction hair issues uh lack
of Vitality you can't develop develop
lean body mass uh and really the big
problem with lower testosterone is too
much of this one enzyme called aromatase
okay Li and this aromatase enzyme
converts testosterone the last bit that
you have to estrogen so you start
getting man boobs and prostate issues
reptile dysfunction things like that so
uh it just so happens that button
mushrooms are an aromat taste
inhibitor okay so what I'm going to
recommend is you consume button
mushrooms at least three times a week
you can saut√© them you can just chop
them up put them in butter put some
onions in there and consume that with
your meal now the other thing believe it
or not that will also help would be
celery okay celery will also inhibit
Aroma taste not to mention in my other
videos cruciferous vegetables will also
do the same thing but but mushrooms are
pretty strong as far as an
anti-aromatase
type effect all right so each your
mushrooms thanks for watching Press the
sub okay jeez let me do that over again
press the Subscribe button
press just press this button right here
subscribe okay that one right there just
do it right now hey if you're enjoying
my videos press the Subscribe button
below and I will keep you updated on the
future events thank you so much
