today we're going to talk about how to
permanently get rid of Blockheads and
this other thing called sebaceous
filaments which actually a lot of people
have a confusion between these two and
that's what I'm going to clarify today
so there's so many treatments out there
uh using various tapes uh creams lotions
today we're going to talk about how to
look deeper inside and correct the
imbalance that's causing this problem
but first let's look at a typical
treatment as you can see in this uh
this is what people do and they're
applying it to their nose and then
they're removing these little tiny
filaments from the different pores in
their skin the actual little pores are
called follicles sometimes people think
follicles are hairs no they're the
little sack that hold the oil and
sometimes the hair so as you can see
you're literally ripping out the
material inside these tiny little
Caverns they're not getting rid of
blackheads it's completely different
blackheads are differentiated from white
heads because there's a little plug on
top of the pore that keeps the material
the fats and oils and bacteria from
oxidizing so if we don't have a plug on
top of this pore it's going to be
exposed to oxygen and then we're going
to oxidize that material and that
material is going to turn darker just
like if you were to bite it into an
apple and have it oxidized and turn
brown so that's what a black head is
okay and a black head and a white head
is kind of a precursor to acne and it
most commonly happens during puberty of
course I had it really bad I wish I
would have known the information in this
video back then because I thought it was
dirty in there and I had to clean it and
I would be scrubbing my skin for hours
and you know what they just created more
inflammation and more redness so that's
not the way to do it now as far as these
sebaceous filaments go uh you can get
them removed through various ways
whether it's going to be a tape or a
certain type of lotion or compound but
they come right back so the big question
is what's really behind these problems
and how can we resolve it permanently
well for that I have another view here
and you can see sebaceous filament and
blackheads come from the body producing
too much sebum so the real problem is we
have a gland that is overproducing and
the question is why well it's because of
this right here this hormone called
androgens this is why during puberty
people have more incidents of these
problems right but it can also happen at
different points of your life uh as well
as during pregnancy so how do we
regulate androgens that's the big
question to help reduce and balance out
sebum which is the oil gland well the
first one is vitamin A okay now with
vitamin A there's certain creams that
people rub on their skin to help get rid
of blackheads and sebaceous filaments
but that's kind of treating the symptom
why don't we just fix it by taking more
vitamin A now you might say well I'm
eating a lot of carrots well you might
be but that's the precursor called beta
carotene you need the actual active form
of vitamin A which is retinol to really
make sure it works okay so the question
is what foods are high in retinol I'm
getting to that let's go to the next one
vitamin D vitamin D also helps reduce
sebum and omega-3 fatty acids also help
reduce seum so take a while guess what
substance has all three of these great
nutrients well if you guess cod liver
oil you are correct it's the cod liver
oil that has not just the active form of
vitamin A retinol but also vitamin D and
omega-3 in fact cver oil has the most
vitamin A but you can also get your
vitamin A from other Foods as well like
egg yolks and fish and sardines and
there's a whole list of things that you
can get it from there's more to the
story okay you also have high levels of
seed oil that's omega-6 fatty acids it
just so happens when you consume too
much of that you actually indirectly
decrease the omega3 fatty acids so my
viewpoint is out of all the things that
are creating this problem with too much
uh sebum it's excessive amounts of seed
oils I'm talking about the soy oil the
canola the corn oil oil in most of our
foods and so we must increase omega-3
and decrease omega-6 fatty acids all
right there's more to the story you see
this right here it's called
carbohydrates and sugars when you have
too many carbohydrates and sugars guess
what you increase insulin and when you
increase insulin you increase androgens
this is why women who have polycystic
ovarian syndrome which is too much
androgens have way too much insulin and
the way to correct this is simply
reducing your insulin levels you're
going to have to lower your carbs and
sugars and you're also going to have to
decrease the frequency of how many times
you eat intermittent fasting helps
decrease the seoil as well and boy I
wish I would have known that in school
because I was the king of snacking I
would have so many different meals
through the day and snacking at night I
didn't know that increases insulin which
then increases androgens and gives me
more
acne again what we're trying to do is
we're trying to get rid of the
underlying imbalance using mainly diet
with some nutrients so that way we don't
have to put all these topical things in
her skin and create the sterilization
effect get rid of all the good friendly
bacteria on the skin create more redness
and more aggravation to your skin but
there's one more thing to talk about and
that is this right here zinc a
deficiency of zinc will increase the oil
gland and then give you more sebum so
you want to make sure you have enough
zinc where do you get zinc well
shellfish oysters things like that but
you can also get it from red meat but
the more likely cause of a zinc
deficiency is you're consuming too many
carbs and sugars okay or going through
too much stress that can deplete zinc as
well when you consume a lot of cereal or
grains especially whole grains which is
high in phytic acid that's going to pull
the zinc out too so that could be
another reason why you might be
deficient in zinc but now you have the
plan to not only get rid of blackheads
white heads acne sebaceous filaments but
you're making sure that these things
don't come back because you're getting
rid of the deeper cause and if you
haven't seen my other video on
blackheads I'm going to put it up right
here it was very very popular and it's a
very cool video
