you know calories let's talk about
calories the entire weight-loss industry
is focused on the calorie and the
problem is that that's absolutely a
terrible myth because if you increase
your calorie or decrease your calorie
that doesn't necessarily mean you're
increasing the very thing that heals
your body or creates health which is the
nutrients in those calories so there's
been a huge shift from the nutrition to
manipulating calories and it's not
workable what does work is to make sure
you're getting all the nutrition from
the food that you're eating are you
getting enough of the right nutrients
from your diet we created a program that
will help you find out if you're getting
the right nutrition a couple little
facts I want to tell you about vitamins
in general 99% of all vitamins are
synthetically made that means they're
made from petroleum or coal tar or or
cornstarch or some other chemical so
there's a couple of ways to know if
that's come it's actually coming from
food or coming from a chemical vitamins
always come in complexes never come in
individual isolated fractions so when
you see like for example vitamin C in
high amounts of individual fractions
then we know it's probably synthetic
because let's take vitamin C vitamin C
is a complex and the complex has
ascorbic acid and other factors too like
vitamin P and there's about 25 different
components about M&P like root in
bioflavonoids and then we have vitamin K
we have vitamin J the anti pneumonia
vitamin and then we also have copper
each vitamin complex has a different
mineral and this is in an enzyme form
called tyrosinase so this is natural
vitamin C and isn't a complex
most vitamin C comes in a synthetic
version which is all ascorbic acid and
I've had people take tremendous amounts
of ascorbic acid and create a vitamin C
deficiency because when you take
something take any one of these out of
the complex and you take a lot of it it
can deplete you of the other factors
like this guy was injected he went to
Mexico injected with a hundred thousand
milligrams of ascorbic acid to end up
with the worse bleeding gums and
varicose veins and spider veins because
that would be about it in C deficiency
that you've ever saw in your life
there's differences between your vitamin
E has many different factors like
selenium as the mineral there's many
different component parts of vitamin D
there's 17 B vitamins so anytime you
take individual fractions of vitamins
you're not getting the full magnitude
typically you want to take whole food
concentrates you want to take vitamins
that actually come from food vitamin C
synthetically they made it from
cornstarch and sulfuric acid and it
makes ascorbic acid which is interesting
because corn has hardly any vitamin C of
any so they're making something from
nothing
so people that say that all vitamins are
the same doesn't matter if it's
synthetically they're all molecules they
don't understand the complex idea right
here I mean it's like me telling you
that artificial sweeteners are the same
as natural sweeteners they're not the
same I personally started taking
synthetics a long time ago and my urine
was so bright yellow because your body's
rejecting it's trying to get rid of it
so anytime you take too many synthetics
it's harmful to the body so I recommend
taking whole food concentrates and not
synthetic vitamins so we developed the
quiz you take the quiz and find out from
your diet if you're getting all the
nutrition it's compared to the RDAs so
you're comparing it and finding out what
you should be eating and then we
recommend what food that you need to
consume to fulfill that deficiency that
you that you have we recommend you get
it from the food
and if you don't want if you can't eat
that amount of food let's say you're on
vacation or something like that
then we recommend a whole food
concentrate something from actual food
when you look at the back of label then
the amounts of the nutrients are very
small off from food but they're a lot
more bioavailable because they come in
the complex so I just wanted to show you
the concept of synthetic versus natural
and some things maybe you never
considered before I didn't know but yeah
99% of all vitamin E vitamins are
synthetic and I personally do not like
taking synthetics unless you're trying
to create a really quick effect maybe
for a week or two but not long term
