hey guys Dr ber here in this short video
we're going to talk about the three
factors that affect oxygen and their
nutritional factors okay in the body so
what happens is we have this condition
called acidosis that's uh different than
alkalosis it means your body is too acid
so the pH is too low and we're talking
about in the blood normally the blood pH
should be slightly
alkaline and what happens is the pH goes
slightly too low okay so we're just
talking in just small little variations
so when your body is too acid your
breathing is going to be off you're
going to be like you're going to sigh
frequently you're going to kind of
Go Just Can't Get Enough air it's air
hunger that's one of the big symptoms
all right so what do you do basically
very simply you take calcium magnesium
take it before bed take a little calcium
magnesium boom cracks the pH um the way
you get this condition
is actually being in ketosis for a
period of time now it's not a bad thing
to be in ketosis because you're burning
fat but ketones are acidic so you always
have to offset it by eating more calcium
magnesium what I do I consume so much
vegetable that I don't have a problem
with a loss of calcium okay or I might
do some cheese on a regular basis at
night um but just realize if your
breathing is off you need to uh alkalize
your body with alkaline minerals
vegetables or calcium magnesium would be
the best thing all right another way to
know that you need calcium is or
magnesium is if you have cramps in your
Cals okay so that's acidosis and
secondly vitamin C
deficiencies vitamin C is stored in your
adrenal glands and vitamin C allows your
body to hold oxygen in the body longer
and better and so with the vitamin C
deficiency you won't be able to hold
your breath very long okay you will not
be able to um you're going to get out of
breath when you climb stairs fast your
muscles will fatigue faster without
vitamin C especially if you're going up
an incline like your legs are heavier um
but mainly you can't hold your breath
for a long period of time that's an
adrenal problem but see the adrenal uh
stores vitamin C so you just don't have
enough vitamin C to store it so it drops
out and you have oxygen problems mainly
shows up incline walking upstairs out of
breath you know that type of thing all
right just make sure that when you take
Vitamin C you always take it from a food
concentrate don't take it from some
synthetic pill because the the type of
vitamin C you're getting from synthetics
are just ascorbic acid and that's just
one little piece of the vitamin C
complex you need the whole vitamin C
complex so I like to get it from food
base um a good source would be the weak
grass juice powder that actually
provides the full vitamin C complex then
we get to vitamin E vitamin E
deficiencies will create problems with
high altitude breathing problems at the
top of Every Mountain Top you will see
empty bottles of vitamin E because
mountain climbers consume a lot of
vitamin E to help them climb higher and
be able to survive at higher altitude so
if you're deficient in vitamin E the
muscle tissue in your heart will demand
so much more oxygen you'll start getting
cramping of the muscles in the heart and
so like angina pain chest pain is really
a vitamin E deficiency
so vitamin E provides the oxygen to the
muscle tissue if you're if you have
muscle damage from an injury you need
Vitamin E uh so vitamin E is really
important in recovering muscle tissue
and increasing oxygenation of the muscle
itself and the heart all right uh where
do you get vitamin E you get it from uh
raw nuts you get it from the vegetables
you get it from avocado
okay that's what you get you you get it
from a lot of um um you can get it from
basically seeds nuts vegetables things
like that all right so those are the
three factors that you want to look at
if you want to increase your oxygen
carrying capacity and I will see you in
the next video
