now I've done a lot of videos on
nutrient deficiencies this video is
going to be on the dangers of excess
phosphorus it's very very difficult to
become deficient in phosphorus because
it's in so many different foods we need
phosphorus for many reasons all of our
cells needed your ATP adenosine
triphosphate the energy currency of the
body has a component of phosphorus you
need phosphorus or energy for your bones
for your DNA it's involved in a lot of
different things but if you have too
much it can really mess with your
kidneys when you have end-stage kidney
disease too much phosphorus can be very
very very deadly but here's the thing
even if the kidney is 20% damaged it
doesn't have to reach end stage
phosphorus can be very damaging to the
kidney so anyone with any type of kidney
damage should be careful about too much
phosphorus excess phosphorus can really
damage the heart it can make the
ventricles enlarged it can also lead to
calcium deposits in your arteries
because that excess phosphorus will
dissolve the bone and leach it out and
it can end up in your arteries so you
have osteoporosis or osteopenia you get
fractures and then all that calcium
plugs up your arteries not a good
situation so take a well guess where
most people would get excess amounts of
phosphorus hint-hint
soda especially the dark-colored soda
it's loaded with a lot of phosphorus up
to 500 milligrams per soda why do they
put it in there well because it gives a
tangy flavor it decreases mold and
bacteria and it actually gives you a
little spike in energy but phosphorus is
also in other foods too you should start
reading the labels it's in a lot of junk
foods it's in a lot of processed foods
so when you read the labels and it says
foss it's it's containing phosphorus
sodium phosphate is more phosphorus so I
just wanted to do this video to make you
aware that excess amounts of certain
nutrients can be just as bad as
deficiencies
hey if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
