urinary retention what is it well it's a
situation where your bladder is not
releasing all the urine so any urine
that is retained sometimes can back up
in the system it can create congestion
within the kidney and lead to a lot of
complications
i'm going to cover the causes of urinary
retention and also a really good
solution one third of the adult
population and 80 percent of females
have some form of bladder issue it could
be the sensation of having to urinate
but not a lot of urine comes out so how
does this affect someone well the kidney
is a filter and it's supposed to filter
the blood it works very closely with the
liver which by the way also filters out
the blood to some extent it helps to
break down caffeine alcohol medications
toxins and so the liver and the kidney
work together if you're not able to
fully eliminate all your urine
that can lead to edema in your feet or
in your lower legs it can lead to a loss
of protein in the urine which you might
identify as albumin and so when you lose
too much protein then the protein in the
blood goes down and then the tissues
start backing up with fluid now when you
urinate and you smell a very strong odor
in your urine like this super pungent
ammonia smell
that has to do with the incomplete
breakdown of proteins there's something
called the urea cycle where your liver
is breaking down protein and as it
breaks down to ammonia it's supposed to
then break down to urea
and it should be eliminated through the
urine but what happens if this whole
biochemical pathway doesn't work
you're going to get a buildup of ammonia
in your urine and it can even back up
into the blood it can go to the brain
and it can lead to all sorts of
additional symptoms like brain fog
even
very extreme to the point where you lose
consciousness
so
smelling too much ammonia in the urine
is not good now if you're a diabetic you
may have sugar in the urine and by the
way the number one cause of kidney
damage is
too much sugar or a diabetes situation
that's called diabetic nephropathy not
neuropathy but nephropathy nephropathy
means there's a problem with the kidney
now if you have a problem with the
metabolism of protein guess what you're
going to lose a muscle the term for that
is called sarcopenia and it happens that
someone gets older because you're just
not able to get the protein into your
muscles and your tissues other
complications of this would be fatigue
you can experience itchiness and like i
said brain fog so before i get into what
to do about this
uh let's just briefly talk about what
causes it okay
uh diabetes does because the high levels
of sugar
damage the capillaries of your
kidneys so the nephron which is the
little filter in your kidneys basically
it's a little bowl of capillaries
small blood vessels that help
filter the blood and high levels of
sugar flowing through your blood damage
those arteries that create scar tissue
and they can create permanent damage and
on top of it when someone is a diabetic
they're usually doing a lot of high carb
meals
and that alone will cause a tremendous
amount of retention of fluid an average
person on a high carb diet is carrying
around i would say anywhere between 11
and 13 pounds of extra fluid see
the goal is to get rid of this fluid not
to retain it so we need to understand
why the kidney would retain fluid it
could be your diabetic you're doing high
carbs it could be simply you're just
getting older and you're naturally going
to have a loss of these little nephrons
or
filters in the kidney now it also could
be in a large prostate pushing up into
the bladder that can cause you to retain
urine as well or if you're female you
have a fibroid which is pushing up into
the bladder now another common situation
is the
huge amount of sodium people consume
with very very low amounts of potassium
an average or standard american diet is
heavy on the sodium uh including
monosodium glutamate and very low in
potassium as in high potassium foods
like vegetables
and the reason i know that is because
the average person only consumes one and
a half cups of vegetables every single
day that's pretty pretty low and the
definition of vegetables is very very
wide it could be a potato it could be
corn it could be that tomato v8 juice
all right another common cause of
bladder retention is a problem with the
autonomic nervous system that's the
system that controls the contraction and
relaxation
of the urinary bladder as well as a lot
of the valves in your private part and
so if you have a problem let's say you
have your sympathetic dominant and you
don't have a strong parasympathetic that
alone can create a loss of capacity to
hold urine eliminate urine control the
valve which also controls the release of
urine and on top of that the more
pregnancies a female has the more things
get stretched out of the normal form
then you also have kidney stones and
bladder stones
that can back up the urine in the
kidneys and and then the rest of the
body as well and lastly medications
antidepressants other medications have a
side effect of
causing urinary retention okay well
that's all very interesting what do you
do about it well
number one probably a very important
thing to do is to start cutting out your
carbohydrates and sugar because that is
usually the thing that is destroying the
kidney so we want to stop the bleeding
and stop the oxidation and damage to
these little capillaries not to mention
you're going to find that you're going
to dump a lot of water you're probably
gonna dump between 11 and 13 pounds
within the first week or two so that'll
take a lot of stress off the kidney all
right number two you do want to increase
your fluids to help build up more volume
to add more pressure to start cleaning
out the kidneys and the associated pipes
or tubules that are connected so i would
recommend drinking about three liters of
fluid that's 12 cups per day it's not
that hard and i would highly recommend
that you drink this in the first part of
the day not the second part of the day
especially right before bed
now the other thing that you can do is
uh instead of
taking a synthetic drug as a diuretic
and i'm not telling you to come off your
medication check with your doctor i'm
saying there are alternatives there are
natural herbs that act as a diuretic
okay one of them is dandelion greens you
can go to the grocery store and you can
just buy those and put those into your
salad okay it's a very potent diuretic
the other powerful diuretic that i
recommend would be watercress at the
grocery store or health store they sell
watercress it's a type of leafy green
that's actually a cruciferous vegetable
and it's probably one of the first
vegetables ever consumed by humans it's
a potent diuretic now next point is
potassium you want to increase your
potassium why because potassium is a
natural diuretic it pushes fluid out and
so the way you do that is you consume
more vegetables and i'm talking about at
least seven cups per
day now it might seem like a lot but you
can just break it up through the meals
and it doesn't have to be just salad it
could be like celery it could be
asparagus other leafy greens now you can
also enhance this with a good high
quality electrolyte powder that has a
lot of potassium and yes i do recommend
my brand because it's high quality i
will put a link down in the description
now the phytonutrients
in these salads
also will protect you
against whatever condition you have like
if you have some type of chronic i don't
know diabetes or arthritis or
existing chronic kidney damage or
inflammation these phytonutrients are
very very powerful to lessen the
complications from that issue so they
will greatly lessen the symptoms that
you have even if you never get rid of
this condition and lastly
if you have this strong ammonius type
urine this odor
it wouldn't make sense to start
overloading the liver and kidney with
more protein i recommend doing a
moderate amount of protein with each
meal not a high protein meal so consume
between three to six ounces
of protein per meal but don't go any
higher than that that way you won't
overload your liver and your kidney and
you'll utilize the protein that you're
consuming now there's one more important
video for you to watch on the kidney i
put it up right here check it out
