so in this video we're going to answer
the question does key tell decrease your
fitness performance and will you lose
your muscles let's talk about that well
in 2012 there was a study done and I'll
put the link down below that
demonstrated that keto does not affect
strength performance in elite athletes
2018
another study I'll put it down below you
get decreased oxidative stress and
inflammation in deep-sea divers so
basically allows them to perform better
the same thing that goes with an athlete
when you run your body and ketones you
get less oxidative stress which means
your organs and tissues don't break down
as easily and they can go longer all
right another study was cyclists when
they were put on keto the endurance was
not compromised right now I know if two
of the top ultra marathon runners they
run like a hundred miles they're both
undoing keto and they dominate in fact
one of the guys named Zack bitter took
the record for a hundred miles in
America I think was like 11 hours and 40
minutes incredible all right let's go
through some things it's not the carbs
that build muscle okay protein helps
build muscle your muscles are built out
of protein not carbohydrates training
strength training builds muscle now it
is true that insulin is anabolic so that
is the hormone that helps your muscles
grow but there's two things that
stimulate insulin one is carbs and one
is protein okay
every time you consume protein you're
going to increase insulin now when you
do a keto plan you're going a low-carb
when you go a low-carb and you also
combine in a minute fasting you fix
something called insulin resistance
which the majority of the population has
that is a situation where the cells need
more and more insulin to create the
effect because it's resisting incident
because the person is consuming too many
carbs okay so when you fix insulin
resistance you increase the absorption
of amino acids you increase the
nutrients a lot more you actually
increase insulin
more insulin becomes more effective so
when you do a healthy keto plan
your body is are running on ketones your
body is also running on fatty acids and
some of your body is still running on
glucose even though you're not consuming
glucose your body has a capacity to make
glucose it's called gluconeogenesis your
liver does it it can make glucose from
protein and fat so we really don't need
carbs as a requirement the problem is
when you start keto you're going to go
through an adaptive phase where you
might experience some fatigue because
you need to increase your B vitamins and
more minerals but that's the only gonna
last for like three to four days and
then you're gonna have more energy when
you start tapping into your fat reserves
more efficiently you're gonna have a lot
more performance a lot more endurance in
fact certain athletes get to the point
where their cells become fat-burning
machines on steroids they oxidize fat at
such a higher rate compared to anyone
else the truth is when you're on higher
carbs you're gonna get more fatigue in
less performance because the higher
carbohydrate means more insulin which
means more blood sugar issues which
means more oxidative stress to the body
and you never get a chance to tap into
the fat because you're running off your
stored glycogen and ketones and if' in a
minute fasting have a muscle sparing
effect they spare protein it you're
going to stimulate growth hormone you're
not going to lose your muscle mass so in
summary keto if done healthily can
increase your performance not decrease
your fitness thanks for watching so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications daily notifications
that sounds weird well I'll just remind
you on a daily basis about that
