let's talk about the benefits of raw
versus cooked vegetables is it better to
consume your vegetables cooked or raw
now to understand that question
we have to first understand what's in a
vegetable okay how does it benefit us
you have like folate vitamin C then you
have beta-carotene which is like a
precursor to vitamin A which doesn't
really add up to a lot of active retinol
so if you compare plant based vitamins
versus animal based vitamins the
animal-based vitamins are much more
bioavailable like the iron and spinach
versus the iron in red meat huge
difference as far as how your body can
assimilate it so if you do this
comparison the most of the vitamins and
animal products are way more
bioavailable but when we get into
Vitamin C folate beta-carotene those are
better sources in Plants you also have
vitamin E in plants so we have vitamins
and then we have minerals
especially potassium magnesium magnesium
is at the heart of the chlorophyll
molecule and that's the green stuff in
the plant so anything green that you eat
has a good amount of magnesium
but we also need that potassium there's
other minerals as well in Plants you
have trace minerals and things like that
but it really depends on what that plant
is grown on for example if you're eating
plants that are grown in hydroponic in
just like a water solution they only
really put 15 minerals in that solution
well there's a lot more than 15 minerals
in the soil but then again are you if
you're growing your plants on soil that
has like no biology or microbes chances
are they're going to be pretty low in
minerals what about amino acids like
proteins
there's not a lot of protein or amino
acids in these plants what about fat
there's not a lot of fat in these plants
what about fiber there is a lot of fiber
in vegetables and this is what we can
feed our microbes and what's interesting
about that is that herbivores animals
that consume plants have more than
double the strains of microbes versus
the carnivore animals they have you know
less than half of the quantity of
microbes so basically if you eat
vegetables and you're eating a wider
range of vegetables which with different
fibers compared to someone who doesn't
consume any vegetables you're going to
have more diverse
microbiome and what does microbiome do
is they make all sorts of things for you
they make vitamins they make biotin they
make other B vitamins they make vitamin
K
they actually help you make bile they
help you make B12 available but here's
something that you definitely get that
you normally don't get from other types
of foods and that would be
phyto nutrients right so we're talking
about antioxidants plant-based chemicals
that have a range of
properties from anti-inflammatory to
chemicals that help fight cancer and
these phytochemicals are in the
thousands and it's like a mini natural
drugstore because they create all sorts
of very very cool effects a common one
would be like lutein or zeaxanthin which
is essential for being able to see in
the dark at night
and prevent macular degeneration and
these phytonutrients also defend against
the complications of chronic disease
also they uh go into your skin and
protect you against UV radiation to
prevent skin cancer and this is
something you probably I've never heard
of before
plants contain a very good amount of
probiotics okay that's friendly bacteria
microbes that are within the plant
and there's a lot like in one cup of a
vegetable
you're looking at a 100 million microbes
so when you're consuming vegetables
you're getting a lot of probiotics if
they're grown on soil versus something
that doesn't have a
kind of a medium that enhances the
microbiome but the way that the plant
gets the microbes is from the soil so
the roots of the plant actually eat
microbes as their primary nutrient
source and they're extracting minerals
from it and then they actually kind of
let the microbe go out of the root but
some actually travel up into the plant
and those are the ones that I'm talking
about you probably never looked at these
raw vegetables as a source of probiotics
but they are
and this is fairly recently discovered
that plants have these microbes before
that they thought they were sterile but
they're not microbes get destroyed with
heat okay so the more you cook the
vegetable the less effect you're going
to have as a probiotic now a couple
things you need to know about this an
organic vegetable versus conventional
you're going to get about 40 more also
diversity too so yes organic is is
better and the microbes in the plant
create substantial change in your own
gut microbiome and if you're concerned
about these microbes surviving the
stomach apparently they do survive in
large quantities probably being
protected with the little encapsulated
fiber that they kind of are in and then
they kind of get released lower in the
digestive tract when your microbiome
eats that fiber and breaks them up now
that being said there's a couple of
things you need to know if you are
immune compromised if you have
inflammation in your gut if you have
Celiac diverticulitis any type of
inflammatory condition in your gut
you're probably not going to tolerate
some of the microbes that are in the
vegetable because those microbes can act
to stimulate your immune system they can
act like a natural vaccine and if here
you are having inflammation or leaky gut
you see these microbes and other
phytonutrients and the fiber itself can
react and create more inflammation
this is why if you consume vegetables
and you feel worse or you get extreme
bloating or you have any type of a major
inflammatory condition in your gut
you're probably going to do better on
the carnivore for a while
so not everyone can tolerate these
plants but I will say that
um you know things like salmonella E
coli those incidents are very rare
they're not very common and if a plant
is sick or grown on poor soils that are
you know with low immune system because
if the soil has an immune system and so
does a plant then they're more likely to
get these pathogens but typically these
microbes and plants uh are pretty
friendly there might be a small group of
them that are unfriendly or pathogenic
but the other microbes in the
phytonutrients one of their purposes is
to help suppress these pathogens and
keep that plant's immune system strong
another side note that's interesting is
that fermented vegetables
as far as looking at the microbes in
those fermented vegetables like
sauerkraut kefir things like that those
microbes have a very similar profile to
your own gut microbiome which means that
the worse off your digestion is the more
you're going to benefit from maybe
fermented vegetables or no vegetables at
all or even more cooked vegetables
because you're breaking down things
making them easier to absorb and digest
what about the effect of heat on
vitamins well you are going to lower
vitamin C and you are going to destroy a
lot of the vitamins and enzymes what
about minerals well it depends if you
are steaming them versus boiling them a
lot of times when you boil vegetables
and you see all the Green in the
solution you're basically leeching out
chlorophyll and you're leaching out
minerals but if you steam or slightly
steam or saute your vegetables you're
not going to lose the mineral part you
might lose some of the vitamins
depending on the duration and the Heat
and the temperature when we talk about
phytonutrients there's some interesting
data on that it shows that heat
especially when you steam things or
saute things you actually increase the
phytonutrient content
you make some of those phytonutrients
more available now I looked at the data
and I didn't see that it was consistent
there's a lot of mixed studies on this
and it didn't look like there was a
massive increase there might have been
an increase in phytonutrients by 18 and
yet other ones showed a decrease of
about six percent it's a bit
inconsistent because there are so many
different phytonutrients and so many
other variables it's hard to tell but
the point is that cooking your
vegetables might enhance the
phytonutrients by a certain amount but I
don't think that is so significant that
you have to really put a lot of
attention on it now what does heat do
for the microbes in the plant well the
heat kills them
okay
So based on that information it's
probably going to be best to consume
a good portion of your vegetables Raw
okay but of course certain things I
think you should cook like brussels
sprouts maybe broccoli maybe cauliflower
but as far as your salads go
and let's say bell peppers and tomatoes
and other vegetables I would keep those
raw apparently the worst thing you can
do to vegetables as far as nutrients go
is fry the vegetables now if you're
eating some fried vegetables that's fine
but just don't think you're getting a
lot of nutrients from the fried
vegetables or when you do pressure
cooking things like that anyway I wanted
to give you some backgrounds on whether
you should consume Raw versus cooked
vegetables and
some different viewpoints that you
probably haven't heard before now if you
have not seen my video on sauerkraut I
think you should check it out it's
actually very very good and I put it up
right here
