today we're gonna answer the question is
it okay to crack your knuckles and will
it cause arthritis for example well it's
not going to cause arthritis it might
irritate the people around you if you do
it too much and if you're gonna crack
your knuckles I recommend that you do it
like this or you pull it out not like
this okay because you're jamming the
joints now what's making the sound is
you're stretching this little capsule
around the joint it's filled with fluid
it's called synovial fluid and gas is
coming out of a liquid and it's making a
popping sound in summary no it's not
gonna cause our itis it's just gonna
really irritate the people around you so
if you're gonna do it do it in private
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
