hi guys in this video I'm gonna talk
about the importance of salt and a
ketogenic diet and how to get more salt
in your diet when you're on a keto plan
ok now I know you probably heard that
salt is really bad it's gonna increase
your blood pressure not actually true if
you're doing the ketogenic plan that I'm
recommending you're consuming a
tremendous amount of vegetables with a
lot of potassium or you're supplementing
with electrolyte has more potassium so
when you do that a lot of times you're
going to be deficient in sodium okay
because here's the thing if you're in a
high carb diet you're gonna have higher
amounts of insulin and you're gonna have
more water attention and more sodium
retention when you're in a low carb low
insulin
you're gonna release the excess water
and you're gonna release more sodium
okay so the symptoms of low sodium would
be constipation heart palpitations
headache fatigue weakness even cramps in
the leg okay so those are some things
that you can happen as you transition to
a keto plan as well and you have to
remember to consume more salt in fact
the amount of salt that you need to
consume on a keto plan is about a
teaspoon a day if you're on a high carb
diet you should only consume about 1/4
of a teaspoon per day because you're
gonna retain it ok so here's some good
ideas to increase more salt a Himalayan
salt put it on your vegetables put it on
your food put it on your eggs this is
the best it's pure it has 74 minerals
don't use table salt you similarly in a
pink salt salty cheese feta cheese
olives salted butter salted nuts
hummus pickled vegetables those are just
a quick list of some things that I do
but you could there's many more but the
point is that you need to increase more
sodium on this plan alright thanks for
watching and put your comments below hey
you probably already subscribed but if
you haven't press this little button
down below and I will keep you updated
