hello I have a question do you want to
save time trying to lose weight this
video is for those people who don't
watch my videos okay so it's for a new
person to my Channel all right so here's
the thing the majority of the population
are spending tremendous amounts of time
wasted time trying to lose weight okay
I'm talking massive amounts of wasted
time and it's actually very sad because
it's actually very simple there's really
just two little things you need to know
for sure to be able to burn fat and lose
weight and save a lot of time so you're
not spinning your wheels okay you have
to know the most important thing to do
and you have to know the most important
thing not to do knowing what not to do
is a thousand times more important than
knowing what to do okay so we're going
to get rid of the trivial stuff and
we're going to focus on just the primary
most important thing we're going to use
guidance physiology this is a physiology
book on page
927 this is what it
says it's under the category increasing
metabolic use of fat caused by insulin
lack okay insulin is a hormone that
regulates blood sugars says all aspects
of fat metabolism are greatly
enhanced in the absence of insulin okay
so what's what does that mean that means
what we have to do is we have to make
sure sure we keep your insulin as low as
possible okay and then we can enhance
greatly the fat burning effect the
metabolism so now the question is how do
we do that okay how do we avoid insulin
you're going to have to avoid sugar
refine carbohydrates breads pasta cereal
the other thing that triggers insulin is
the combination of sugar and protein
like hamburger and fries a coconut
cheeseburger uh starches and protein at
the same time
uh excess protein large amounts of
protein like over 10 ounces will
stimulate insulin monosodium glutamate
that's a flavor enhancer that's in all
the fast food places so here you are
eating protein let's say you even take
the bun off at Chick-fil-A you're still
getting uh insulin Spike because it has
MSG at the Chinese restaurant MSG
frequent eating like the whole five to
seven meals or six meals a day very bad
because you're going to trigger insulin
Big Time fruit is a sugar I mean it's
very sweet it's going to increase
insulin beans will increase insulin
alcohol juice orange juice all these
things will increase insulin so we have
to cut those out all right number two
what do we do there's an opposing
hormone to insulin okay it's called
glucagon so if if insulin blocks fat
burning and makes you get fat glucagon
does the opposite it makes you skinny it
helps you lose weight so we're going to
talk about how to increase glucagon
number one intermittent fasting three
meals no snack or even two meals no
snacks in between the time that you
don't eat means that you're not going to
trigger insulin because eating triggers
insulin so we want to keep insulin low
keep your carbohydrates at 20 G or less
okay you'll lose more weight that way so
but I'm not talking about veget
vegetables eat lots of vegetables
because we need pottassium pottassium
lowers insulin so we need huge salads
like at least 7 to 10 cups vitamin B1
lowers insulin nutritional yeast that's
because when you do a lot of
carbohydrates you deplete your B
vitamins so if you take B vitamins it
actually allows insulin not to work as
hard fat by the way is neutral so you
can have some fat with a meal that
allows you to go from one meal to the
next so you can do inent fast and very
comfortably but you will not be able to
do this if you do lean meat and
vegetables you're going to be too hungry
between the meals adjust the fats to go
from one meal to the next apple cider
vinegar improves blood sugars and
actually decreases insulin as well have
take some alider vinegar and water with
the meals and right before you go to bed
and some water just watch what happens
you'll actually wake up and you'll feel
like you're losing weight uh moderate
protein will stimulate glucon glucagon
so I'm talking about like 3 to 6 ounces
that's not a lot just 3 to six ounces
will trigger glucagon too much protein
will trigger
insulin exercise intense exercise will
increase glucagon so we you probably
know exercise helps you lose weight but
you probably didn't know because it
triggers that hormone so you want to do
a workout but make sure you don't
overtrain make sure you maybe do every
other day but you want to make sure it's
intense and sleep you burn a lot of fat
when you sleep so don't try to um cut
your sleep short you want a nice sleep
so you're sleeping at least 8 hours
that's going to help this hormone right
here that's the Simplicity everything
else that you do will be trivial and it
will not help you save time these are
the most important actions so now you
can take any diet and see if they align
with these principles and see if they're
going to work or not let's take the
Atkins diet problem with that is it
doesn't recommend enough vegetables okay
to clean out the liver and give you
potassium and it also recommends too
much protein okay so you'll lose weight
and you might just Plateau let's take
the South Beach Diet well they allow too
many carbohydrates in fact you do the
first stage which is actually allowing
too many carbs and then all of a sudden
you go right back to more carbs so you
gain the weight back it doesn't make
sense then you have the HCG diet it's
500 calories okay that is going to
starve your metabolism because you're
going to slow your your thyroid down you
always want to have enough nutrients in
those calor calories you don't want to
go low calories it will work initially
but the next time you do it it won't
work anymore because you'll screw up
your
metabolism what about protein powder no
it's too high in protein what about the
Zone too high in carbs they have the
Zone bars too high in carbohydrates what
about Weight Watchers no because they
allow too many
carbohydrates okay so based on these two
things you can pretty much predict what
diet's going to work and what not thanks
for
watching hey guys definitely subscribe
and I will keep you in the no no that
doesn't make sense I'll keep you
informed of future events how about that
all right cool hey if you haven't
already subscribed press this little
button down below okay thanks
