there are some major if not shocking
benefits of iodine I want to discuss
every single cell in your body needs
iodine because iodine is not just for
the thyroid okay the thyroid consumes
about 6 milligrams of iodine every
single day but the breast tissue
consumes 5 milligrams every single day
and the question is why would the breast
tissue and other tissues need iodine
we're going to get there the ovaries the
brain the lining of your stomach even
your eyes require significant amounts of
iodine I mean it's not very mysterious
why Japanese women in Japan have very
low incidents of getting breast cancer
they consume 25 times more iodine than
women in the US even men that consume
the highest amount of iodine have a 29%
lowered risk of getting prostate cancer
so what's the mechanism of iodine on
cancer well number one it's highly
anti-estrogenic and we know that if you
have estrogen dominance it puts you at
risk for cancer especially of the breast
ovary the uterus some women even use
lugos solution it's an iodine solution
with a little bit of oil and they rubbed
into the breast as a way of reducing
fibrocystic breast iodine also has
another effect on cancer cells it causes
the cancer cell to commit suicide iodine
also strengthens the thyroid which
increases your overall health in your
resistance against health problems
iodine improves the immune system and
iodine also reduces inflammation and
it's very important for anyone who's
pregnant to consume enough iodine a
deficiency of iodine in pregnant women
can increase the risk of miscarriage as
well as increase the chance of ADHD and
one big myth out there is that you got
to be careful about taking too much
iodine did you realize that iodine is
the only Trace mineral that can safely
be taken in extremely large amounts I'm
talking like a 100,000 times the RDA
iodine is considered what's called a
hogen and so they all compete with each
other that can create a problem with
iodine well good thing we don't consume
a lot of fluoride or even bromide right
and I'm being very sarcastic because
they put bromide in breads fluoride in
the water supply and it's in your
toothpaste so there's one really cool
thing you can do to kind of get that
stuff out of the body you can just take
more of iodine
and what I would do if you wanted to do
a detox if you were concerned about that
is for several days consume a good
amount of water with unrefined sea salt
then you would start taking lugos
solution now this is a mixture of two
different types of iodine because
different tissues absorb different types
of iodine you would start taking the
solution and follow the instructions on
the bottle for about 5 days okay and
then you take two 2 days off to let it
detox and if you're doing a detox you
probably want to also add some other
things too like vitamin C and I would
recommend taking between 3 and n g not
milligrams and about 400 milligram of
magnesium 100 milligrams of selenium and
the complete B complex by doing that you
can help clear out these halogens and
replace it with iodine however if you
have hyperthyroidism do not take iodine
some people think that they're allergic
to iodine because they're allergic to
shellfish no one can be actually
allergic to a mineral they're usually
allergic to something in the fish okay
so people that have shellfish allergies
usually can take iodine and another
point that I want to bring up about the
foods that are goitrogenic which
basically block iodine like kale and
broccoli and all the cruciferous
vegetables lima beans if you take seelp
on a regular basis that can easily
counter any potential bad effects also
you can take higher amounts of iodine
for Respiratory viruses and the last
point is that iodine also binds with
Mercury and aluminum so that's another
way to help reduce the Toxic effect of
certain Metals there's a lot more
benefits to iodine that I'm going to
tell you I did an older video on iodine
that it was actually really popular if
you haven't seen that I think you'll
enjoy it I put it up right here check it
out
