so today I'm going to talk about how to
control your appetite especially after
you eat enough here in the situation
where you eat a meal and you're just not
satisfied you have to keep eating maybe
something sweet do you have that well
this video is for you there's several
reasons why that can be one is you have
low bile production
what is bile bile is a kind of a
detergent that helps you break down fat
and extract fat soluble vitamins omega-3
fatty acids essential fatty acids from
the food that you eat and it pulls it
into the cell so it helps you absorb fat
with the help of the pancreas so if your
liver is damaged because the bile is
made by the liver you may lose the
capacity to make bile so if there's low
amounts of bile
you're not gonna fully absorb the fat
that you're eating and there's no safety
okay because fat helps you feel
satisfied so that's one reason now if
you don't have a gallbladder probably
going to be low in bile so you maybe
need to take bile after you eat okay so
you just take a little tablet there's
some more information I have down below
on that but you take one and that will
actually help you number two
low vitamin b1 if you have a b1
deficiency you're gonna wreck your
safety centers in the brain so there's
certain parts of your brain that need b1
because b1 acts as a coenzyme to help
that work and then that deficiency is
going to create a lot of hunger and
you're just not going to feel satisfied
but in a rare occasion you can have the
opposite effect like you're not hungry
at all if you have a b1 deficiency but
that's rare okay number three is the
most common cause of having an appetite
that's just not satisfied after you eat
and that is called insulin resistance so
if you look at the cells right here and
then you have insulin insulin is the key
that opens the door to the cell to allow
the fuel and nutrients to go into the
cell so if you have instant resistance
you can't get the nutrients in the cell
you can't get the fuel in the cell and
the cell has certain
yours in signals that will send signals
back and let the brain know that okay
stop beating right so if there's no
signals you'll just want more and more
food you'll want probably more quick
energy like sugar than anything so this
is something that is created by high
levels of insulin over a period of time
and you guessed it it's high carbs over
a period of time and frequent eating
over time you start developing this
condition and you're gonna start having
this right here the way to reverse that
is to cut down the carbs cut down the
frequency of eating start consuming
nutrients that are more dense you can
have a large salad sings like that to
get your potassium magnesium which will
help reverse insulin resistance so try
this simple experiment one day try
eating a lot of refined carbs okay
because there's no nutrients there the
turn off that signal that eating signal
and then the next day consume high
nutrient foods let's say you add salads
and you have salmon your body is going
to turn off those hunger signals a lot
faster so it's not just about eating
calories to satisfy you it's about
eating the right food it's about the
bile it's about the nutrients in the
food it's about keeping your insulin low
and for those of you that are new I put
a link down below of exactly what you
should be eating to overcome this
condition right here thanks for watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
