hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about lutein and your brain okay
like what is lutein well it's a specific
phytonutrient which is a plant-based
chemical part of a family of what's
called carotenoids carotenoids there's
like over 600 different carotenoids
lutein is one of them and they're
basically natural chemicals that give
you additional health benefits okay
usually from vegetables and other foods
as well specifically with lutein it
supports the retina of the eye so if you
lose the retina you're gonna have
problems with vision and the retina is
like the back part of the eye equivalent
to film on a camera okay so it's
photosensitive and then the brain so
lutein supports certain parts of the
brain so if you have dementia
Alzheimer's
you're probably deficient in lutein and
also lutein would be good as a
preventative measure against cognitive
degeneration the brain apparently sucks
up more lutein than any other
phytochemical and so it supports
cognitive it crosses the blood-brain
barrier it's protective it's also an
anti-inflammatory it's in kale spinach
collard greens romaine lettuce Swiss
chard egg yolk yellow orange and green
peppers anything very colorful it sits
in there now one of the things that I
consume is a lot of kale this is my
blender and I just wanted to show you
what my how much kale I would use when I
blend it so I take about this much out
of a blender I'll fill it with water and
I will also add I like blueberries these
are wild organic blueberries Trader
Joe's I'll put about maybe a half of a
cup to a cup of blueberries in this kale
shank I'll fill it with water at the top
I usually freeze the kale so it comes
out a little bit better when I blend it
it's easier to blend because it breaks
up easier and then I'll also add about
one to two serving size of a wheatgrass
juice powder just to put the icing on
the cake and then I'll add some lemon
juice in there probably an ounce and
I'll put a teaspoon
of coconut oil okay and I'll blend it
for a while like four or five minutes
cuz I really want it smooth and I have a
pretty seriously pretty real best
blender because I if you have a blender
that's not very strong it comes out too
thick it's not as creamy and snow it
doesn't break down as much so you have
to get a good quality blender but the
reason why we're putting the the coconut
oil is because Li teen and all the
carotenoids are fat soluble which means
that they dissolve with fats and they it
needs to be fed salable because it
crosses the blood-brain barrier into the
brain which is all fat so in the retina
is an extension of the brain so it's fat
soluble so when you add a little coconut
oil you're going to absorb more lutein
into your body if you don't have a gall
bladder if your gall bladder issues then
you would add a little gall bladder
formula with it and that would really
drive it in because that has the bile
salts to help emulsify and break down
this fat soluble compound and that's the
same thing with a salad if you're doing
a salad kale cell that's why you would
want to add the olive oil to add more
fat in there to help you absorb more of
the fat soluble nutrients okay so I just
wanted to kind of do a video on this to
explain the importance of lutein and
another reason why you should consume
kale thanks for watching hi guys hey
listen I created a pretty amazing
evaluation quiz down below that actually
analyzes your symptoms to find the cause
the root cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause so take the quiz
now and we'll send you a report
