hey I'm back and today we're gonna talk
about SIBO and in a minute fasting what
is SIBO small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth okay that's a situation where
you have too much bacteria in the wrong
place
normally the bacteria should be in the
large intestine right through here but
you have too much in the small intestine
it's not where it should be so you get
too much fermentation too much gas
bloating and then if you add too much
fiber that feeds the microbes right here
it's gonna be worse you'll react with
too much salad for example in which case
you have to cut it down and also
antibiotics you should never take
antibiotics if you have SIBO it's gonna
get worse you're gonna have more gas so
the more fiber you have the more
probiotics the worse it gets
now what I want to talk about is this
thing right here there's something
called migratory motor complex what is
that well this is a system in your body
that allows kind of like a house
cleaning effect like a broom cleaning up
all the leftover food and bacteria it's
supposed to sweep all this stuff out and
push it into the large intestine okay
between meals that's a normal process
it's on a 90 minute cycle so it happens
every 90 minutes so after you eat the
food goes down through here and then
you're supposed to get this effect right
here of pushing any residual back in
here because we don't want too much
bacteria in the small intestine because
this is not where certain food in
certain fibers should be digested
okay now this mechanism is controlled
and triggered by mow tilling okay which
is then triggered by bile salts okay so
bile salts actually control this let me
explain what bile salts are bile salts
are not made by the gallbladder they're
made by the liver but they're stored in
the gallbladder so bile salts help you
digest fats they do a lot of other
things they help get rid of excess
cholesterol they help you extract fat
soluble vitamins from the food that
you're eating and
they also help kill bacteria believe it
or not 90% of the bile is recycled
several times through the last part of
the small intestine right through in
here so you have this recycling effect
so when you're eating for example you're
using a lot of bile to extract nutrients
from that food in fact an average meal
it's between 4 and 6 grams of bile per
meal so if you're deficient in bile or
you don't have a gall bladder or Eva
fatty liver or we have some problem with
the liver and you don't have enough file
this could really disrupt your digestion
but remember that bile helps kill the
bacteria so when you're not eating the
bile triggers this this starts kicking
in you start cleaning up and killing any
residual bacteria and it goes through
here what is the problem the problem is
most people eat too frequently and they
never allow this to occur they have a
lot of undigested food and they start
developing all sorts of gas problems be
because they have now have too much
overgrowth of bacteria in the wrong
place so if you have this problem the
most important thing to do is
intermittent fasting it will allow this
process to occur okay but you also will
need to increase your stomach acids
through betaine hydrochloride and apple
cider vinegar because we want all this
food to be broken down at this level and
not end up as undigested food right here
plus there's microbes in the food and it
could be viruses and and fungus and even
yeast we want that all killed and
sterilized at the stomach level so it
doesn't end up down here and start
growing now if you're deficient in bile
or you have a liver problem you can take
purified bile salts ok so and I put a
link down below for more information on
that and that way that will actually
help this process occur as well and
another beneficial thing that you can do
and I used to do this in my clinic all
the time when I was in practice is do
some acupressure for what's called the
ileocecal valve ok now between the small
intestine in a large intestine you have
this little valve that keeps things
separated it's controlled by the
autonomic nervous system so if you're
stressed out for example
that can affect the autonomic nervous
system to the point where this valve is
left open as well it doesn't close
correctly and you'll have a lot of
discomfort in spasm in this area as well
but one of the things I used to do all
the time and you may want to try this
out because it gives people a lot of
relief is just do some gentle massage or
acupressure right in this valve to allow
it to work a lot better so what you
would do is you just basically lay down
on your bed and right on the right lower
quadrant you would massage in this area
and try to find it there's gonna be a
really sharp tender spot in this area
maybe a little bit of a spasm and you
just massage this area until it relaxes
it gives people a lot of relief because
they have a lot of buildup of things and
so now this food that's kind of stuck
there it can start migrating over here
and it can relieve a lot of pressure so
you might want to try that so I know
it's a little complex but number one you
need to do intermittent fasting okay I
have a lot of videos on that I'll put
them down below but you need to do this
if you have any bloating or any
potential of SIBO okay number one and
number two you want to realize that bile
is really necessary for this to happen
and if you have any weakness within the
liver or a missing gallbladder take some
purified bile salts that can help you as
well next thing the next point is to
acidify the stomach with betaine
hydrochloride and or Alka cider vinegar
and lastly don't forget the natural
antibiotic in the form of garlic clove
oregano thyme there's many different
types but those are some some good ones
and you might even want to try some
massage over this else equal valve it
may also give you a lot of relief
alright guys thanks for watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
