so I have a question are you getting the
right amount of fats on a ketogenic plan
you need fats for cellular membranes all
the cells have an outer membrane of fat
you need fat for the brain the nervous
system all the different chemical
reactions require certain amounts of
fats you need fats for hormones okay
stress hormone sex hormones you need fat
to even make bile so there's a lot of
things in your body that require fats
fats I both item is vitamin A D and K
omega-3 fatty acids including DHA and
EPA so if you're in a ketogenic plan and
your fat is mainly peanut butter because
sometimes when I talk to people I find
out the only fat that they're consuming
is like peanut butter which actually is
high in omega-6 almost zero Omega 3 and
then coconut oil well that's fine but it
doesn't have a mega 3 fatty acids and a
regular butter does not contain omega-3
fatty acids it's a different type of fat
olive oil is omega-6 and that's fine but
really the omega-3 is very very
important DHA and EPA vital for the
nervous system and brain because the
last thing we want to do is get the
benefits of a ketogenic diet but then
have deficiencies of omega-3 fatty acids
okay so the best source of omega-3
especially DHA and EPA is seafood and
fatty fish okay you can do sardines you
can do Easter's salmon tuna and there's
a whole list of different types of fish
that are really really good that's the
best source right here you can do a high
quality fish oil too virgin cod liver
oil has a really good amount of omega-3
fatty acids eggs if it's pasture-raised
not commercial eggs but pasture-raised
has a good amount of omega-3 fatty acids
DHA and EPA and then we have grass-fed
dairy and grass-fed meats which actually
have four times the amount of omega-3
then grain fed dairy and grain grain fed
meats now there's just one little point
about this because when it says grain
finished the omega-3 fatty acids go
right
down so you want a hundred percent
grass-fed ideally okay now flax has a
certain type of fat that has to be
converted into DHA and I don't know how
much converts it's definitely not enough
so just realize that this is not a
complete solution and it might leave you
deficient of these healthy fats walnuts
also can contain some omega-3 and some
of these fats have to be converted as
well there are certain types of algae
that you can consume that our DHA as
well so just make sure that you're
emphasizing these fats and you don't
forget about them so you get the
benefits of keto but doing it
healthfully thanks for watching so I
hope you're coming to the keto Health
Summit coming up in October so I want to
quickly comment on what we're gonna do
that's different from other conventions
okay the problem with these other
conventions is they give you information
over a load okay it's so much data that
you're basically swimming in a sea of
information we're going to do things
very differently we're only going to
cover the most important things that
make a huge difference now there are
three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory and concentration
that's going to blow you away and number
two I'm going to show you how to
increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time
alright and number three and most
importantly if you have a slow
metabolism
if you've died it for a long time and
everything is kind of just really slow
I'm going to show you how to get
complete control over your metabolism so
you can literally turn up the dial as
high as you want and control as much
weight as you want to lose and these
three things are just a tiny bit of what
you're going to learn in the summit so
click the link below get signed up and I
will see you in October
