I wanted to do a quick video on medium
chain triglycerides specifically the
different types of fatty acids so you
could see the different functions of
each one now medium chain triglycerides
are types of fats that don't need help
from your gallbladder they can be turned
into ketones pretty fast they can be
extracted from coconut oil or palm oil
and it's really good for people starting
out in ketosis because it will help you
reduce your appetite if you're not a
hundred percent in ketosis and a lot of
people who need more mental cognitive
function like let's say they're a
student or they're writing a book they
take it to increase brain energy as well
as athletes take it as well it will
decrease cravings to carbs if your brain
is damaged or your heart is damaged
whether you have Parkinson's or
Alzheimer's or dementia or you have any
type of heart problems so this fat can
bypass the damaged pathways and get fuel
into the cells a lot more efficiently
and the cool thing is that this fat does
not get stored as fat it's used as
energy so let's start with c6 caproic
acid it turns into ketones pretty fast
so the big problem with this VAT is
there's just not enough of it in to
extract from coconut oil but then you
have c8 caprylic acid this is the one
that people take for quick stable mental
energy clarity it's also a good
antibacterial for strep and stef then we
get c10 capric acid this is a very
powerful antifungal fat very good for
Candida albicans just make sure that if
you have Candida you also must keep your
carbs very low and I'm talking maybe 5%
of all of your calories and maybe 10
grams carbs per day then we get to see
12 this is lauric acid this really makes
up about 48 to 49 percent of the coconut
oil
lauric acid is in coconut oil and it's
also in breast milk it's
most powerful antibacterial natural
compounds out there it turns into
something called mono Lauren which is
really good for your immune system its
antiviral it's good for measles herpes
which is a virus staff and even eat coli
so I just wanted to create this short
video to increase your awareness and the
different types and what they do
most people take these two together so
if you wanted to try this always start
out with a small amount because it can
create some digestive problems I would
take maybe a half of a teaspoon and then
a full teaspoon and then after a couple
days you can take a tablespoon and it
should be fine alright thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
