you know you start having thyroid
symptoms you go to the doctor they give
you a diagnosis you have a hypothyroid
problem okay then you're put on
Synthroid or some other medication to
give you hormones and then you ask your
doctor what is causing my hypothyroid
problem and they might tell you well
your thyroid hormones are
low and you go okay all right you go
back home you start taking your thyroid
medication and about a year later you're
wondering
I don't really feel any difference my
energy is still low I still am
overweight what's going on and then if
you ask the question what causes a
lowered amount of the thyroid hormones
um you may get answers like well we
don't know it might be genetic there's
still research going on so it can be
very very frustrating because it's not
about correcting the thyroid it's about
managing your thyroid levels and if you
treat the thyroid with thyroid hormones
and you don't see improvements the
question is is that the real problem or
is that just the tip of the iceberg and
what I'm about to talk about is not
meant to replace Medical Care check with
your doctor before implementing any of
these suggestions the only thing I'm
trying to do is raise some really
important questions if you really get to
the root cause of a problem then the
problem resolves if you don't and you
keep managing the symptom you're
basically spinning the wheels and and
potentially creating a future problem
because one of the side effects of
taking thyroid hormones over a longer
period of time is you're causing your
own thyroid to not have to work anymore
and you're causing your thyroid to
become lazy and it reduces the thyroids
ability to produce on its own so it
becomes very dependent on these thyroid
hormones and then the other question you
have to ask is okay what does the
thyroid produce it it produces
T4
T3 as well as another hormone called
calcitonin right are you ever given that
hormone no you're not one thing to me
that's very interesting about the
thyroid is that I think really and this
is my own uh opinion is that it's a
symptom of something else it's rarely a
primary cause there's so many other
parts of your body that can affect the
thyroid that are really ignored so I'm
going to increase your awareness of
these other things that could be
affecting the thyroid one thing you need
to know about the thyroid is that T4
okay the main hormone that the thyroid
makes is not the active form of thyroid
hormone it's kind of a
precursor to the active form which is T3
and the three and the four really
represent the number of Iodine molecules
that are attached to this protein
hormone so when the body strips off one
iodine becomes active and 80% of this
conversion happens through your your
liver so if there's any problem with the
liver whether you have a fatty liver or
it's has therosis or it has inflammation
that can affect the conversions and so
here you are treating the thyroid and
ignoring the liver that could be one
mistake the other 20% of the conversions
happen in the kidney so if there's any
problem with the kidney especially if
you are a diabetic or a pre-diabetic or
of insulin resistance chances are you
have a problem with the kidney and that
can affect the conversion you also need
selenium okay for this conversion you
also need zinc for this conversion and
there's two other additional hormones
that are very very powerful in not only
blocking the conversion but messing with
the production of thyroid hormones and
that would be number one estrogen this
is why you see so many women start
developing a thyroid problem right after
pregnancy both hypothyroidism as well as
hyper okay but most cases of thyroid are
an autoimmune type problem where it's
not really a thyroid problem at all it's
an autoimmune that's an immune problem
that is develop after either a stress
event or a spike in estrogen and just so
happens that estrogen does control or
help regulate the teac cells and the
other hormone that I want to mention is
this cortisol if cortisol is too high it
basically paralyzes the immune system
and that alone can set you up for an
auto immune problem including Hashimoto
which is basically about 90% of all
hypothyroid type situations now since
the great majority like 90% of all
hypothyroid problems are really
Hashimoto then we should also talk about
the gut because you have like 80% of
your immune system that starts in the
gut so if there's any type of
permeability issues in the gut like
leaky gut something like that certain
proteins can be leaked into the tissue
right beyond the colon and create this
whole immune problem and you can start
developing antibodies against certain
things there's a big link between gluten
okay gluten sensitivity gluten
intolerance allergy to the gluten and
hypothyroid problems especially
Hashimoto a lot of people when they get
gluten out of the diet all of a sudden
get relief with the Hashimoto so that's
a really important factor I wouldn't
just gluten-free I would go grainfree
completely so the other thing involved
with autoimmune diseases especially
Hashimoto is you always have
inflammation and the inflammation is
really what's creating all the problem
all the damage so if you could just get
rid of that inflammation regardless of
all the other things you do you would
see dramatic Improvement in body
function and one natural and very
powerful substance you can take is
vitamin D vitamin D is not really even
enough a vitamin it's a hormone it acts
like cortisol but without the side
effects you usually have to take vitamin
D in higher amounts like 40,000 IUS to
get rid of the inflammation part of this
autoimmune problem as well as selenium
so those two things are essential for an
autoimmune situation in general as well
as Hashimoto a hypothyroid condition can
occur in men and women but it's eight
times more common women I really think
because of the estrogen component which
I just talked about estrogen regulates
the te- cells and that can set a woman
up for an autoimmune problem also like I
said before cortisol paralyzes your te-
cell so a really important question is
when did you start noticing these
thyroid symptoms was it after a stress
event or not to rule out this cortisol
situation let's just go through the
early signs of hypothyroidism okay
number one loss of the eyebrows
specifically the outer part of your
eyebrows okay number two thinning of
your hair as well as dry hair all right
the hair just completely dries up and it
starts to thin and you start losing your
hair other than that you're perfectly
fine all right number three you start
developing a cold intolerance you don't
tolerate going into an ice bath for very
long okay you don't like the cold
especially in the winter but even in the
summer you have to always where sucks
number four your metabolism is so slow
no matter what you do it just will not
work fast I would also focus on insulin
resistance okay that's in another video
but the thyroid can definitely create a
slow metabolism number five weight gain
all over the type of fat is not
necessarily adapost tissue it's called
mix Adema so it's a different type of
fat which I'm not going to get into in
this video but it's more like a spongy
type uh puffy type FB and number six
tired now if someone's tired that could
be from so many different causes but the
thyroid will definitely make someone
tired as well as depressed okay so
you're going to just feel low you're
going to feel down you're not going to
have that get up and go um unfortunately
because everything is suppressed with
the thyroid now the question is what can
you do about it here's the plan right
here number one uh find out the real
cause of the problem so you're going to
have to do some investigation yourself
um the question is do you feel normal
when you're taking these thyroid
hormones like you went to the doctor
you're taking croid are are your
symptoms normalizing if they're not then
start asking questions because chances
are it's not the right solution now if
someone tells you well you know you've
been on it for a year well sometimes it
takes several years
no it doesn't if something is going to
fix the problem it's going to fix it
relatively soon shouldn't take years and
years and years but so many people get
on these hormones and they don't really
ever get better and yes they might be
normalizing your thyroid levels but is
the thyroid hormones being converted
properly is the problem really in the
blood or is it in another location
that's the question all right B you can
do an iodine patch to see if you really
have an iodine deficiency or not you
simply take a cotton ball and you can
get some iodine from the drugstore like
2% and then you just apply some iodine
to the inside of your arm or your thigh
and you can cover it up with a little
patch okay and then you basically wait
for 24 hours if within 24 hours okay you
see no more uh yellow patch then you are
deficient okay if you still see it
completely yellow
chances are you have enough iodine okay
so you can kind of look at it and if
it's fading a little bit maybe you have
a slight deficiency it's not the perfect
test in the world but it can give you
Clues on if you're deficient in iodine
another test that you can do for classic
hypothyroidism is the Achilles tendon
test you can take a little uh hammer the
one that you would check your uh
reflexes with and just tap the your
killes tended or get someone to tap it
now normally what happens if you're
laying down flat and your foot is
hanging down and you tap this a little
kiles tendon here it should do this
right so what happens with
hypothyroidism is it'll do this but it
won't come down that fast so it's that
return action that's going to be
sluggish and that would be a good test
to determine if you truly have a primary
thyroid problem another important
question is when did it start was it
right after pregnancy which you then can
tell you it's an estrogen problem then
you can do with that or was it after a
stress event and then you could manage
your adrenals more with that or let's
say you have a fatty liver well you
might want to then focus on your liver
not the thyroid to get rid of the
primary cause Okay number two the uh
trace minerals are important not just
iodine but selenium and zinc so take a
good trace mineral product maybe celp
would be good number three get rid of
the gluten in fact I would get rid of
all the grains that right there might
produce huge changes and then the
vitamin D in large amounts like 40,000 I
use simply because most thyroid problems
are autoimmune related there's one more
little secret I'm going to tell you it's
called thyrotroph and PMG it's by a
company called standard process and you
didn't have to just seek it out to try
to find it you take one of these before
bed over a period of three months it
seems to work really good and what
happens when you're taking this this is
actually extract like an animal extract
of the thyroid okay and so you're taking
this before a bed goes into your stomach
and apparently it's never been proven
but this is the theory your immune
system your antibodies that are
attacking your thyroid uh start
attacking that as a decoy leaving your
thyroid alone for a period of time so
your thyroid can kind of come back it's
a really cool strategy that may
potentially
help you now if you haven't seen my
video on how to do the Achilles test I
put it up right here check it out
