so I keep getting this question so I'm
going to create one video that answers
the question very specifically will
eating more fat knock me out of ketosis
okay the answer is no it won't
however despite having more energy no
hunger no craving your mood being
elevated better focus and cognition you
may have a stalled weight situation in
other words there might not be
significant weight loss okay or any
weight loss depending on how much
dietary fat that you consume so normally
an acute urgent plan you're doing 70% of
all the calories being fat so it is a
higher fat diet so that includes the MCT
oil that you might have in your coffee
and bulletproof coffee the coconut oil
the extra fat like butter all those
things so to make ketones
which by the way are not carbohydrates
they're not fat they're the byproduct of
fat it's an alternative type of fuel and
your body actually loves ketones
especially the brain you can get ketones
from your own body fat or the dietary
fat if you're doing too much of the
dietary fat and your metabolism is slow
your body won't necessarily need to use
the body fat to turn the ketones so just
because you tested positive for ketones
doesn't necessarily mean you're gonna
lose weight you'll be in ketosis for
sure because fat turns into ketones but
you might not lose the weight so if
you're concerned about losing weight
what you need to do is maybe not consume
MCT oil right now or coconut oil or
extra fat consume the whole food with
the protein fat but don't necessarily
add extra fat we don't want to go
low-fat but maybe we just don't want to
add extra fat if you're struggling with
losing weight and this is a general
statement because a lot of people will
lose weight even if they do these things
right here so
you have to test test it out if you're
having trouble maybe you reduced your
dietary fat down to 70 to 80 grams per
day and or you might want to just
increase your exercise to burn off some
of those extra calories or fast for a
longer periods of time whether it's Oh
mad or even longer all right so I think
I explained that in the simplest way
possible let me down in the comments if
it makes sense to you so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
