let's talk about nutrients and your life
spanned how much have been influenced do
nutrients have on how long you live the
first thing to know is that you are as
strong as your weakest link okay
how do people die nowadays either they
get cancer heart attack their kidneys
fail to end up with a respiratory
infection that they die of some lung
infection so there's various weaknesses
within our bodies that fail and then
that shorten our lifespan so if we dig
down into what makes up an organ and or
and is you have the DNA so really what's
happening at the cellular level as
you're getting DNA damage okay you're
getting breaks within the DNA and then
what's happening is your body's trying
to repair it really fast per day each
cell you having about 60,000 sets of DNA
that are being damaged on a daily basis
and your body's coming in and repairing
that when you fail to repair the damage
or the free radical damage is too strong
then you start aging you start breaking
down in certain organs you start getting
chronic inflammation and it you become
susceptible to getting disease so if you
have two people in a plane okay and one
person gets sick the other person
doesn't even know that there could be a
virus in the plane that person that got
sick got sick because their resistance
was lower they were more susceptible to
getting that virus or bacteria and this
is what you need to know the importance
of nutrients and keeping your DNA and
your genes stable and strong I'm going
to show you a report by an author Bruce
Ames okay Bruce Ames is 91 years old
he's a professor of biochemistry and
molecular biology at Berkeley he's going
strong incredible review DNA damage from
micronutrient deficiencies is likely to
be a major cause of cancer what DNA
damage from micronutrient deficiencies
that would be vitamins and minerals is
likely to be a major cause of cancer
this is what he
a deficiency of any of the
micronutrients folic acid b12 b6 niacin
that's b3 vitamin C vitamin E iron or
zinc mimics radiation and damaging DNA
Wow so here you have this damaged DNA
from radiation UV light pollution bad
foods etc but I bet you never thought
nutritional deficiencies can cause the
same damage as radiation that's a pretty
powerful statement but the question is
why because all of these nutrients are
involved in the repair action they're
involved in keeping the DNA stable and
if you're missing a nutrient at a
certain level you're going to be
susceptible to some type of breakdown in
the system
now Bruce Ames also talks about the
triage theory okay now in medicine
triage is this if you have all of these
patients coming in that are sick you
want to be able to delegate your
resources to the ones that need the help
the most okay so you're actually
rationing out your energy on the most
severe cases okay well guess what the
body does the exact same thing so if you
have a subclinical nutritional
deficiency you're not fully completely
deficient but you have somewhat of an
efficiency the body's gonna ration out
those nutrients to the short-term
survival proteins or enzymes okay and
what's going to suffer is the genes and
enzymes that are involved in longevity
and repair and in this paper Bruce Ames
talks about how these deficiencies sub
clinically shorten your lifespan and set
you up for getting cancer now the
question is what would be some of the
clues or red flags or symptoms of having
a shorter life span or having cancer
there really isn't any you just one day
you die up a shorter life span or you
just get cancer so there's not a lot of
symptoms so that means it doesn't draw a
lot of attention for you to do something
about it
the only way you're going to know about
this is watching this video and
understanding this you
connection between making sure that you
have all the nutrients in your diet
eating foods that are nutrient dense and
how important that is to bulletproof
your genes and your DNA down the road to
extend your life and hopefully postpone
or prevent cancer so my main goal for
this video is to emphasize the huge
importance of nutrients on your health
and especially longevity and preventing
cancer and other problems down below in
the description I put down a list of the
foods that have the highest nutrients
that you should be eating on a regular
basis check it out and thanks for
watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
