so in this video we're going to talk
about how to kill fatigue while doing in
a minute fasting so many people are
tired why they're fasting so we're going
to talk about exactly what it is and how
to get rid of fatigue so you have a lot
of energy now the most obvious thing is
when you first start this and you're
doing a ketogenic diet hopefully and
you're going through with something
called keto adaptation okay and that's
when your body is adapting from sugar
fuel to fat fuel now most people are
going to be tired in the situation
because they're tapping out there sugar
reserves their glycogen stores but
they're not quite able to tap into the
fat yet because they haven't built up
the cellular machinery or the enzymes to
really tap into that fat so that comes
with a little time sometimes it takes
three days sometimes it takes up to a
week to be able to tap into your
reserves and you have a lot of reserves
you have like a hundred thousand
calories of fat sitting there unused and
you're running off this small little
tank of seventeen hundred calories of
sugar fuel every day up and down up and
down and so when you start this and
you're not able to tap into the fat
that's when you're gonna feel fatigued
okay and with time that will go away but
what I want to focus on is what happens
when you've already adapted you've done
it for a period of time and you're still
tired what's behind that that's usually
a nutritional deficiency okay so when
you're doing it amid fasting you're
actually running off here reserves okay
there's a bunch of nutrition both a fat
soluble and water soluble vitamins and
minerals that you have in your reserve
tank that you're using but if you don't
have the reserves there in the
sufficient quantities that really has to
do with your foods when you're not doing
fasting okay what you ate before you
even started this process and that is a
really important topic to really cover
because so many people have nutritional
deficiencies and they don't even know it
what we want to do is we want to focus
on the meals in between the intermittent
fasting so we have enough reserve to be
able to do intermittent fasting longer
and longer and not have any fatigue or
any problems the number one nutrient
that we need to talk about first is
potassium why because in all of your
cells you have something called a
potassium sodium pump or I think it's
called the potassium or sodium potassium
one of the two but the point is that
potassium and sodium are involved in a
pump that helps you generate electricity
and energy so a potassium is very very
essential in generating energy in the
body okay and it does a lot of other
things too and so it's probably one of
the most important minerals but to get
them out of potassium you need you need
a lot of a certain food because you need
4700 milligrams every single day very
few people even get close to that and
yes you can take a electrolyte powder to
try to actually achieve that ideally
it'd be good for you to start getting it
from food and probably the easiest way
to get it is not to do bananas because
that has too much sugar you want to do
actual vegetables okay in large
quantities you're gonna have to consume
about 7 to 10 cups an average American
only consumes 1.6 cups of vegetable per
day a little too short they're not
they're not going to get their potassium
they're gonna be heavy on the sodium so
they have fluid retention and low in the
potassium so they're gonna be tired and
their like water log your ankles are
gonna be swollen and that type of thing
so a lot of the processed foods and junk
foods are unloaded with salt but they
definitely don't have potassium so that
right they are focusing on getting more
potassium is gonna really start beefing
up your energy alright and we don't want
that actually forget about salt as well
because if you're low on sodium you're
gonna feel tired and weak and you can
even have muscle cramps
you can also have muscle cramps when you
have a potassium deficiency - now a lot
of times when people are doing fasting
they're told to drink a lot of water
which is fine but here's the thing when
you're drink just pure water you're
flushing out electrolytes now think
about it you haven't eaten right for a
period of time and you're drinking more
water and you're not putting those
electrolytes back in and you're peeing
out not water but electrolytes and other
fluids and other things as well so this
is where you can start to dilute your
sodium when you're doing in a minute
fasting and not consuming enough sea
salt okay so I highly recommend if
you're doing in a minute fasting
probably to take a little bit of
Himalayan sea salt dissolve it in water
and
drink that and also you know add a
little episode of vinegar in there too
because that's gonna also add a friendly
acids to help reduce insulin and speed
things up tremendously but you don't
want to forget about the sea salt
because that's just as important as the
potassium okay but of course you're not
going to necessarily be consuming
vegetables but you can definitely have a
little sea salt with a fasting program
especially if you have like your muscles
feel weak if you kind of go up the
stairs and you feel kind of tired or you
feel drained because that's really a
sodium deficiency okay so we want sea
salt we want a lot of potassium when
you're eating very important for
electrolytes and the vegetables will
also give you other minerals too like
magnesium calcium and there's a lot of
other trace minerals as well trace
minerals our minerals needed in a lot
smaller amounts but you still need them
the next nutrient that I'm going to talk
about is vitamin b1 why because vitamin
b1 is essential in helping your energy
factories produce energy which is called
ATP okay the mitochondria which is the
energy Factory needs desperately b1 and
other B vitamins to be able to create a
good metabolism to actually break down
food into its energy storage form which
is ATP in the body
so without b1 you will definitely feel
tired and so what I recommend for a lot
of people is just to take b1 but I also
recommend getting nutritional yeast you
can get it in tablets because that has
the natural version so if you're taking
a synthetic version fine but to also
take a natural complex with it to make
sure that you don't create any problems
down the road but b1 is really key to
boosting your energy and it's wonderful
for people with chronic fatigue syndrome
so the B vitamins are very important so
you might say well how am i b1 deficient
well mainly because your past history of
dieting included a lot of refined
carbohydrates white rice starches sugars
that's the biggest thing to deplete b1
there's a lot of other things that will
deplete it as well but that's really the
big one okay the third thing we're going
to talk about is a common mistake that
people make is they waste their results
on poor quality food
here the here they're doing in a bit of
fasting which it's not easy you have to
kind of work up to it you have to adapt
your body fat burning and then when it's
time to eat they eat some crappy food
either from a fast-food place or they
might just consume like a little bit of
peanut butter for a meal I'm like why
would you do that you're not going to
get enough nutrition you want to consume
nutrient-dense foods to be able to build
up your reserves so you feel good when
you're fasting we're also gonna be tired
and rundown and not look good so we want
to be able to get you healthy from the
inside out and that's why it's really
important to start getting the
nutrient-dense foods in your body so
instead of iceberg lettuce you have kale
okay you can do a cow shake salmon is a
high quality make sure it's well caught
a high quality fish that gives you some
really good amounts of omega-3 fatty
acids which you're going to need for
your skin your heart your eyes and your
brain that's good as an
anti-inflammatory as well instead of
other fats like soy oil and corn oil
that are in all the commercial foods
which is just you want to stay away from
this step because it's highly
inflammatory grass-fed animal products
grass-fed beef very very important
pasture raised organic eggs really good
nutrient-dense different types of
vegetables make sure they're organic
it's going to add more fiber okay as
well as the nutrients and by the way the
fiber is what the microbes will eat and
they'll make certain by product type
acids like beech uric acid to feed your
colon the food it needs so if you don't
have enough fiber yes you're not going
to be as filled but you're also going to
not produce the energy for certain cells
in your colon so you want to really kind
of look at the whole picture of of what
food actually is doing high quality nuts
so peanuts are low on the list the stasi
O's are good pecans are great walnuts
are really good and then you have the
seeds as well seafood very nutrient
dense organ meats very nutrient dense
that way you're building up your
nutrient reserves you're getting tons of
energy you're getting the iron that you
need as well from food so that's
actually very very important getting
enough
sleeeeep and there's two factors with
this because you can eat really good and
you can do everything correct but if
you're not sleeping you're going to be
tired so we need at least seven hours
per night a lot of people need more I
actually even recommend if you can't get
seven hours then get a nap okay and
that's totally fine like a power nap
some people could do it some people
can't personally I can do it I can go
out BAM and I will feel refreshed so
sometimes I'll get six and a half hours
of sleep and I'll take a nap and I'm
good to go
so this is really important getting the
amount and then the quality of sleep I
have a separate video on that but you
want to be able to go to sleep get into
the deep four cycles of delta-wave sleep
and wake up feeling refreshed and
recharged very very important and I have
several things you can do from a
technique and also from a nutrient
standpoint and from a food standpoint I
put a link down below if you have a
problem with sleep but the combination
of getting a good night's sleep with the
nutrients that you need
making sure potassium B vitamins high
quality foods and over time you're going
to adapt to more and more fat burning
which is going to give you so much
energy while you're fasting guys thanks
for watching
hey guys so there's a whole bunch of
people that really need this information
so press the share button and let's get
it way out there
