hello in this video we're going to talk
about what causes PCOS okay polycystic
ovarian syndrome alright this is a
condition where you have really like two
things going on you have a high level of
androgens which is a male hormone and
you have no menstruation so we have no
cycle and that's usually how they kind
of diagnose it of course they can do an
ultrasound to really verify it but here
are the symptoms you have facial hair
deeper voice belly fat acne hair loss
there's other ones and insulin
resistance or insulin resistance is an
Associated
symptom okay now this is what confuses
people because when they do research on
it it says that insulin resistance is a
symptom but other research talks about
if they cost okay so that's the big
question does insulin resistance cause
this condition or is an effect of high
energons okay so what I want to tell you
is that insulin resistance is the
primary cause of polycystic ovarian
syndrome it's not a symptom it causes it
because if you take out the ovaries and
normalize the high levels of antigen you
do not lower or get rid of insulin
resistance also if you take drugs that
suppress androgens you still have the
high level of insulin resistance I'll
put some links down below so this is the
cost so when you try to actually improve
this condition if you have it you know
you'll see suggestions like oh yeah you
need to start taking estrogen and birth
control pills and all these different
things what I would recommend is focus
just on improving this right here okay
focus on this in a minute fasting is
going to be really like really important
keto is going to be important other
things are going to be important I'll
put some links down below of what you
can do but don't waste your time focus
on this to improve this that's the
connection thanks for watching hey if
you're interested in finding out the
underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quince
