okay in this section we're going to talk
about water there's several myths about
water the first thing is that your body
is 60% water that's absolutely not true
your body is not 60% made out of water
in fact none of your body is made out of
water it's made out of fluid that has a
combination of water and electrolytes so
that includes your blood your lymph your
fluid inside and outside the cell uh
also water does not flush out fat uh fat
is water soluable it might be you might
be less hungry for about 5 seconds until
you have to use the bathroom
this whole philosophy you need a glass
and water is totally not true because I
don't know who actually came up with
that idea but it's basically a rumor
made up by you know everyone knows or
they said the truth is that drink when
you're thirsty and always put something
in your water whether it's lemon or
unsweetened cranberry to add for the
electrolytes because your body is made
out of a combination of electrolytes and
water not just water the last myth with
water is water does not flush out toxins
kidneys flush out toxins so the question
is does drinking more water improve
kidney function and that's absolutely
not true if you drink too much water you
can actually die of a disease called
hyponatremia which is Flushing all your
salts out and then you end up with brain
problems and heart problems because you
need the electrolytes so the key is to
drink when you're thirsty and don't ever
drink when you're not thirsty and add
something to the water more of
electrolyte I like lemon
