so someone had a question they wanted to
know why do I feel so terrible when I
consume red meat so I'm going to talk
about that there's two main reasons one
is you don't have enough hydrochloric
acid in your stomach to digest that
protein and that's very very common and
it's a simple solution
get some betaine hydrochloride / apple
cider vinegar you can get them in a pill
and you start taking that and that
should help you digest protein but many
many people especially as they get older
they lose the strength of this the acid
in their stomach and they have a big
problem digesting protein in general
especially red meat ok that's one reason
the other reason is that you're
accumulating too much iron and iron is
very toxic now iron is an essential
trace mineral needed in small amounts
but the problem is we have no mechanism
to get rid of iron so it's very very
dangerous to take too much women who are
menstruating each month usually do not
have a problem with that because they
can get rid of iron but men do have a
problem with toxic iron so iron can
accumulate in the organs and the liver
can create all sorts of problems
inflammation cirrhosis of the liver
however in the beginning too much iron
can give you a headache joint pain
fatigue or insomnia so if you get these
symptoms after you consume meat it could
be you just have too much iron in your
body so let me just kind of go through
the two types of iron you have non heme
iron and heme iron the non heme is like
anything vegetable or plant or seafood
or eggs even though the heme iron is
certain meats as well as seafood so
seafood has a combination of heme and
non-heme and so does meat by the way but
meat typically has more heme iron than
most seafood and the non heme iron does
not create as much of a problem as this
type of iron so let's just go through
the food that has the most concentrated
heme iron venison is number one next one
is lamb next is beef pork not too bad
pate that's pork liver is five but take
a look at this it's only 16% heme and so
it's not as bad as some of these other
ones right here chicken it's point two
in zero so that's that's pretty good
muscles that's pretty high four point
six milligrams and 48% team so this
could be a problem with iron however if
you're deficient in iron these are the
foods that you want to consume muscles
definitely ok salmon point six and
seventy percent so salmon is not going
to be the problem okay
lobster one point six and forty percent
keen and then shrimp is two point six
milligrams and forty percent so mussels
venison lamb beef those are the big ones
right here now the other thing you have
to be careful about especially if you're
not doing keto or intermittent fasting
is the bread pasta cereal crackers
biscuits that are enriched with iron
they're called fortified so anything
with grains that is fortified is going
to give you more iron and this is a very
big problem so when you take calcium you
can lower iron but really the best way
to get iron out of your body is to
donate blood and there's some other ways
you can reduce iron of course avoid not
ones that are high in the list right
here
avoid supplements that have added iron
like the center of silver and Geritol
just loaded with the wrong type of iron
and they're not food based ok next thing
is phytates phytates are in brand but
you can get this as a supplement
it's called ip6 too concentrated phytate
and phytates
in grains block minerals especially iron
so this can help reduce the amount of
iron there's also a key later EDTA you'd
want to take this an empty stomach the
problem is it takes that all the
minerals so you may want to put back in
the minerals that you want excluding the
iron and I would also recommend taking a
lot of food based and the oxidants slash
food high in antioxidants like
cruciferous vegetables this will not
decrease iron but what it will do it
will
neutralize the free radical damage
that's created from the iron because
iron is very oxidative it creates a lot
of free radicals alright guys thanks for
watching and check out this additional
video I have an iron that gives you a
little more data thanks for watching
