hey guys I want to share with you the
absolute best stretch for Saka pain Saka
pain is where you have pain that goes
down the back the leg on one side or
even both and it's really a dis
protrusion and what I noticed with cases
with Saka is that the curve in their
lower back they lost the curve it's
straight up and down that puts a
tremendous amount of stress on the last
two discs okay and what happens when you
lose your curve you lose that spring and
you start getting a dis buul that goes
in the back of the spinal column either
on the right or left side and the pain
goes right down the leg especially if
you're driving your car in one position
can really irritate that nerve okay so
the stretch that I'm going to show you
literally puts the curve back into your
lower back so you have this cushion it
opens up the disc it is the best thing
for sadaka and uh you're just going to
need uh one of these it's a foam roller
get them at Target get them at wherever
online um that's all you're going to
need so now what I'm going to do is I'm
just going to demonstrate how to do it
it's really simple okay so this is what
you do you take this little thing right
here and you're going to place it right
on your lower back but you're not going
to put it down here you're going to put
it at L1 right there and you're going to
lay lean back right here on the floor
with your knees up and it's pushing the
curve up it's going to start forming the
curve you're going to lay here for about
I don't know two three four or five
minutes and uh you're going to put your
knees up and you're just going to let
the um the foam roller push that curve
up remember don't put it like too low
raise it higher right at about the first
lumbar vertebrae so we can actually
really put that curve back it's going to
take all the pressure off the nerve and
your stica is going to go away so I
would do this in the morning and at
night five minutes you can't go wrong so
go ahead and try it out put your
comments below
