today we're going to talk about how to
look younger and so in six months I'm G
to have my birthday and I'm going to be
40 okay so I'm going into the 40s pretty
scary because you know that's kind of
old I've been 39 for over a year guess
it's time to graduate and I'm being
super uh sarcastic because I'm not 39
I'm actually 59 and 6 months I will be
60 and it's kind of weird because 60
seems like you're old but I don't feel
old I don't feel 60 I feel probably 32
and I remember I was in practice I did a
lot of seminars and one of the seminars
I did was in a an assisted living home
there was a patient who lived there
she'd come to see me and she says would
you come to my assisted living home and
do a seminar so I did when I got there
there was a room full of people that
looked really old some of those people
in that room were in their 60s and
looking back on it I'm like that's
mindblowing to actually go in an
assisted living home when you're 60 I
just I can't wrap my wits around that
it's just wild apparently some people
age faster than others today we're going
to talk about how to reverse that whole
process the number one anti-aging
mistake that so many people make and
that is avoid the Sun and we're sunblock
365 days out of the year I mean think
about it human beings have evolved for
eons being exposed to the Sun and now
we're supposed to live in the darkness
why are they telling people to avoid the
sun well because of something called
Ultra Violet radiation okay UV and it
basically makes up only 3% of all of the
wavelengths 37% is the visible light
spectrum and then we have nearly 60%
infrared infrared is super therapeutic
to your body some people have infrared
machines but you can get infrared for
free from being on the sun in the early
morning also in the late afternoon so
regarding the UVU there's different
kinds of UV UVA can very easily go
through the clouds so even if it's a
cloudy day it's going through there is
some association with those Rays as well
as the Aging of your skin there's
melanin which is a pigment that's a
natural sun blocker that's going to
create a tanning effect if you're in the
sun repetitively now UVB has everything
to do with making vitamin D what's
really interesting about these Sun
Blockers is that they mainly block out
the UVB they don't really make them to
filter out that UVA you know the Rays
that affect to aging and when your skin
gets enough you're going to notice the
Skin's going to get hotter basically
telling you it's time to go in the shade
UV is dangerous if you're going out in
the sun and getting burned and you're
doing that repetitively even the UVA
radiation has some benefits it can
increase something called nitric oxide
that increases blood flow that increases
circulation to the skin people have this
question about what about skin cancer
okay melanoma what's interesting about
melanoma
is that we've been decreasing the amount
of sun exposure for quite some time but
melanoma has been increasing by a factor
of
3,000% also melanoma skin cancer usually
occurs on areas that are not exposed to
the sun is it really the sun that's
causing melanomas or could it be related
to a lack of vitamin D also bdnf this is
something that is in the brain and bdnf
actually increases with exposure to the
Sun and so when you're getting exposure
to Sun you're getting a lot of melatonin
the cells and that's a very powerful
antioxidant however in the winter many
places around Earth do not allow you to
get the UV radiation to make vitamin D
if you're trying to get vitamin D
through your window your glass window
you're not going to get vitamin D it
gets filtered out so this idea that the
UV is so bad for your skin is
completely not true other advice that
you're told to make your skin look
useful is to use a good moisturizer I
hope you're reading the ingredients on
these moisturizers because they are
filled with just tons of chemicals they
start drying out the skin because
probably the alcohol and the mineral oil
that pulls out the fat soluble vitamins
from your skin when you put the stuff in
your skin it gets absorbed into the
bloodstream and it ends up in your liver
consuming synthetic antioxidants that
can create more problems on your skin
consuming sugar and junk Foods it's
going to age the skin very very fast
another thing you have to be careful
about is overwashing your face with soap
some people think that they have to wash
their face with soap every day and all
that detergent is very harsh on the skin
it's going to age the skin mainly
because you have a microbiome good
bacteria around your skin you don't want
to get rid of that chlorine and tap
water very harsh on your skin you want
to get a filter on your shower and the
last thing I want to talk about is
antibiotics they create some serious
problems with your skin not just talking
about just antibiotics that you have
taken I'm talking about other things
that act like an antibiotic birth
control pills and acids those are for uh
acid reflux steroids statins okay now
this next part is fascinating there is a
hormone that can increase the stem cells
for your skin and just making your skin
look awesome stem cells are
undifferentiated they haven't really
turned into anything and those stem
cells are triggered by oxytocin now wait
a second oxytocin they call it the love
hormone but they really should call it
the health hormone because it has huge
regenerative properties it creates all
sorts of cool effects that help people
um bond to be more social to feel more
calm how do we increase oxytocin I did a
video on this and there's a lot of ways
to increase it but the one that I'm
going to talk about is just really cool
and that is is basically taking a very
specific microb okay and growing it in a
culture that ends up looking like yogurt
what you have to realize is when you
destroy the microbiome whether it is
taking an antibiotic or some other way
there are certain microbes that end up
never coming back and one of the key
microbes that doesn't come back is
called L ruteri and so this microbe
that's been lost in 96% of the
population because of the antibiotics
and the other effects needs to be
receded it has an effect on wound
healing which is wild and yes I'm going
to put a link down below of another
video I did on how to make your own El
rudai in large amounts 300 billion
quantities that you'll make in a yogurt
maker and you can take a half a cup of
this at night I've been taking it for
about 3 weeks and I have to say my sleep
is incredible I feel incredibly low
stress the next thing is cold immersion
on your face now whether you have a cold
immersion tank or just a bucket of ice
water and you put your face in it for
let's say 10 seconds or even less than
that that is super healthy for
rejuvenating your skin on your face it's
going to increase blood flow it's going
to tighten the pores it's going to
stimulate collagen I mean you're just
going to have to test it out and I'm
going to put a link down below of how to
do that and of course exercise is very
very important for anti-aging especially
of your skin and lastly facial exercises
can make you look young as well and
these involve all sorts of Mile fasal
stretches because we really don't
exercise the face muscles I did a whole
video on this and I'm going to put that
link down below so you can learn how to
do those facial exercises every day and
on that note thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next video
