so I want to talk about why agave nectar
is bad if it's low on the glycemic index
did you realize that agava
is only 19 on the glycemic index I mean
sugar is like 70 Gotha is low so it's
sometimes considered as a keto friendly
sweetener right well here's the problem
Agathe is 70% fructose and fructose is
very different than glucose it's 7 times
more damaging than glucose to certain
parts of the body and it can create a
hundred times the oxidative stress to
glucose so when you consume glucose you
don't initially get a spike in blood
sugar this cells of your body don't
absorb fructose only the liver now -
toast corn syrup is about 55 to 58
percent fructose it also is a big
problem because it - creates insulin
resistance and a fatty liver because
we're actually drinking this liquid
sugar in very large amounts table sugar
is 50% fructose and 50% glucose so it
can also be a big problem and they also
get people that will tell me when they
consume fruit it doesn't spike their
blood sugars because the fructose well
the thing about fruit is yes there is
fructose but there's also fiber which
buffers the response and you also have
nutrients that protect against the
damage but there still is fructose and
fructose will stop your ability to stay
in ketosis anyway I wanted to create
this video just explain why it's bad
even though it's low on the glycemic
index and thanks for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
