so in this video I want to talk about
why a child may have the dark circles
underneath the eyes that has to do with
a iron deficiency now that doesn't
necessarily mean that they're anemic you
can have an iron deficiency and they're
not anemic but they could also be an
anemic an iron deficiency can also
create other symptoms like fatigue
lethargy dizziness they look pale
irritable craving ice or even dirt and
delayed growth because iron is involved
in so many different chemical pathways
and enzymes you can have a lot of
different symptoms now the question is
why would they be deficient okay so
either they're not consuming the food
that has iron or the consuming foods
that block iron it also could be a
digestive problem that won't let them
simulate iron like let's say they have
IBS or Crohn's to absorb minerals and if
a child has been on anti acids
chances are they don't have enough acid
and that alone is a big clue that they
need to acidify the stomach also if
they've been on a lot of antibiotics
that can also block the absorption of
iron but a real common reason why
children are deficient iron has to do
with the grains that they consume even
if it's whole grains because the bran in
the grain including the grains have
something called phytates
okay phytates are a chemical compound in
grains and other foods that bind the
iron making it really hard to absorb
that trace mineral and there are two
types of iron you have heme iron which
is absorbable iron from animal products
and you have non heme iron from plants
and legumes and other things and so if
the child is not consuming enough animal
products I'm talking about read me or a
chicken or turkey over pork and that
could be the reason why they're
deficient in iron because these animal
products have the type of iron that is
very easy to absorb in the body so what
you need to do is get them not to
consume grains okay get them to consume
some red meat liver if they don't like
liver they can do liver pills make sure
it's grass-fed
food clams octopus mussels oyster all
have a good amount of iron you can even
get Easter's in a supplement okay
but what you don't want to do is you
don't want to have them take an iron
supplement from a drugstore because
that's not the type of iron you need you
always want to do food base iron or a
food based complex okay or actually just
the food and yes it's true that iron is
in spinach and vegetables but it's more
difficult to absorb so if they have this
symptom you want to do these right here
you do want them to consume vegetables
and salads because that will give them
the vitamin C and other nutrients too
because when someone has an iron
deficiency
they usually have other deficiencies and
the other thing about vitamin C is that
vitamin C will help the absorption of
iron alright thanks for watching I just
wanted to say thank you so much for
watching my videos I really appreciate
it and if you wouldn't mind giving me a
review I put a link down below
