so today I want to talk about science
okay you've heard the concept
well it's backed by science or you'll
hear the phrase well the science is
settled you know we don't need to keep
looking at that because we already
figured it out we've done enough
research like for example on the whole
concept of fat being bad and then now
it's good right trans fats are okay and
now they're not good or these drugs are
safe and effective and then 30 years
later they're taken off the market in
fact I'm gonna put a link down below of
just this is just the tip of the iceberg
a hundred and seventy six drugs that
were considered safe and effective okay
but now are off the market because they
found they were quite dangerous
okay here's in just a few accutane they
took it off the market because they
found it crates liver damage after 27
years
Seiler was on the market for 30 years
that was for ADHD or a DD now what I
want to know is how long did they do the
studies initially to prove that they
were safe and effective then we have DDS
diethylstilbestrol this was used at a
very powerful estrogen that was supposed
to prevent miscarriages until they found
it causes miscarriages 31 years later
okay and then you had the little mite I
don't know how that got passed that
created all sorts of problems with
babies coming out with flippers for arms
and all sorts of issues okay then you
have per max on the market for 19 years
then we have PTZ and metros all on the
market for 48 years okay
hey these things were backed by science
so the main question is who is funding
the study okay which many times gives
grants to universities and then you have
industry which then also funds the
universities and then you have a few
nonprofits to do research right here
before 1970 the majority of research was
done and paid for by the government but
now between 71 and 85 percent of
research is done by the industry and a
lot of times industry will partner with
the government to do research especially
when we get into R&D
so a lot of the initial R&D money for
new drugs is sponsored by the government
which really you're paying for it's your
taxes of course you have drug companies
that mark it up by a thousand percent
making massive amounts of profit I mean
one drug for Hep C cost eighty four
thousand dollars for a three-month
dosage in the u.s. in India it's only
five hundred dollars and then we end up
you and I end up getting stuck with the
bill for their research and then we
allow industry to pay certain
individuals who sit on boards and
committees that regulate a lot of the
guidelines in our healthcare and of
course not to mention the medical
journals which depend on industry money
for their advertising but I think the
worst of the worst is that industry is
allowed to cherry-pick their data and
not have to publish the studies that
don't align with what they want JAMA
which is a Medical Journal found that
when a drug company sponsors the
research it comes out five to three
times more positive than negative so
unfortunately what we're missing in
science is a thing called Ethics comment
below to tell me what you think about
this if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
