grocery stores are not necessarily in
the food business they're in the real
estate business today we're going to
talk about all the different tricks that
they use to get you to buy things that
you never intended on buying I don't
know if you've been to a grocery store
lately but there's a lot of junk food in
those stores it's becoming more
difficult to find real food 83% of all
the calories in a grocery store have
ultrapress food ingredients you're being
majorly manipulated when you go to the
grocery store so many people go to the
grocery store with a certain plan a
little list that they're going to buy
certain things but they end up getting a
lot of additional things well I'm going
to talk about why grocery stores they
don't really make as much profit as you
think it's like 1 to 3% net profit which
is on the low side most of that money is
not from the markup on the products
between 50 and
75% of their profit is from Real Estate
it's called slotting fees food companies
or Brands spend a tremendous amount of
money on getting certain locations in
that grocery store so one product could
spend between 10,000 to 100,000 up to a
million dollars to get just one product
on a certain shelf right in front of
your eyeballs there's actually a name
for it it's called The Golden Zone
because they can sell eight times more
product than if they're on a lower shelf
so that's where the majority of grocery
stores make their money so they're
really into the real estate business
there's like 40,000 different products
in a grocery store and one of the goals
is to put you in front of as many of
those products as possible so there's
all sorts of tricks to get you to do
that one thing is that they kind of
tailor make things to people that are
right-handed which is basically 80% of
people so when you walk in the store the
orientation to the store is really
counterclockwise because the people that
are right-handed will be also looking to
the right and also seeing the products
on the opposite side stores often time
use the smell and these are artificial
smells that are generated to simulate
fresh bread baking in the oven they also
found that if they pump out the smell of
citrus they can increase certain sales
of certain products by 23% they even use
different types of texture on the
flooring to slow you down in certain
areas of the store that have a higher
margin so you'll spend more time with
your eyeballs looking at certain things
they will definitely put high price
items next to slightly lower price items
that have good margins to get you to buy
those they use certain colors for
different things like blue for example
increases uh the trust building red
which is a sale and then you have green
which will give you the sense that it's
fresh also they use social proof like
bestseller or this product is our
customers favorite product those little
things alone will increase the uh chance
of you buying it by 19% sometimes
they'll put highly demanded discount
products way in the back so you have to
walk through all of the store to be able
to get them and of course the chances of
you buying other products are pretty
high there are so many people that go in
a grocery store that buy things that
they never planned on buying they also
found that in the wine section if they
put French music people will buy more
wine like 15% more wine sometimes
they'll actually uh take Products off
the shelf to create scarcity of certain
products to actually get those sold
because if you think about it if you're
walking down the aisle and you just see
like one product left and there's
nothing else like hm I better get that
before someone else gets it scarcity
works I mean think about the the
snowstorms that they have right the day
before a snowstorm everyone's in the
grocery store and they're just pretty
much buying everything out because they
think oh my gosh if it snows I won't get
to the grocery store I'm going to die
I'm going to starve to death and that
never happens but the primary real
estate for the entire grocery store is
in this serial section that's the area
where they make the most profits like
45% profit it's highly competitive and a
brand could spend up to a million
dollars to get slotted for a certain
good location in that section now of
course if that serial is for children
which most of it is the slotting fee
would be most expensive at the children
eye level I remember when I was a kid I
would always want to go with my mother
to the grocery store and and I would
pick out the cereal with the best prize
right and of course it was just filled
with sugar back then in the early 70s
you know we didn't have as much high
fructose corn syrup if any I think it
was just cane sugar but still I consumed
so much sugar growing up it was crazy I
remember Standing On Top of the counter
in the morning trying to find just sugar
and I would just basically have
spoonfuls of sugar I have certain jeans
that once I start I cannot not stop
whereas my brothers and sister didn't do
that I had a problem of course this went
on all through college I ate a
tremendous amount of pasta Doritos
valvita cheese and highly processed
Meats now another interesting thing that
happens in the checkout line is for
every second that a person has to wait
before they get checked out an impulse
purchase is increase by
38% 16% of all of the sales the total
sales of a grocery store is purchased in
the front area and that is the Prime
real estate for a brand and they're
paying no less than a million dollars
per product per year for that spot 87%
of those impulse buys are purchased 3
seconds before they see the checkout
person they also have lost leaders
what's a lost leader it's something that
they break even on or even lose a little
money on to get people people in the
store and a real common loss leader is
milk which is in the back of the store
so it forces you to go to the grocy
store buy that milk get a good price and
of course be exposed to a lot of other
foods and then you have another
placement which is called the endcap
which is at the end of the aisles oh my
gosh that real estate for example is
very very expensive as well they also
found if they price things at
$3.99 versus rounding it up to the next
number they can increase sales by
24% more also people that pay with a
credit card are more likely to buy more
junk food than if they paid with cash
thus the location the checkouts next to
the candy section I mean you have to
realize that all the candy and the
processed foods have the highest margins
it's the most profitable for the store
as well as the brand 83% of all calories
in the grocery store are alter processed
calories which is just mindblowing you
have to really huntting PEC to find food
in the grocery store and I don't even
consider Ultra processed food as real
food the sugar alone as well as the
starches will create very similar
addictions to actual drugs so let me
just shift gears now to label trickery
right when you look at the label this
product right here it says always
organic no artificial flavors or
synthetic colors what a beautiful label
I mean these guys are literally pros at
packaging but if we look at the label
look at the total carbs 78 G of carbs
with 42 g of sugar this product has
wheat flour cane sugar invert cane syrup
palm oil whole wheat flour apples right
after the apples comes corn starch this
is the stuff that you use to iron
wrinkled shirts then you got rice starch
dextrose baking soda vital wheat gluten
tapioca starch see how much starch is in
here here and so you can see they added
all these different types of sugar so
they can actually put them lower on the
label but if you look at this look at
the numbers 104 GS of actual product
78 gam is sugar and starch and both of
those are really sugar when you eat this
you would get over 1,200 calories of
just a lot of sugar but it's just
slightly better than the normal
Pop-Tarts you can't trust these labels
when they say natural or organic they're
Main distracting you from the sugar and
also some of these starches like molod
dein which is highly processed that's
classified as a complex carbohydrate so
in your mind you're like oh complex
carbohydrates are healthy no not
maltodextrin the other thing I want to
mention is sometimes this processed food
is fortified with vitamins and minerals
right you'll see that in Cal like that's
some type of enhancement no it's not all
they're doing is they're giving you a
little tiny bit of synthetic vitamins
added back in so that way you won't
create a major disease you're not going
to get your vitamins and minerals by
consuming whole grains they take the
whole grain they grind it into powder it
sits on the shelf for months before it
ends up in your shopping C well do you
think when they grind this grain that
over time the exposure to oxygen and
light might destroy the vitamins well
guess what that's what happens but this
is why they enhance it or fortify it
with synthetic vitamins at least a few
these alra processed calories are
designed to achieve what's called a
bliss point that is the amazing
explosion of flavor and taste and
sensation when you have the just the
right amount of sugar salt and fat and I
want to just mention another thing about
these alra processed foods they're not
composed of a lot of saturated fat it's
all unsaturated fat as in the seed oils
as you can see I'm sorry the vegetable
oils right here right here you see all
these vegetables right here
here's another way they trick you they
think oh wow there's there's vegetables
in here no there's not so this is what
you need to do do not go to the grocery
store with your kids especially if your
kids are tired and hungry do not go to
the grocery store if you are hungry or
tired go to the grocery store with your
list and just don't buy anything else
that's not on the list because when you
buy that junk food you then have to say
no to it every day every night but if
you say no right in the grocery store
you only have to say no once you should
shop in the perimeter around the grocery
store don't go in the middle part where
all the junk food is realize when you go
in a grocery store you're walking into
an area that has 83% of all the calories
Ultra processed foods
