hey guys today we're gonna talk about
something called gynecomastia that's man
boobs and the liver okay
liver is involved in so many problems
this issue is an estrogen problem but
it's really a liver problem if the liver
is normally working correctly you should
not have man boobs but it's when the
liver gets compromised whether it's a
fatty liver and inflamed liver as
hepatitis or liver that's become filled
with scar tissue that's called cirrhosis
that's when you start losing the ability
to detoxify estrogen and estrogen builds
up and if you have breast tissue you
have excessive estrogen and it's not
just a matter of being exposed to
estrogen directly there's something else
in the environment that mimics estrogen
and that is called endocrine disrupters
another name for endocrine disrupters is
estrogen disruptors because it is those
chemicals in environment that act like
estrogen they call them Eadie's and that
would be things like pesticides
insecticides herbicides fungicides it's
in the GMO food as glyphosate which is
in almost every food right now it's
crazy it's also going to be present in
foods that have soy in them like soy
protein isolates or soy oil it's all GML
so avoid soy if you have this issue so
what happens in the liver is that
there's a series of enzymes called phase
1 phase 2 enzymes which detoxify poisons
or environmental poisons or hormones
like estrogen and turns them into
water-soluble harmless particles okay
that's what normally is supposed to
happen and it's supposed to clear the
excess estrogen what happens first is
you have this spike in insulin because
you're eating too many carbohydrates
okay and too many sugars and then what
happens the liver becomes fatty it
starts to develop scar tissue and that's
when you lose your ability to detoxify
estrogen and there's several additional
things that can also affect that as well
alcohol especially if you're drinking
you know a couple glasses wine every
night over time that can affect the
liver certain medic
patience high blood pressure medications
high cholesterol medications
antidepressants all have side effects
against the liver antibiotics okay
so whether you're doing a lot of
carbohydrates and sugar or these things
eventually it affects the liver and then
you can't break down estrogen now I put
a link down below for those of you that
want to lower this and repair liver
damage you want to do healthy ketosis
and in a minute of fasting I put a link
down below exactly how to do it
step-by-step now as far as dismantling
estrogen the key food group that does it
is the cruciferous vegetables kale
broccoli brussel sprouts bok choy radish
arugula there's also a concentrated
cruciferous called dim dim is like the
most potent concentrated cruciferous out
there like two pounds of cruciferous
vegetables in one tablet and you can get
it I put a link down below for more
information but dim is a very powerful
detoxifier of estrogen it actually in
helps enhance estrogen metabolism so if
it actually gets rid of the bad and it
enhances the good so we actually have
the right amount it dim does not have
any estrogen in it it's not a hormone
and either as cruciferous even though
it's a phytoestrogen it doesn't add or
give you any estrogen it clears out the
bad estrogen it rids the foreign
estrogens the chemicals that mimic
estrogen so it basically detoxifies
estrogen so there you have it
if you have manboobs focus on the liver
thanks for watching hey if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
