hi guys in this video I going to talk
about insulin and lean muscle mass now
some people are trying to build more
muscle mass and they're not able to do
it and this is why and I'm want to just
show you help you understand what's
going on at the cellular level this is a
muscle cell right here and there's
several key pieces of the puzzle that
we're going to talk about number one it
takes insulin to act as a key to unlock
the door of the cells to allow the amino
acids to go into the cell and convert
amino acids to skeletal muscle protein
so we need insulin to make Muscle
protein that is true okay the problem is
that most people don't understand what
insulin resistance is when you have
insulin resistance which is a
pre-diabetic state or you're a diabetic
type
two you have a situation where you have
lots of insulin but it's resistance it's
not working in the body so you basically
have a deficiency of insulin with
insulin resistance
okay so you don't have any more um
unlocking of any door thereby thereby
starving off the amino acids from the
cell so this
idea that oh I need more insulin so I'm
going to have more carbs to allow more
amino acids to go in there all you're
going to do is you're going to create a
resistance and you're going to block
these amino acids from going in the cell
and being and being converted into
muscle tissue now here's the other point
you want to know um it only your body
only needs a very small amount of sugar
in the system small amount of sugar and
a in a moderate amount of insulin which
basically is 100 milligrams per
deciliter of insulin and what does that
mean that's only one teaspoon per gallon
and a half of blood that is so small an
average person has 21 teaspoons of sugar
every single day so we need a very very
small of carbs so when you do carbal
loading you increase a lot of sugar here
you're basically shutting down the even
insulin in insulin's ability to work
okay so we need some insulin but we
don't need to trigger it by carbs we
don't need to increase it by taking more
sugar at all we don't want to do that
just uh what we want to do is we want to
look at these other factors you can
actually have normal insulin without
having any carbs okay and just your body
can make sugar your body can make normal
insulin if it doesn't have too much too
much
sugar so it also takes exercise to
stimulate a hormone called growth
hormone that then will make the amino
acids convert to muscle protein as well
so we need this hormone called growth
hormone that triggers this process so we
need normal insulin growth hormone we
need a trigger to make this happen so if
you want to build muscle mass you have
to do something you have to work your
body so growth hormone is triggered by
hardcore exercise high-intensity
exercise um full body compound resistant
training with lots of rest if you
overtrain you'll actually never allow
the recovery because exercise basically
breaks down the muscle and it's the
recovery that actually builds the muscle
through growth hormone but you got to
you got to stimulate the muscle and then
you have to let it heal through the
sleep that's why the Deep Sleep is key
if you don't have enough sleep you're
not going to build muscle more sleep
more muscle mass you need moderate
amount of protein if you do higher
amounts of protein like lots of protein
you can actually jam up the liver and
you can also trigger insulin that will
create insulin resistance so you need a
little bit you don't need a lot you need
high quality fishes very high quality
amino acids some people do whey protein
I'm not against that but the problem
it's so lean it doesn't have the normal
fats in it that you also need to buffer
some of the insulin response what
triggers insulin a lot more than other
proteins is lowfat whey protein it's
lowfat and it will Spike insulin so if
you're going to consume whey add some
fat to it maybe coconut oil or something
like that so we also um we need sodium
and
potassium the pump the window the door
that this key unlocks is called the
sodium potassium
pump so you have these minerals that
exchange that allow this little
transport of protein to go through and
also V vitamins and minerals and glucose
but we need this pump so that means that
if you're not consuming enough sodium it
won't work but more chances are you're
not consuming enough potassium you need
way more potassium than sodium sodium is
tend to t you you probably need like a
half a teaspoon of sodium per day but
you need 4700 milligrams of potassium
every day to get your normal requirement
that's like 7 to 10 cups of vegetables
you can take it as a supplement but the
supplements come in like 99 milligram
you need 4700 so get you can get it in a
powder or electrolyte blend but the
point is that you need these two
minerals to allow amino acids to go in
the cell because that requires the pump
to be activated and work correctly so
just sometimes by fixing this ratio of
minerals you can get more lean body mass
because you'll get more uh entry in fact
sodium potassium actually also will fix
insulin uh resistance as well right so I
just wanted to kind of break down this
problem the little pieces to see where
maybe you might need to strengthen an
area versus another area put your
comments below thanks for
watching press it forget it forget it
I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
