now there's some pretty
strange very unique different symptoms
with a B3 nice and deficiency that you
need to know about um because you might
have these you're dealing with the 4 DS
dermatitis really bad skin
reactions diarrhea dementia and the
fourth one is death other than that
you're perfectly fine but let's go
through the subclinical symptoms okay
and this might shock you and we're
talking about subclinical we're talking
about not a major deficiency you're
deficient to a certain degree number one
you might lose this sense of taste and
number two um you might have a metallic
taste in your mouth or rancid taste in
your mouth that could be a nice in
deficiency and the good thing about that
is just by taking it within a week that
could resolve it depending on how
deficient you are uh the next one is a
loss of smell normally we think about
zinc being a deficiency of smell but it
can also o be niin or you might have a
change in your smell things don't smell
like they should next one is when you're
looking in the mirror your face is
moving a little bit okay that's pretty
wild it might not necessarily be moving
but it could be changing shapes when you
read a book you notice that the words
and the page tend to move a little bit
when you're walking on the ground the
ground seems to be a little unstable or
could be moving a little bit you may
also have fatigue or just the feeling
like you can't relax these are all
subclinical nin deficiencies now the
major deficiency is called pgra and just
so you know um to correct these
deficiencies you can't just take the
normal rdas which is like 20 milligrams
you'd have to take large amounts and you
can take niin or n acetamide which is
the non flush version but you'd probably
need amounts like six gram per day
that's a lot but that's what it takes to
correct some of these deficiencies one
big reason why we need niin is for our
mitochondria it's called NAD it helps
you extract electrons from foods which
is your energy currency B3 directly is
the precursor for this and also having a
sufficient amounts of niin you can
produce more energy from the food that
you eat you can support something called
cerin which is involved in longevity and
DNA repair I mean if you think about
most diseases they really originate from
the mitochondria in all these
degenerative diseases you're going to
see a great deficiency of this NAD and
especially in diseases that are related
to aging okay because as you age your
NAD gets less and less and less
tryptophan can actually turn into niin
tryptophan also converts to serotonin
and then melatonin for your sleep but B3
is super important for your skin I mean
think about what a deficiency will
create severe scaly damaged skin so it's
super beneficial for the skin for acne
psoriasis if you take uh the form of B3
as niacinamide that can actually help
you more with inflammatory conditions
like rheumat arthritis any of the
arthritis is but the nasin version
greatly helps your lipids cholesterol
LDL HDL it was really really popular
before um we came out with statins and
of course now with res research uh we
found out no longer has any benefits
right well if someone told me that niin
doesn't do anything I would ask them
what happens when you become deficient
in nasin and if we take a look at what
foods um are high in B3 you're going to
find high levels of B3 in animal meat
products as well as liver organ Meats
but definitely red meat for sure at the
top of the list it's in other Foods too
but not to the degree that it's in
animal foods but you can also get it
from nutritional yeast if you're going
to get it from nutritional yeast I would
recommend getting it without the added
synthetic vitamins that they normally
put in there you can also um get it from
spirulina as well there's a tremendous
amount of research on nin for
cholesterol the heart um and many other
conditions I was surprised on how much
research there is on this topic and even
for
schizophrenia depression uh bipolar all
sorts of mood disorders how do we become
deficient processed foods can create a
B3 deficiency processed corn processed
grains wheat cereal things like that the
more protein in carbs that you eat the
more the requirement for B3 is going to
be because B3 is intimately involved in
help helping you um extract energy out
of food but of course if you're eating
the right Foods you'll have your B3
that's already in these Foods versus the
refined Foods or the ultra processed
foods uh pregnancy being an alcoholic
covid-19 can increase the demand for B3
therefore explaining a lot of the
symptoms with a lack of smell and taste
yes it can be a zinc deficiency but
don't forget about nasin and of course
if you're on medications a lot of
medications boy your your need for B3
goes way up as well and I think a lot of
people might be concerned with the
flushing of the niin um well you can use
the nonf flush version um unless you
have a specific problem with um
cholesterol and you want to lower the
cholesterol you need the flushing
version but you can just start off very
small and then gradually over time
increase it to the point where your body
will adapt to the flushing I personally
don't mind the flushing it's not
dangerous but sometimes people think
they're allergic to it they're not
people take nasin also for a fatty liver
and overall there's certain things that
increase the demand for nin like I've
talked about or it could just be you
have a deficiency in your uh diet now
since we are on the topic of nutrients
if you have not seen my video on zinc
it's a real popular one very interesting
you should check that one out as well I
put that up right
here
