hey Dr Burg here in this short video I
want to talk about supplements now I've
gotten some requests uh asking me Dr B
what supplements are the best which ones
do you use most frequently I'm going to
show you just a little video of some of
the ones that I use a lot I have about
260 different remedies that I use but
these I think about seven or eight I use
them on a regular basis because they're
the most effective but I use them
differently than most doctors and
Healthcare practitioners I don't use
these to treat symptoms or disease what
I do is I use it to increase the health
of the person so they can either avoid
the disease or improve and heal their
own body and heal the disease okay so
that's the distinction so I really I do
my evaluation find out what the root is
and then support it nutritionally now
the first sub product I I want to talk
about is this one right here it's called
Raw weat grass juice powder now you
probably go to the health store and you
see the ra the weat grass juice there
and that's what I'm talking about this
is a not a wheat grass powder it's a
juice powder which means it's a lot more
concentrated um one teaspoon of this is
equivalent to about 8 lounds of
vegetable because wheat grass juice
powders is about 20 times more
concentrated nutrition than actual
vegetables so it's very very
concentrated
it would be a tray about 20 in wide by
10 in if you've see those little baking
sheets about one of those filled with
wheat grass that would be one teaspoon
of this so what is wheat grass juice
powder it's if you take grain and um you
make flour you can make breads pasta
cereal crackers biscus waffles pancakes
all these things that people eat well
there's not a lot of nutrition in there
but when you take the Grain and you
sprout it and you grow it into a grass
and then the grass of that grain which
this is right here contains all the real
nutrition and a lot of it's chlorophyll
and there's and there's in the
chlorophyll they have um a lot of
healing properties as well chlorophyll
is like the blood of the plant it's that
green juice it's very identical in
chemistry to blood but instead of iron
which is red it has green which is uh
magnesium or mag manganese I'm sorry
so that would be chlorophyll which is
like a like blood it's like liquid
Sunshine so any type of chronic
illnesses um things like that that the
body is not able to recover fast enough
to speed up recovery this would be a
great thing or or anything that like a
blood Builder I also um want to talk
about this has B12 most vegetables if
any have B12 this one does so that's
very interesting as well it has a lot of
amino acids prot proteins that's also
unique about it um and and the other
thing is the source of where I get this
is very unique I get it from a company
from in Utah that grows their weat grass
on the ancient seeded which is basically
an Old Ocean and the advantage of that
is that it pulls these trace minerals
all 94 trace minerals and it converts
them through the grass in the root
system into a plant-based
mineral okay so versus you have this
rock or this salt and then we have the
plant-based mineral the difference is
this our bodies can absorb 100% of
plant-based minerals they can only
absorb like 2 to 4% of the salts and the
Rocks so our bodies aren't designed to
consume the soil but we're it's designed
to have the end product after it's
converted into the plant um and also
these trace minerals are about 10 time
10,000 times smaller than salt-based
minerals or Rock based
minerals an example of a a rock based
mineral would be calcium carbonate so
start reading labels and see if it has
calcium carbonate that would be like
eating a rock or chewing in a cemento
there this is all Trace Trace uh trace
minerals so so this is one product I
have that I use for a lot of chronic
conditions and then the liquid trace
minerals this is great for kids too and
also pregnant with women or or um or
anyone that's kind of um that needs to
support them at the cellular level now
this is just an individual Trace mineral
and this has this in it so I just have
them separate if you wanted to like have
more trace
minerals so there's several things
unique about this product number one is
that it's it's 70 million years old
there's um a company that I have another
company that I have
that um owns the rights to this um deep
um layer of the Earth of in this Corey
of prehistoric
plant-based um vegetation which
fossilized into these plant-based trace
minerals and they liquefied it and they
put it into water and then we have it
here um so it's not like rock like most
people have are salt-based it's it goes
straight in
100% um trace minerals are really not in
the soils anymore in America it's in
Africa but in other parts of the world
but not in the US so that's why I wanted
it because if you don't have the trace
minerals and by the way you'd have to
consume 27,000 calories of food to get
all your trace minerals like zinc and
copper and
iodine um this one you don't have to um
take a lot of it just a little bit in
your kale shake and it provides all the
the trace minerals but it supports your
body at the DNA level so anything like
building proteins ligaments immune
system heart uh joints brain I mean it's
it's a lot of lot of different functions
but you won't necessarily always see a
boost of energy but it's um over about 3
months of building the body tissue
you'll see things start improving and
changing so it's just a really great
thing because in even in I have a lot of
clients in Africa that have these
incredible teeth they're perfect they
have never had a cavity well I think
it's because the darn trace minerals are
make the teeth so strong so I kind of
wish I had these when I was growing up
because every single tooth that I have
is is filled with the cavity growing up
because I lived on lots of sugar without
trace minerals so that would be we
talked about the wheat grass and the
trace minerals
so this next one I want to talk about is
the whole cruciferous concentrate this
is a really cool one because it has
cruciferous foods are have unique Health
properties they're vegetables that have
unique Health properties that have
additional things like the macular of
the eye the immune system um the liver
um and also it has a lot of anti-cancer
properties I just want to make a
disclaimer I'm not telling you if you
take this it's going to get rid of your
cancer but those veget vegetables in
this product are known to decrease the
risk of certain types of cancer you'll
just have to look up the studies so this
has about 11 uh different key uh
vegetables so it's very different than a
vitamin supplement it's more of a food
concentrate um couple reasons that I use
this number one if anyone has any had
any damage to the liver or has abused
the liver this is great to help support
a healthy liver um it's very antiac
estrogenic so I also give it to any
clients that have a lot of that are
estrogen dominant um it's it's a great
non-toxic way to detox because there's
something in the liver called Phase 1
Phase 2
detoxification whereby you would take
this help supports the enzyme systems
that help break down poisons into
harmless particles from a series of
steps so that's one of the unique
benefits of this and I would usually
take about six of these per
day okay so the next I want to talk
about is the adrenal body type support
uh product this is probably my number
one uh product that I use over and over
and over again because of the amount of
stress people have this is basically an
antistress pill all right it's it has
adrenal support it has pituitary support
it has uh antistress nutrients it has a
food based vitamin C which basically
supports the Aden adrenal every gland
needs a certain nutrient uh most vitamin
C is synthetic but the adrenal needs
vitamin C so it has it has some really
good vitamin C complexes um but it also
has I've been changing the formula over
the years and uh the recent nutrient
that I put is called hu Wu which is a
Chinese herb that's been used for a long
time it's great for endurance stress and
anti-aging so this is uh one of the key
ingredients to this thing it has it has
a lot of of that herb because I found
that if you take this before going to
sleep you'll wake up feeling a lot more
rejuvenated and you have a much deeper
sleep uh since most people have so many
issues with sleeping that's one of the
things that will help them um I also use
it for people that are aging prematurely
and that want to help reduce that or or
athletes um people that are burnt out
and you could take it during the day but
I recommend it at night but if you were
going to be take it to the day you would
feel really really kind of you might be
more tired but you'd feel calm all right
so if you don't sleep or your adrenals
are burnt out this is one of my most
popular things that I use just one
before bed maybe two if you're really
really burnt out so that would be the
adrenal body type support
formula this next one is called called
gallbladder formula this is another
popular one not as popular as the
adrenal but if you need it it really
works it's for any type of digestive
issues so if you had like acid reflux
for example you you could treat the
symptom or you can go a little deeper
and understand that um a lot of reason
why people have digestive problems they
don't have enough bile as the root cause
why because they don't have a
gallbladder they might have insufficient
bile because they have high stress uh
and that's shut down the B uh recycling
so let me explain the gallbladder is a
sack underneath your right rib cage it
makes this fluid called bile b i l e
bile lubricates the colon it helps you
digest fats it's like the detergent that
breaks down the grease if you don't have
enough bile you'll get bloating when you
eat uh especially burping belching acid
reflex right shoulder pain because the
gall blad is right here pain up into the
neck headaches
sinus problems uh dry skin
um constipation why because bile helps
you lubricate the colon so this has bile
salts in it and so you can take it to be
able to lubricate and replace your bile
so you can recycle it so um it also has
some other ingredients like Stone root
that if there's a stone there it helps
break down stones and a few other things
to support the gallbladder so that would
be gallbladder formula you would take
one before each
meal this next one is pretty interesting
it's called the ovary body type formula
now of course this is only for females
but this one is very very effective for
supporting anything going on with the
menstrual cycle itself so um it's going
to support a healthy menstrual cycle um
so if there's a bit more heaviness or
painful or PMS
I recommend taking this probably six a
day and watch what happens it really
helps support anything connected with
that with the ovary or the uterus and
that includes menopause as
well okay so this next one is called
super nutrients this is my
multivitamin mineral it's kind of like a
vitamin on a steroid because it has a
lot of uh ingredients that have
concentrated plant-based minerals so
it's all plant-based and so it has
special emphasis on probably number one
thing that I run into with people when
they come in is cognitive function they
want to um have more concentration they
want a better focus they want to
actually improve their energy uh that's
what this is for but it's done in a
healthy way and of course if you're not
sleeping you're going to be fatigued so
you would need more adrenal but then if
you are sleeping and you want a bit more
cognitive Focus this is a great one to
take as a maintenance
product okay the last product I'm going
to talk about is the instant kale shake
so what's so unique about this kale
Shake first of all it's probably one of
the healthiest protein shakes SL meal
replacement shakes that you can get it
has kale egg white powder it has
spirulina which is an incredible
plant-based protein mix which a lot of
nutrition in that flax seed meal powder
um and it's sweetened with rotol so it
has zero sugar but it tastes sweet has a
little tiny Stevia but it doesn't taste
earthy and it it's chocolate so this is
great for convenience you put it in
either a cold almond milk or water Shake
It Up really good and then use that as
your Cal shake or a meal replacement um
the one thing I didn't want to put in
here is in a soy protein so I put the
egg protein which is a lot better I
didn't want to put the Whey Protein
because that's it's a bit harsh on the
liver but egg is the easiest to digest
and the other thing that's um you might
notice if you put it in a glass is it
doesn't dissolve 100% you might see
little clumps on the top of the glass
and it's because I didn't want to put
those chemicals in this to dissolve it
100% so it really has no extra anything
so that's why people like it it's the
number one thing that people order from
me and it's very convenient and I have a
bunch of new flavors coming down the
pike so these are some of my favorite
products that I use on a regular basis
simply because they're the most
effective
