so today we're going to talk about using
fasting to rid chronic inflammation
now inflammation has a couple purposes
one it's there to repair injury so you
sprain an ankle inflammation comes in
there to help bring all sorts of immune
cells to help repair the action and also
to bring in scar tissue as a part of the
healing process then you have a defense
mechanism against infection so you have
certain microbes bacteria yeast Candida
nano bacteria which are various very
small microbes mycoplasma
which is a kind of a microbe without a
cell wall it uses information to help
contain these microbes let's seeyou the
sinus allergy where your immune system
is generating this mucus to help contain
the pollen or dust or grass particles
which your body is considering a threat
to these it's survival and then you have
food allergies right where people are
allergic to all these different foods
and in this video I'm not going to get
into why you created the algae in the
first place the fact is that if you have
food allergy every time you eat it
you're creating inflammation over and
over and over
so all this inflammation generates scar
tissue in the lungs in the joints and
the liver because you can go from
hepatitis which is inflammation liver to
cirrhosis and the also get scar tissue
from actual plaquing in the arteries
from some type of inflammatory condition
in your vascular system now when you go
from acute inflammation to chronic
inflammation this is where it's
inappropriate okay
chronic inflammation does you no good it
has no long-term survival benefit in
fact if you take autoimmune conditions
for example you have your own body
attacking itself and you have all this
collateral damage that's going on so
people are forced to take prednisone and
steroids because cortisol suppresses an
over-reactive immune system and this is
why people take prednisone for example
for all these allergy reactions and
autoimmune conditions and skin
conditions which are inflammatory and
people take these because the adrenal
glands are wore out no longer can you
make this adrenal hormone anymore so
your adrenal glands are exhausted so you
have to
bypassed the body and give it the
steroids directly the longer you have
inflammation in your body the more
insulin resistance you get as well so
there's a huge connection between
inflammation and insulin resistance okay
which is a pre-diabetic situation and
also cancer spreads into areas of
inflammation or old injury which is very
interesting okay so now that you got
that what can we do about it
well fasting fasting is the most
powerful thing you can do to turn off
chronic inflammation now if you injure
yourself and you have normal
inflammation fasting is not going to get
rid of the normal inflammation fasting
turns off certain genes related to
inflammation so picture this you have
your genetics which is like the hardware
which doesn't really change but you also
have the software that controls the
expression of certain genes and the term
for that is epigenetics which means
above genetics it's the software that
causes the expression of these genes and
that relates to your environment your
food your nutrition your stress level
exercise when you eat when you don't eat
but fasting turns off the genes that
causes inflammation now if you have an
autoimmune condition there's a couple
things you can do to turn that off
number one you can fast okay or number
two you can get pregnant so apparently
pregnancy also turns off the same gene
so you have a couple choices you can
either stay pregnant keep having kids
each year after year or you can do
fasting now you can also take vitamin D
because vitamin D acts like cortisol in
the body which is an anti-inflammatory
but fasting done correctly which I
always recommend doing intermittent
fasting and then gradually working into
longer fast and then doing periodic
prolonged fasting especially if you have
autoimmune conditions because it's the
inflammation that creates all the damage
and if you can get rid of the
inflammation problem solved
fasting also bolsters and increases your
antioxidant Network your body actually
makes antioxidants so
fasting will increase this to repair the
damage from the inflammation also if
you're fasting and you don't have as
much inflammation your dreams don't have
to work so hard so your adrenal glands
can start to recover fasting is very
therapeutic for the adrenal glands plus
when you get rid of this hyper immune
response your histamines go down your
energy goes up but if you have any
chronic inflammation in your body you
need to learn more about it and try it
it will work if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
