hey I'm back and I wanted to do a video
on a very important topic for those
people that are struggling losing weight
okay that are frustrated uh especially
if you're menopausal okay so your weight
loss goal is actually setting you up for
failure let me explain now there's
several Concepts that I'm going to cover
so make notes if you want the first
concept I want to talk about is the
difference between muscle and fat okay
if we take
one pound of muscle and we compare it to
one pound of
fat with fat you have more volume than
muscle okay so fat takes up more space
in your body got it muscle takes up
smaller space so that's the first
concept just remember that all right
second concept overweight people have
less muscle than fat all right concept
number
two now now when you start a keto an in
minute fasting program and by the way if
you don't know what that means pause the
video go down below and watch the videos
that I have linked down there so you can
understand what I'm talking about
because this program will
solve this issue that you're running
into this stubborn weight metabolism
issue but here's the point when you
start keto in in of fasting what's going
to happen you're going to get in the fat
burning okay so you're going to lose fat
but you're also going to increase muscle
why because you're going to trigger
certain hormones that will build the
muscle okay so we got two things going
on we have a loss of fat increased
muscle and a loss of water weight that
is because we're switching our body to
fat burning and we're no longer running
our body on this stored glucose it's
called glycogen and glycogen is like a
sponge it's like a water filled fluid
filled sponge so we're not doing that
anymore so you're going to lose a lot of
water weight in fact um when most people
start any program they lose water weight
for one to two weeks and when you see
these claims that people will tell you
like you can lose five pounds in the
first week or 10 pounds in the first
week that's only for the first week and
the second week but after that you're
not going to continue to do that so
anyone that says that is telling you a
lie because the most actual fat you can
lose per week is two pounds and that's a
real healthy body okay
all right so that's another concept that
you need to understand the next concept
when you start this program and you're
losing fat and you're gaining muscle you
may or may not lose actual overall
weight why not because you're gaining
muscle muscle has some weight okay so
you might Plateau for a week or so that
doesn't mean it's not working so if you
only wanted to focus on losing fat
and not gaining muscle then you would
end up thinner but flabby with loss of
tone loss of muscle tone and weakness is
that what you want no I don't think so
you want a strong body okay so when you
start to do this program you're going to
gain muscle so you may or may not lose
actual
pounds now you also may or may not lose
inches most of the time you will but
there's a point where you're going to
Plateau because you're gaining muscle
again so if your muscle is getting
bigger you're not going to continue to
lose inches you're just going to lose
the fat does that make sense so what I'm
basically saying is when you lose weight
it's not going to be consistent it's not
going to be one or two pounds a week one
or two pounds a week one or two pounds a
week simply because we're not just
talking about fat we're talking about
this muscle right here okay
and that's what you want you want to
actually develop your muscles you want
it to be strong you don't want loss of
muscle tone that's called atrophy so
many people have that especially if
they're going through menopause okay now
the next
concept the more muscle that you do
develop the better the metabolism it is
true that more muscles will help
increase calorie burning so that's a
concept that is true because it's more
metabolic but here's the confusion that
people have
have if the muscle is burning more
calories what type of calories is it
burning is it burning actual fat
calories or is it burning actual sugar
calories and this is where people that
are doing a higher carbohydrate diet are
really frustrated because they're just
burning up their sugar calories they're
exercising at the gym developing more
muscles and then burning more calories
but they're burning off their sugar
calories but no actual fat so so what we
want to do is we want to switch this
better metabolic machine that you're
developing more muscle to to mainly burn
off fat calories okay what
determines what you burn is the amount
of carbohydrates in the diet that's all
explained in the
keto uh program down below okay so if
you cut your carbs down then your body
will be forced to burn fat and it won't
burn sugar anymore okay so anyway the
cool thing is that when you build more
muscles you have a better metabolism
okay now the last concept hormonally the
difference between men and women are
really two different hormones women have
way more estrogen than men and men have
way more testosterone than women
estrogen gives the fat layer around a
female body that's why women have a
different composition than men okay and
this is why your husband your boyfriend
tends to lose weight faster because
they're not dealing with this estrogen
problem right here now I know it's
frustrating but my only point is that it
the better you understand what you're up
against the less frustrated you will be
um but basically it's really the
estrogen that's slowing things down okay
so here's what I would recommend um
weight loss goal you can have a weight
loss goal but don't make that as your
main goal have several goals have an
loss goal a weight loss goal a health
goal uh a muscle goal of making you
stronger so over time you should be able
to do more and more and more with your
body and having stronger muscles so
those are the three goals that I would
recommend in addition to just having
more energy better sleep Etc because my
philosophy is not lose weight to get
healthy it's to get healthy to be able
to lose the weight make sense all right
thanks for watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade for my last Edition called
the seven principles of fat burning it
has 156 images 378 Pages full glossery I
talk about keto intermittent fasting the
body types in detail I have a new stress
chapter I'm going to show you exactly
what to eat and a comprehensive FAQ I
put a link down below check it out
