there's a very important benefit of
alider vinegar that I've never even
talked about in any of my videos on
alider vinegar and I probably have
hundreds of them and I think most people
know that Aleta vinegar is good for
digestion it helps with bloating IND
digestion acid reflex Aleta vinegar also
is good for your blood sugar it helps
make insulin more sensitive we have less
of a fatty liver and less inflammation I
think a lot of people know about those
things and I've talked about those
benefits extensively until very Rec
recently is another huge major benefit
of apple cider vinegar and to explain
the benefit I just need to explain
something about good bacteria and bad
bacteria both groups of microbes can go
into a dormant State they can go to
sleep I want to show you something in
this book right here which is kind of
like a mini summarization of a textbook
on microbes I want to read something to
you this
is mind-blowing certain bacteria were
able to switch from an active growing
phase to dorcy this is a survival
mechanism triggered mainly by starvation
signals of course if you're going to
starve them off they're going to die
right the last resort response to
starvation that a cell undergoes once
all other stress coping mechanisms have
failed the purpose is to generate a
metabolic inactive cell that will
maintain the genetic information under
various environmental stresses including
ultraviolet radio ration and certain
enzymes and certain chemicals when that
microbe in a dormant State it's
protected especially against antibiotics
thanks to its architecture a dormant
microbe can survive decades to thousands
of years what the things that revive a
good bacteria versus a bad bacteria or a
bad pathogen are not the same what will
wake up the good bacteria that are
sleeping there's several things but the
thing that I want to talk about is the
change of environment just by changing
the pH you can either wake up a good
bacteria or put them to sleep most of
the good bacteria thrive in an acid
environment and this acid protects them
because a lot of pathogens cannot live
in that acidic environment but the good
guys can and so when you're taking apple
cider vinegar you're acidifying the
environment now you can also do this
with Kombucha Tea pickle juice
sauerkraut kimchi things like that a lot
of health problems occur because the
bacteria now can penetrate through this
immune Wall go into your bloodstream and
create a systemic infection and create
all sorts of issues there's two main
entry points these microbes kind of get
into your blood one is through the colon
and the other is through your gums in
fact there's certain reports that when
they look at plaque in the arteries
they're finding bacteria from your mouth
a lot of skin problems is coming from
this bacteria that should be in the gut
but it's it's called translocated it
moves in a different part of your body
there's another type of microbe that
creates butyrate which is kind of a
byproduct that helps insulin resistance
those microbes love an acidic
environment and just by keeping that pH
in the acidic range you can greatly
increase the numbers of the those
bacteria it's all about the terrain the
environment I mean think about with you
don't you thrive in a nice environment
we have a mutual arrangement with
microbes right we provide a home for
them to live and they give us immune
protection they make vitamins they help
us digest if you're not going to provide
a good home for them they're going to go
to sleep and wait for you to clean up
your act by dropping the pH making more
acidic you germinate that microbe that
means activate it you also have other
microbes like friendly yeast that live
more in an environment I mean let's talk
about some other microbes hpylori H
pylori has a strategy of releasing
something that's super alkaline it's
called ammonia and then it can kind of
really do its damage and it's behind
ulcers in the stomach and the small
intestine you have other microbes called
CI eoli salmona that could be put to
sleep once you reduce the pH below six
you have the small intestine and then
you have the large intestine right the
large in intestine is where the majority
of microbes are that's where you should
be having most of your lactobacillus or
lactic acid bacteria you shouldn't have
the majority of microbes in the small
intestine in fact certain parts of the
small intestine on the top part of it
should not be as acid they should be
more alkaline if you have these
pathogens like eoli in the small
intestine where it's not as acid they
start acting up and creating problems
when you drop the pH of certain parts of
your digestive system you can help put
these pathogens to sleep and you can
wake up the good guys when you start to
wake up some of these good bacteria they
start to release their own sort of
antibiotic that also suppresses the bad
bacteria now let's shift gears to the
bad bacteria the pathogens how do you
wake those guys up the main way is not
necessarily just to increase the ph and
make the body more alkaline the main way
is to suppress the immune system that
natural thing that should keep the bad
guys in check antibiotics also work
because it lowers the defense system of
the immune system and then they start to
wake up stress suppresses the immune
system prazone also wakes up pathogens
and the reason it's doing that is
because it's lowering our immune system
when we get older stressed out they can
start to thrive but the big thing that
can activate these microbes is vitamin D
deficiency so vitamin D deficiency
creates such weakness that the pathogens
can come out of hibernation and do
destruction even when I was in practice
I noticed that when people got these
serious infections whether it's a c sore
in the mouth or genital herpes stress
was a big trigger lowering the immune
system but vitamin D is such a important
factor not small amounts talking about
at least 10,000 but probably 20 or
30,000 or more of vitamin D3 to help
keep these microbes in remission because
now your immune system is strong and it
can keep those guys in check I hope you
now know the importance of apple cider
vinegar and other natural acidifiers
that can help change the environment of
your gut so what I would recommend is
taking one tablespoon of opset of
vinegar and a little water in the
evening every single day you drink it
with a straw and you can add lemon in it
if you want or just do apple cider
vinegar the type of apple cider vinegar
I like is fairchild's alider vinegar
that's the one that I use I hope this
information helped you and if you
haven't seen this video upside of
vinegar you should check it out it got
millions of views right there
