I recently did a video on of zembic but
now I want to do a video on monjero now
manjero is a very similar medication
apparently in several studies it works a
little bit better than ozembic more
weight loss less time both these
medications were primarily used for
regulating blood sugars with diabetes
but they also found that it helps you
lose weight which makes sense because
anything that improves blood sugars will
obviously help you lose weight so the
first thing I want to say is monjero
does create some really interesting
effects with weight loss and blood
sugars there's no doubt actually it can
even improve insulin resistance and
decrease your A1C which is an average
blood sugar for three months so I'm not
going to say that it doesn't work but
it's expensive it's like a thousand
dollars to thirteen hundred dollars a
month and it does come with other side
effects other than just being expensive
but the big question is what happens
when you come off the medication does it
actually correct the problem the answer
is no you have to keep take taking it
for it to work do you end up taking it
the rest of your life is it healthy what
are the long-term effects well we don't
know but the short-term effects are the
following nausea vomiting diarrhea
constipation
gastroparesis which is a situation where
your stomach is a bit paralyzed food
goes through very very slowly another
side effect would be abdominal pain
dizziness lethargy low blood sugar as in
hypoglycemia various kidney problems
like kidney disease could happen as well
and even retinopathy which is a problem
with your retina let me just kind of
touch on that for a second the slow
metabolism people that have a slow
metabolism
actually have a very efficient
metabolism probably from dieting in the
past you go on some diet and then your
body adapts and compensates especially
if you go in a lower calorie diet and
then becomes more efficient so now it
can run on a smaller amount of fuel it
doesn't want to waste this energy so
it's very conservative so it's like a
car that gets a lot of miles per gallon
right versus a very inefficient motor
which is a gas guzzler so this is really
a survival thing that we have in our
genetics so anything like fat storage is
survival to the body and so anytime you
try to lose weight the body will resist
it because you're getting rid of this
potential survival so when we use a drug
to bypass this whole mechanism to try to
help you lose weight you really have to
understand what's happening to the body
internally you're artificially
mimicking these two hormones because
these drugs act to mimic two different
hormones that are in your small
intestine one is called glp1 and the
other one is called Gip they're drugs
that mimic these hormones so my question
is is it possible to create this similar
effect but without the side effects can
you use something more natural is there
such a thing as some type of maybe
herbal or plant-based Agonist for these
two hormones and the answer is yes there
is and I put a link down below of the
research on that and it's called
phytomedicine you're using plants as
medicine but the cool thing about it is
there's very minimal toxicity and
there's all sorts of properties
especially things that relate to blood
sugar control and many other effects in
Plants I mean there's probably about at
least 400 different chemicals that can
help blood sugars from different angles
these two hormones that these drugs are
mimicking raise insulin to lower the
blood sugar and also reduce the
production of glucose from the liver
that's called gluconeogenesis and they
also affect the digestive system they
actually make you feel full they help
reduce the appetite so it's going to
curb your hunger and help you eat less
so my question is number one is there
something non-toxic without the side
effects and is there something you can
do long term to create this same effect
to add it as a part of your long-term
healthy lifestyle instead of a
short-term very expensive drug approach
and I forgot to mention lowered stomach
acids so when you start lowering your
stomach acids that's going to create all
sorts of issues with ability to digest
protein absorb minerals kill pathogens
so there's a whole series of
consequences that can happen just from
that so I always like to think long term
is that the best long-term solution for
a person I understand that your
metabolism might be very efficient and
it's more difficult and this is part of
the phytomedicine data so there's four
herbs that can create this effect number
one berberine number two curcumin number
three cinnamon number four panics
ginseng now I'm not recommending taking
all of these I would just pick one and
try it out in addition to two other
things I would highly recommend
especially if you want to lower your
appetite and be able to do something
that fits within your lifestyle and that
is this the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet which is a low carb diet
with intermittent fasting that
ultimately is a wonderful way to correct
problems with your blood sugar and help
you lose weight and keep it off now if
you want to know how to do healthy keto
with intermittent fasting in a very
simple video you should watch this one
right here
