today we're gonna talk about how to get
your spouse to stop snoring
there's nothing worse for your quality
of sleep than having your spouse snore
all night long so let's start with the
actual cause of snoring now there's a
lot of things you can do to cope with
this problem if it's sleep apnea like
the CPAP machine which is a device which
hooks on your head and it will give you
forced air so you can breathe the
problem is it dries out your mouth it's
uncomfortable to have this thing over
your head and there's also certain
devices that you can put in your mouth
too cause the jaw to go forward to
create more of an opening so you can
breathe but sooner or later you want to
get to the root cause but first let's
talk about what is snoring snoring is a
loss of tone in the structures in the
back of the throat that caused a
vibrational sound and this could be
coming from the fact that your neck is
just too large you have too much fat in
your neck and that's obstructing the air
and this obstruction is called
obstructive sleep apnea it can also come
from the abdomen let's say for example
you have visceral fat you have your
large belly and all that extra fat is
putting pressure up into your diaphragm
especially when you're lying down having
constant pressure in your diaphragm is
going to limit the amount of oxygen that
you have in your lung and there's the
big correlation between people who snore
and they're overweight but on the other
hand we have something functional in
other words your nervous system controls
the tone of the structures in the back
of the throat and I'm talking about the
autonomic nervous system if there's a
problem with certain cranial nerves and
these are nerves that come out of the
brainstem specifically the ninth cranial
nerve which is the glossopharyngeal and
the tenth cranial nerve which is the
vagus that can also create a loss of
tone and the back part of the throat
creating this vibration and then there's
another nerve called the phrenic nerve
which comes from underneath the
diaphragm that goes up into the neck and
the freq nerve controls the diaphragm
and the amount of air that your lungs
can actually get so if there's a problem
with the nervous system it can create a
huge effect not just on snoring but the
amount of air that actually comes in
your body through the lungs working
correctly and also from the Airways
being open or closed so we have the
visceral fat that can affect that we
have the fat in the neck and then we
have the actual nervous system that
affects the structure these nerves are
highly influenced by vitamin b1 that's
called buying mean if a person is
deficient in thiamine they can have a
massive problem with the autonomic
nervous system with the cranial nerves
and the phrenic nerve now the other big
factor that it can affect these nerves
in a negative way is being a diabetic or
a pre-diabetic or even having insulin
resistance because with those conditions
you develop peripheral neuropathy which
affects the feet and hands and also
nerve dysfunction in general which is
called neuropathy and what's even more
interesting is that diabetics are
usually always deficient in b1 b1 is
very protective against the
complications of diabetes so ever the
complications of having blood sugar
problems themself affecting the nervous
system and we have vitamin b1 deficiency
which is created by a high carb diet and
not to mention insulin resistance which
is behind obesity one of the things
you're told when you go to the doctor if
you have sleep apnea or snoring is you
need to lose weight and that's
absolutely true because if you have less
fat in your neck less fat in your
abdomen you're good at you're gonna
breathe better but there's more than
just losing weight some people that lose
weight still snore some people that are
thin snore so what do we do number one
is get thiamine in your body vitamin b1
vitamin b1 helps the autonomic nervous
system that will actually help the tone
in the back of the throat vitamin b1
also helps the breathing centers in your
brainstem vitamin b1 also helps the
phrenic nerve that affects the diaphragm
and vitamin b1 also helps to create
nerves specifically number nine in 10 so
this is probably one of the most
important things to do immediately
realize that a high carbohydrate diet
causes a vitamin b1 deficiency so you're
gonna have to change your diet and
that's why we do something called
healthy keto for those of you that are
new to my channel I put a link below of
exactly how to do this okay and you also
want to do intermittent fasting with it
because these two in combination can
greatly help reverse insulin resistance
which is a big part of this problem and
also the weight that's accumulating in
your neck and in your abdomen the other
very important thing to do is take
vitamin d3 why because vitamin d3 in
amounts of 20,000 i you will greatly
assist in getting the deeper delta-wave
sleep what happens if you're snoring and
you have sleep apnea is you're basically
waking yourself up through the night
some people wake up thirty times an hour
because the soft tissues in the back of
the throat obstruct breathing and they
stop breathing and then the nervous
system kicks in and wakes them up thirty
times an hour so they're going to be
tired to the day they're not going to
get enough oxygen to the brain it's
going to affect the heart there's a lot
of problems well guess what vitamin d3
helps the deep parts of the brain that
regulate the circadian rhythm with sleep
it also helps the autonomic nervous
system specifically the sympathetic
nervous system so this can help in many
different ways this can also explain why
some people sleep better after a day in
the Sun because they get more vitamin D
so the combination of b1 through
nutritional yeast vitamin d3 now realize
you can get this from the Sun but you
have to be out in the Sun a certain
amount of time I'll put some links down
below of how much time or you can take
this as a supplement but it's very
difficult to get it just from food so
you might just want to take it from the
supplement and then don't forget healthy
keto and in a minute fasting alright so
your next step is to go ahead and try
these and let me know how it works
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
