hey good to see you again I had another
question about vegetables because I had
this person uh tell me that every time
they start eating vegetables their
weight loss would slow down okay they're
still losing weight but it was slower so
they want to know if they can just skip
the vegetables well let's talk about
that vegetables are carbohydrates okay
carbohydrates uh are the thing that
blocks your weight loss so if you bring
your carbs down to zero and have no
vegetables you will lose more weight but
you're it's going to come with the
package so so you don't want to do that
because you're going to create a lot of
nutritional deficiencies because you
need those vegetables for that but in
general vegetables have the lowest
glycemic index way more than fruit way
more than berries generally most people
will not have a problem with consuming
any vegetable on a ketogenic diet but if
your metabolism is real slow uh you may
want
to not eat as many as the these and
consume more of these let's talk about
the lowest glycemic um vegetables
broccoli
bok choy celery spinach kale asparagus
radish avocado beet tops zucchini
mushroom Olive
eggplant tomatoes are a bit High beets
are high corns are high potato yam okay
carrots peas squash tup bell pepper are
a little higher so for some people these
you might want to cut these out um now
of course you you never want to consume
corn so potatoes are pretty starchy and
so is a yam or sweet potato so you
probably want to avoid that as well but
these other ones for the most part are
okay to consume for most people but if
you want to take it to the next level
you can avoid those but again we're not
trying to our goal is not to lose as
much weight as fast as possible our goal
is to lose weight in a way that's
healthy so you can maintain it and you
don't end up with nutritional
deficiencies or a fatty liver all right
thanks for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press this little
button down below okay
thanks
