hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about a really great treatment for
lowering your stress and losing weight
and it's not that expensive actually
it's free son why because son gives you
vitamin D and vitamin D has a capacity
to lower cortisol up to 40%
there was this patient I had when I was
in practice and his stomach was
literally protruding out at the end of
the day towards the morning it was flat
but as time went on it just kind of
swole up and every time he went to
Florida for vacation and he laid out and
got Sun the stomach flattened and it
just stayed flat and that is because
cortisol which is a stress hormone and
as the day progresses you get more
stress can cause your belly to swell
okay and that's exactly what he had what
he really needed was more vitamin D and
Sun is a great way to get it you can
also get vitamin D from fatty fish
mushrooms egg yolks grass-fed dairy fat
cod liver oil so vitamin D is really
important in absorbing calcium helping
your bones improving the immune system
lowering cortisol but also lowering
insulin because it improves something
called insulin resistance the more
insulin resistant you are the less
you're going to absorb vitamin D so by
increasing your vitamin D you can
actually improve insulin resistance and
help it absorb more so yes do keto
amanah fasting improve insulin and
definitely lower your stress but don't
forget about this vitamin D connection
hey you know what I just want to say
thank you for watching these videos you
made it this far I appreciate your
attention and your precious time
