did you realize that diabetes is the
fastest-growing disease on planet earth
in China there are over a hundred
million people that are diabetic a
hundred million in India there are 68
million people that have diabetes in
Mexico it's the leading cause of death
even higher than any other disease in
Australia someone gets diabetes every
five minutes
in fact one out of every fourth person
in a hospital bed is either a diabetic
or there because they have some diabetic
complications and of course in America
we don't really have diabetes we're
pretty much free of that disease we're
super healthy and I'm being very
sarcastic now let's talk about why this
is the fastest growing disease I just
want to show you the mechanism here
because it's very interesting of course
you already know this but carbohydrates
are the culprits and the frequency of
eating but mainly the carbs so what
happens when you eat carbs is you get
too much sugar in the blood so this
pancreas here has a little cell called
the beta cell and it's job is to make
insulin and insulin job is to get the
glucose out of the blood to maintain
normal glucose now it usually takes
between 10 to 15 to 20 years to develop
diabetes and diabetes is simply disease
that you have too much glucose and sugar
in the blood but it takes a long time
for that to show up on a blood test so
you're probably asking yourself like why
doesn't that show up a lot sooner well
what's happening is the pancreas is
compensating it's trying to help you out
and it's producing a lot more insulin
than it should it's producing 5 to 9
times as much insulin compared to a
normal person so it's a lot of insulin
coming out there to keep this blood
glucose normal so you go to the doctor
they test you everything comes out
normal you're good to go
of course you're eating tons of carbs
but it's not showing up in the blood
because the pancreas is producing so
much insulin and one complication of
this is that the cells are starting to
resist insulin okay as a survival
mechanism because too much insulin is
toxic so they're gonna create this
condition called insulin resistance so
now the body has to make even more
insulin to penetrate to themselves to
eventually end up in the blood to remove
the glucose so here you are going along
for 10 to 15 years and yes you're having
problems getting up at night sleep apnea
belly fat a fatty liver you're having a
lot of problems with that are associated
with diabetes and another name for it is
a metabolic syndrome but the blood
glucose is still normal because of this
compensation but eventually what happens
is the beta cell the cell the pancreas
starts to get tired and it starts to
fail to compensate for this situation so
now it's not going to produce the
insulin so the insulin is going to go
down okay now if we don't have enough
insulin and we have insulin resistance
what's going to happen to the blood
glucose it's gonna go up up up and
that's when you're diagnosed with
disease so diabetes is diagnosed very
late on the chain of events if doctors
knew this connection between carbs and
insulin and blood sugars a little bit
better they could probably focus on the
diet here and prevent this problem and
one thing they never do is check for
insulin because if they did they would
find that especially in a fasting
insulin test and the test that you'd
want to do is called a Homa IR they
would find that you have high insulin
there's a really interesting medical
doctor who did a lot of research in in
the VA hospital and he tested thousands
of people and out of all these people
with normal blood glucose a good
percentage of him at high insulin and he
would check them not two hours after
he would check them sometime five hours
after a meal and he would see this spike
in insulin so this data was known way
back then and of course when you have
these breakthroughs or these
realizations they're not really
acknowledged until you know most of the
world has a major problem over many many
years so this insulin resistance is in
the periphery of the body
it's called peripheral resistance and
that's one of the reasons why you may
get peripheral neuropathies which
basically is a problem the furthest away
from the heart it's like in the the toes
or your fingertips that's when you
notice it first so this is what I want
you to do if you're a diabetic next time
you're at your doctor's office just ask
your doctor this one question or
actually two questions one is this now
doc isn't diabetes a disease of too much
sugar in the blood then why aren't you
recommending that I go in a low glucose
or sugar or a carbohydrate diet and just
see what they say because what's
shocking is that these basic things are
not taught and medical school which is
quite ironic anyway if you're new to my
channel click the link down below learn
how to get in a low carbohydrate diet do
in a minute fasting so you can decrease
the need for this pancreas to work so
hard alright thanks for watching so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications
