most doctors know the side effects from
taking medication but what I don't think
hardly any doctors really understand is
the side effects from taking multiple
drugs the interaction between certain
drugs let's talk about some really
common medications that can actually
cause dementia or at least put you at a
major risk for getting dementia from my
viewpoint I would get really upset if I
got a side effect especially dementia
from another medication let's go through
common drugs that have a known side
effect of dementia first category of
drugs are those that block or inhibit
acetal choline that's a neurotransmitter
these drugs include benagil which is
antihistamine certain drugs for
depression as well as drugs that treat
an overactive bladder if someone's on
these for a prolonged period of time the
risk for dementia goes way up next one
is something called benzo dipine this
drug treats anxiety insomnia and
seizures talking about vume and z X
apparently this drug affects the central
nervous system AKA your brain and it can
greatly increase the risk of getting
dementia then we have something called
ppis proton pump inhibitors those
medications treat indigestion heartburn
like pyac and Nexium they can increase
the risk of cognitive decline then the
last one which is a big one is opioids
like morphine or oxycodone anything that
creates sedation on the brain like when
you go in for surgery and they give you
certain anesthetics that can greatly
affect your cognitive function leading
to dementia there's also the side
effects from drug interactions and
unfortunately as people get older and
eventually end up in an assisted living
home or nursing home boy they just start
just giving medications routinely in
fact let's interview this gentleman that
owns several assisted living homes and
see what he has to say we have a whole
lot of people that come with between 20
and 30 medications each go our our
record is 5 we had a guy who had 54
medications what's really unique about
your program is you do this
very Cutting Edge complex therapy called
Introducing real food right I basically
you just is that simple you give them
real food because as you told me like a
lot of these nursing facilities or or
Assisted Living they're living on alter
processed food right very much so yes
it's it's what they use for their budget
to keep you know costs low or they the
big facilities have contracts with large
food distribution companies and sort of
serve what they provide you have to work
with the family of course and because
they have to authorize it but you have a
whole protocol and give me an example of
what foods that you don't give
them how long have you
got um so anything pretty much if you
think of the middle aisles of the
grocery store that's what we avoid any
packaged food um we really try to avoid
any sugars um I have a health coach that
has taught my cooks and caregivers how
to prepare the food and what foods to
prepare um she's given us lists of
ingredients that are sugar basically but
they don't call it Sugar there's 65
different names for sugar she's taught
us how to read food labels we really try
to get one ingredient Foods when you buy
broccoli or you buy steak there's one
ingredient on that list and that's kind
of how we do it anything with very
multiple ingredients or something from a
chemistry class we don't serve them so
simple now tell me are are any of the
people coming to you uh kind of
eventually getting off some of these
meds oh tremendously we we argue with
their doctors all the time we uh work
off their meds um fre quently um our
personal goal is to get them off we get
a lot of diabetics so we we worked and
we've successfully got people off
insulin that formin blood pressure
medications statins um obviously we work
with all our medical professionals and
and get them to deprescribe it we have
to by the Department of Health have an
an order to stop the medications but
we're constantly having those
discussions of what we can do the guy
with 54 medications he's living on his
own in an apartment by himself now and
he's down around 20 medications so give
you an example now you have people that
come to you that were actually in
hospice oh frequently yes they they
discharge from a hospital or Rehab on
hospice and come to us and we'll we'll
work very hard to get them to no longer
qualify for hospice we call it
graduating from hospice what type of
results are you seeing in general
physically physically we're seeing all
sorts of um a lot of the dementia people
we work with an outside company to do a
whole bunch of lab
testing um but we see hormone levels go
up we see um inflammation go way down
vitamin D levels all kinds of vitamin
levels go up um plus you see it
physically you know that we we have
people come bedbound and uh they go into
Wheelchairs and the wheelchairs go to
Walkers and the Walkers go to walking
so um you know then they can spend more
time with their family we had a we had a
98-year-old gentleman go on a cruise
with his family for a week um you know
something he couldn't have done when he
first came to us and we let them borrow
a caregiver she got a free cruise out of
it and um you know he had the time of
his life came back passed away six
months later but you know was very happy
those last six months amazing I'll tell
you one thing if I know anyone um that
is in that situation where they need to
go somewhere I'm referring them to you
so I will uh think you're in Arizona I'm
going to put your link down below so
more people can know about it but it's
incredible I wish more organizations did
what you're doing and I think uh we need
to spread the word it's really difficult
when dealing with someone on a lot of
medications to know what is causing what
the other complexity on top of that is
you have multiple doctors involved they
each have their own viewpoint they're
each focusing in a different part of the
body there's this term called adverse
drug reactions this is the unexpected
side effect directly caused from drugs
90% of these are Under reported adverse
drug reactions are responsible for 10%
of all hospital visits it's also the
fourth leading cause of death I wanted
to bring on a board certified
endocrinologist and ask her some
questions about this topic we know drugs
have side effects but have we studied
the interaction between drugs patients
don't always know they get these little
package inserts that are in fine print
most of us it's too difficult to read
those little tiny papers and you know
where I practice in India a lot of
medications just come in aluminum
blister packs without any insert so the
patient may not really have a list of
side effects to read through drug
interactions is written in tiny print
busy doctors are
prescribing and what I do is I use a
free free software there's a free
version of it it's called hypocrates E P
O C A tes and I look for drug
interactions there just to keep on top
of it because there's so many new
medications coming out even when I was
in practice I would have patients come
in they're they're on 5 10 15 up to 20
even more medications are you seeing
some of that as well like just the
number of prescriptions are just just
really going high really long and
especially in the space of where where
you know you and I see a lot of you know
things is chronic conditions where it's
not a fever or a back sprain and you're
done with your medications in four to
seven days or a course of
antibiotics it's something more
prolonged like blood pressure or
diabetes and these pills end up not
really being looked at as when do we get
you off of it and that's something I
focus on a lot is to keep looking at the
medication list to cut back whenever we
can and a lot of times the patient is
going to different Specialists and
unfortunately the busy specialist might
be looking at the one body part that
they've been asked to look at and
they're not always looking at
interactions of what I'm prescribing
with what maybe the other specialist is
prescribing so even though I'm an
endocrinologist and I still count as a
specialist or a top you know super
specialized I end up zooming out and
doing what a primary care doctor often
does is let's look at all these drugs
and we're so often surprised you'll see
two things that cause constipation two
things that cause drowsiness there's so
many interactions even with my
mother-in-law she started noticing signs
of Alzheimer's when she was getting
older and so um I just looked at her
medications is because she was on quite
a few and I'm like wait a second I
started talking to the doctor I'm like
this causes dementia right as a side
effect so do we really need it I think
it was a bladder medication because
that's a common one that has a side
effect of
dementia so got her off that she's just
started doing better but I mean I'm sure
you see that all the time all the time
and sometimes you're prescribing like a
uh a pain medication and sometimes
rebound pain comes in or an
anti-depressant and temporarily some
people have increased you know negative
thoughts what I really like about you is
you um you include the diet as part of
the equation when you evaluate someone
like you're you emphasize that I heard a
joke recently where a pet owner was
joking that you know when you go to the
vet with your pet the first thing the
vet asks you is what are you feeding
them wow wow that would be a smart thing
to ask H but why don't why don't doctors
ask that that's the question for the for
the human pet owners right and so uh
it's it seems like an obvious question
for the pet I I can't think of anything
else that contributes to either more
health or more disease than what we put
in our bodies 100%
and you know I talk about this step by
step when I when I work with people over
3 months or 6 months is the four wheels
of the lifestyle car and you know the
first wheel is always nutrition is what
are we putting in the body you're
putting a medication in the body so I'm
like we want to reduce the medication
what else is going into your mouth or
into your body every day is hood and
then we go into sleep then we go into
Stress Management exercise and after
that maybe fasting but the first wheel
is always nutrition I also want to talk
about some really common symptoms that
are directly caused by so many
medications let's take constipation for
example did you realize that the side
effect constipation can come from over
150 different medications the problem
with chronic constipation is it can lead
to something called megacolon where your
colon is just enlarged and you can
develop infections it can burst that's
why we have laxatives right the doctor
is going to probably give someone a
laxative to try to stimulate the release
of this waste the problem with laxatives
is they destroy the lining of the colon
and also it's hard to come off of them
your body depends on them with the
diabetes medication what that does is it
gets the sugar out of the blood to help
normalize the blood sugar but the
question is what does it do with that
Sugar it's pushing it through the
kidneys pushing it out through the urine
of course when someone has this symptom
they then put on medications that cause
urinary retention then they get a risk
for urinary tract infection dizziness is
another really common side effect of
quite a few medications one big problem
especially with the elderly is that
dizziness is the number one cause of why
someone when they're older Falls so
dizziness comes from like taking high
blood pressure medication
anti-depressants and even sleeping pills
there's also something called
paradoxical drug side effects you're
taking a medication for a certain effect
but you end up getting that same effect
this happens quite frequently too you're
taking an anti-depressant but it
actually caus you to become more
depressive or you take an ant acid and
then you end up getting heartburn one of
the biggest reasons why people develop
chronic disease I personally think it
comes from what the patient eats I'm
primarily talking about processed foods
junk food is at the top of the list as
far as the reason why people go to the
doctor for their chronic disease a
really big part of big pharma's
medications are really about treating
the side effect from this processed food
because the doctor does not really
evaluate what the person's eating it's
the doctor's omission of real food and
that connection between junk food and
chronic disease that is literally
holding this whole thing together and it
keeps allowing the drugs to be
prescribed and then new medications
added to treat the side effect from this
other drug what is the one thing that
can literally turn this whole thing
around it's this tiny little simple
thing thing where we're going to switch
out the junk food for real food and if
you want more information about what
real food is you should check out this
video right here
