hi guys Dr Burg here listen I had
another question about fertility and
someone was having a hard time getting
pregnant so they wanted to know what
nutrients are good for that so we're
going to talk about that there's really
two uh main categories of nutrition that
you need to focus on to increase
fertility one is the fat cble vitamins
vitamin A E and D primarily why because
these are the nutrients that can go
through the fat Lar layer of the cell
and innervate and go right into the DNA
the chromosomes and start affecting
things on a big level so if you're
deficient uh in some of these vitamins
which by the way act almost like
hormones uh you can end up being
infertile so where do you get these
vitamins well the first thing I'm going
to recommend is never to consume a
prenatal synthetic vitamin make sure
your prenatal is always food based okay
because you'd be surprised what they use
to make those prenatals I mean it's
petroleum chemicals so look on the back
of the label make sure that it tells you
what food it comes from or just consume
the food so let's just talk about the
food itself um CER oil really important
if you're pregnant uh get a real high
quality one virgin Civ oil that would
give you very good amounts of vitamin A
and vitamin D and a lot of other things
too eggs pasture raised eggs very
important especially the yolk grassfish
cheese grassfed butter that's good
vitamin A or organ Meats now I know this
you might turn up your nose to that but
organ Meats especially if it's grass-fed
contain some of the highest nutrition
that you can get even higher than
vegetables um there's a liver worst that
you can get it's grass-fed you can order
it online I'll put a link down below and
it has a combination of liver kidney and
heart now it might sound kind of gross
but it's so healthy for you especially
if you're developing this baby inside
you it's incredible you'll have even
from the um the heart uh you get this
co-enzyme Q10 that gives you strength so
you'll actually have tremendous strength
and you'll give this uh this new baby
all the material that it needs to grow
perfectly so I'll put a link down below
uh vitamin E seeds nuts uh vegetables
things like that vitamin D all of these
but also
Sun so that would be the fat cable
vitamins trace minerals those are
minerals needed in very small amounts uh
the two big ones that can if you're
deficient can cause
infertility or um atic growth would be
zinc and iodine okay so seaweed sea
vegetables and then shrimp beef seeds
and oysters so that's where you get some
of the trace minerals trace minerals
activate enzymes that help you build
proteins I mean so you're growing this
baby inside your body you want all the
trace minerals to provide um for so the
enzymes can start to work unfortunately
our foods are pretty much void of trace
minerals so you could get a plant-based
uh Trace mineral which that would be a
good idea too because those are the ones
that absorb 100% And they're 15,000
times smaller than regular minerals they
go in like a rocket ship and that way
you have a good chance of uh developing
a real healthy baby now once you get
pregnant um continue this um but make
sure when you have your child try to
breastfeed because start to you know put
this uh this baby on infant formula
right off the
bat uh is not good because it's loaded
with soy okay that's number one number
two don't ever give your kids uh juice
in a bottle you're just going to destroy
the teeth it's pure sugar water all
right thanks for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press this little button down
below okay thanks
