the fastest way to get rid of acne I
would consider myself an expert on acne
simply because I had it really really
bad for so many years it made me very
introverted I was very shy it actually
it's just devastating for a teenager to
have that I wish I knew what to do back
then but if you have acne I'm going to
tell you exactly what to do back then I
thought you just need to scrub your face
and clean out those pores and maybe use
different lotions that just made it
worse people will tell you to avoid junk
food and sugar and things like that but
there's something else that is very
essential to preventing acne and then if
you have it to get rid of it I stumbled
on this information when I was searching
patents on acne pening certain natural
remedies to get rid of acne blemishes
and inflammation in the skin and even
scarring from acne what I found was very
interesting there was four patents I
looked at and all four of them had a
common denominator they were using a
sulfur compound then I looked on uh
Amazon and I started looking at sulfur
creams from acne and there's like a
whole bunch of different ones and I'm
like wait a second what is a sulfur
doing that's helping get rid of acne and
are we deficient in Sulfur are people
that are more prone to acne have a
sulfur deficiency I found that a lot of
them are then you might think okay so
where can I get sulfur well it's in
onions garlic cruciferous vegetables
would that be the best source of sulfur
actually not first let me just tell you
what sulfur does sulfur helps decrease
inflammation also increase hydration of
the skin as well sulfur also increases
collagen which is really interesting so
it can help with fine lines and even
wrinkles that's probably why they use
sulfur in a lot of joint remedies to
help hydration and lubrication of the
joint sulfur is basically drying up this
excess oil in the actual acne and it
also helps regulate the hormones that
are behind the situation I'm talking
about androgens because androgens are
very high when you're a teenager you
have this excess production of this it's
called sebaceous gland that produces
more oil and sulfur can help regulate
that production and on top of that
sulfur helps regulate insulin and we all
know when we eat too much sugar or carbs
insulin will increase and that can
increase androgens here we have the
sulur that can help normalize insulin as
well as the androgens that come right
after that and then I started to look at
what would deplete sulfur grains sugars
seed oils the main three ingredients in
most junk food but also fructose as in
High fose corn syrup and of course
alcohol will do it as well yes junk food
does cause acne but one of the reasons
why is it depletes sulfur if there's
some way we could still eat the level of
junk food that we want yet add a little
sulfur maybe we could prevent our acne
and I'm being very sarcastic you don't
want to do that now that you know what
sulfur does why might you be deficient
in Sulfur you actually get sulfur from
Plants okay like garlic and onions and
cruciferous and other foods but that's
only a tiny tiny bit the majority of of
sulfur that you get from your diet
actually comes from protein there are
many amino acids but there are two and
that's where you get most of your sulfur
and the two amino acids are methionine
and cysteine if we take away calcium and
phosphorus sulfur is the most abundant
mineral in the body so we need a lot of
it this leads me to the question what
foods are the highest and those two
amino acids and what foods should we eat
less of to get rid of our acne is fast
is possible and believe it or not the
number one food is eggs number two is
fish then beef then lamb and then cheese
and then organ Meats all of those are
very high in those two amino acids high
in Sulfur you have to realize that you
also need to avoid the sugar the starch
which basically blocks those amino acids
from working that well and anything that
increases insulin which is sugar and
starch and when I say starch I'm talking
about the breads the pasta the Cal
crackers viscus waffles pancakes muffins
things like that but if you just get rid
of the sugar and the starch and you
don't increase the sulfur based amino
acids you may not get rid of your acne
try this experiment start consuming more
animal-based protein of course make sure
it's as quality as possible I'm talking
about eggs I'm talking about fish I'm
talking about meat instead of the carb
breakfast do protein go ahead and try
this and then comment down below how
fast your acne goes away
