today we're going to talk about the best
foods for arthritis talking about
osteoarthritis rheumatoid arthritis in
fact any ideas so the first thing you
want to do
is you want to go and search out the
official recommendation for foods for
arthritis so there are many different
official sites but the one we're going
to go to today is probably one of the
most credible sites according to Google
and that is the Arthritis Foundation and
then what you're going to do
is take a look
at all the foods that they recommend
okay now we're not going to use this
list of what to eat we're going to use
this list on what to avoid because
usually whatever the consensus is of
what you should do medically you should
go in the opposite direction so let's
see what they say to do well for
starters our diet rich in Whole Foods
fruits vegetables fish nuts beans
whole grains Okay and of course avoiding
the saturated fats now there is a few
things on this that I do agree with
number one fish and of course vegetables
except there's some caveats to that
which I'll explain so when you have
arthritis you have inflammation right so
we're trying to get rid of inflammation
so when you consume a lot of fruits
you're going to generate a lot of sugar
and this is going to bump you out of
ketosis and this is going to create more
inflammation and of course their
explanation is that fruits are high in
antioxidants well that's true but
they're also high in
sugar as well now they also recommend
nuts because nuts have antioxidants well
there's really only one nut that I would
recommend if you have arthritis and that
would be walnuts because it gives you
the precursor it's called ala that turns
into EPA in DHA which is the omega-3
fatty acids now you're not going to get
a lot of conversion but you'll get some
but unfortunately the rest of the nuts
are high in omega-6 fatty acids and they
can be inflammatory especially if you're
doing like the nut Butters now what
about beans okay aren't beans good for
arthritis because they are also high in
antioxidants well the problem with beans
is they're also high in lectins and
oxalates which are anti-nutrients that
can aggravate arthritis not to mention
they're a bit high in carbs and they can
really interrupt your digestive process
and I would venture to say that a lot of
arthritis has to do with inflammation in
the gut now of course the next big one
that the Arthritis Foundation recommends
is these whole grains right whole grains
because they're loaded with antioxidants
but they're also loaded with
carbohydrates they're loaded with gluten
they're loaded with oxalates so all of
these are going to aggravate arthritis
but the big problem with grains is that
they're very high in the omega-6 fatty
acids so this leads to the next topic
what they say to avoid they say red
meats eggs
and dairy okay well let's talk about
these three things right here what you
need to know about this to make it
really simple
is that when you eat animals that are
fed with grains you're going to get a
much different profile as far as the
omega-6 to the omega-3 ratios so the
question is is red meat bad it depends
on what the animal ate now what about
chickens well chickens are probably one
of the most highest sources of omega-6
fatty acids so if you get chickens from
the farmer's market you're going to get
a much better profile you're going to
get less omega-6 because they're
free-ranged hopefully and so they
consume more bugs maybe less grains and
so when you have pasture-raised organic
eggs you're getting a much better
profile with these ratios now what about
Dairy where does dairy come from cow
milk conventional cow milk
can turn into a good product if you
ferment it I'm talking about like
grass-fed plain kefir wholemeal kefir I
think that can help your gut and help
arthritis if you can find cheese from
grass-fed cows that's made from raw milk
cheese like they do in Europe that's
much better than American cheese so
again you just have to differentiate the
source of what that animal ate same
thing with fish right we have farm
raised fish versus wild caught big
difference in the omega-6 to omega-3
ratios so to keep this really simple you
want to have wild caught fatty fish like
salmon sardines Cod Liver you can get it
in a can while Cod the cool thing about
cod liver or cod liver oil is it's very
high in omega-3 but it's also high in
vitamin d and vitamin A whereas fish oil
doesn't have that but fatty fish is
really important farm raised fish is not
a good deal Seafood actually is a good
source of Omega-3
omega-3 is anti-inflammatory
pasture-raised organic eggs is a good
source of not only Omega-3
but vitamin D the problem with getting
Vitamin D from our Foods it's just very
difficult to find foods high in vitamin
D vitamin D is a very powerful
anti-inflammatory for arthritis so you'd
want to consume the foods that align
with that like even with pork for
example
Pig set free range that go outside the
barn that gets Sun have a much higher
level of vitamin D then the pigs that
are confined to a physical structure and
they can never leave now
fermented vegetables are good for
arthritis especially cabbage as in
sauerkraut or even cabbage juice is
really good for the gut and it's also
good for arthritis but vegetables in
general is a crap shoot sometimes it can
help your arthritis sometimes it can
make it worse it's all dependent on how
much inflammation you have in your gut
because a lot of people have arthritis
have itis in the colon too and if they
do more fiber even vegetables that can
make things worse so some people that
have arthritis will do very good if they
completely eliminate any fiber and do
the carnivore diet which is a lot of
saturated fat and protein which is
interesting and of course on the avoid
list avoid sugar refine grains
avoid whole grains which have gluten in
it that turn into sugar really quickly
avoid trans fats anything with the word
hydrogenated whether it's partially
hydrogenated or just hydrogenated you
want to avoid that seed oils are really
bad for arthritis and so that would
include the soy the corn the canola the
cotton seed even the peanut oils
safflower oils these are all seed oils
and our bodies are not designed to
consume this refined concentrated oil
they're very susceptible to oxidation
and they can create a lot of problems
especially for arthritis so a much
better Source would be coconut oil
grass-fed butter using actual lard or
Tallow to cook your food in and of
course avoid things like canned foods
unless those canned foods are sardines
or Cod Liver I would avoid them another
interesting thing to avoid would be the
powdered protein okay both plant-based
protein and other types of of lean
protein powders your liver just does not
do well on them and you may find that it
stirs up your arthritis especially whey
protein and soy protein isolates and
even pea protein can do it you want to
consume protein
that normally comes with the fat so a
natural whole food source of protein now
a couple additional things if you're on
the ketogenic diet you may find that the
oxalates in the food are stirring up
your arthritis and the foods that are
high in oxalates are in spinach rhubarb
chocolate kiwi almonds but I think if
you follow the information in this video
if you have arthritis you will see a
dramatic decrease in inflammation within
a couple days
the last very important point is doing
intermittent fasting because the more
times you eat you're going to create
this interaction with food in your gut
and create more problems it's a natural
anti-inflammatory so it's not just what
you eat it's also the frequency of
eating it's very important in getting
rid of inflammation now if you want more
details in what to eat and you haven't
seen this video I put it up right here
check it out
