hello Dr Burke here we're going to talk
about the lowfat diet to prevent
gallstones myth there's this rumor going
around that if you have gallstones you
need to be on a lowfat diet because High
saturated fats cause Gul Stones that's
absolutely not true let's talk about
some actual
facts what
triggers bile release which bile is the
stuff that the gallbladder stores that
comes out of the gallbladder to help you
digest what triggers the bow release is
saturated fats so sat saturated fats
release bile from the gallbladder that
is the main trigger okay number two bile
salts dissolves gall stones okay I'll
put a link down below for more
information on that but yeah when you
take bile salts that actually helps
dissolve
gallstones gallstones are a biod
deficiency that's why you get them okay
does that make sense sense that's what
causes them you have this super
saturation of cholesterol that makes the
stone because there's not enough
bile okay so number four high insulin
can Al can deplete bile other things can
do it too like high estrogen birth
control pills being pregnant that's why
a lot of times women get that but a lot
of diabetics get gall stones because
they have high insulin but High insulin
from insulin resistance is the number
one cause from my viewpoint that
depletes your bile that causes the
stones now should you be a vegan or
should you be a meater well it really
depends if you're a vegan that's eating
a lot of grains and sugar you're going
to get gallstones because you're going
to have high insulin if you're a meat
eater that eats a lot of grains and
sugar you're going to have high insulin
and you're going to deplete your bile
and get gall stones so it really is the
absence of the sugar and keeping your
estrogen down or normal uh then you'll
be safe so the real problem is not too
much fat it's not enough bile and that's
why sometimes even vegans that go no
saturated fats they don't produce a lot
of bile and they can end up having
problems with the gallbladder not all of
them some of them um but same thing with
meters depending on what they're
consuming if they're not having enough
vegetables and they're adding sugar and
grains are going to create a problem
okay thanks for watching put your
comments down
below hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
