so recently I had a question what is the
difference between the ketogenic diet
versus a low carb diet okay I'm just
gonna cover that all right so they're
both low carbohydrate but really the
only difference is that the ketogenic
diet recommends a moderate amount of
protein okay most low carb diets have
higher amounts of protein now the
problem with higher amounts of protein
with certain people especially if
there's liver damaged a lot of people
have a damaged liver and don't even know
they have a damaged liver as you start
to build up too much uric acid in the
body and ammonia and you usually see
that with foamy strong smelly urine that
could be the waste because the liver in
the kidney is not breaking down the
protein properly so excessive amounts of
ammonia can create all sorts of problems
in the brain and the kidney and this
basically is a toxic effect of amino
acids because your kidney liver is not
able to break it down you can also have
a problem in your gut where your
microbes are not able to break this down
too so we don't want to add a lot of
stress to the organs like even the
digestive system even the stomach even
the liver or the kidney by adding a lot
of protein the body just kind of gets
overwhelmed it can then create certain
byproducts that are toxic to your body
because your your organs are not able to
deal with that much protein on the other
hand if your protein is too low you can
get really weak you can have immune
problems muscle loss hair loss collagen
loss you're getting saggy skin or let's
say for example your your gums are
receding so we want just the right
amount of protein you want between three
to six ounces maybe seven maybe even
eight per meal and we want that to be
high-quality if you're adding in a
minute fasting in there things are going
to change because just the way your body
adapts to the calories and it's going to
be more conservative with your protein
so you're not going to require even as
much when you're doing in a minute
fasting but the common denominator of
why a low-carb diet or ketogenic diet is
healthy is simply because your
in carbohydrates and it's the high
carbohydrate diet that creates the most
side effects especially to your eyes to
the lens of the eye to the pressure the
fluid in the eye to the nerves in the
eye and then we get damage to the liver
with inflammation cirrhosis and
definitely a fatty liver and the damage
to the heart and the nerves and the
brain so between these two diets I'm
gonna recommend the ketogenic diet just
make sure that you're doing the healthy
version of the ketogenic diet thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
