today I'm going to show you all the
things that can help suppress your
appetite and this is backed up by
science you ever wonder how some people
can just go through the entire day and
be in front of food and totally resist
it yet other people think about certain
things they shouldn't be eating
sometimes they might think that this is
a lack of willpower or they're just a
professional
procrastinator that is absolutely not
true what they're really lacking is the
knowledge I'm going to share with you
today at the end of this presentation
you're going to be a lot more in control
of what to eat or what to do to suppress
your appetite which directly increases
your control over food so you can lose
weight look good feel good about
yourself and have a good willpower
hunger in appetite don't start with your
stomach sometimes it starts with your
microbes your gut bacteria that
manipulate your brain there's some wild
and bizarre information how gut microbes
can actually cause you to eat the wrong
thing today I'm going to help you defeat
these Temptations sugar refined carb
foods with MSG monosodium glutamate
alcohol Ultra processed foods AKA junk
Foods let's go through these Foods
starting with coffee coffee stimulates
something that actually helps you feel
like you're a full decaf coffee can do
the exact same thing just make sure you
do an organic decaf coffee if you're
going to do that avocado was a really
good thing to satisfy you not just
because it's fatty but there are certain
natural chemicals in avocado help
satisfy you reduce hunger I know with me
uh when I consume guacamole it really
fills me up really fast plus it has
certain fiber that can feed your
bacteria and fiber in anything slows
down the spike of blood sugar it will
prevent you from having a low blood
sugar situation which will increase
appetite dark chocolate there's a
certain chemical that's very bitter that
suppresses appetite realize when they go
up with the percentage it's actually
going to be less and less sugar so if
you can find something like
95% or even 90% you're going to be good
to go because the amount of sugar in
there is very very tiny and there's a
lot of magnesium in chocolate as well
cayenne pepper is another thing you
should be adding to your food in certain
studies just the smell of it alone will
decrease hunger which is pretty wild
apple cider vinegar is the next one on
the list if you add that tablespoon in a
glass of water it's going to help
stabilize your blood sugar even if you
actually raise your blood sugar Alid of
vinegar will help stabilize them so your
blood sugar will not come down too low
one of the reasons why this works is
your body can actually use the acid in
appid of vinegar as fuel there's a
certain chemical in green tea e g c g
super effective of suppressing appetite
bone broth is the next thing on the list
drinking bone broth actually creates a
very similar effect to being satisfied
after eating something more Savory like
meat has a lot of nutrients you should
try that sometime and you'll see next
one is just a protein Rich meal like
eggs or even red meat because out of all
the things you can eat like carbs fats
especially if you have a high quality
protein like eggs red meat because not
only are there high quality amino acids
but you have a lot of other nutrition in
the meat that can satisfy your brain and
give your body what it really needs when
it's hungry the next one on the list is
adding Ginger to your Foods it has the
ability to stimulate digestive juices
which allow you to extract more
nutrients from the food that you eat
next one is dark leafy green vegetables
or lettuce and then the olive oil is a
fat that's very satisfying but it will
also help extract some of the fat
soluble nutrients from those greens
which are certain nutrients that go
beyond just vitamins and minerals next
one on the list is MCT oil you can get
these from coconuts but MCT oil is a
certain type of fat that does not
involve all the different chemical
reactions like other types of fats
easily to digest and it a lot of it
turns into ketones which will give you
more energy than carbs or even protein
because the body likes to consume
ketones as its fuel adding turmeric to
your Foods create a lot of positive
things one being just feeling more
satisfied next thing on the list is zinc
if someone's deficient in zinc they're
going to be excessively hungry next one
is something called Kombucha Tea which
is not really a tea it's like a
carbonated drink it's very acidic I like
it you just need to drink a half a glass
and sip it I like to dilute it with
water but it's very very satisfying
because it's filled with something
called lactic acid that helps feed your
gut which will then send signals up to
your brain that you're full grapefruit
also has a certain chemical that can be
very satisfying also there's another
chemical that's bitter in a rugula that
supports the liver that seems to be more
satisfying than having regular like
saddle like Roma lettuce or something
like that also realize when you consume
vegetables with fiber or berries with
fiber that fiber can buffer the blood
sugar anytime you have a meal with fiber
you're going to be more satisfied the
next thing on the list is full fat
protein you don't want to do lean
protein the leaner the protein as in
like whey protein powder the more
insulin that's going to be raised so
there's something called the insulin
index and at the top of the list you
have the highest thing that stimulates
insulin as far as not being a
carbohydrate and that is whey protein as
you come down and have more fat with the
protein like a whole egg or more fattier
meat or fattier fish you have a lower
insulin Spike you're not going to have
the dip in blood sugar because insulin
pushes your blood sugars down we want to
keep your blood sugars level eating more
fat with the protein can help buffer
that response eating more fiber also
helps buffer the glycemic index as well
another thing that can really help your
appetite is exercise now here's the
thing if you are exercising too much
like high-intensity exercise that could
actually drop your blood sugar too low
and you can be hungry what I'm talking
about is long walks something that's not
too intense that can greatly help your
blood sugar the next thing on the list
and this is really important is getting
an extra 30 minutes of sleep whether you
take a nap for 30 minutes or you sleep
in 30 minutes later that extra sleep
greatly reduces cortisol and levels off
your blood sugar this leads me to the
next thing which is just keeping your
stress level as low as possible and to
do that you want to do exercise physical
work around the house sleep more eat
healthy do stretching and take
ashwagandha and definitely magnesium
glycinate before you go to bed that can
greatly help if you combine some of
these foods with better sleep less
stress you can control your appetite
lose weight look good and feel better
about yourself
