so I had a question recently from
someone with PCOS and they wanted to
know why does insulin cause PCOS so this
video is about that question what is
PCOS polycystic ovarian syndrome this is
a condition which occurs in females
which involves having too much androgen
okay now normally men are supposed to
have most of the androgens and/or
testosterone women do have androgens but
not at the same levels if a woman has
too much androgen she starts developing
facial hair maybe more body hair acne
hair loss sort of like receding hair a
deeper voice her cycles start becoming
irregular or disappear and she can
develop cysts on the ovaries but what I
want to talk about is why does insulin
cause this condition it does so with two
different mechanisms the first one
involves a hormone from the pituitary
called the luteinizing hormone when you
increase insulin okay you're gonna get a
spike in luteinizing hormone which comes
down from the pituitary down to the
ovaries once this hormone connects with
the ovaries it triggers this certain
cell called a fecal cell which increases
androgens so that is one mechanism
insulin triggering an increase in
antigens the next mechanism has to do
with your liver there is this buffering
mechanism okay in your liver
called SHBG sex hormone binding globulin
this compound buffers or filters
androgens when you increase insulin you
decrease this compound and you get less
buffering and you get more free
testosterone so there you have it the
two different mechanisms on why insulin
triggers antigens now if you're new to
my chain
you also need to know what increases
insulin and I put a very important video
about insulin on this page check it out
