hi guys today we're going to talk about
dry mouth on Kido now there is a certain
medical condition that has to do with
your salivary glands not producing
enough saliva okay and that can come
from an autoimmune condition or let's
say you're in chemo I'm not going to get
into that condition what I'm going to
talk about is why you would have dry
mouth on Kido now one of the fluids has
a high amount of an enzyme called
amylase okay this is an enzyme that
breaks down starches and the average
amount of saliva that an adult produces
per day is between 0.5 and 1.5 liters
that's two to six cups of saliva every
single day so now let's talk about why
you would potentially have dry mouth
when you do Kido the first thing is that
you're not consuming starches anymore
you're not doing breads or potato you're
not doing sugar anymore hopefully okay
so the need for that enzyme goes way
down so the need to produce that fluid
also goes down okay that's one reason
the other reason has to do with your
electrolytes okay so when you do keto
the need for certain minerals goes up
especially potassium and magnesium and
because someone is cutting their carbs
down a lot of times they reduce
vegetable carbohydrates as well so
potentially they're not going to get the
minerals that they need from other foods
so just you know you'd have to consume
between 7 10 cups of salad per day to
get your potassium requirement which is
40 700 milligrams and realize that if
you're consuming that much vegetable
you're also getting the other minerals
as well now typically when you're doing
keto they're not emphasizing doing more
vegetables on a keto plan unless you're
doing what I recommend which is the
healthy version of keto in which you
would consume more vegetables and you
wouldn't have a problem with the
electrolytes so to prevent dry mouth
when you're in keto you have a couple
options
increase the amount of vegetables that
you're consuming okay and or salad or
take a good electrolyte powder and don't
forget to increase your sodium chloride
in the form of sea salt because all
those minerals help to establish a
better hydration and decrease the dry
mouth that you may experience on keto
so if you've personally benefited from
the information that I put on my videos
I would love to actually see your
success story - I put a link down below
so you can upload your before and after
pictures with your story
