certainly I had a question from someone
that was curious about why they're so
cold when they do intermittent fasting
okay so let me talk about that when you
do intimate of fasting especially in the
beginning or fasting in general your
core body temperature will decrease okay
not just your fingertips and your toes
if you check your temperature it'll be
lower and that's part of the adaptation
process of not eating now if you worry
about you're still gonna burn fat you
know people that have this idea that if
they have to heat the body up to burn
fat like it's actually burning it's not
you can even take a cold shower and burn
more fat calories okay
so that's it's not about heat now if you
wanted to lessen the intensity of the
cold you can take b1 I would take
nutritional yeast get in a natural form
and that will help you make this
transition because over time the
temperature will improve as your body
adapts better and better but the point
is that it's a normal response it's not
something abnormal it's not affecting
your thyroid you're still gonna burn the
fat you just might want to dress a
little warmer thanks for watching hey if
you're interested in finding out the
underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quiz
