hi guys I'm back I had another question
from someone that wanted to know what
could be causing her painful feet so
let's talk about that
she mentioned that someone diagnosed
your plantar fasciitis okay well and
then put her on a medication well first
of all there's not a lot of data out
there on really what causes plantar
fasciitis so I'm gonna give you some of
the common things that I see on a
regular basis there's a thing called
gout which is high levels of uric acid
crystals because the kidney is not
functioning well or the person is
consuming too much protein or even when
you start the ketogenic diet you can
raise high levels of uric acid which
means that you need to be consuming more
lemon juice okay or anything with
citrates
that will help that limes lemons things
like that or even a potassium citrate
would would be good but really the the
most common thing that I find with
people with painful feet or especially
tingling numbness or burning and then if
it's on the hands especially as well
that's a pre-diabetic situation that's
high sugars okay
so when the sugar goes too high in the
blood what happens is it starts to
destroy the nervous system primarily the
nerves is as far away from the heart as
possible on the bottom of the feet and
the fingertips and even the eyes so
those are the three areas that you see
neurological changes as the first stage
so high sugars destroy the nervous
system but my theory is that it's not
really the high sugar that's destroying
the nerves the high sugar is depleting
vitamin b1 okay when you have high
sugars you lose a lot of b1 through the
urine and b1 is essential for nerve
conduction to allow that nerve to work
correctly and the reason I believe this
is the case is because every time I
recommend consuming more b1 with someone
with these symptoms it gets better okay
so it has to be a b1 deficiency and the
sugar is causing the deficiency of b1 I
recommend nutritional yeast to get your
b1
because that way you can get the whole
complex not just be one I recommend also
getting a non fortified non enriched
nutritional yeast because a lot of times
they put synthetics in there and you
don't want to do that so thanks for
watching and share your comments down
below hey thank you so much for watching
keep spreading the word and share this
video
