so today I'm going to talk about what I
believe is the missing food in most Kido
plans and I'm talking more about the
traditional ketogenic diets and the
reason I'm creating this video is
because I I watch other videos out there
with people starting keto and I'm
looking what they're eating so I just
wanted to create this video on what I
believe is missing and a lot of these
plans that are recommended out there so
when you're on a keto plan the carbs
that you eat are between 20 and 50 grams
per day protein is moderate and the fat
is anywhere between 70 to 80 percent of
your total calories and the big category
of food that I think people should
include would be vegetables now typical
keto plan doesn't emphasize eating more
vegetables but less because they're a
carbohydrate however there's a lot of
people that are consuming a lot of
vegetables I'm not talking about those
people so you have people that are
deducting the vegetable carbohydrates to
try to come up with this number right
here I believe that you should not count
the vegetables in their leafy greens and
other vegetables that have are low on
the glycemic index number one they're
mostly fiber and fiber even though it's
a carbohydrate does not influence
insulin at all okay and you're never
gonna find anyone that's going to gain
fat on eating vegetables that being said
a lot of people have a problem digesting
vegetables certain vegetables are high
in antioxidants for example in spinach
which can actually cause kidney stones
and arthritis and all sorts of issues
other people are sensitive to lectins
which is another anti nutrient and they
have a lot of digestive issues however
working with thousands of people I have
not found that to be the norm it's
actually a smaller group of people who
have a sensitivity to the anti nutrients
for the vast majority they seem to do
very well and they might need to
gradually work up to more and more
vegetables and I'm actually talking
about a minimum of seven cups of
vegetables which is actually pretty easy
to do if you break it up into two salads
but here's why I recommend it number one
you can transition into ketosis faster
because of the amount of minerals in the
people's potassium and magnesium what
we're trying to achieve by doing ketosis
is to handle insulin resistance that's a
big problem to solve and when you
increase these two minerals and other
minerals in vegetables to the point
where you can get into ketosis faster
and with less side effects okay the side
effects from the transition into ketosis
call it keto adaptation problems whether
it's keto fatigue or keto rash etc can
be easily solved by taking more minerals
sea salt and B vitamins and one of the
ways you can actually generate more B
vitamins is the actual fiber in the
vegetables which the microbes eat and
your microbes actually make B vitamins
and also you can create a more diverse
group of microbes by consuming different
types of vegetables different types of
fibers now in some of the research being
done on epilepsy with with where they
put children on a ketogenic diet one of
the side effects is acidosis and there's
some real interesting research of adding
in vegetables to the ketogenic diet in
reducing that acidity so you can
actually reduce the acidity of ketones
in general because they're acidic as
well as reducing the effects of the uric
acid spike that does occur when you're
getting into hardcore ketosis and when
you're doing in a minute fasting uric
acid does go up the solution for that is
just to you know change the pH by adding
potassium or magnesium alkaline minerals
and this problem goes away pretty quick
so in summary if you consume more
vegetables and don't count that into
this calculation right here and also
realize that when you're counting carbs
it's the net carbs so you're deducting
the fiber so that's another point right
there that I didn't even mention some
people don't even calculate net carbs
they do total carbs which in their mind
they think the fiber is going to
actually knock them out of ketosis it's
not true so I recommend not even
counting this into your calculations and
also realize that you have the benefits
of the phytonutrients
okay which go beyond the regular
nutrients like minerals and vitamins
anyways I just wanted to mention this
one point of emphasizing more vegetables
on a keto plan because I think that is a
very common missing food group on a
healthy ketta plan thanks for watching
hey before you go would you mind putting
a comment down below to tell me what you
think about this video
