hi guys I'm back today we're gonna talk
about rhomboid spasm on the right side
now what what is that
rhomboid is a muscle on the right side
and it elevates the scapula right here
so let me have my demonstrator over here
show you alright thank you very much
we're gonna turn you around this way
okay good okay good so like right here
you have this bone right here called the
scapula okay and there's a muscle that
attaches to this side and it comes right
to the spine is's right through in here
and what happens is like when he takes
the shoulder and brings it in this way
and brings it up the rhomboid helps this
action right here and so many people
have a problem with spasm right through
in here so they go the massage therapist
they go to the chiropractor they get
adjusted to unit massage trigger points
but it doesn't work it doesn't work why
because this pain is referred by there's
a gallbladder okay if you don't believe
me go ahead and just try this at home
and then you'll see that it's true
because I've been in practice for 29
years and I can't tell you how many
times I've worked on the ROM right
before I knew about this I mean just
beating that muscle up massaging it a
keeps coming back over and over and over
again okay it doesn't go away so the
gallbladder is right underneath the
right ribcage right through in here okay
so sometimes it's tucked underneath the
ribcage and there's a little nerve
underneath your diaphragm called the
phrenic nerve and it comes right up
through here and it can actually when
the gall bladders swollen or congested
it puts pressure on the liver and it
starts to cause referred pain sometimes
up here but also in the rhomboid area
especially if there is a problem with
the bile duct okay this little tube from
the liver that connects to the
gallbladder there's little duct and has
receptors for lectins okay so if you're
consuming a lot of nuts okay or other
foods that are hard on lectins that can
aggravate this area in cause
inflammation and cause pain back here
okay so you can try several things you
can start eating healthily of
avoid nuts though and the problem will
probably go away but if you're doing
like refined carbohydrates that can
cause an irritation here or you're doing
sugar or junk food or alcohol or
anything that is not healthy
that will create tension here and causes
pain to flare up okay so I'm gonna
recommend in a minute fasting in healthy
ketosis is if you're new to my channel
just click the link down below I'll show
you exactly how to do it okay and that
will improve this but intermittent
fasting is very very important because
if you're eating too frequently that's
gonna create a problem with the
gallbladder now one thing that you can
do just to prove that it's gallbladder
related is let's just pretend that he
has pain back here okay and it's just
like a spasm so what you do right now if
you have the pain just go ahead and rate
it on a scale from one to ten ten being
very severe zero being no pain okay
let's say it's a five and then what you
do is you take your hand and you're
gonna press in there and massage right
underneath the rib cage so just hold
that right there for about an hour no
it's getting so he's gonna just kind of
move this back and forth and massage
find the tension find the tightness and
hold that and then we rate the numbers
after about 15 seconds like there was a
five what is it now you'll see the
numbers going wow that's just loosened
that right up well that's because you're
allowing the flow to go through there
okay this is just a good simple
demonstration to show you the connection
between where the cause is and where the
symptom is over here because when you
step in a dog's tail where is he bark
throw the mouth thank you you're gonna
mess with this tail no no okay but right
down here it's going to be real
congested it's a real simple test and if
you massage this whole area and this
doesn't go away well there's a chance
that it could be just coming from this
maybe you tore it but 99% of the time
that I've observed its this is referred
right through in here okay and sometimes
you might need to do some massage up
underneath the rib cage on the right
side to the liver as well because
sometimes
area gets all congested go ahead and do
that and put your comments down below
and I'll be very curious to see how you
react when you see how simple this is to
get rid of a pain on your right round
boy all right we'll see you later so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications daily notifications
that sounds weird well I'll just remind
you on a daily basis how about that
