hey how are you so today we're going to
talk about the importance of vitamin b5
on a ketogenic and an intermittent
fasting plan okay the name of that
vitamin is pantothenic acid and it's a
cofactor for energy metabolism but
specifically for enzymes that help you
break down fat okay so when you're
converting from sugar burning to ketosis
by burning fat you need b5 big-time now
the Greek word for this vitamin is panto
theme okay which means from all quarters
indicating that it's very easy to get
from pretty much all your foods okay and
so you when you read on this vitamin
you're gonna find that oh it's almost
impossible to be deficient because it's
everywhere but actually a lot of people
are deficient in this and I'm gonna tell
you why in a second but first let me
tell you what it also will help you do
but it's a key nutrient to help you make
melatonin for sleeping and I see the
colon which is a neurotransmitter that
helps you stay awake during the day and
helps you get into REM sleep also in
nerve function and muscle function okay
it also is needed to make cortisol this
is a real key nutrient for adrenal
function so if you have adrenal fatigue
for example you need to take more b5 so
if you're deficient invited me five you
can get all sorts of issues like Keita
fatigue stress nerve pain inflammation
and insomnia so these are very common
symptoms when you do a ketogenic diet
because your body is requiring more of
this vitamin when it actually has to
burn more fat so really what I want to
talk about is two things one is you're
not getting it from the diet which is
rare or there's something going on in
your digestive system that's not right
in other words the flora the friendly
bacteria in your gut help you make b5
and other B vitamins and that's probably
the more likely cause of issues with a
b5 deficient
because sometimes even other B vitamin
C's like biotin for example which will
prevent hair loss a lot of people have
hair loss and then they take large
amounts of biotin and the hair loss goes
away well your body should be able to
make it also you're getting it from the
diet but I really think it's the gut for
a lot of people so if you don't have the
friendly flora it's going to be hard to
make those B vitamins so so of course
you know if you had antibiotics that's
going to destroy your gut a lot of sugar
it will do it
and even when you do certain types of
cleanses we're doing colonics you flush
everything out and maybe you didn't put
things back in okay so fermented
vegetables probiotics are very very
important and by the way these microbes
consume fiber so that's where the
vegetables come in right you want it's
like food for these microbes there's one
more thing though the microbes need
vitamin D to survive so if you're low in
vitamin D that alone could starve off
the microbes which could then could keep
you be vitamin deficient especially it
would be five so let's say in the winter
months or like come summer when you get
all the Sun and you feel so good and
your digestive system works and your
mood starts going up will guess why boom
right here so these cofactors these B
vitamins are intimately involved in so
many things neurotransmitters hormones
metabolism those type of things but make
sure you have enough vitamin D get
enough Sun if it's winter then take a
good vitamin d3 to actually then feed
the microbes so that can make the B
vitamins so you actually can get through
this very smoothly all right talk you
later hey guys a lot of you already have
my book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has 156 images 378 pages full
glossary I talked about keto in a minute
fasting the body types in detail I have
a new stressed chapter I'm going to show
you exactly what to eat
any comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
