hi guys Dr Burg here in this video we're
going to talk about
sleepiness despite sleeping which
another word for that is called sence
okay so here you have this maybe it's
you or your child which just can't get
out of bed in the morning has that ever
happened it's happened to our family so
what that is it's a strong desire for
sleep even during the even despite
sleeping for eight or nine or even 10
hours this lethargy that you just can't
wake up okay there's several causes one
is higher insulin levels okay if you're
pre-diabetic or diabetic it could be the
thyroid being slow it could be low
sodium it could be too much magnesium it
could be high levels of calcium it's
called hypercalcemia in the blood from a
blood
test but the most common cause is a
simple vitamin B6 deficiency okay this
is number one right here so if your
child or you can't get out a bed just
give them B6 okay and watch what happens
it works like magic but the form you
want to uh give them um is called pyod
doxal 5 uh phosphate that is the active
form of B6 okay you can look it up
online I'll put a link down below as far
as the spelling so you can find it on
Amazon or go to the heal store that's
the one you want because it's five times
as strong as the inactive and it could
be that uh you or your family is not uh
converting it to the active form of B6
so um in fact I'll actually put a link
down below of a whole uh uh a video that
I did on B6 but yeah so this right here
you take some of that and it starts
making people more awake because it's
the Catalyst that just kicks in the
metabolism and it starts it to work
about a lot better all right so go ahead
and and try that and again we have a
checklist of other things you can check
for so we can get your energy up or your
family's energy up thanks for watching
