hey I have a question do you ever get
sleepy after we protein if you do this
video is for you okay so let's talk
about the conditions first so excessive
amounts of protein now what is excessive
mean about a pound of chicken wings
right that would be too much a large
huge twelve ounce steak but sometimes
when you go to a restaurant the portions
they bring you especially when you get
to meats are quite large okay they're
huge actually it can go up to twelve
ounces to fifteen ounces crazy I
recommend sticking with about three to
six ounces because anything more it
tends to overload the liver however if
you're a big guy if you're active if
you're younger and you're 18 you could
probably get away with a lot more
protein but just realize that if you go
too much it's going to make you go to
sleep because it's going to raise blood
sugars okay so excessive protein is one
number two low fat proteins the lower
the fat in the protein like whey protein
for example some of the other protein
powders the higher the insulin spike now
if you're consuming whey protein it's
not necessarily going to convert the fat
it will increase insulin it could make
you more tired especially if you do a
large amount so here's what happens when
you consume low fat like protein like
whey but you're not doing a lot of it it
will stimulate insulin from the pancreas
but there's another hormone that it will
also trigger called glucagon and what
does glucagon is it's not sugar it's not
glycogen it's not glucose its glucagon
okay that's a hormone that opposes
insulin and it's triggered typically
when you're not eating or it's triggered
by exercise or it's triggered by eating
protein okay
so if you're triggering insulin and
glucagon it's a lot better than just
triggering insulin because you're going
to counter some of the bad effects from
it okay you're not going to get fat
because this is a fat burning hormone so
what's gonna happen the whey protein
will be driven into the cells the
insulin will help it go in there
but here's the thing we don't want to
keep triggering instant too much because
it's going to create insulin resistance
so we want to keep it low do I recommend
whey protein powder no I don't it's
probably the least damaging of a lot of
different proteins but the problem is
that it's a kind of a refined product
and it'd be much better if you had more
of a natural protein that comes with in
nature which comes with more fat and
that has a lower insulin response okay
so now the next thing is protein with
carbs Wow when you consume a burger with
fries a burger with a bun burger with
ketchup you greatly enhanced insulin and
this is where you're gonna want to take
a nap okay so start like protein and
starches like potato not good meat
potatoes not good I was raised in the
Midwest we did meet Mateos 24/7
so that's why I'm doing the seminar
right now because I had a lot of body
problems back then okay so we want to
avoid that and then low stomach acids if
your stomach is not acidic enough maybe
you're getting older and that's why it's
going down maybe you ate junk food for a
long period of time and that weakened
your acids and the way that you know
that you have low stomach acids is that
you have indigestion bloating gas
heartburn acid reflux GERD that means
you need more acid okay that's going to
help the digestion of protein if you're
in a low salt diet for example sodium
chloride the chlorides are needed to
make hydrochloric acid so people that
are low salt dies for a long period of
time typically have lower stomach acids
then they start getting problems
digesting proteins in general so the
problem with the stomach of not being
able to digest protein is that you're
not going to have the raw material for
the building blocks to replenish all the
body parts but again if you're getting
tired after consuming protein then look
at these reasons why if you're getting
tired after consuming carbs we know it's
just insulin
and if you get tired after eating fats
that can be an overloading of the
gallbladder as well or the liver alright
so thanks for watching I will see you in
the next video hey thank you so much for
watching keep spreading the word and
share this video
