is it possible you might be overdosing
on the wrong vitamin E vitamin E is very
interesting because you'll see reports
that oh yeah vitamin E causes cancer it
causes cardiovascular damage now how can
that be we will talk about that and I'm
going to clear up the confusion so it'll
all make sense in 1964 it was discovered
that there is another vitamin E compound
vitamin E is not just one thing it's
many things in two different groups
we're just going to compare tokat trinal
to tals as far as antioxidants as far as
the potency tokat trinal hands down are
so much more powerful let's say for
example you just take one isolated part
of the vitamin E complex Alpha tofol and
you're taking it synthetically or even
naturally it's going to be more of a
prooxidant and create more damage this
is why you see mixed reviews on vitamin
E like wow one study it will show that
it creates some damage another study it
shows that it can actually help help
someone in some way but you're not
looking at the whole picture because in
nature antioxidants never come like that
let's talk a little bit more about these
tokat trinal because this might be new
to you I really like uh the tokat trinal
which just happens to have an
anti-cancer effect it also is a very
potent anti-inflammatory as well in
animal studies they found that the tokat
trino can even increase lifespan by 19%
some people might correlate that over to
humans probably just because the
antioxidant effect it's very powerful
protecting something against oxidation
that leads us to the next thing that
tokat trinal are really good at
neuroprotection let's say for example
someone had a stroke and they need some
quick repair tokat trinal would be the
answer for that and it definitely
protects the neurons in the brain
against oxidative damage it's really
good for any type of neurodegenerative
diseases that includes Parkinson's
Alzheimer's dementia tokat trinal also
have a similar effect to statins as far
as what they can do to oxidative LDL
which is behind uh inflammation inside
the arteries in one study within six
months dramatically decreased
atherosclerotic lesions and over time 18
months they could barely find those
lesions all the things that vitamin E
can help you with it's the arteries the
arteries that are involved in blood flow
to the heart as well as what tokat
trenos can do to the heart muscle itself
people can have heart attacks not from a
clogged artery but just the muscle just
doesn't have the oxygen and just cramps
up and then you have a heart attack if
someone adds intense exercise on top of
that you can imagine the level of
oxidative stresses like off the charts I
think after a workout a person should
take tokat trins tokat trinal can
actually increase the oxygen carrying
capacity if they took that after they
worked out they would see a a great
Improvement in recovery a lot of people
that do high altitude training or even
climb mountains take more vitamin E
because when you're at high altitudes
there's definitely a lot more oxidative
stress I probably personally would not
take a toafa I would take tokat trinal
because they're more potent you want to
take like maybe smaller amounts and
spread them out through the day anyone
with a age related cognitive decline
should be on a good tokat trinal
supplement there's also some interesting
data on using toatal to help reverse
some of the damage from radiation even
the the military is studying that as
well because they found in my studies
that even lethal doses of radiation can
be mitigated with these tokat trinal
there's also a pretty potent Scar Tissue
protection benefit if you have
inflammation in your liver for example
and you take toat trinal it can slow
down the progression going into the scar
tissue which I'm talking about curosis
what about tofr should we take them at
all do they work better for certain
things there are several advantages for
taking to cofal number one widespread
availability they're in a lot more Foods
green vegetables that have chlorophyll
in seeds in nuts they're in olives olive
oil another thing about tofol is that
there's a lot more research on toopal as
an antioxidant and what it can do it's
good for overall uh protection of the
cell membranes and oxidative stress but
toatal are more potent they're a lot
more expensive toopal you can get in in
a lot of different foods it's easy to
get it but toatal it's harder to get
tokat trinal there's a source called
aneto but I don't think many people
consume a Netto you'd have to get that
as a supplement probably the biggest
source of tokat trinal is in palm oil
I'm not talking about the refined
version but sometimes you can find a red
palm oil or a unrefined palm oil it's
loaded with toat trinal it's also a good
source of teals as well it's like 70%
toat trinal and 30% tals there is some
data I don't know if this is true where
if you take both toatal and tphols
together they tend to compete I don't
know if that's true I think over time
we're going to see a lot more
interesting things about these tokat
trinal there's more research being done
on this there's research heavy into the
areas of helping unblock arteries what
you also have to realize too in nature
vitamin E doesn't just work by itself it
works together with vitamin C it works
with with other nutrition these
antioxidants are recycled over and over
again for example you're really focused
on vitamin E but your deficient in
vitamin C you can create a problem with
that because they both need each other
to help recharge each other I know
sometimes people just want to know what
brand do you recommend I don't have a
brand I take a high quality tokat trinal
blend I usually take it right after I
work out I definitely feel a difference
from that a lot of times when people
take vitamins they don't necessar neily
feel a difference because they're
working a lot deeper that's why a better
understanding about nutrition just helps
you understand what you should be taking
or what you shouldn't be taking based on
your particular weaknesses or problems
you're trying to solve I have a lot of
inflammatory genes going on I'm always
trying to mitigate that anyway thanks
for watching and I will see you in the
next video
