hey guys I'm back in this video I want
to answer the question is it really safe
to be in ketosis if you're pregnant or
breastfeeding okay
there's some conflicting information out
there I mean there's some some things
online that will state that it's very
dangerous to do ketosis if you're
pregnant or breastfeeding because it
causes alteration and embryonic organs
yeah that's pretty scary right well if
you actually read this study it was done
in mice okay and you really have to pull
out pull a string to find out what they
fed the mice okay and I found out what
it is it's amazing it's basically a dye
it's called the ketogenic diet tb9 six
three five five all right right here and
this is what they fed the mice casein
vegetable shortening hydrogenated Crisco
okay that's a trend is are trans fats
corn oil and vitamin mix but all the
vitamins were synthetic well I want to
tell you right now you would never
consume this ever in fact if you did you
probably would have alteration in your
organs as well this is very unhealthy
and so if you do have some pet mice
don't feed them this either because it
could be dangerous but typically the
ketogenic diet is a very nutrient dense
diet filled with healthy fats and on the
one that the version I'm recommending is
oh it's a lot of vegetables as well but
what I believe is the shocker is these
infant formulas I don't know if you read
the ingredients
it's like 56 grams of corn syrup solids
I mean that's the same amount of sugar
that you would that would be in a
16-ounce coca-cola
that's incredible put corn syrup corn
multo dextran that has the highest
glycemic index sucrose it's all sugar
but with interesting they never list the
sugars on infant formulas they have the
carbohydrates but for some reason they
leave out the sugars I don't know why
that is but this is also all GMO right
here and probably the sucrose the sugar
is beet sugar which is all GMO as well
it's probably not even cane sugar so
what I should do the video on is not if
it's safe to be in ketosis but is it
safe to give your infant infant formula
all right
thanks for watching if you want to find
out more about your body type click the
link below and take the quiz
