hi guys I'm back in we're gonna talk
about what to say to your friends and
family members who keep pushing these
carbohydrates on you that tell you you
need more carbohydrates to increase your
energy kids need more carbohydrates it's
a healthy thing how do you deal with
that okay so let's just kind of go
through it there's certain comments made
that keto is not balanced okay it
doesn't include all the food groups
yeah well that's for a reason because
the refined carbohydrates is part of
that food group and refined sugar is not
real food it actually depletes you of
nutrients okay so you don't need those
eating those is not a balanced thing to
do because it's going to deplete
nutrients and of course they're gonna
say well they enrich it with synthetic
vitamins well it's not the same thing
I'm sorry it's not the same thing the
only group that is promoting this are
the food manufacturing people all right
so then we have this concept there is no
such thing as a bad food I know this
sounds utterly ridiculous yes there are
bad foods and there's good foods but
some people are putting this out there
usually food manufacturing companies to
get you just to think in moderation to
eat their junk food in moderation
okay so then we get the cheat day will
help you stick to it I hear this
sometimes when people say well dr. Berg
how come you don't have a cheat day it
allowed me to do it more consistently
and longer and stick to it
no won't because it's gonna increase
your blood sugar and then insulin is
gonna come in there and push it right
down now you're really gonna crave now
you're you're doing fine now you're
doing really bad because you're gonna
want the carbohydrate even more it's
kinda like having a cheat day with your
spouse is that going to increase a
healthy relationship what do you think I
don't think so or how about this one yes
it's true keto does help you lose weight
for the short term but it's too hard to
do it long term because it's so
restrictive well first of all it's going
to get rid of your cravings to
carbohydrates it's gonna get rid of you
the hunger making it incredibly easy to
do long term if you do the higher
carbohydrates with all the flexibility
of eating all the different food groups
you're going to gain weight and have a
lot of health problems plus you're
always going to be hungry and you're
gonna be craving
the wrong foods and actually the longer
you do it the easier it gets because
your body adapts to fat burning and it's
a natural thing and your and you'll feel
better and you'll want to stick to it
okay so realize there's no essential
carbohydrates there's no requirement for
carbohydrates okay there is none protein
and fat there is but not carbohydrate
and realize normal blood sugar and we're
just gonna say like eighty eighty would
be an example of a normal blood sugar
okay what does that mean it means that
you have about a teaspoon of sugar in
all of your blood that's a gallon and a
little bit more than a gallon and a half
of blood it's not that much an average
person consumes thirty-one teaspoons of
sugar okay
that's like 30 teaspoons more than you
need normally so that right there that
tells you our bodies were not designed
to consume that much sugar and you can
get that one teaspoon from eating fat or
protein you don't need to eat sugar to
get your sugar all right and realize
that diabetes is a disease of high sugar
in the blood okay that's what it is so
why would you want to add more sugar or
carbohydrate to a body that has too much
of it in the first place okay it's like
dumping gasoline on a fire
it's gonna make things a lot worse did
you realize that the number one cause of
death in Mexico is diabetes and they're
the top country that consumes the most
soda I'm gonna wonder if there's a
connection there yeah in America we have
diabetes ranked number seven as a killer
and that's simply because it's 65
percent of Americans
65 percent of the population is either
pre-diabetic or diabetic that means that
they're consuming too many carbs alright
thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
