today I'm going to tell you the fastest
way to get relief from trigeminal
neuralgia and there's two types so type
one is unilateral could be one side or
the other sudden brief shooting stabbing
and it could reoccur like every two
seconds up to two minutes uh twice a day
up to 200 times a day so it can be very
devastating type two is more achy
chronic not intense kind of always there
one of the big problems you're probably
running into is doing a search on
YouTube or Google to find good
information on this topic because very
recently with these new changes with
Google Now it's just all medical there's
no Alternatives especially when you type
in a medical condition which okay fair
enough and even if we type in natural
remedy for trigeminal neuralgia we get
the same thing medical medical medical
unfortunately it's very difficult to
find alternatives to Medical before I
kind of go into into this topic let's
just take a look at what the top video
says about trigeminal neuralgia welcome
back to Mayo Clinic radio I'm Dr Tom
Shives and I'm Tracy McCrae Tracy we
recently had a listener as you know
contact us and ask us to do a program on
trigeminal neuralgia and we listen we're
paying attention and so if people want
to hear about it we're going to listen
we invited two of the world's experts on
trigeminal to answer that inquiry on
trigeminal neuralia oh on trigeminal
neuralgia to answer that inquiry thanks
for listening joining us in studio are
Mayo Clinic neurologist Dr Chris baze
and neurosurgeon Dr Bruce Pollock
welcome to the program okay so that's
not really giving me a lot of confidence
in this video so far and why do they
have the comments off right I look at
the comments a lot especially when I'm
researching videos I want to know a lot
more about the comments and what people
are saying but let's go back to this
video I just want to know what type of
treatment that they do for this
condition let's take a look at that
assuming all that's come true and either
the medicines have stopped working or
you can't tolerate the medications then
we sort of go through the different
surgical options that are available um
the best surgery that we have in terms
of outcomes is where we go in and
actually move the blood vessels away
from the nerve um it is a a small
craniotomy uh so we make a small opening
behind the ear and we don't go through
any brain what we work in these natural
water sects that we have to go down and
see the see the trienal nerve and
mobilize a small artery off the nerve
and then put some padding in to keep it
away uh the surgery is known as a
microvascular decompression uh typically
takes us about two hours and the
hospital stay is typically two days but
you have to go through the skull to get
yes there is an open surgery so the
incisions behind the year about an inch
and a quarter all right so I need to get
another opinion I need to get more
information about this topic something
that does involve medications and
surgery I wonder if there's anything
else how am I going to go about finding
this I'm just going to show you what I
do the first thing I do number one is I
go to the authority on a lot of things
Wikipedia But I mainly go to Wikipedia
to find out what they're recommending so
I can go in the exact opposite direction
and I especially look at what they say
that definitely does not work because
chances are it probably works so I do
get a lot of great information with
Wikipedia um but it's in the reverse
Direction so the next thing I do is I
look at animal research you will find
all sorts of great remedies and
information for Animals because the
thing with animals is that either it's
going to work or it's not there's not a
lot of subjective things you can't ask
your pet dog you know how they feel
about certain things you have to create
a change or they're not going to use it
and then the next thing I do is I look
for um what is the gold standard what is
the main treatment for a particular
disorder and I start looking at the um
mechanism like how this drug actually
works what does it do does it inhibit an
enzyme what exactly does it do so then I
can actually look at other things like
herbs and plants that might create a
similar effect but of course without the
side effects and then I'll do a patent
search right I'll look at patents on
this particular disorder or disease or
problem in Europe okay or in some other
country in relationship to something
natural or an herb or something that I
can get some Clues on because what's
really cool about patents is they
summarize all the data and the
background and the research that's on
that particular topic that you'll never
be able to find if you do a search now I
also will get a good understanding of
the condition and in this situation
trial neuralgia there's definitely
problems with the myin sheath so I will
look deeply at anything related to what
can affect myelin especially in the area
of deating uh nerves and by the way
myelin is just the coding around the
nerve it's a fat coating and then what
I'll do is I'll look at other factors
like is it seasonal does it come at a
certain time of the year is it more in
men than women because I want to know if
estrogen could be more involved at what
age does a person usually get it is
there anything that usually comes before
this problem like for example a surgery
an injury a stress event maybe it
happens later in life or earlier all
these factors give me clues so let me
share what I found about this condition
the first bit of information I found
related to something called
polyunsaturated fatty acids there was
some research done on rats okay so if
you have a pet hamster or a Geral or a
rat this might pertain to you but this
polyunsaturated fatty acid you have two
different kinds you have the omega-3
fatty acids okay which they were using
in high doses to get rid of inflammation
in the nervous system and in the brain
but they were also looking at omega-6
fatty acids the seed oils which are not
anti-inflammatory in fact they're
pro-inflammatory they create
inflammation they create a lot of
oxidative stress and insulin resistance
and a lot of problems and these omega-6
oils seed oils can invade fatty
membranes like the myin sheath whereas
omega3 fatty acids help build milin
sheath but if you're consuming both at
the same time they compete with each
other the omega-3 is not going to work
so you must eliminate the omega-6 fatty
acids out of the diet and especially in
the area of processed foods and all the
different uh oils in the salad dressing
and the condiments and things like that
I'm talking about corn oil soy oil
canola cotton seed did you realize that
an average person consumes between 400
to 700 calories of this seed oil every
single day this is insan insane we are
human guinea pigs just experimenting
with this oil and it does correlate with
so many health problems okay the
introduction of these oils which are not
vegetable oils when you think about
these oils uh none of them uh relate to
any vegetables that you eat on a regular
basis it's seed oils I mean how much
corn do you have to crush to get certain
amounts of oil and also the soybeans and
the cotton seeds so it's weird that they
call them vegetable oils because they're
really seed oils now I found some other
interesting data
uh relating to viruses this is a pretty
heavy duty Association in one research
they did um experiments on cavers that
had this condition and they they open it
up and they found these viruses that
apparently make their home out of your
gangan which is the kind of a nerve
bundle the where the uh the trial nerve
originates from so there are four
primary viruses that they talked about
with the most common one being a herpes
virus h
hvv6 next one being like shingles the
vericella zuster which is like a the
chickenpox virus and next one is the
Epstein bar virus and then you also had
the cegala viruses what's interesting
about all of these viruses is they go in
and out of remission so they're called
latent viruses they can be reactivated
which does explain why trigeminal
neuralgia can come and go based on
various factors one is stress so I want
to kind of just briefly go through all
four of these viruses to to tell you
some of the other research I found as
the potential remedy let's start with
the hhv6 the herpes virus okay because
there's like
245 different herpes viruses this one is
is more common it can be other ones but
they're not as common but I found a
really good remedy for this it's an
extract from chiaki mushrooms okay and
I'll just give you the abbreviation ahcc
but there's some interesting research to
show that using that to help reduce pain
from that virus and potentially even
clearing out that virus so what I'm
doing now is just pointing you into a
certain direction to do more research on
I'm not going to give you specific
brands or Doses and things like that
because we don't know because there are
multiple reasons why you might have this
condition it could be even from a tumor
which is very rare it could be from
physical injury it could be from a
surgery that you had in your sinuses so
you really want to look at all these
factors too okay now what about this
vercella zasta this like shingles virus
um vitamin D3 in high doses like 50,000
I use would be a really good thing and I
would add zinc to that because in order
for vitamin D to work you need zinc and
you need magnesium as well but vitamin D
is a a powerful anti-inflammatory and um
it's something that you can even get
topically for shingles and it also works
good on stic pain and other types of
pain and back pain but it can definitely
help put this shingles virus back in
remission now what about epine Barb
virus this is one that is really nasty
because it can really make you tired
cause fibromyalgia there is a lot of
different remedies out there I'm just
going to tell you from personal
experience from myself and from working
with a lot of patients this is like 100%
activated by stress so you just have to
find out what is stressing you out and
figure out how you can reduce that
stress and that is probably the best
advice I can give you on that virus the
cytomegalo virus this is another one
found some research on berberine yeah
berberine actually can help put this
virus back in remission I did find some
other research on trigeminal neuralgia
specifically supporting that nerve
tissue to drop
inflammation and I'll list the full name
down below but I'm just going to kind of
give you the initials of it it's p a
slash
lolin which is a natural thing in a lot
of different foods that you eat and
because these molecules are fairly big
you want to get it micronized or broken
up into small particles but it
apparently is a very powerful
neuroprotective
anti-inflammatory and then with the
second compound lolin that adds the
antioxidants because the first compound
doesn't have that factor but apparently
this is something you can take orally uh
with some good results now another
remedy that I found some interesting
research on is called
DMSO which has great anti-inflammatory
properties it's very very penetrating
you can put some on your foot and you
can just actually taste it within
seconds it's like you taste like a
garlic taste to it but DMSO has been
used for a lot of different pain
problems pain syndromes the only thing
it's uh it penetrates uh the tissues
pretty fast so you wouldn't want to put
it with something that's toxic so for
example if you're trying to kill your
rat with rat poisoning and it's on your
hands and you put the this DMSO on your
hands it's going to drive that poison
right in your tissue so you want to
clean the area before you put it on that
tissue so like if you have um I don't
know makeup on your face or some type of
skin lotion clean that off then you can
rub in that
DMSO uh wherever it originates and
there's been uh some really fascinating
re resarch on this it's been around for
a long time for things like Phantom Pain
um post-operative like you had surgery
now you have pain it's also good for
post-traumatic type problems you had
some injury and trigeminal neuralgia so
in one study which I'm going to put down
below 32 out of 37 people uh experience
relief and uh you know you could
literally combine that first remedy the
Pea SL lolin with the DM MSO to drive
that in deeper I don't know it's just an
idea it may work because anything you
put with DMSO it drives it in there
whether you do aloe vera or other types
of things now we come to the technique
I'm going to show you to dramatically
reduce the pain very quickly this
technique doesn't fix the problem
permanently but it can greatly reduce
the pain very fast okay and I use this
in practice it was very effective it
worked
probably in 70% of the cases the type of
cases that it doesn't work on if it's
really really viral related and there's
like this active outbreak or infection
it will not work on that but it works
really good on if you had some type of U
injury or post surgery so the whole
theory of it is you're breaking up this
uh brain circuitry that it keeps U
causing pain this is keeps going and
going all right there's an amazing
technique that I'm going to show you
right now to drop the pain it doesn't
correct it but it at least it'll drop
the pain pretty fast and here's what you
do first of all you isolate where the
Pain's coming from let's just pretend
it's on the left side like right here
okay what you do is you you're going to
be pressing on the mere image on the
opposite side the key is to mirr image
to get the exact epicenter of wherever
this is on the good side don't mess on
the bad side just press on the good side
and you're going to massage it now the
way that you know you have the exact
correct spot to press on is it'll be
very tender it will the good side will
be tender actually probably more tender
than this side so you find it and you
just kind of massage it for you know
about a minute okay and then notice the
bad side if it's there at all it's going
to drop the pain so let's say for
example you did this and it moved down
okay then you just go down and then all
of a sudden oh wow that that got rid of
that but now it moved back over here and
you keep doing that until this is m
manageable this is something you could
do through the day as you start using
some of these other remedies to help
yourself but I've used this in practice
for years it really came in handy and
it's not something they teach you in
school in fact they teach you the
opposite they'll teach you to put
therapy on this side you know mess with
this nerve no work on the the good side
you'll see it'll work just try it out
now if you're not on my list to receive
uh my newsletter on all sorts of
unfiltered content on my website I put
that link down below too because I have
a lot of cool things I want to share
with you that unfortunately I can't put
on YouTube so click the link down below
and I will see you on the other
side
