hey guys today we're going to talk about
muscle growth growth hormone and
carbohydrates a lot of times you'll hear
to build muscle you need to be in a high
carb diet I'm gonna give you some data
on this topic but first I need to
explain what growth hormone does and
this is all based on guidance physiology
ok I'll give the references down below
and you can check it out so what does
growth hormone do first of all you need
to know it's produced by the pituitary
ok now a lot of hormones are made by the
pituitary hormones that control the
thyroid the adrenal the gonads okay and
those hormones from the pituitary go
right to those glands okay
growth hormone does work for the liver
but it is unique in that it doesn't just
go to the liver to influence the hormone
called insulin like growth factor it can
go to all of your cells okay because it
has a lot of different effects here are
the main effects number one it enhances
amino acid transport through your cells
because growth hormone is all about
protein growth and producing proteins in
the body number two it enhances
ribosomes what's a ribosome well it is a
little machine in your cell that makes
certain proteins from amino acids okay
so it's kind of like a little carpenter
shop where you take the wood and you put
it together and you build things right
well the wood is the amino acid and the
actual finished product that you're
building is a protein the body cuz I
don't know it could be a hair it could
be a neurotransmitter it could be a
muscle cell and number two relates to
number three which which basically is
about enhancing the DNA going into the
RNA the DNA are the blueprints so if
you're gonna build something in your
carpenter shop you need blueprint right
you need the raw material to which are
the amino acids but you also need to
plan so can the blueprints well growth
hormone causes the copying of the master
blueprint which is the DNA to a copy of
that and that's called RNA so there's
these little tiny little machines that
are unwinding the DNA and making copies
of that and producing
RNA and it's interesting because the
little mechanism that unwinds this
strand goes so fast it's the speed of a
jet engine I mean it's incredibly fast
it's fascinating so we have the
blueprint that then helps you make the
protein okay number four it decreases
catabolism okay now what is that this is
a state where you're breaking down
protein from the body so you have
catabolic effects which are breakdown
effects and you have anabolic effects
which are a building up effect but
growth hormone is a protein spare which
means it protects you against the
breakdown of protein now there are other
hormones that K that create a breakdown
of tissue that would be cortisol in this
book right here
the endocrine book Cushing's syndrome
you can see that high levels of cortisol
will start eating up your protein
especially in your thigh muscle and your
thigh and then also in your butt and
then it converts that to fat okay but
growth hormones different growth hormone
protects you against this situation
number five it enhances all aspects of
fat utilization okay whereas the protein
synthesis occurs within minutes after
growth hormone spikes the enhancement of
fat utilization because your body is now
going to be running on fatty acids
occurs several hours later it's kind of
delayed and I'll show you right in this
book right here this is right here
therefore under the influence of growth
hormone fat is utilized for energy in
preference to both carbohydrates and
proteins so with growth hormone the fuel
that's driving that is the fat that's
being burned okay and that relates to
number six which growth hormone
decreases the rate of glucose
utilization by yourselves
so it basically blocks the use of
glucose okay we'll come back to that a
little bit later okay at number seven
create a ketogenic effect why because
it's mobilizing all this fat
the fats going through the liver it's
making ketones as well so the body's
running on two types of fuel mainly it's
going to be fatty acids and also ketones
okay that's the fuel source okay so now
let me go into the next part okay so the
question is do any carbs to make protein
okay well here's the data growth hormone
fails to cause growth in animals lacking
a pancreas okay so you do need insulin
you need normal amounts of insulin to
make proteins in the body but you don't
need excessive amounts and here's the
problem 60% of the population has
something called insulin resistance and
when you have insulin resistance you
have blood sugar issues you're kind of
like a pre-diabetic you can't go long
periods of time without getting hungry
in this situation typically you have
high levels of insulin but you also have
symptoms of low insulin because it's
dysfunctional because insulin resistance
blocks the ability for that
intracellular function to work when you
do carbo-loading you worsen insulin
resistance because the body is trying to
protect itself against too much insulin
okay so it just shuts down the cell the
other thing you need to know is that
growth hormone stimulates the release of
insulin as well and this is why one of
the side effects of growth hormone is
diabetes but not from your body making
it it's from people who actually take it
externally like you're gonna take human
growth hormone you're gonna inject it as
an anti-aging thing so basically you
need normal amounts of insulin but you
don't need excessive amounts okay
because when your insulin resistance you
can't really absorb the amino acid in
the cell regardless of consuming more
protein in the diet or consuming more
carbs it doesn't work now what elevates
growth hormone fasting fasting has a
potential to increase growth hormone by
one to two thousand percent okay intense
exercise will boost growth hormone but
you have to make sure that you rest in
between throughout the week so you don't
overtrain high-quality deep sleep will
enhance
growth hormone trauma will enhance
growth hormone but of course your body's
in repair mode that's a different
situation so I don't suggest you go get
in a car accident to try to stimulate
your growth hormone that would be a very
bad idea okay
arginine okay which is an amino acid
that has the potential to increase
growth from low blood sugar okay so in
other words keeping your blood Sugar's
from going too high can enhance growth
hormone okay now one of the things that
inhibit growth from eating too
frequently no exercise insomnia having
high levels of stress and high levels of
cortisol not having enough protein in
the diet but excessive protein does not
stimulate growth hormone okay I just
realize growth hormone is the main
hormone that helps you with your your
protein metabolism and consuming large
amounts of protein has not been found to
enhance that hormone okay but you need
moderate amounts of protein and you
definitely don't want to do a low
protein diet you want to just do
moderate amounts so that would be
between three to six to sometimes eight
ounces of protein in a given meal okay
and then high levels of sugar I mean
look at it I bet ik they usually always
have problems with their muscle
metabolism they had atrophy because of
this situation right here
why because high sugar causes more
insulin resistance alright guys that's
it that's a wrap I'll see you next time
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
