sleep deprivation has profound effects
on your well-being in this video would
explain those effects and then what to
do about it it can increase your risk of
diabetes it can increase insulin
resistance which comes before diabetes
increase your blood pressure it can
cause a heart attack directly it can
make you fat it affects your mood puts
you in a state of depression anxiety
worry it can increase your risk of
getting a stroke it can make you more
susceptible to injury in getting in an
accident it also decreases your
attention your focus and your memory and
it severely affects your mental state
and even your vision other than that it
won't affect any other part of the body
and you have nothing to worry about
but what is the actual root cause and
why can't people sleep and the number
one thing behind having a sleep problem
is being in flight or fight mode okay
being in the flutter fight is like being
chased by a tiger you're gonna have
adrenaline go up you're gonna of
cortisol go up your body is prepared for
some emergency or sudden survival action
as in flight run away or stand there and
fight try to sleep if you're running
away from something or you're fighting
something now this mechanism is part of
something called the sympathetic nervous
system and by itself it's really just
sending signals to certain muscles and
glands which actually have the ability
to contract hormones and it'll affect
the muscle called the diaphragm that
affects your breathing so the actual
reason why you can't sleep has to do
with increase muscle tone so there's
certain muscles in your body that will
not let go they will not relax if your
diaphragm is being activated it's going
to affect your breathing you're gonna be
holding your breath you're not gonna
have a relaxed breath this is why
control breathing actually can help you
sleep as well but the point you need to
know there are certain muscles on your
body that are in a state of tightness
and that tension
just won't let you drift off into a nice
sleep but if you're the sleeping problem
I want you to do something right now
now you're probably watching this in the
middle of the night because this is on
sleep deprivation if so I want you to
isolate what muscle or muscles have
tension in them is it your traps
is it your lower back is it the muscles
on the front part of the chest
is it the muscles in the abdomen through
here is it the legs it isn't your hip
make mental no all right so now that you
identified what muscles that are tight
this is the technique and it's a bit
counterintuitive you want to locate the
muscle tightness and then you want to
stretch the opposite muscle okay now
what does that mean well let's just
pretend that your trap muscles up here
are tight you know you're like this okay
so your trap muscles raise your arm like
that right so the opposing muscle would
be the muscles that bring your arm down
they're called the last they're
underneath your arms I put a little
chart down below but here's what you
want to do you just want to stretch the
opposite muscle so in the example of the
traps you're gonna stretch the lats so
you would take the top of the door or a
bar at the gym and stretch okay you're
gonna stretch the opposite muscle what's
gonna happen it's gonna melt these traps
and the more that these muscles relax
the better you're gonna sleep this is
why stretching before bed is so so
important so that's step one and you can
check out the muscles down below and get
some ideas on what type of stretching
you need to do now the next thing to do
relates to acupressure okay now you can
use acupressure on other reasons why you
have muscular tension - like cold
injuries for example and I put some
really good links down below of how to
do acupressure how to handle old
injuries and so you can start applying
at your body because if every part of
your body was in a total state of
relaxation you would be able to sleep
now you also have three electrolytes
that are involved with the relaxation of
muscles you have magnesium potassium and
calcium so if you are low in
electrolytes that can also affect the
muscle relaxation alright guys so go
ahead
try this apply it comment down below and
check out some of these videos on this
screen I'll see you next time
you
