so bad cholesterol LDL is not
cholesterol and is not bad
okay so the first point I want to bring
up just to try to make this really
simple is you have these little
factories in your cells okay and you
have certain factories that make
proteins okay and basically what they do
is they take the building blocks of
protein which are amino acids and they
start connecting them in certain shapes
to form different proteins and that's
what you know skin hair nails certain
hormones you know transmitters they're
just different shapes of assembled amino
acids okay so one factory makes protein
the other one makes lipids certain fats
that make up your body you got fat in
your skin yes fat in your brain and your
nervous system okay then we have
steroids that make certain hormones like
estrogen progesterone testosterone
cortisol things like that and then we
have a detox function as well okay so if
you drink alcohol for example your body
has to break that down well it's this
factory that breaks it down and the name
of this factory is called rough
endoplasmic reticulum and this factory
is called smooth endoplasmic reticulum
not that you need to know that but this
is where it starts okay and this has to
be sent to a dispatch center like a post
office okay so this post office packages
proteins for sending and being secreted
through the body so it's very similar to
the post office where they have to
package it and put a label on it okay
with postage so it could be sent out
that's called the Golgi body so one of
the things that these two mechanisms
make our cargo boats because the fat
needs to be delivered through the blood
and it doesn't dissolve well so oil and
water don't mix well so it has to be
packaged into a protein so this is what
a lipoprotein is it's a protein shell
that holds fat
so it could be transported called a
cargo boat now let's go to the liver
right here we have the liver when you're
not eating makes these cargo boats okay
and inside the liver you have these two
mechanisms going on right here
and so these lipoproteins are made and
one of the lipoproteins is called VLDL
very low density lipoprotein basically
you have certain percentages of
cholesterol triglycerides protein and
other fats and all the fat soluble
vitamins you have vitamin A II D k1 k2
okay so the purpose of a V LDL is to
send out this this cargo and unload
these materials okay and these vitamins
so it provides the fuel to the cell like
in triglycerides it provides material
for the cell walls it provides material
to build bile make vitamin D certain
hormones and of course the antioxidants
as well okay so when this unloads its
cargo it turns into a LDL low-density
lipoprotein now what's the difference
between this and this well we just have
different percentages of materials so
we're going from 10% cholesterol to 26%
cholesterol we're going up because we're
lowering the triglycerides so the ratio
is going to be a little bit higher that
make sense cell so look at the 70%
triglycerides in this but now then the
10 so it dumps a lot of triglyceride for
the fuel to feed the cells and 10%
protein 25% protein okay 10 percent
other fats and 15 percent other fats so
basically just see the ratios are
changed and that's really the difference
now people associated this with bad
cholesterol because this happens to be
in the location we have a clogged artery
well guess what it's at the location of
the crime scene but it's there to help
heal it okay
to provide a band-aid to bring the
cholesterol to help heal it LDL is only
dangerous if you have oxidized
cholesterol okay now to understand this
a little bit more I downloaded a very
important research article evidence that
acute insulin administration enhances
LDL cholesterol susceptibility to
oxidation and healthy humans now
basically I'm just going to give you the
conclusion okay I'm gonna read this to
you in conclusion insulin at
physiological doses that means greater
amounts of insulin is associated with
increase LDL parry oxidation basically
it's oxidized cholesterol right that's
what we're talking about independent of
the presence of hyperglycemia and
basically insulin can oxidize
cholesterol regardless of how high your
blood sugars are okay now why do they
say that because of this next point
right here this result supports the
possibility that insulin resistance okay
may be implicated in the genesis of
early atherosclerosis and/or the
progression of atherosclerosis which is
hardening of the arteries through the
attendant hyperinsulinemia what does
that mean it means that you could have
oxidized cholesterol if the insulin is
high but it's not necessarily coming
from eating sugar necessarily it's
coming because you have insulin
resistance and then of course originally
came from eating sugar but insulin
resistance itself produces a lot more
insulin so it's a kind of a feedback
mechanism that you're producing about
five to seven times more insulin than a
normal person and that can create the
oxidation of cholesterol so we have two
things that can create bad LDL one is
high sugar and the other is high insulin
okay so I just wanted to point that out
and I'll put a link down below if you
wanted to read this
you don't have to worry about having a
higher LDL if you're on keto as long as
your Sugar's down and your insulin is
lower by doing healthy keto and
intermittent fasting over a period of
time what's going to happen is your
insulin resistance is going to heal and
the cholesterol is eventually going to
come down alright so I just wanted to
make this as simple as possible I hope
you understand a little bit better you
don't have to worry about this it's not
bad it's a boat
that's there for a reason it's
transporting fuel it's trying to help
you the bottom line is you just need to
do things to keep your blood sugars and
your insulin in a normal range thanks
for watching so if you're enjoying this
content go ahead and share it with
someone that could really benefit from
it
