hey guys today we're going to talk about
the sauna and using dry heat to improve
your health okay
so the benefit of using a dry sauna is
quite extensive let's start with number
one increasing circulation the
sympathetic nervous system okay which by
the way is located in the adrenals and
also through your back and in your brain
basically open up the sweat glands and
as a survival mechanism you're sweating
to cause evaporation to cool down the
body but of course you're in the sauna
that's not gonna happen but that's why
you would sweat because your body is
reacting to the heat to cool it down and
this is called homeostasis okay so you
have this blood flow vasodilation you
you're moving a lot of blood through the
body which is really good for
circulation and lymph flow okay so then
we have detox okay so yes it is true
that you will detoxify certain things
from your body but just realize the the
true deadly chemicals and the toxins in
the body are more fats liable which
means they're stuck in your fat cells so
when you're doing let's say go to the
gym and you just dry sauna they're not
gonna come out okay you'll pull other
things out but those require a more
extensive program which would involve a
sauna and certain nutrients and taking
certain oils I'm not gonna actually
cover that in this video but if you want
more information there's a book you can
do a search on called clear body clear
mind but that's probably one of the most
extensive but most effective programs
out there for detox and also even drug
rehab we have the next benefit with your
sleep the amount of relaxation that can
occur after a sauna is huge you're gonna
feel really relaxed your stress is gonna
go down your sleep is going to improve
okay sauna treatment will decrease
oxidative stress because it increases
your own body's antioxidant levels okay
that's pretty cool it can decrease
muscle tension decrease inflammation in
pain elevate your mood and on top of
that I found that it can even increase
your growth hormone okay there was a
study in 1976 that shows that you can
increase growth hormone by
a hundred and forty percent that's
pretty cool now if you're gonna do the
sauna treatment I recommend that you go
between five and twenty minutes and
length between a temperature of 176
Fahrenheit to 212 Fahrenheit or 80 to
100 Celsius and you can do periodic
steam there's usually going to be rocks
in there you're gonna add some water and
create this steam burst and also realize
that when you sweat okay you're losing
not all the electrolytes
you're losing sodium and chloride mainly
but not potassium or magnesium so if you
feel a little dizzy coming out of the
sauna add a little salt and some water
and that will just pull you right out of
it alright guys there you have it that's
my summary of the dry heat sauna so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications daily notifications
that sounds weird well I'll just remind
you on a daily basis how about that
