hey guys I wanted to create this video
based on some questions about some
mothers that are breastfeeding and they
wanted to know how do we transition from
breast milk to actual food okay now the
ideal situation is that you breastfeed
for 18 years and I'm being totally
sarcastic okay but it would be ideal for
you to breastfeed at least for one year
but even longer would be better and what
I'm going to show you is in addition to
the breast milk but you might not even
need to do this right here if your child
is content with the breast milk
now let me just back up for a second
it's really really really really really
important
um what a mother consumes two years
before they become pregnant
so always plan it out and I'm sure
that's what happened to you right you
plan it out for at least five years and
you started to grow a healthy body so
that way when you're growing this baby
that baby has everything that they need
okay some key foods for the mother are
plant-based trace minerals very very
important uh especially like iodine
selenium Cobalt manganese all these
minerals very important to prevent
issues like malformation of your jaw and
the teeth and even scoliosis or flat
feet just to prevent all that stuff
nutritional yeast for the B vitamins
very very important fat soluble vitamins
vital cod liver oil I like that the best
high Quality Meats so those are some
things that a mother should consume
and the other thing that's really
important is eggs so some mothers during
the later part of pregnancy consume like
six or more eggs
per day and you might think wow that's a
lot of cholesterol but all that
cholesterol is necessary to develop
hormones in the cellular membranes of
that fetus so it's very very important
don't don't go low fat that's for sure
and I don't like the idea of a prenatal
that's synthetic gives a food-based uh
nutrient okay that being said
the digestive system of this baby is not
developed yet so you have to go slowly
watch for any reactions we don't have
the normal flora in the gut what's
interesting is that infant produces a
good amount of lactase which is the
enzyme to break down lactose milk sugar
so babies were designed to consume
breast milk when we get a little older
that enzyme kind of goes away so that's
why you have people that are lactose
intolerant they don't have the enzyme to
break down the milk sugar all right
cholesterol I already talked about that
really important in growth and hormones
now you want to avoid cereals and Grains
for sure for these babies because you
see that all the time like you go to the
store and they sell baby cereal like you
don't want to do that because that's
going to block minerals to refined
carbohydrates not very good breast milk
doesn't have a lot of vitamin D so
unless you're getting Sun take some
additional vitamin D3 you can also get
it directly for the infant in these
little bottles and just give your infant
a small amount each day
unless you can get sun that would be
even better okay so right about four
months
um there's two things that you want to
enhance the breast milk with and these
are just additional things it's not a
food replacement it's just an
enhancement
um the egg yolk not the white the white
you can have at year one so you boil the
eggs take the yolk out mash it with a
little sea salt and that's one thing you
would want to feed your baby and cod
liver oil okay those two things right
here make sure you get the Virgin cod
liver oil it's more expensive but it's
high quality and you'd be surprised how
much your baby likes it you can get a
little dropper full and put about a
fourth of a teaspoon or even a little
spoon and give it to your baby and Lucy
who is my granddaughter just loves it
now what's unique about cod liver oil
that's not in fish oil is that not only
do we have an important essential fatty
acids omega-3 DHA and EPA which are
essential for brain development and
nervous system development and immune
development
but it has vitamin A and vitamin D
two really really key
um vitamins so then at the sixth month
you can give your child a little puree
meat of course you can also continue to
give egg yolk and cod liver oil
um but make sure it's grass-fed
um the infant that's developing doesn't
need carbohydrate they need protein and
fat mostly and animal protein and fat is
going to be the best source a little
avocado would be fine at this point just
a little bit to see how they respond to
it start to feed the microbes at this
age all right so now that's six to eight
months you can introduce like carrot
beet maybe even a little sweet potato I
would steam these or cook them add some
butter grass-fed and just a little bit
and introduce a little bit with the
breast milk of course and unsweetened
kefir just a little bit okay uh goats
milk kefir is going to be way better
than cow's milk kefir then in eight
months you can add some vegetable soups
stews uh and cottage cheese make sure
this is organic make sure these are
homemade then at one year you can do a
little bit of nut or Nut Butter maybe a
little seeds uh vegetable and the whole
egg but make sure you germinate the
seeds in the nuts because they have
enzyme Inhibitors and other
anti-nutrients that could be a problem
so anyway I just wanted to create this
quick video and for those women that
absolutely cannot breastfeed there's a
really good recipe from Western price
I'm going to put a link down below it
does take a little bit of work to make
it but I think it's way way more
Superior than anything out there all
right guys thanks for watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
