so I want to talk about ketones in your
brain your brain actually does not need
to adapt to ketosis let's say you have
this idea that you want to start the
ketogenic diet and you start getting
brain fog and someone tells you well
that's because you're in the transition
phase and it takes a while to transition
into full ketosis okay now that's
partially true but the brain is an
exception and it doesn't need to adapt
anything it doesn't need to create new
machinery or new enzymes or anything it
has the capacity to run on ketones
immediately and your brain actually
prefers ketones a certain portion of the
brain will always run on glucose okay
one third of the brain but two-thirds of
the brain runs on ketones and what's
unique about the brain is that 23% of
all the energy that you generate is used
by the brain so why is this significant
okay well here's the thing when you
start a ketogenic plan you want to feel
better right you don't want to have
mental dullness you want to have high
powered energy you want to have focus
you want have a lot of energy but if
you're getting brain fog mental fatigue
depression or any lowered emotional
state realize that there's just not
enough ketones
available as the fuel source it's not
that your brain needs to adapt and it
takes time if the ketones are there
it'll suck it right up okay so ketones
come from endogenous sources which means
that your body can make them by lowering
your carbohydrate okay so let me show
you in this section right here what
determines how many ketones are in the
brain is your blood ketone level okay it
needs to be high and what determines
this is the amount of insulin it still
needs to be normal but it needs to be on
the low side and but glucose needs to be
low okay so these two right here will
determine how many ketones and it does
take some time it could take three to
five days for this to start to really
develop and actually break down your fat
more efficiently but the point is that
the more ketones you have in the blood
the brain will be able to have them
available to start working and the brain
does not have to
gapped it doesn't take time and the
reason I'm telling you that is that you
can very easily assist this process by
either taking some ketones for a few
days or MCT oil okay which will help you
generate more ketones faster that way
you can have brain energy right away and
that would be the other source is
exogenous outside the body you can get
them as ketone salts or MCT oil things
like that and as a side note an infant
can absorb ketones 15 times faster than
an adult and this is a survival
mechanism because of this the the brain
needs a lot of energy to work so to help
the brain survive it has a mechanism to
absorb both types of fuel and especially
as that infants brain is developing it
needs fuel as a priority now what's
interesting is that the part of the
brain that uses ketones is a cerebral
cortex a hypothalamus the pituitary and
the pineal gland and this is why a lot
of people start improving their
cognitive function okay because of this
right here if they have memory problems
dementia or neuro degeneration or
Alzheimer's or Parkinson's or any type
of damage with the brain they're not
going to be able to absorb glucose
efficiently the cool thing is that
ketones bypass the whole mechanism and
drive fuel right into certain parts of
the brain the hypothalamus the pituitary
the pineal our endocrine glands okay and
so ketones feed the endocrine system
it's very very important to restore
endocrine hormone function through
ketosis as well as the autonomic nervous
system that is a combination between the
sympathetic and the parasympathetic and
that's another reason why people that
have problems with this system they're
too much in like stress mode like
they're in flight or fight or they can't
sleep when they go get into ketosis they
do better in fact a tremendous amount of
ketones go to the pituitary and pineal
okay Peniel helps you sleep so in
summary if you wanted to prevent the
brain fog or the Aikido fatigue NCT oil
is gonna be a really good idea also if
you personally or know of someone who
has Alzheimer's or any type of memory
problems MCT oil and also exogenously
tones as a way to supplement and speed
up the results of getting more ketones
into that brain thanks for watching so
if you want to get notified with all my
content click the notification bell next
to subscribed
