90% of blood pressure is called
essential hypertension and they don't
even know what causes it after all of
this research today I'm going to unravel
blood pressure and give you some natural
solutions that uh may have a lot less
side effects than medication of course
check with your doctor before
implementing any of these Solutions so
you have about a
100,000 miles of blood vessels in your
body well that is a lot of blood vessels
and these blood vessels do go to many
Loc ations in your body many organs in
fact all of your organs receive blood
from your vascular system and so the
problems with blood pressure extend Way
Beyond just the vascular system Way
Beyond just your heart it can affect the
brain it can affect your eye it can
affect the kidney increasing your risk
of getting heart attacks and it
definitely increases your risk of
getting a stroke by a factor of 3x and
blood pressure problems are very common
if you're over 60 you have a 50% chance
of getting hypertension to me that is
just way way too high now hypertension
can also be compensating for various
things for example if you have hypoxia
let's say in your lungs you have COPD
you have a lung problem where you don't
have enough oxygen the body is going to
automatically sense that and start
increasing blood pressure to get more
blood in the area to get more oxygen low
oxygen situation in another place so
when someone then takes medication to
lower the blood pressure pressure what
happens to the lungs right it already is
not getting enough oxygen now it's
really not going to get enough oxygen so
this is one reason why people don't
really feel good many times when they
get on blood pressure medication
especially in the brain because it
creates other issues I mean I think a
really important question would be to
understand why you have high blood
pressure in the first place and this is
just not emphasized very well it's more
like well you have this disease we don't
really know what it is take this
medication for a while you know drink
more water get more exercise etc etc
from my viewpoint there's several common
reasons for blood pressure low potassium
low
magnesium and low vitamin D levels so if
I had
hypertension those would be three things
that I would look at immediately but
instead in the medical profession you're
told to restrict sodium that is the
primary focus not to increase potassium
to reduce sodium and if that doesn't
work then the next thing to do is to
give you a water pill a diuretic
primarily they use a common one called
hydrochloro thide This is a diuretic it
gets rid of fluid and the sodium in the
fluid but it is also a silent depleter
of potassium so now we end up with lower
amounts of potassium and a potassium
deficiency could be the reason why you
have high blood pressure in the first
place now we go from low potassium to
extremely low potassium so therefore
this going to be more need for
medication and of course when we talk
about potassium they may recommend
potassium but unfortunately potassium
only comes in 99 milligram pills or less
and the requirement for potassium is
quite high it's like 4700 milligrams and
you have these pills that are 99
milligrams okay how many times this 99
or let's just round it off to 100 going
to
4700 okay okay you do the math you'd
have to have a lot of pills but this
diuretic also depletes
magnesium the other common reason why
people have high blood pressure another
side effect of this diuretic is the
increase of homosysteine now if that
doesn't work there's always the calcium
channel blockers okay those are
medications for high blood pressure as
well just working from a different angle
the problem is it has some slight minor
complications if you take it chronically
over five years it can have a tendency
to shrink your brain it also tends to
increase your risk of certain types of
cancer and in one study as far as the
effectiveness goes they compared it
against other medications that lower
blood pressure and it really only
brought your blood pressure down by 0.1
that's only like on10th of one point
okay so to me that's pretty
insignificant then you have other
medication like the ACE inhibitors
problem is with that one it does
increase the risk of getting allergies
or even being allergic to the medication
significantly also it can create a
chronic cough as a side effect now I'm
not sure if you got the recent memo
about aspirin they finally found out
that it doesn't really give you um many
good benefits the outcomes are not that
great and this was in jamama Aspirin
myio cardial infarction study research
group they found out that an aspir today
has no benefit now there was another
study that rekindled uh recommending
aspirin taking an aspirin a day but they
didn't even use aspirin they used
bufferin okay which is a different type
of medication and that had magnesium
oxide okay magnesium actually helps
lower blood pressure and they also had
added some beta cartine so who knows
what was causing what there's something
else that you should know about it's
called Nitric
oxide nitric oxide greatly
supports the inner layer of the arteries
okay it helps to lower blood pressure
because it's a
vasodilator some people even try to
increase it to uh handle their erectile
dysfunction because that's a vascular
problem you see we're so focused on the
arteries but it can affect a lot of
things you probably heard of even
vascular dementia because of what it can
do to the brain we have an enzyme that
helps make nitric oxide okay and that
enzyme can be inhibited or turned off to
a certain degree by a genetic variation
problem so if you have this problem you
might not have the benefit of that
enzyme to make nitric oxide thereby
developing hypertension and you can get
a test to evaluate if you have this
problem um there's a couple ways to do
it you can uh look at a DNA test or even
uh get this other test it's called
ADM and that's stands for
asymmetrical dimethyl Arginine so
getting that test will tell you very
quickly if you're making enough of this
nitric oxide now the solution that I
would recommend that has very minimal
side effects if any is just to go out
and buy some L Arginine L Arginine will
help you make more nitric oxide so you
can just include that as your uh
protocol for helping yourself with this
high blood pressure situation another
really good natural remedy for high
blood pressure is garlic garlic can act
as a natural ace inhibitor as well as
increasing this nitric oxide another
really good food to take if you have
high blood pressure is celery celery has
a a couple powerful
phytonutrients that can help lower blood
pressure and reduce adrenaline so it
helps you sleep it helps your blood
pressure you'd want to take like four
stocks of the celery maybe with your
last meal of the day and you'll find
that you'll actually get some benefit
from that now to support the endothelial
layer of your arteries tokros is one of
the best remedies for that that's a type
of vitamin E so when you think about
anything um damaging the inside of the
artery think tokat trinal and tokros are
really good for Angina heart problems
but especially to help act as a powerful
antioxidant for the in side layer of
your arteries let's summarize everything
so we have potassium magnesium where can
you get that from salads okay larger
amounts of salads on a regular basis you
can also get these an electrolyte powder
as well vitamin D3 you can get that from
the sun it's very hard in the winter so
start taking vitamin D3 that might just
handle your blood pressure but you need
to take at least 20,000 IUS every single
day start including garlic in the diet
celery and don't forget about the uh L
Arginine okay you can get in a powder
and maybe take a half a scoop or even a
whole scoop each day okay to help
increase nitric oxide and those tokat
trinal that might come in handy to
support the inside layer of your
arteries but realize that you also need
to handle the foundational problem of
your diet and for information on that I
put that video up right here check it
out
