hey so today I'm going to talk about a
very special a compound in garlic to
pronounce this let's bring Marie since
you're you're from Mexico right so is it
it's not a joking it's ah Hawaii okay
well that's the compound because we're
talking about this right here that's
that's the Spanish word that's that's
where that comes from
yeah okay garlic right see it's not hot
Joe its Ajo Ajo silent okay good thank
you very much thanks
so it's Ajo e okay so what is so special
about this software-based compound well
Big Pharma is putting a lot of money
into it right now to try to find a way
to patent it because of its powerful
blood thinning
anti clotting factors especially when
you're dealing with decreasing the risk
of stroke but it also has other
properties as well decreases risk for
tumors viruses bananas viruses
antibacterial aunt is anti Candida
it will also decrease the risk of
respiratory infections especially if
they're fungal and on top of that it has
the potential to decrease risk of
certain types of tumors of the brain
called glioblastoma so this compound and
many other phytonutrients are activated
when you crush the garlic so if you have
a higher risk of getting a stroke or you
already had a stroke and you don't want
to wait for Big Pharma to come up with
their patented formula or guess what
start consuming garlic it just might
help you
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
