hey I'm back and in this video I want to
share with you the simplicity of why
people can't lose weight using these
simple batteries right here so over here
we have a very large battery okay this
would be equivalent to your fat okay an
average person who is not overweight is
carrying around about a hundred thousand
calories of potential energy a person
that is overweight or obese does
carrying probably double that 200,000
calories I think that's like thirteen
thousand grams of fat okay now over here
we have a smaller battery or energy
storage this is called glycogen this has
1,700 calories of potential energy so
we've got a hundred thousand to 1,700
and then we got this tiny little battery
which is carrying around about 15
calories okay about 4 grams of sugar in
your blood it's like one teaspoon of
sugar right here for the blood sugar to
be normal okay of course an average
person is consuming a lot more than that
but these are the three types of fuels
that you're actually running your body
on now would it make sense that you'd
want to tap into fat so rarely does an
average person ever get a chance to tap
into the fat simply because they don't
understand this one simple thing there's
a switch right here which tells the body
if it's going to burn fat or glycogen or
the sugar in the blood okay and that
switch is insulin if insulin goes up
okay this becomes blocked and you're
only using this right here if we reduce
insulin then we can tap into fat right
here now the big question is what
controls the insulin to things
it's amount of carbs that you consume
and the frequency of how many times you
can you eat in general those two things
increase insulin and keep you right over
here okay if you consume a lot of carbs
like a lot of people do an average
American consumes over 250 to
grams of carbs okay every day to be able
to burn fat you got to bring that down
that less than 50
now when you chronically consume a lot
of carbs okay you start developing
damage with this switch
it's called insulin resistance now it's
going to be really hard to tap into fat
even when you do things correctly now
when you finally get someone on the
right plan and you decrease the
frequency of eating you decrease their
carbs it could take some time to fix
this switch okay it could take a month
could take six months or longer the key
is sticking to it until the switch is
fixed so you can eventually tap into the
fat and this explains why it takes some
time with certain people to really tap
into the fat simply because they have a
lot of insulin resistance because
they've done the carb thing chronically
too long the best thing to do is to
focus on other indicators of health
because it's good healthy to lose weight
not lose weight to get healthy I'm
talking about your cravings and your
hunger if that's going down if your
energy is going up then that means it's
working all you have to do is give it
more time now for those of you that are
new I put a link down below of exactly
how to combine lowering your carbs and
not eating so frequently it's called
healthy ketosis and intrument if fasting
so click the link down below study it
learn about it apply it get the results
but make sure that you focus on getting
healthy first before you start losing
the weight and that way you won't set
yourself up for a failure thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
