hey guys today we're gonna talk about
the benefits of mint okay
mint leave I actually grow mint into my
backyard and it's quite delicious if you
take a frozen kale and you add mint to
it the actual leaf and blend that you
will not need any sweetener
maybe maybe freeze the kale or put ice
cubes so it's colder blend it thoroughly
and drink that then you will love that
shake the combination of mint and kale
is wonderful one of my YouTube followers
told me about this and I thought I think
it's a great combination and if you're
into a little bit sweeter you can add a
couple drops of stevia and just make it
really really delicious but mint is good
for your digestion you can get
peppermint oil and take it that way if
you add fennel that will also help with
some bloating and gas but typically most
people just use peppermint oil but this
kind of just adds a little extra IBS
real beneficial for IBS irritable bowel
syndrome abdominal cramps bloating gas
so you can take it as a supplement
either before you eat or after you eat
to help that respiratory great for
asthma lung congestion mucus sinus
congestion you can put it in a neti pot
and actually you can breathe it in and
helps the mucous membrane sore throats
you can do it as a tea really effective
for that it's great for coughing
irritation and your throat hoarseness or
that tickle that you have this chronic
like clearing of your throat if there's
some mucus in there also if you have
this chronic coughing adding calcium
would be very beneficial I just wanted
to do this quick video because someone
want to know the benefits of mint thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
