let's talk about how to get rid of your
belly fat but if we just kind of step
back for a second and just look at the
purpose of fat it's a survival mechanism
it helps to store fuel but it has a
limitation to how much it can store so
once it gets to a certain point then we
have a backup system it's a plan B where
you start storing fat around the organs
and that type of fat is called visceral
fat now now when visceral fat goes on
too long and you don't use up that
energy then that type of fat becomes
sick becomes damaged and it can no
longer readily take in fats for storage
or even sugar in its conversion into fat
so we have a third type of fat situation
okay this is the fat that then spills
over inside your organs it's the fat
inside your liver it's the fat inside
your pancreas it's the fat inside your
muscle so by the time you have ectopic
fat which is fat in the liver that's
actually pretty bad that's not a healthy
situation but on a positive note it's
the fastest thing to fix because when we
reverse the process we can get rid of
the ectopic fat first then the visceral
fat then the subcutaneous fat and so is
it just a matter of too many calories
that destroys the machine not
necessarily it's the type of calories
that destroy destroy this machine number
one alcohol will destroy the machine for
sure this is why chronic alcoholics have
a pot belly and they have a lot of
visceral fat and they definitely have a
lot of liver fat now the next thing you
need to know about is fructose now
there's a big difference between the
fructose in Fruit versus the fructose in
high fructose corn syrup that goes into
the body and just creates serious damage
to your metabolism including the liver
because it's a refined product it's an
ultra processed food food that doesn't
have the protection so when you eat
these carbohydrates without those
co-actors as in the alter process food
calories you really uh starve off this
biochemical machine and this is really
what causes the system to to break down
because over 83% of the food calories in
the grocery store are Ultra processed
food calories the next thing I want to
share with you is is something that
doesn't involve food it involves stress
chronic stress can also activate the
body and turn things into sugar inside
your body and Cushing syndrome uh is
created by a high level cortisol that's
the stress hormone even getting less
than 5 hours of sleep at night can
increase cortisol and worsen more visal
fat steroids uh also antibiotics
anti-depressant medication anti-anxiety
medication can also increase visceral
fat now another uncommon thing that
people don't realize is the seed oils in
our diet which make up by 25 to 30%
directly contribute to damage
mitochondria that machine that controls
our metabolism because even if you look
at the past two or three or four decades
and you look at the trends of sugar
they're not nearly as high as the seed
oils there's much more contribution to
visceral fat from seed oils than actual
sugar so this is another thing that uh
unfortunately um people have been taught
that seed oils are heart healthy when in
fact their heart unhealthy they go
through an industrial refining process
and when you consume them they're just
very damaging to the system and then of
course you have sugar and starch but the
damaging effect from sugar and starch
happens when you refine sugars and
starches through this whole industrial
process so glucose syrup dexos these are
all sugars that are highly refined
starch is basically a sugar I'm talking
about maltodextrin I'm talking about
modified food starch and they're very
deadly for your metabolism and they
contribute to a lot of visceral fat and
damage within the machine so what do we
do as the first step eliminate alra
processed food calories sugar starches
in seed oils if you combine the seed
oils with the sugar oh my goodness
you're going to really severely damage
that metabolism because your system is
already gunked up what's called
metabolically in efficient and a lot of
these alter processed food calories
don't have a lot of protein in them the
protein is what satisfies you without
protein you're just going to want more
and more and more you'll keep eating
them until you're satisfied with protein
well that's never going to happen like
animal proteins especially red meat are
so dense in the co-actors I'm talking
about the trace minerals the minerals
and the vitamins that you need to
actually metabolize red meat fish eggs
all will help you fix this problem
another thing that people don't realize
that diet sodas are just as bad as
regular sugar sodas so don't think
you're helping yourself by taking a diet
soda and I just have to say this one
last point just because something says
low carb or keto friendly does not mean
it's really keto friendly so you must
read the labels as far as exercise goes
what type of exercise is best for belly
fat well um let's just first talk about
high-intensity interval training because
it's short uh doses of high intensity
with rest versus a
sustained long-term run or a moderate
amount of intensity on a tread mill and
that can even increase cortisol so if
you do high-intensity interval training
you'll be more successful with visceral
fat but also other things like weight
training are going to build up more
muscles so then you can actually burn
more of these calories you need muscle
to have this whole thing work but then
we get to walking walking is very good
for belly fat loss but not just a little
bit of walking a day like doing longer
walks because walking also reduces
stress so this is why I like the
combination of high-intensity interval
training with walking on the off days I
found that if I don't walk I don't sleep
as well and I also take B1 a good source
of B1 is uh something called nutritional
yeast you can put it on your salad make
sure it's unfortified that can greatly
help reduce stress and increase sleep
next thing in the is vitamin D through a
lot of sun getting more sun will help
you lose more weight just don't go out
into the point where you're burned go
out to the point where you start
developing a tan and getting more
vitamin D and in those days you can't
get sun just take vitamin D as a
supplement at least 10,000 I use the
vitamin D3 but don't forget about
magnesium because magnesium also allows
vitamin D to work magnesium also helps
you sleep it's also very important in
making sure that the mitoch works well
since magnesium is one of the top
co-actors or the helper things involved
in that mitochondrial biochemistry and
the last point is fasting and this is
really important and this is going to
help you to speed things up greatly
because every time you eat you trigger
insulin and the more insulin you have
the less you're going to lose so if you
can include intermittent fasting and
only have two meals lunch and dinner and
then kind of graduate maybe even to one
meal for a while that would probably be
very very smart versus all the snacking
that people do and even if it's healthy
snacking probably not a good idea but
this is a way to actually fix the
metabolism to the point where now you
have the ability to use fuel because now
you're matching an environment of how
your body has evolved and the body has
not evolved with all this available food
and snacking and eating constantly 24/7
now the biggest question is what are the
details of what do I eat for that
information watch this right here
