hey I'm back in today we're gonna talk
about an interesting connection between
poor posture and vitamin D now you may
know vitamin D is involved with calcium
metabolism most people know that but
there's a secondary major function of
vitamin D that many people don't know
about and that is this the development
of osteoclasts what is that those are
the cells in your bone that actually
help you absorb calcium so vitamin D
actually helps those cells develop so
you can make bone now when a child is
severely deficient in vitamin D they get
this condition called rickets okay like
bowed legs it starts to affect the
structure of the skeleton well there's a
mild version of rickets you see this in
adults and even teenagers
that's called osteomalacia okay so it's
a milder version of rickets in which
you're getting a lack of mineralization
of the skeletal system so you don't have
this strong support of let's say the
arches on your feet or the your back so
one of the symptoms of osteomalacia or
vitamin D deficiency is kyphosis which
is basically hunchback your posture
starts going forward like this because
you don't have the minerals to support
this structure so this is just another
important reason to take vitamin D or
get enough Sun especially for your kids
if you're pregnant if you're
breastfeeding you need to take vitamin D
for sure one last point one of the first
symptoms of a vitamin D deficiency and
one of the big symptoms of osteomalacia
is aches and pains so if you have any
extra pains or especially low back pain
try some vitamin D you may notice some
really great improvement on that alright
guys see you in the next video
hey before you leave I just wanted to
give you a little quick history on some
of the books that I wrote this was one
of the first books that called dr. Berg
body shapes it was my attempt at writing
about body types what was very
interesting about this book is I
actually did all the images myself don't
ask me why they look actually not quite
as professional as some of the images
that I have in the new book but anyway
this is my first attempt right here
called dr. Berg's body shape diets and
then I wrote a book more extensive
called the seven principles of fat
burning I don't even have a copy anymore
actually because it's outdated the next
book I put about a thousand hours into
this one right here called a new body
type guide major updates on the body
types I put a lot of energy into this it
has professional images graphics all
sorts of things now the problem with
this book is it doesn't really describe
what this is really about body types are
only a small portion of what's in this
book and that's why I change the name to
the healthy keto plan okay if you happen
to have this book you don't really need
this book because there's some only very
very minor updates but if you don't have
this you need to get this one right here
this book goes into every single detail
that you would ever want to know about
it goes into the seven principles of a
burning goes into hormones the body
types the basic keto plan it goes into
in a minute fasting I talked about the
ten fat burning triggers and blockers in
that burning strategies with a lot of
details in every single chapter I go
into body issues that interfere with
losing weight there's very few people
that just have a weight problem they
have a lot of body issues whether it's
sleeping problems stress problems
inflammation menopause I cover that
extensively in this book then I talk
about how to get rid of stress and I
show you a technique then I get into
exercising and then I have a lot of
really good recipes in this book as well
so this is a good reference guide on my
website if
you get this book you get this one free
it's called health Aikido and then it
fasting this is the shortcut a quick
guide to this book and the reason I
created this book is to have you within
45 minutes learn how to do keto ok in in
a minute fasting exactly what you need
to do then you can fill in the blanks
with this book right here so right now
I'm doing a special if you get this book
you get this one totally free or you can
go to Amazon and get these individually
so I just want to clarify the difference
between this book and this updated one
right here if you don't have this you
need to get this right here that way you
can get the exact correct information to
do it healthily
