okay so I wanted to touch on vitamin E
vitamin E is really essential for heart
health
okay the way you become deficient in
vitamin E mostly is by consuming refined
carbohydrates in the form of breads
pasta cereal crackers biscuits waffles
pancakes things like that vitamin E is
unique in that it can travel right
through the cell other antioxidants
can't quite do that now there's
different parts of the vitamin E complex
and I always recommend they're going to
get vitamin E make sure you get it in a
complex not as one for actually they're
part of the vitamin E complex I would
not just get alpha tocopheryl I would
get the whole complex so alpha
tocopheryl is mainly used by the liver
and this antioxidant cannot just travel
on its own it needs that shuttle okay so
it it actually hops on board with the
LDL so low-density lipoprotein this so
called bad cholesterol well guess what
this antioxidant is inside this little
shuttle bus LDL is basically a protein
that's carrying cholesterol
triglycerides and also vitamin E and
other fat soluble vitamins it's not
cholesterol in itself it's a protein
carrier okay so what happens is this
antioxidant is inside this little
shuttle bus to help protect the arteries
to help the cholesterol from being
oxidized and it can help decrease the
risk of heart disease stroke cancer
because it's an antioxidant and all
three of these conditions start out with
some type of oxidation or breakdown or
free radical damage then you have
something called gamma tocopheryl this
in accident has some protective factors
against smoke but gamma tocopherol
actually helps protect or decrease the
risk somewhat the other thing is when
you smoke you deplete this antioxidant
at the same time so this antioxidant
also decreases the risk of certain
cancers also supports the arteries then
you have another one of the oxidant
called taco Tree meals which helps
support cholesterol lipids it also will
decrease the risk of breast cancer and
it's really important in skin health so
you really want to make sure you get
enough vitamin E in your diet because it
has some really important facts
we trim oil is loaded with vitamin E
seeds nuts and vegetables also have a
good amount of vitamin E and if you're
going to use the vitamin E supplements
make sure you get the whole complex and
not just one individual part so we've
been getting a lot of success stories
but I don't have your success story yet
so click the link down below and upload
you before and after I want to actually
hear about your success story I want to
see your before-and-afters and every
week we do featured success stories so
click the link down below and share your
success
