hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about your menstrual cycle and
cravings now the minister cycle is very
complex so I'm not going to get into the
complexities we're just going to talk
about generally what's happening during
certain parts of the cycle and if you
crave at certain points what you would
need
okay so here's day 14 when you're
ovulating okay day 28 and then you're
going to right before your actual
menstruation where you're having your
period right here okay
so now if you are craving during
ovulation that means there's a problem
with estrogen so you would need to
consume more cruciferous vegetables
and/or seek help because iodine and
cruciferous vegetables really help to
balance estrogen all right so that's
what you do during this phase right here
but most women crave right before they
men straight okay so this is the kind of
phase with that when they have PMS so
they may have a lot of mood issues
irritability depression so you have a
lot going on
not to mention cravings for all sorts of
things chocolate you know whatever so
what you want to do if you have a
problem at this point is you need a lot
more B vitamins okay I recommend you
trishal yeast and whatever it says to
take on the bottle if you're taking
tablets double the dosage okay
especially vitamin b1 that's going to
really help this phase right here if you
can get some Sun to get vitamin D that
would be also good but mainly it's a B
vitamin deficiency in vitamin C
deficiency vitamin C is really important
in this phase as well and you can
diminish the symptoms so you can get
vitamin C from sauerkraut or you can get
it from the store but make sure it's a
food based vitamin C don't just take
synthetic vitamin C like ascorbic acid a
food base but sauerkraut is actually
really good because that will also help
your digestion as well now what about
during the cycle itself you could have
cravings you can have cramps
I so you have a whole series of things
that happen excessive bleeding so at
this point the the best remedy would be
a calcium magnesium in the form of an
orotate it's called or take calcium
orotate sometimes you can get it
combined but I like the word tape
because it penetrates the cell a lot
deeper but calcium magnesium will
dramatically and improve your cramping
and cravings if you have them right
during your period okay now post
menstruation right here you probably
lost some blood and you're gonna be low
in iron maybe a little anemic and you
might crave things as well especially if
you're like crave ice you're chewing an
ice that's an iron deficiency so I would
recommend red meats is make sure it's
grass-fed but that's gonna actually put
the iron back in pretty fast also you
can get different forms of iron in the
green green leafy vegetables and
definitely kale like a kale shake red
meat that would be really good post your
cycle especially if you crave certain
things now if you're if you've gone
through menopause it's a little
different situation because you're no
longer having your cycle but maybe you
just crave in general or maybe you have
like a hint of a cycle coming on but it
doesn't kind of go through so the number
one deficiency that shows up in
menopause is a vitamin E deficiency and
a lot of vitamin E is stored in the
pituitary gland to actually as a
precursor to make sex hormones like
estrogen and testosterone and things
like that so because you're not having
your cycle you're not needing those
hormones the vitamin E really drops
dramatically in the body so if you were
to increase vitamin E you would see some
great improvements raw sunflower seeds
probably your best bet some of the other
seeds would be good too but it can't be
roasted it has to be raw almonds really
important and leafy greens like even
snap peas or green beans are really good
anything green is going to give you good
amounts of vitamin E now if you're low
in estrogen and you're having like
say hot flashes boron is really really
good as well that's a mineral a trace
mineral that can elevate estrogen it's
not going to bring it out of the range
but it's going to bring it to a normal
level okay so there you have it that's a
little summary of what you would do for
various cravings at certain points of
your menstrual cycle thanks for watching
so if you don't have this book you might
want to check it out it's entitled it's
not lose weight to get healthy it's get
healthy to lose the weight healthy
ketosis and in a minute fasting check it
out I put a link down below
