hi guys dr. Berg here in this video we
want to talk about postpartum hair loss
okay after you're pregnant you lose your
hair
what's happening the mechanism is this
you basically have a lot of the estrogen
being produced by the placenta and
you're going to lose that you can
extract that and your estrogen is going
to drop so low to 10% what it should be
which is similar to someone that's going
through menopause so it's a very low
estrogen situation and by the way this
is the same mechanism if you were men
going through menopause it's a low
estrogen situation so anytime you low
your estrogen the opposing hormone
testosterone the relative ratio
increases so now we're going to not
believe a higher level of testosterone
that's what's happening and there's an
enzyme that will convert this
testosterone to a very powerful form of
testosterone called DHT okay and that's
what burns out the hair so that's why
you're getting the hair loss pH too much
DHT DHT what to do about it well you
want to get something natural stinging
nettle root is a really good herb to
help deactivate that enzyme okay I have
my my hair formula has that in it with a
lot of other things but you can just get
stinging nettle root and it will work if
that's your only issue okay but that way
you can convert less of this help
balance that and get your hair back now
if you're losing hair during the
pregnancy that's a completely different
problem because during the pregnancy you
have this massive spike of estrogen high
estrogen and the high levels of estrogen
will inhibit the thyroid gland that's
why someone with hypothyroidism going
into pregnancy ends up having needed to
take more other medication more thyroid
hormone because it really decreases the
thyroid hormone so increase estrogen
decrease thyroid okay so if that's the
case the remedy would be cruciferous
vegetables cruciferous vegetables are
anti estrogenic okay and there's even a
type of concentrated cruciferous called
dim you could take I'll put a link down
below to help that situation because
that will actually clean this up and
actually improve star right okay
alright thanks for watching what's the
next part what am I going to say
take five do it and where am I going
with this hey if you're enjoying my
videos press the subscribe button below
and I will keep you updated on the
future event thank you so much
