hey guys today we're gonna talk about
digestive problems on keto I'm talking
about bloating gas feeling nauseous what
do you do about it well let's start with
number one sugar alcohols when you're
doing keto you're not doing sugar
anymore so there's a sugar substitute
which don't spike insulin well some do
more than others but generally speaking
they're low on the glycemic index I'm
talking about a wreath rotol okay which
can create diarrhea xylitol which can
also disrupt your stomach if you're
taking too much then you have mannitol
multi tall and the list goes on and on
so so this is something you definitely
need to watch out for because I always
ask people when did you start having the
digestive problem what did you eat
exactly before that and it's usually
this right here so either cut back and
only have a small amount or cut it out
completely okay number two fiber now I
always recommend a large quantity of
vegetables when you're doing keto like 7
to 10 cups for some people that's way
too much number one it's a big change
and they're not used to it they don't
have the microbes to handle all that
fiber so in that case you might want to
ease into it have a smaller amount and
then gradually increase it and also
there could be a problem with certain
types of vegetables that they're not
used to like some people can't do kale
some people can't do broccoli personally
I can't do broccoli but I can do kale I
can do cabbage but those fibers are a
little more difficult to digest if you
do them in large quantities in that case
I recommend doing a fermented vegetables
I can fermented cabbage or pickles
things like that that can actually help
you but then you also have corn fiber in
certain keto friendly bars or different
powdered mix a lot of people have a
sensitivity with this and realize that
the corn could be GMO so that could be a
problem and this word is not insulin
it's a mule in and it's an other things
but you'll see this in the ingredients
and a lot of products especially like
even put it in chocolate different
powdered mixes and brownies that are
keto
friendly but this can create a lot of
digestive issues so just be aware of
that I think the bottom line is when
you're doing keto and you have digestive
problems you might want to just do the
foods and not do the extra different
products that come along with people
doing the ketogenic diet I mean because
everyone's jumping on the bandwagon
right now and producing all these
different products with all these
different ingredients and they're
focused on low carb but they have gums
that people can't digest like gargle
different types of fibers are not used
to indefinitely sugar alcohols but there
are other ingredients in keto friendly
foods that are not really keto friendly
for example dextrose avoid that that's a
synthetic sugar multo dextran that is
not keto friendly in fact on the
glycemic index it's like way above a
hundred it's like the worst sugar you
can possibly consume and it's in a lot
of these keto friendly bars and powders
alright now let's talk about MCT oil
okay this is medium chain triglycerides
this comes from either palm oil or
coconut oil and if you consume too much
it can definitely give you a laxative
effect and a full-blown diarrhea so be
cautious of this I always recommend when
you start out with keto don't add too
many things that you're not used to in
one meal this way you can isolate one
change at a time
and figure out what your body can't
digest or doesn't agree with one of the
biggest mistakes that people make when
they do keto is they start adding all
these different extra fats excessive
amounts of butter and MCT oil and tons
of coconut oil when their system is not
really used to doing that so they might
have a lot of bloating or gas or just
because the gallbladder might not be
used to releasing that much bile so you
want to cut back on that and just
consume the food with its fat that it
comes with naturally ok and also taking
purified bile salts might not be a bad
idea
and I recommend something called gall
bladder formula because it has in there
a betaine how to chloride and purified
bile salts with
other things that can help a person cope
with some of these new foods I put a
link down below for more information
also absolute vinegar it's a really
important thing for digestion as well as
blood sugar balance okay number four if
you're not doing in a minute fasting
with keto that is a mistake think about
this it takes a good amount of time for
food to go through the stomach I'm
talking like several hours up to five
hours before the food even goes through
the stomach and some of the food that
gets digested from the stomach into the
small intestine it comes back up into
the stomach again to actually get broken
down a little faster too so it takes a
while for the food to go from the
stomach into the small intestine and
then you've got three parts of the small
intestine you have the first part which
is about 15 inches the next part which
is about eight feet and the next part is
another eight feet to 13 feet and that's
even before you get to the large and
colon which is about another five feet
so if you're consuming for example a lot
of fiber that you're not used to it
doesn't get digested in the small
intestine it ends up in the large
intestine work it's fermented and if you
don't have the microbes or you have a
weakness within the small intestine it
can just be a problem especially if
you're eating frequently even though it
is keto that frequent eating could be a
problem because the food is not fully
digested yet but if you do in a minute
fasting okay and you're not eating as
frequent you finally give your digestion
a chance to breathe a chance to recover
and this would be a new concept for a
lot of people but it'll really help you
tremendously okay number five too many
nuts or too much peanut butter or nut
butters or too much almond flour okay
first of all almonds in general have a
lot of oxalates okay which can irritate
your digestive system can create
arthritis it could actually even trigger
kidney stones it can irritate the gall
bladder so just go easy on the nuts
especially in the beginning the stash
iou's I'll have the lowest oxalates
so that would be a safe nut but just
consume it in small amounts especially
if you're you're not used to digesting
nuts now if nuts are raw it's even more
difficult to digest that not because it
has enzyme inhibitors and this is why
you'd want to germinate the nuts I have
a whole chapter of this in my book will
you soak them in water overnight and
then dry them out and then consume them
they're much easier to digest or roasted
nuts are easier to digest so you just
have to be aware of that nuts can really
irritate the colon and the gallbladder
if you and you're going to end up with
right shoulder pain because there's a
nerve called a phrenic nerve that goes
right to the right side through here
from the diaphragm so be aware of that
next one too much of cheese now I'm from
Wisconsin so I do eat cheese but I make
sure that the cheese is high quality
it's grass-fed and I don't do a lot I
won't do more than like maybe two ounces
per day but it can be very constipating
and very irritating to certain people so
beware of the cheese because some people
can have bloating if they do too much
alright guys there you have it the
summary on things that can affect your
digestive system when you're doing keto
thanks for watching hey if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
