someone recently asked a question about
fasting is it good for the liver is
going to cause any damage it's very good
for the liver the liver is one of the
only organs that can completely
regenerate if you have at least 25% of
your liver left so it takes a beating
but it can actually rebound so on this
side we have what happens when you're
eating and this side is when you're not
eating you're fasting so let's say for
example you're gonna do an 18 hour fast
so that would mean that you ate at 12:00
noon
and your second meal at 6 o'clock so
that's a 6 hour
eating window that would be when really
all the good things start happening now
if you fast longer for that and you get
to 20 hours that's even better
but that's a really good sweet spot a
lot of people are just doing one meal a
day and that's even better if you can do
it especially for regenerating liver
function one of the biggest things that
is going to happen when you're fasting
is you're going to deplete your glycogen
Reserve so in a very short period of
time there's not going to be any more
stored sugar in the liver in the muscle
yes but not in the liver so now all that
fat on the liver can then be used as
fuel
after the glycogen has been tapped out
and by the way glycogen is just stored
sugar many people have a fatty liver and
they don't even realize they have a
fatty liver unless they do a test
ultrasound or a cat scan or an MRI but
one easy way to know that you have a
fatty liver is just looking down and
seeing if you have a stomach if you have
a gut chances are you have a fatty liver
so by doing fasting you can release the
fat from the liver and use that as
energy so you're reversing a fatty liver
also if you have enlarged liver it can
help reduce that probably because you're
releasing fat as well as inflammation
it's coming down because one of the
things that fasting will do is it gets
rid of inflammation so if your liver
enzymes are elevated fasting could
greatly help you because it gives the
liver and the immune system a chance to
reset and heal and you can also improve
fibrosis at scar tissue or even
cirrhosis because you're decreasing the
inflammation and you're also stimulating
something
called a tapa G which really starts to
kick in about 8 hours 20 hours Tavo G is
the recycling of old damaged proteins so
if you have scar tissue fibrosis in the
liver and you're doing regular in a
minute fasting or a periodic prolonged
fasting you can stimulate a tapa G and
really help to reverse the damage the
key is keeping your insulin low now if
you're overweight or obese
chances are you have high insulin
because you have insulin resistance if
you're a diabetic you really have high
levels of insulin sometimes nine times
higher than normal so just by doing
fasting you can greatly improve the
insulin levels bring that down and
that's when the magic starts happening
when you're eating you're stimulating
insulin so in the presence of insulin
you can't release fat from the liver you
can't burn fat and you have inflammation
so this is why intermittent fasting is
so vitally important there's actually an
interesting gene that gets expressed or
activated when you fast that helps to
get fat off the liver if you want more
technical information about that I put a
link down below one last thing about
this other hormone called igf-1 like
growth factor number one this hormone
also increases when you're fasting when
you're not eating
and this is very similar to growth
hormone growth hormone is a fat burning
hormone it's anti-aging it helps you
with protein building and repair now I
know I said one last thing but there's
one additional thing I almost forgot
about and that would be taking choline
if you have a fatty liver choline is a
fantastic natural B vitamin to help
speed up the reduction of fat off your
liver you can get in a powder or pill I
don't have a specific brand you can just
look around for something that has good
reviews and try that the choline is good
by the way did you know that the food
that is very high in choline is egg
yolks yeah interesting
egg yolks can help with the fabula ver
you would think it's just the opposite
the other thing is outside the vinegar
apple cider vinegar is really good
to help counter a fatty liver it's also
good to help stabilize blood sugars all
right now I'm really done so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
