let's talk about the seven early signs
of pancreatic cancer that you never want
to ignore the reason I want to focus
today on pancreatic cancer is because
it's one of the most deadly types of
cancer the unique thing about pancreatic
cancer is that a lot of times you don't
have any symptoms until it's very far
into its progression this is why they
call it the silent killer because by the
time you know you have it a lot of times
it's too late the more you can identify
these early triggers the greater the
prognosis is going to be i'm going to
dive right into these early signs and
then I'm going to explain some very
unique things about pancreatic cancer
that you need to know first one is
sudden unexpected weight loss you're not
trying to lose weight but all of a
sudden you're losing weight because
pancreatic cancer starts in the pancreas
which is involved in digestion and blood
sugars if there's a problem with that
gland it's going to affect your
digestion your appetite and you could
lose a lot of weight number two
abdominal pain the pain is more of a
dull persistent pain that sometimes can
radiate to the left shoulder there can
even be radiating pain from your belly
button back into the spine because of
the tumor on the pancreas could put
pressure on various nerves you're
probably going to feel worse if you eat
because you're going to have less space
in there for things to move around and
more food is going to put pressure on
the tumor and put pressure on that nerve
number three is jaundice so the whites
of the eyes become yellow your urine
becomes like a darker rusty color we're
having a problem with bile backing up
into the blood causing jaundice and on
top of that you're not going to have
enough bile so you're not going to be
able to digest fat we have this bile
duct that's also joined with the
pancreatic duct at a certain point and
if there's sludge in that area it can
back up and cause problems not just in
your gallbladder you can have a problem
in the pancreas just so you know there's
a really great remedy for that i
recommend it is called Toddka it's a
very specific type of bile salt that you
can get and you take two an empty
stomach twice a day and it just opens up
those ducts it's great for all sorts of
problems with bile sludge and bloating
in this area number four chronic
diarrhea because most pancreatic cancer
affects the area of the pancreas
primarily responsible for digestive
enzymes when I was in practice and I had
people coming in with these symptoms I
would always ask questions about the
diet unfortunately doctors don't always
do that but you're going to pick up
exactly why a lot of people have these
problems just because they're on the
wrong diet just simply changing the diet
could clear up all these symptoms if you
don't have cancer number five is
interesting diabetes what potentially
could happen is that a tumor in the
pancreas could be disrupting the cells
that produce insulin you have this overp
production of insulin and then your body
is compensating for the high blood sugar
and it does that for many years until
the point where your pancreas is just
kind of just too tired and it stops
producing insulin now you can't regulate
the sugar you can't suppress the blood
sugar so your blood glucose goes higher
and that's diabetes number six you feel
full really quickly when you eat just a
little bit of food this symptom can
definitely come because you're obviously
eating the wrong food and you're getting
bloating really quick if you have
pancreatic cancer that could be one of
them as well number seven persistent
fatigue of course there's a million
different reasons why you can be tired a
lot of people just consider fatigue
normal and so they just kind of just
live with it or they might drink some
more caffeine usually with pancreatic
cancer you have this overwhelming
persistent fatigue that's just it's way
more than it should be it just doesn't
improve with getting more sleep let's
talk about some uniquenesses with
pancreatic cancer one thing you don't
want to do if you have pancreatic cancer
is consume sugar there's data to show
that this type of cancer has some
bacteria inside of it and so now they're
experimenting with the microbiome to see
if there's some type of improvement you
can make in the microbiome to
potentially change this cancer that's
kind of an ongoing research uh project
right now also the problem with this
type of cancer is the outside of the
tumor is super thick and dense that's
also going to make the inside of it like
completely without oxygen and anytime
you have a lack of oxygen that triggers
the cancer to spread more the other
unique thing about this cancer is it's
very aggressive the most important thing
that a person should do if they're
diagnosed with this type of cancer is
immediately start doing prolong fasting
periodic prolonged fasting is a very
safe effective way because as you're
fasting you're starving off the cancer
of resources you see the cancer not only
needs fuel but it also needs a membrane
the cancer is going after resources to
build itself even making that more of a
priority than just getting fuel the
other thing that's interesting about
pancreatic cancer is that it usually
happens after you're 40 or 50 or even 60
years old and even older the fact that
it happens as you get older it gives us
a clue that it must be related to some
type of chronic inflammation in that
duct which relates to food and lifestyle
anything we can do to reduce
inflammation will be a very very good
thing a big risk factor for this type of
cancer is smoking tobacco i think the
risk goes up by 25% also obesity and
type 2 diabetes puts a person at risk
usually if you're overweight and you're
a diabetic you're eating carbohydrates
refined carbohydrates and sugar and
things like that a lot of inflammation
in the area of the pancreas because the
pancreas is at the heart of digestion
there are also certain genes that put
the person at risk but those genes are
normally expressed more or triggered if
the person is smoking or eating poorly
alcohol is another big risk factor
there's some really good research on
vitamin D in cancer in general vitamin D
does several things related to cancer it
can help to shrink cancer number two can
help increase our immune system's
ability to fight cancer if you have
cancer you want to keep your blood level
of vitamin D pretty high personally I
would keep mine over 100 maybe up to 150
nanogs per milliliter but the most
important thing is avoiding cancer okay
so how do we do that well getting enough
sleep reducing your stress exercise
intermittent fasting because it gives
the pancreas a chance to rest someone's
eating three meals or even six meals a
day you're just hitting that pancreas
over and over and over with just
repetitive stress and if you're on top
of that eating the wrong foods and
creating this chronic inflammation not
good there's a handful of really good
remedies that have very specific
targeting effects over cancer and I'm
not recommending taking all of these but
I just want to mention them cruciferous
vegetables green tea another one is
allisonin that's in garlic but the big
one is bourberine bourberine can help
mimic certain effects of metformin and
also metformin has been found to help
reduce risk of cancer and I will put the
documentation down below so you can do
your own research this video is about
identifying early uh warning signs
against pancreatic cancer you know I
live on a farm and all day long I'm
identifying early signs of problems on
the farm just yesterday I'm looking in
the air and I'm seeing these very large
birds flying around in a circle like
hawks i could ignore that or maybe just
think "Oh well they're probably just
having fun going around a circle or they
could be targeting something." So I
walked over there sure enough there was
a baby sheep very tiny that was just
delivered stuck in a pricker bush the
mother can't get to it of course I freed
up the little baby and the mother took
this baby into the woods and um birds
went away the moral of the story is you
don't want to ignore certain signs or
symptoms that your body is trying to let
you know there's a problem but then
again don't be paranoid about these
symptoms i've done a lot of videos on
symptoms and talking about the most
common reason for symptoms and that's
probably the best thing to go after
first but if it doesn't resolve you can
start looking deeper
