alright so and another question from
someone that wanted to know am I getting
radiation when I'm traveling when I'm
flying from coast to coast so I'm going
to talk about that well when you're
going from coast to coast in America
you're getting the amount of radiation
that would be just less than one chest
x-ray ok so there is some radiation not
too much it's not like a cat scan when
you're doing a transatlantic flight
you're probably getting the radiation
that would be equivalent to three dental
x-rays not too bad okay so the radiation
exposure really depends on three things
how high your flight is how long your
flight is and the latitude for example
the further away you fly from the
equator the more the radiation because
at the equator you have certain magnetic
fields that deflect radiation now when
you're flying small planes underneath
clouds for example you're getting less
radiation if you can avoid a midday
flights and fly more at night you're
going to avoid radiation and lastly
there are certain foods and things you
can do to protect the cells against
damage from radiation dark leafy greens
vital in a minute fasting vital keeping
your refined sugars low vital other
things too like super foods like garlic
onions turmeric is really good so
there's a whole long list of those foods
phytonutrients in general can repair
that damage alright thanks for watching
hey guys I want to talk about these two
books right here okay I want to explain
it this book right here is a very short
book it explains why to do Kido and how
to do it it's filled with pictures you
can get through this in 45 minutes real
quick just very important to know the
details the basics of how to do it now
this book the new body type guide should
have been called beyond Kido because I
rarely find someone that has just a
weight problem
they usually have a lot of other body
problems and in this book I cover all
the reasons why keto and intermittent
fasting might not work for you we go
into the body types we go into
inflammation we go into stress our core
and what to do about it so if you want
to maximize your results you definitely
want to get this one right here okay so
my goal is to get you to do keto
correctly what I mean by that is do it
healthily
it's called healthy ketosis so we can
avoid all the issues that happen with
transitioning the fat-burning keto flu
keto fatigue keto rash kidney stones
gout etc and right now on my website if
you get this you get this at no extra
cost I put a link down below check it
out
