hey guys today we're gonna talk about
ghee and intestinal health first of all
what is ghee basically it's something
called clarified butter which you're
heating
butter and you're separating out the
solids the proteins from the butter so
you're left with this pure oil and
that's what ghee is it has great
benefits for your colon because it's
loaded with something called butyrate or
butyric acid in fact he has the highest
concentration of butyrate than any other
food including butter now in other
videos i talked about microbes actually
making butyrate from fiber but here's
the thing if you have colitis irritable
bowel syndrome some bowel problem damage
to your colon the capacity to make and
absorb looter 8 goes way down okay this
is why taking ghee could be very
beneficial to people with a GI problem
so geek can also help you increase your
bile production to help you digest fats
bile is like the detergent that helps
you break down fats and extract the key
nutrients from fat also it can improve
insulin resistance okay thereby
normalizing your blood sugars it will
decrease inflammation it will also
increase your energy because the colon
cells prefer butyrate as their primary
fuel source he also has omega-3 fatty
acids omega-9 fatty acids which are
healthy fats MCT fat that's medium chain
triglycerides which is really easy on
the liver and gallbladder it doesn't
actually stress the gallbladder and
liver out too much it has vitamin A
vitamin D vitamin E vitamin K these are
fat soluble vitamins it also has
something called CLA which is a healthy
fat that helps performance if you're an
athlete it also helps you with weight
loss it helps build lean muscle mass but
make sure if you're going to consume
gave that it's always grass-fed and
organic
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
