hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about what is an electrolyte okay
basically it's an electrically charged
mineral okay and there's there's about
six of them but we're going to talk
about four of them sodium chloride
potassium and magnesium okay now what do
they do they basically maintain fluid
through the body they allow fluid to
travel inside and outside the cell
there's actually a little little gate um
or a pump uh which is called the sodium
potassium pump that allows things to go
back and forth in the cell and you need
those two minerals uh to in the right
level to allow things to transport
correctly because for example if you
have too much sodium you're going to
retain fluid for example so sodium is
involved with retaining fluid muscle
nerve function um also this electrical
pump but most people actually consume
way too much sodium especially if doing
junk food and also hidden MSG there's
also a condition if you drink too much
water it's called hypon nutria which you
dilute uh sodium so you don't have
enough until the blood pressure comes
too far down and it's actually you you
could even get edema in your brain I'm
going to create a video just on that one
subject but um yeah so you need a
certain amount of sodium but you need
the right amount of fluid but what
really what hydrates the body is the
electrolyte not necessarily just water
so you need both
nerve impulses muscle contraction
contraction and relaxation also it even
controls your pH okay so then we have
the chlorides which work with salt
sodium chloride uh it's also this is
involved in um making hydrochloric acid
so for your stomach so if you don't have
enough salt in the diet you're not going
to generate enough hydrochloric acid so
you're going to have problems with your
acid in the stomach so people are in a
low salt diet they don't make
hydrochloric acid so they always to get
like heartburn indigestion or even acid
reflux okay so then we have pottassium
it's a
k+ now potassium it's involved in the
pacemaker of the heart it it's involved
in the rhythm of the heart so when you
don't have enough potassium your Rhythm
goes out of balance you get things like
atrial fibrillation you also get a
higher pulse rate okay and of course
sugar will deplete it as well um it's
also involved in electrical pump in the
cells most people are deficient in
potassium because we need so much we
need 4700 milligrams a day that's a lot
but people are not consuming 7 to 10
cups of salad a day are they so
potassium is usually deficient and
sodium is usually too much okay then you
have magnesium which is another one that
most people are deficient in because
they don't have the vegetables but you
need like 450 Mig of that um it's
involved in 300 different enzymes that
do different biological reactions in the
body involved in nerve and muscle uh
function blood pressure muscle spasms if
you're deficient and even sleep so when
you're deficient in magnesium you can't
sleep you get muscle spasm and you
become restless so magnesium is really
really important so I uh created my
own uh electrolyte powder and what I did
is I took the average person on the
street and I took them in mind and I
actually put a lot more potassium
there's a th000 milligrams of pottassium
per serving size so there's nothing on
the market that has 1,000 milligrams per
serving size like for example Gatorade
is like 38 Mig of potassium and they
have 115 milligrams of sodium and 21
gram of sugar yeah that's Gatorade
that's uh not a real electrolyte if you
ask me um I also made sure there was no
multi multi dextrin okay that's a it's
really a filler and it's a very high
glycemic type of H substance so we want
to stay away from that it's turns into
sugar really really fast so it's
basically a little bit of stevia
raspberry lemon so it tastes good and it
has all of the electrolytes and trace
minerals in the right combinations okay
so I put a link down below if you want
to check it out but anyway I wanted to
explain what electrolyte is and uh thank
you so much for watching and put your
comments
below hey guys thank you so much for
watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
