let's talk about endometriosis what is
endometriosis very simply it's
endometrial tissue outside the uterus
all right well what is a no material
tissue and Demetrio tissue is composed
of partially glandular in partly
connective tissue that also has immune
properties and this is why one of the
biggest symptoms with endometriosis is
chronic inflammation pain in the pelvis
pain internally it also affects your
menstrual cycle causes infertility
painful intercourse and the list goes on
and on now the big clue with
endometriosis is this right here part
glandular tissue which means that tissue
is highly sensitive to hormones
primarily estrogen and this is why women
who have estrogen dominance have a
higher risk of getting this condition
now let's just kind of go through the
potential causes of this problem
starting at the most obvious something
that you would expose that part of the
body to on a routine basis and I'm
talking about a tampon well you might
say that that can't be because I use
natural cotton did you realize that 94%
of all cotton grown in the u.s. is GML
and the type of GMOs that they're using
in cotton are the bt version which
basically makes the cotton and
insecticide so you could only imagine
what can happen when you expose your
body to something that acts as an exact
aside and this is number one and of
course if you're female and you use
tampons I would recommend only using
organic tampons now if you're a guy you
might say well I don't have to worry
about that
well did you realize that they feed a
GMO cotton to cattle so these animals
are consuming some of this cotton and
the byproducts of that could end up on
your plate unless you do organic beef
grass-fed if you're doing grass-fed it
doesn't necessarily mean it's
non-organic
because they may do grain finishing for
four months after the grass-fed period
of regular GMO grains so
you definitely want organic and if
possible you want to do your meats
grass-fed grass-finished very important
the next most important thing to avoid
would be dairy products why because
dairy is meant to grow calves and so
milk is composed of a lot of growth
hormones and we already have a growth of
an abnormal tissue so we don't want to
add more growth factors to your diet to
potentially create problem with this so
I would go dairy free if you have this
condition or if your estrogen dominance
and one point I want to mention is that
chemicals like insecticides and
herbicides pesticides fungicides mimic
estrogen in the body and that's why GMO
is a problem and this is also why grain
fed animal products okay grains I'm
mostly GMO like soy and corn are fed to
the animals and if it's not organic
you're getting exposure to the herbicide
called glyphosate so the glyphosate is
also going to go into the dairy and it
can have an effect of estrogen in the
body and then we get soy okay soy is
also estrogenic especially soy protein
isolates soy oils so I would definitely
avoid a soy products and then we go into
GMO foods the problem is trying to
identify them at the grocery store
because they don't have to label them as
GMO
but if you do organic you're safe then
we get grains grains are highly
inflammatory not to mention usually
they're GMO but if you avoid gluten and
all grains your blood Sugar's will be
better
your inflammation will get better and
then we get sugar now a lot of the sugar
used in the u.s. is not from cane it's
from beet sugar which is mostly GMO
so as you can see we're being exposed to
a lot of chemicals indirectly from
things that you might not even connect
to being a chemical so this is what I
would recommend go organic
I would also consume a natural vitamin C
complex and a vitamin E complex
including the tocotrienols and the taka
Fross the reason is because there's some
really interesting research on animals
not humans but still the data shows an
improvement in endometriosis using
vitamin C and vitamin E I'll put a link
down below so it potentially can help
especially with the inflammatory
conditions and the effect that these
antioxidants have to soak up some of the
free radicals that's generated selenium
is another key mineral to help isn't any
oxidant it's also good as an
anti-inflammatory and then of course
omega-3 fatty acids are also really good
to help reduce inflammation now there's
one last point there's an enzyme in the
body called aromatase which converts
testosterone into estrogen this can
happen in men and women and so some of
your estrogen which is creating the
dominant situation could be coming from
testosterone and so one good alternative
to that would be to take an aromatase
inhibitor and stinging nettle root is
one of the best ones so if you were to
take this as a supplement it probably
would help you alright so that's my
summary and my recommendations for
endometriosis so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
