the one vitamin that reverses nerve
damage the reason I want to talk about
this one vitamin is because it's the
most common deficiency behind most nerve
problems let's start with viruses and
I'm talking about two viruses that have
the potential to go into the nerves on
the face and create conditions like
Bell's paly they can hide in this little
nerve bundle called the ganglia it's
like a mini brain within the nerves that
have this bundle of nerve cells what's
unique about it is the viruses go into
those areas those little bundles to
evade the immune system and kind of fly
underneath the radar then what the
viruses do is they can turn off
something called autophagy autophagy is
a condition where you're recycling
damaged proteins but you're also
recycling pathogens bacteria yeast
fungus molds and viruses and because
they're in this nerve bundle they can
hide with our immune system and they
just kind of go to sleep and our immune
system doesn't know that they're there
because they're not really doing
anything but just waiting for your
stress to go up because when you have
stress you have cortisol cortisol is an
immune suppressant one of the most
severe stresses that someone can go
through is an emotional stress and this
is why a lot of these dormant viruses
come out of remission after a stress
event loss of a loved one is a huge one
loss of money and I've seen this a lot
of times in practice um with someone
with a herpes virus or even shingles
I'll ask asked them what happened just
before this and sure enough it was a
stress event and they can come out and
create other problems too like
fibromyalgia also problems on your face
as well there's one thing unique about
those viruses they need the amino acid
called Arginine to exist and just so
happens that Arginine competes with
another amino acid called lysine if you
have enough lysine you can block
Arginine and stop the reproduction of
this virus you have to take a lot of
Lysine to kind of compete and block
Arginine you want to take 1,000 Mig to
3,000 Mig every single day for a period
of time to put that virus back and
remission as well as do whatever you can
do to reduce stress let's take another
nerve problem stica that usually comes
from a disc issue a lot of people with
dis problems are deficient in Copper if
you have sodaka you may want to try
either taking a supplement with copper
or just putting copper cream topically
around that area in your back where it
originates to reduce the discomfort next
condition is carpal tunnel syndrome
that's in your wrist this is usually a
B6 deficiency the primary nerve that
supports myin is B12 and that would be
another type of nerve problem because if
you're deficient in B12 you can get like
electric shock like Sensations in your
nervous system very very painful or even
numbness and that's because B12 is
involved with the milein sheath around
the nerve that's the outer covering that
protects the nerve that insulates the
nerve that allows the signals to
transmit then we get to Ms okay this is
an autoimmune disease this can
definitely affect your nerves your brain
vitamin D3 is essential in reducing
inflammation within the nerve cells and
also your brain cells you need to take
large amounts of vitamin D3 50 60 70
80,000 I use a vitamin D3 to put that
condition into remission there's a lot
of research on this using something
called the coimbra protocol which I will
put a link down below more information
about that now let's get into the most
common nerve problem that exists and
that is something relating to either
pre-diabetes or diabetes a lot of people
with diabetes end up with nerve problems
in their feet they get numbness in the
toes first and then it kind of starts
traveling in the foot the bottom of the
foot becomes painful the sugar in the
blood is creating such a demand for this
one vitamin and that vitamin is called
vitamin B1 thymine I would take it in
the form of
benine because that tends to penetrate
the myelin and get right into the nerve
and very quickly reverse nerve damage
that's caused from the high sugar the
more carbohydrates or sugar someone
consumes the greater the need for B1 if
you're a pre-diabetic or you're a
diabetic you have a lot of sugar going
through the bloodstream that means
you're going to need even more B1 to
compensate but of course if you just
come off the sugar that might be a
better solution but benot toine this is
a fat salable version of B1 is the best
antidote for peripheral neuropathy
because B1 is necessary for the
metabolism of carbohydrates and just as
a very important side note in order for
B1 to work there's another co-actor that
you need and that's magnesium but I
wanted to create this video kind of
short to the point and cover the most
common issues uh relating to nerves and
what nutrients you should focus on to
hopefully reduce those problems
