so I want to talk about inositol okay
inositol is one of the B vitamins it's I
don't beat eight okay so it's really
effective for insulin resistance now
this doesn't mean you can actually take
this without fixing the diet but I'm
talking with the necessary change of
healthy ketosis in andaman fasting
adding an acetal could really greatly
help you if you have pretty severe
insulin resistance one of the things
that this has been known to help is
polycystic ovarian syndrome and acne why
because it improves insulin resistance
which is high insulin which actually
causes this in the first place so by
lowering insulin you could definitely
reduce the conversion into androgens and
that's what this condition is it's high
levels of androgens you get facial hair
hair loss
deeper voice so you can improve the
ovarian function with an acetal okay it
also decreases cholesterol probably
because it improves insulin resistance
which is behind high cholesterol it also
helps neuropathy like in peripheral
neuropathy if you have damaged nerves at
the bottom of the feet from high blood
sugar problems again because of what
it's doing right here reducing risk for
kidney stones is another great benefit
will help your menstrual cycle it will
help in the production of
neurotransmitters and my guess is B when
you fix in some resistance you allow the
amino acid to go into the cell because
insulin controls the absorption of amino
acids so more absorption of the protein
building blocks equals more ability to
make neurotransmitters which means less
anxiety less depression so some people
take this for depression anxiety in
addition to doing heat health Aikido in
a minute fasting I think if you have
anxiety depression and you take this
that would be a really great thing to do
to speed things up now the type I'm
gonna recommend would be something
called ip6 you can get it online or at
the health food store why because this
has some additional really amazing
properties to help someone
decrease risk for fibroids decrease risk
for cancer decrease abnormal cells so
ip6 is also a phytic acid and it's which
is a very powerful antioxidant which
also will is a key later so it'll help
get rid of excess iron if you have too
much okay so that's an acetal in a
nutshell thanks for watching hey guys I
had a quick question I'm thinking about
doing a keto summit in Washington do you
see this fall and the reason I want to
do in the fall that's my favorite time
of the year where the leaves are falling
it's going to be gorgeous in Washington
DC and I wanted to know if you would be
interested in coming out so this will
have a chance to meet you
and cover the entire subject of quito
and intimate of fasting so I haven't
formulated all the details yet but I
just wanted to find out if you would be
interested I put a link down below let
me know
