let's talk about the real benefit of
chia seeds I mean if we talk about the
Omega-3s okay Omega-3s are good for the
heart they're good for thinning the
blood and of course salmon and sardines
are always recommended because they have
high amounts of Omega-3 then what's this
deal with Chia seeds having more omega-3
if you look gram for gram but what they
don't tell you is the type of Omega-3 is
not the active omega-3 that people think
about as an anti-inflammatory that's
called DHA the type of Omega-3 that Chia
is known for and by the way Chia has the
most of this is called Al a it's the
thing that comes before the conversion
into this active form of this omega-3 so
the question is how much of that ala
converts to DHA and the answer is not
very much it's like .5% the next point
is about eggs now whereas an egg like a
medium-sized egg might have 7 gr of
protein chia seed has four gram of
protein the question is is it the same
and the answer is no because the egg is
the most bioavailable protein that you
can consume actually I lied breast milk
is the number one and then eggs and then
meat and then fish but chia seed and
other plant proteins are pretty low on
the list and I've searched everywhere
for a long period of time to try to find
out how bioavailable it is and I
couldn't find that data now CHS seed
also has some vitamin E some vitamin C
it has some of the B vitamins it has
calcium phosphorus potassium magnesium
and if you look at the research on Gia
seed you'll see uh cardioprotective
benefits uh benefits to help lower your
blood pressure benefits for your brain
and can even thin your blood but the
biggest benefit from consuming chia
seeds has to do with this sble F fber
okay so and what I normally do is take
two tablesp of chia seed and I'll put it
in about a half a cup of either milk or
almond milk okay unsweetened and then
I'll kind of mix it around until it
swells up into this gel and then I'll
add some berries or some kefir which is
a little better than yogurt but if
you're going to use yogurt I would use
Greek yogurt some coconut cream and
maybe some nuts and it makes a great
pudding okay
but the benefit is in this gel this gel
is a sble fiber that is a wonderful food
for your microbiome your microbiome love
this gel and they can eat it up and turn
it into food for the colon cells and
they can use it as energy if you have
inflammation in your gut this would be a
good thing to take and also if you have
constipation it can help you with that
as well some people are concerned about
these things called lactin which can
actually irritate the colon if there's
inflammation well chia seeds have very
low amounts of lactin so you don't have
to worry about lactin with Chia seed
also in that gel you have other
nutrients like polyphenols these are
certain plant-based chemicals that your
microbes love and they can eat as well
but the real benefit is feeding microbes
that benefit you indirectly there's a
huge connection between your mood and
your energy and how your overall health
is and the health of the gut microbiome
so I would recommend consuming things
like chia seed and other things that can
feed the microbes including like
fermented vegetables like sauerkraut
pickles kimchi things like that on a
regular basis couple little last points
you don't want to grind the seeds you
can soak them whole the Aztecs used to
consume chia seeds so it's been around
for a long time now if you have not seen
my other video on chia seeds check it
out I put it up right here
