so I want to talk to you about trace
minerals okay I finally got these in
I've been waiting for these things and
they're amazing now trace minerals are
typically those minerals needed in very
small amounts you don't need a lot of
them maybe probably about um micro Gams
not like huge amounts like calcium
magnesium but very small amounts so
trace minerals are essential to build
the cells in the body the DNA there's
even studies that show that um this
thing called mitochondria I don't know
if you remember biology mitochondria the
energy factories that's where all the
metabolism occurs that's when you burn
fat you need that
mitochondria if you're deficient in
trace minerals what happens is the
mitochondria they don't work anymore
they actually age faster so there's all
sorts of studies that show that Trace
mineral deficiencies accelerate the
mitochondrial Decay and they they break
down so um here's the
problem from 19 50 to
1999 um certain trace minerals are
deficient by
79% okay in other words broccoli for
example uh had like 130 milligrams of uh
calcium in 1950 but in 1999 it's like 48
so the soil is becoming more and more
depleted um but they only found three
minerals that were deficient and I was I
was curious like why are they only
finding like three minerals deficient
from that time period then I found out
in 1950 that's all they tested for three
minerals they didn't look at all 74
minerals CU you need all these minerals
right so I know that there's a lot of um
deficiencies even more than three it's
like all of them so the problem is the
farmers are are not replenishing the
nutrients or the the minerals back into
the soil so other than three minerals
it's called NPK nitrogen phosphorus and
potassium if there's no minerals in the
soil there's no minerals in the plant
the minerals are needed to uh make the
vitamins there's two types of minerals
and when you go to store GNC and you buy
these minerals what you're really
getting is you're getting rocks and one
is calcium carbonate that's like
Limestone your body does not absorb
rocks so the absorption rate from these
Metals these metallic minerals these
rocks these salts you know like they
call them Trace mineral salt they don't
absorb like 4% at the very very what you
need is plantbased minerals cuz
typically what happens the the plant
digs down into the soil and it breaks
down the Rocks absorbs the rock into the
plant and then we're designed to eat the
plant because the plant has converted
that rock into an easy absorbable
nutrient or mineral all right so
plant-based minerals are about 10,000
times smaller than rocks or regular
minerals so it' be like the equivalent
of a let's say we have a a golf ball in
the Empire State building so the golf
ball will be plant-based minerals
they're very small they absorb 100% of
your body so when you take them they go
in like a rocket ship the problem is
where are we going to find the trace
minerals so I found a company that I got
them from um which is
from a period of time that went back 60
million years ago when you had the
prehistoric type plant-based stuff and
what happened that's when the soil was
really really rich that's when we had
all the nutrients so now we can't find
it so I found these minerals that they
actually liquefied them in cold water
processing units and now we can actually
take them in small amounts to actually
get our nutrients and enhance our diet
so I just want to tell you what happened
so I took these minerals uh last Friday
okay Friday Saturday and Sunday so
normally my son who's about he's about
180 pounds he's a wrestler I'm a
wrestler but he's pretty strong okay
well I was a wrestler so I was pretty
strong and uh back then but now I'm not
I mean he can just like take me down
right so I took the minerals and I'm
wrestling him on Sunday and I took him
down like a rag I'm like what the heck
he's like Dad what's gotten into you I
said I don't know I just feel really
really strong he says like you're like
the Incredible Hulk I said Thank you so
I found that these minerals help build
muscle repair ligaments tendons they
build the foundation of your cells so
I'm like I'm waking up in the morning
feeling more refreshed sleeping deeper
so then I started giving into to my
staff and uh um roxan is like what the
heck were in those things that's I feel
so good in the morning I I work out a
lot so the trace M actually gave me I
think a little bit more energy
especially in the morning because I do a
6 a.m. boot camp class so it actually
gave me more like a boost so it was
actually really and I've been taking it
ever since it's pretty cool I'm not like
the best eater but I do eat salads kale
and stuff like that just like I've
learned from working here and I just
feel like this is going to give me more
nutrients especially for my hair my face
my nails and stuff like that stuff that
I am very interested in like personally
so I I I feel like it's going to help me
a lot well I mean I didn't feel anything
initially you know it was just felt like
I was just drinking water and then that
that night I slept a little better um it
wasn't a huge huge difference but I woke
up more refer than I did before and then
the next night was better and better and
better and it just got kept on getting
better so um and also my energy just my
energy sustained longer like where I
would have a burst of energy um and then
sort of mellow out and then I have
another burst this time my energy was it
it was longer basically some of the
purposes of trace minerals are to help
your immune system I mean if you take
trace minerals you'll knock out a a
fever like that especially in infants or
little kids um why because trace
minerals suppress viruses you can't kill
a virus us because it's not alive it's a
piece of genetic material wrapped in a
sack it comes out of remission when your
resistance is low so the trace minerals
build up your resistance to infections
and viruses so takes that virus and puts
it right back in remission and so if you
take on a regular basis you kind of keep
the viruses and stuff at Bay so trace
minerals help proteins and what part of
your body's protein you got hair nails
skin collagen that glue that holds your
body together you got your joints you
have your eyes it it helps prevent
macular degeneration that's the that's a
little thing in the back of the eye that
helps you focus right so we have that so
when if when you have like all these
like weird symptoms like dry brittle
body tissues you have dry skin brittle
hair dried out that's just trace
minerals okay so
um you need about um um 74 minerals you
don't want to get them from the sea you
want to get them from the plants because
they're much better to absorb okay so
blood
building uh muscle repair Rejuvenation
if you feel burnt out I Rec I normally
recommend it for people that are burnt
out and uh because they're not sleeping
and they just kind of wore out this is
really good for heart repair so there's
many different things that you can use
it for and um there's I mean even
increasing uh fertility um wound healing
and diarrhea did you realize that the
number one cause of death worldwide is
diarrhea yeah you wouldn't ever think
that but it's actually in other
countries and stuff so they get some
parasite or something and then they
diarrhea and they lose all their trace
minerals those are
electrolytes electrolytes are trace
minerals so they lose them and they die
so how do you stop a DI a person with
diarrhea you give them trace minerals it
stops it like that alopecia okay that's
your hair that just starts coming off in
little patches that's autoimmune that's
for the adrenal so Trace minals are
really good to um support the adrenal
from the stress
responses I always wondered about why
Europeans are thinner than Americans I
wonder why people from Africa have great
bone structure in perfect teeth and I'm
like uh I mean I had every single one of
my teeth kind of cavities growing up so
I'm in Northern Virginia and so I find
that this is a Melting Pot of all the
different cultures and people so I got a
chance to kind of ask and pull a string
and see what's behind this and even
though these people from Africa are come
from poor countries they're very rich in
the trace minerals I really think it's
the trace minerals because um if you
start out with good trace minerals and
you and you take them even as an infant
or your mom is breastfeeding you it
comes through the mother you're going to
end up with really good structure mus
muscles uh longevity Health it's going
to be way way better than America and so
you're going to even you might find when
you were growing up you know a tomato
would taste really good now it's like
Wax there's no nutrition I mean it's
like very very depleted so when you eat
food it doesn't really satisfy you why
do you think so many people are craving
so many things especially the salts and
the MSG and the foods I mean they put
MSG to make it taste better to get you
to eat it it dilates the taste bud but
they're not really giving the trace
minerals okay
so trace minerals are nutrient s and the
purpose of nutrients is this it's to
give your body Energy repair the body
growth uh help you
detoxify um it's kind of like a repair
mechanism our bodies are constantly
replenishing these minerals and vitamins
we really don't need more vitamins we
need more minerals but we need trace
minerals because um I built a software
that analyzes nutrition and uh and you
could run down a whole profile on on
vitamins and you'll find that most of
them are fulfilled it's the trace
minerals that are always deficient so
that's really what's missing in the
soil so there's a big difference between
dirt in soil soil has all the nutrients
it should anyway typical soils only
replace three minerals NPK nitrogen
phosphorus and potassium sometimes
sulfur calcium and magnesium but but
mainly it's commercial soils are
actually only three so that is the
problem because the nowadays the the way
they grow things are very condensed so
they suck all the nutrition out of the
soil and you end up with a depleted
nutrient dense soil so the plant gets
its nutrients from the minerals the
plant turns the minerals into vitamins
without the minerals you don't have the
vitamins and so we're eating food that's
very deficient in nutrients specifically
trace minerals because it's not in the
soil so that's why we have to enhance
because it's so hard to get you would
have to eat 27,000 calories of food to
get your Trace mineral content you're
required and that's almost impossible
and that's why you're seeing so many
problems with all sorts of things and I
even think obesity is a problem too with
nutrient deficiencies and even Cravings
so and it's hard to find soil it's hard
to go I went to the farmers market to
get my my lettuce and my tomatoes but I
can't always do that so you have to
either grow your own food or get a trace
mineral that has all the the nutrients
but make sure it's it's a plant-based
minerals not sea or metallic or salts or
rocks
