so I had another question why would one
crave chalk or dirt okay people type all
sorts of things chalk dirt clay okay
laundry starch ice paper and even
tinfoil I mean really what would be
better than a dirt sandwich wrapped in a
little tin foil
maybe little sprinkles of laundry to
starch you know put some clay in there
maybe like a little extra ice water on
the side you know maybe we'll put a
little layer of chalk on there as well
right all kidding aside if you crave
these things
you're usually anemic you need more iron
or zinc very very simple to get your
iron don't take a pill red meat okay
liver
you'll get your iron if you don't like
liver you can get liver pills grass-fed
liver pills hoisters for zinc or you can
get this one in a pill it's just really
hard for our bodies to get rid of excess
iron so you in the form that it usually
comes in is not that good so you'd want
it from actual food but zinc you could
take as a supplement alright guys thanks
for watching okay
I mean there's nothing better than a tin
foil see a fresh tin foil sandwich
filled with dirt and laundry starch
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
