so today we're going to talk about lean
meat or lean protein low-fat protein on
keto not a good idea now what's amazing
to me is how hard they will push this
low-fat lean protein on people eat your
skinless chicken breasts and your turkey
bacon and you're gonna be so healthy now
there's some interesting data on certain
expeditions in the Arctic where all they
have to eat is rabbit okay and there's a
condition called protein starvation
another name for it is rabbit starvation
or fat starvation and when they're
talking about protein starvation they're
talking about starving from other
nutrients because you're only eating
lean protein but rabbit has a percent
fat okay so it's very very lean beef by
the way has 32% fat and skinless chicken
breast is 11 percent fat so it's
extremely lean well this condition
creates a series of side effects one is
diarrhea headaches fatigue low blood
pressure slow pulse rate and a hunger
that cannot be satisfied by consuming
more protein and even in certain
survival manuals it talks about
refraining from consuming rabbit if it's
the only food that is available okay
it's better to eat nothing at all
because it's actually even killed people
so anytime you're consuming protein and
keto consume it as a whole food okay it
comes with the fat don't take the skin
off try to get sardines with the skin on
don't go low-fat and there's some other
interesting things about low-fat protein
especially when you get an ultra low
like zero fat as in whey protein powder
there's something called the insulin
index it's different than the glycemic
index the glycemic index has to do with
all the carbohydrates that stimulate
insulin the insulin index has to do with
all the non carbohydrate foods that will
trigger insulin alright and whey is at
the top of the list weight is just not a
natural product they remove all the fat
and it also takes certain nutrients
to metabolize protein so if you're
consuming too lean of a protein and
you're not adding enough fat you can
create all sorts of vitamin and mineral
deficiencies another thing you should
know is something that relates to bile
that's made from the liver that's stored
in the gallbladder you need vile to help
you absorb all the fat soluble vitamins
what triggers bile is fat if you're
going lean especially lean protein you
can not only dry up the bile but you can
increase your risk of gall stones being
in practice for 29 years I've ran into
quite a few people who are on a low-fat
high-protein diet weight-loss program
okay so they're doing these protein
powders that are really extremely low
fat and I noticed a certain percentage
of them have a gallbladder problems
gallbladder attacks gall stones it's one
lady did this diet down the street from
some doctor who put her on this powdered
protein low-fat mix okay that's all she
consumed for taking like six months she
ended up with a condition where she had
to remove the gallbladder and then she
end up with constant burping to the
point where as driving her husband crazy
burping and belching is a gallbladder
symptoms so even if you have the
gallbladder out this doesn't mean the
problem is solved it just means you
don't have now have the sack that holds
the bile and you're gonna have a bile
deficiency so you could still have very
similar symptoms that you had with golf
stones even without the gall butter
because now you don't have the capacity
to store and concentrate the bile that
is needed for your brain for your
nervous system for the cell membranes
for the endocrine system for your immune
system and I'm also talking about
cholesterol as well I mean look at how
many symptoms a person gets when they
get in a statin drug when they're
blocking the production of cholesterol
so what you want to make sure you have
in your diet is the fattiest fish that
you can find the fattiest meat that you
can find don't get the lean protein the
lean dairy get the protein of fat in
their whole form thanks for watching hey
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
