someone had a recent question about
sodium lauryl sulfate i wanted to know
uh what my thought was on that so i
wanted to create this short video so
sodium lauryl sulfate is a detergent
it's in a lot of the shampoos it's in
gels cosmetics especially the facial
cleansing products it's in dishwashing
liquid yes it is an irritant to the skin
the lungs and the eyes and it is toxic
to aquatic life but the question is
other than that is it toxic to our
bodies well here's the data that i
researched it may be contaminated with
two
toxic chemicals one is ethylene oxide
which is a known human carcinogen
and one for dioxane which is a possible
human carcinogen so basically i would
recommend getting the sulfate free
shampoos gels and cosmetics all right i
wanted to keep it short and sweet thanks
for watching
so if you're enjoying my content which i
hope you are
and you're applying this knowledge to
your health
and you have a success i'd really
appreciate you sharing your success
story so click the link down below to my
website where you can upload your
success story so you can help inspire
others
