so I'm back and today we're gonna talk
about quito women and hormones okay so
you hear all this stuff on the net and
on the news that keto and intermittent
fasting is really bad for women it's
gonna mess up your hormones I'm just
gonna clarify that with six different
points starting it with number one when
you decrease your insulin by doing in a
minute fasting and keto you are
instantly enhancing certain fat burning
hormones insulin is a fat making hormone
and as has the power of preventing the
fat burning process it is a dominating
hormone in the presence of insulin all
the fat burning hormones are nullified
okay I'm not sure if you knew that but
so just by lowering insulin you enhance
the thyroid hormone which is a fat
burning hormone growth hormone glucagon
which is a fat burning hormone
adrenaline so you when you actually burn
more fat okay that's number one number
two because you're consuming more
healthy fat you're increasing more bile
production bile helps you convert the
inactive form of the thyroid hormone
which is t4 to the active form which is
t3 so you actually have more
effectiveness with your thyroid okay
consuming more fat increases bile it
also increases the absorption of more
fat soluble vitamins like vitamin A and
vitamin D and vitamin E these fat
soluble vitamins are vital with hormones
especially vitamin E in relationship to
the pituitary and menopause to prevent
hot flashes alright number three by
increasing dietary fat you're providing
the raw material for your steroid
hormones in order to make like estrogen
progesterone testosterone cortisol for
your adrenals you need cholesterol you
need fat and the ketogenic diet will
give you that if you're doing a low-fat
diet you're gonna starve those hormones
off okay number four decreasing insulin
will decrease PCOS polycystic ovarian
syndrome this is a condition where a
woman
has too much androgen that's a male
hormone and they're getting facial hair
deeper voice they're getting a gut
no more libido all sorts of problems
with that
well that's coming from high levels of
insulin if you just decrease your
insulin you're automatically going to
improve this condition right here
improving your overall hormone profile
all right number five running your body
on ketones which your brain loves by the
way and doing anima fasting greatly
supports the brain its ketones are
neural protective when you do
intermittent fasting you have these
genes that turn on and your brain
actually starts going into repair mode
and you actually grow new brain cells
which is really nice and guess what else
is in your brain the main master glands
which is the hypothalamus and the
pituitary those are the glands that send
the information down to the body and
they actually also improve when you go
on keto and if' you also improve the
autonomic nervous system which is an
added benefit and lastly going on keto
takes the stress off the pancreas and so
now the pancreas which is an endocrine
gland can finally come back and work
effectively the pancreas not only
regulates blood sugars but it's involved
in digestion as well so a lot of women
that go on healthy keto end up
increasing their fertility increasing
their libido now there are things that
can happen for example if you feel cold
if you lose your period if your libido
goes down it could mean that you're
doing in a min fasting too fast okay so
you have to go about it in a nice
gradual way it could also mean that the
type of keto that you're doing is
unhealthy so what I'm going to recommend
is do the healthy version of ketta we
call a healthy keto so I put a link down
below to make sure you get the correct
version of healthy keto thanks for
watching
you're enjoying this content go ahead
and share it with someone that could
really benefit from it
