you've been lied to by medicine I was
recently invited to speak at the low
carb conference okay there was a bunch
of doctors in the room and what was
amazing was that all the doctors in the
room practiced a completely different
type of medicine they practice the
philosophy that food is the best
medicine using drugs were not their mode
of treatment and I really think that's
going to be the way of the future but
unfortunately the great majority of
doctors use drugs to heal people and
today we're going to dissect and talk
about quite a few lies that you probably
have been told by your doctor and the
problem is not even doctors it's the
system behind doctors if you were just
to ask someone in the medical profession
what creates Health what would they say
does a drug actually create health or
does it numb or alter a symptom and
unfortunately our current health care
system is highly influenced by big
Pharma and big food aka the junk food
industry another problem with the
medical profession is it's over
specialized we have a bunch of
Specialists that are not necessarily
connecting the dots and looking at the
whole body doctors just focusing on the
ears nose and throat other doctors just
focus on the digestive system or the
endocrine system or the brain I think
that's a problem because it kind of
keeps everything separated and very
unfortunately the training in nutrition
and food therapy is virtually absent in
medical school they get I think 12 to 20
hours well here's one of their
biochemistry textbooks this one right
here and what's missing in this book
book are the key co-actors AKA nutrients
that are involved in Biochemistry
nutrition is not emphasized in
Biochemistry doctors do not look into
this diet this food angle yet many
doctors have opinions on nutrition which
is not very favorable so let's dive into
the nine lies that your doctor told you
number one you don't need a gallbladder
so if you're missing it is not a big
deal well first of all the gallbladder
is a sack that is underneath your right
rib cage it's a storage place for
something called bio salts and bio salts
are a detergent that helps you extract
certain fats from your digestive system
so without a gallbladder you're not
going to be able to concentrate this
bile so if you don't have a gallbladder
bile salts after a meal would be a good
idea number two statins have minimal
side effects that is completely not true
they have major side effects not just a
little problem with muscles but a major
problem with muscles your risk for typee
2 diabetes goes up and you're at risk
for liver damage some doctors even
recommend statins for everyone over the
age of 40 and 50 whether you have a
problem with cholesterol or not that is
insane because without cholesterol a lot
of problems can occur cholesterol is a
necessary thing that your body makes and
needs for several things number one it's
needed to make a lot of different
hormones including testosterone estrogen
progesterone the stress hormone called
cortisol it's needed to make the cell
membranes and you have a lot of cell
membranes in fact the surface area of
membrane that surrounds your cells is
roughly and I'm not kidding the size of
90 Acres so instead of trying to block
the production of cholesterol let's
actually get rid of certain things that
are causing high levels of cholesterol
another lie that people are told is that
hypertension is really too much salt in
the diet is it really the salt some
people that take salt before bed sleep
better because it lowers cortisol we
don't want to start lowering salt below
the threshold instead we want to take
the opposing mineral which is potassium
and increase that that allows a person
to tolerate more sodium salt sensitive
people are no longer salt sensitive when
they have more potassium potassium is
great for blood pressure because it
helps soften the arteries it helps calm
this tightness down all right the next
one the doctor says your vitamin D is
low we're going to give you 6 to 800 IUS
right which is a ridiculous number it's
so small it's not going to even create a
dent into your levels so then you go
back to the doctor because you probably
found one of my videos that said you
should take a minimum of 10,000 iuse
every day as a maintenance dosage and
they tell you oh my gosh that's toxic
that's a lie if you're out for 40
minutes in summer you'll get 20,000 IUS
of vitamin D3 have you ever heard being
out the Sun for 20 minutes will give you
some toxicity with vitamin D no you
don't because Vitamin D from the Sun is
the most natural way to get all the
benefits what you have to know is the
international units are not a
measurement of weight or size they're
based on a group of people deciding
that's what it should be a 10,000 I use
of vitamin D3 is not that much if I'm
not mistaken it's less than a quarter of
one milligram of vitamin D3 now this
next one is actually kind of comical
you've probably been told by your doctor
that you need to give up red meat
because red meat causes colon cancer
causes heart disease right really is
that actually true the answer is no in
fact out of all of the foods that you
can eat that can help heal you grass-fed
red meat is at the top of the list why
because it provides the most quality
protein that your body needs number one
it has virtually all of the B vitamins
zinc selenium copper iron all in the
form that's easily absorbed it also has
another thing called creatine which
gives you energy and it helps your
muscles it has ELC carnitine which helps
deliver fats into the mitochondria for
energy it helps you burn fat it even has
something called co-enzyme Q10 and it's
one of the best sources of glutamine for
any type of gut inflammation but of
course the conventional healthcare
industry says that red meat is bad and
you should avoid it they kind of lump it
in with processed meat meat saying it's
all the same next one is that you have
to avoid saturated fats well they blame
the saturated fat when in fact they
should be blaming the unsaturated fat
the seed oils which make up 30% of our
diet saturated fat by itself is not the
culprate if you take a look at all the
junk food out there there's not a lot of
saturated fat in junk food I'm talking
about the breads pasta cereal crackers
biscuits waffles pancakes very
inflammatory this next one is
interesting they're mostly going to tell
you to lose weight because the weight's
the cause no weight is a symptom your
high cholesterol is a symptom you see if
you actually put weight as the cause of
your problem then you're going to be
susceptible to taking certain measures
that might not be healthy to lose weight
like OIC or some other medication my
question is what is really at the root
of your weight problem it's kind of
circular because they'll say that your
weight problem causes your high blood
pressure and they might put you in this
boat where you have metabolic syndrome
so you have all these different
syndromes they're all associated with
each other but no one's really talking
about the root cause the root cause is
really something called insulin
resistance where the body is pumping out
a lot of insulin and that insulin is
making you fat it's making the arteries
constrict causing blood pressure to go
up and that's caused by eating too many
refined carbs and sugars and Seed oils
so My Philosophy is always it's not lose
weight to get healthy it's get healthy
first to lose the weight so focus on the
health the next one relates to maybe a
recommendation you might get from a
dietitian and this would be you need to
be more plant-based right because
plant-base is cleaner if you take a look
at some of the ingredients on these
plant-based artificial fake Meats it's
all alra processed food ingredients
we're talking about soy protein isolates
we're talking about hidden maltodextrin
it's not really healthy grass-fed
organic free range pasture raised eggs
much healthier and this next one is
really fascinating because they'll say
that hypoglycemia is a complication of
diabetes and so we have to manage it
because it's one of the dangers of
having diabetes is to have hypoglycemia
well what is Hypoglycemia low blood
sugar what is diabetes high blood sugar
so if diabetes is high blood sugar
shouldn't we lower the glucose and sugar
and carbohydrates wouldn't that be the
best thing to do well guess what doctors
don't really tell you to do that instead
they tell you to keep some glucose pills
in your pocket or candy in case you're
blood sugars go too low because the
medication you're taking is lowering
your blood glucose we don't want it to
go too low that's completely illogical
why doesn't the doctor just tell you to
lower the medication and take less candy
because it's the carbohydrates that
Spike the insulin that drops the blood
glucose so anyone who has hypoglycemia
or low blood sugar really has too much
insulin and thus the problem with the
medical industry there hasn't been any
Deep dive and evaluation into
you know nutrients and what they do and
how they can benefit someone but what I
will say is I have done a deep dive on
many different aspects of nutrition if
you want more information on that you
should check out this video right here
