so today we're going to talk about the
most powerful killer of the sinkhole
Candida okay now normally we have
Candida living in our bodies and it
doesn't bother us there's actually 20
different types but it's when we take an
antibiotic that then lowers our defenses
and then we get an overgrowth of Candida
so Candida is a fungal infection caused
by yeast the most common being Candida
albicans if it's on the tongue it's
called thrush that's where you get the
white tongue sometimes there's like it's
on the on the inside of the cheek
sometimes there's the red little patches
on your tongue there's a lot of other
symptoms as well if it's in the vagina
it's considered a yeast infection if
it's in the esophagus it's called
Candida esophagitis so it's the
overgrowth of Candida but just realize
that normally we have Candida that is
living in our body and it's not creating
any problems any infections okay this is
it guys garlic garlic hands down is the
most powerful fungus killer and this
also works on toenail fungus it has a
natural phytochemical that's responsible
for this effect called AoE that some of
the major drug companies right now are
researching this compound to be used in
a future medication for blood clotting
disorders because this compound thins
your blood naturally of course if you
just take garlic you can do that very
very easily so you want to actually
crush the garlic start putting in the
food on a regular basis and you'll start
slowly killing this off and of course
you need to also fix the diet okay you
have to lower your sugar you have to
lower definitely milk sugar I recommend
a healthy keto plan within a minute
fasting as an absolute must because if
you're using garlic and you're still
consuming sugar and your carbs are still
too high I don't think it's ever gonna
go away okay so you want to starve this
fungus off and reestablish the friendly
flora the type of probiotic I'm going to
recommend is not a milk
basse probiotic it needs to be something
like effective microbes I put a link
down below for more information on that
but there's many many other chemical
compounds in garlic for a lot of other
health benefits and garlic is not just
an antifungal it's an antibacterial and
it has very powerful antiviral
properties and it's been also shown to
be very effective on basal cell
carcinoma the most common form of skin
cancer I'll put some links down below
but it's pretty pretty amazing stuff so
if you have Candida this is what you
need to be consuming you can cut out the
sugar go low-carb do healthy keto in a
minute fasting thanks for watching hey
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
