hey everyone we have Priscilla on the
line we're going to do an interview so
welcome and thanks for doing this
interview thank you thank you you're
welcome so can you tell me a little bit
about uh your history of uh with weight
or your health
or what was the point where you said you
know what I I need to do something sure
yeah well so um for the most part I used
to think it was pretty healthy didn't uh
really
go to the doctor a whole lot um and even
though I was overweight I knew I was
overweight um for some stupid reason I
used to think that I was still pretty
healthy um but I
think around
2012 I did um do like a like a checkup
did U full blood work and all that um
doctor comes and says you know
everything came back normal except
there's one thing I can't even remember
what it was you probably could tell me
um it came back elevator so they wanted
to do like an ultrasound because they
were concerned that I had a fatty
liver so I didn't know what that meant
nobody explained to me what that meant
and I basically just ignored whatever
you know he was he was saying he was
concerned about and so he did ask me
about my diet I thought well I think I
eat pretty healthy but back in the day I
was eating um Brazilian food that's
where I'm from so we eat rice and beans
every day but we do have uh meat on the
side and salad so I thought well that
that can be as bad as eating McDonald's
every day so I thought I was
fine but apparently
um as the ear went by I just kept
getting worse and worse with the
symptoms um I started getting a lot of
heartburn and it got to a point where I
was in so much pain in my stomach I
couldn't sleep I was in so much pain I
went to the doctor and she said well
okay I'm going to give you a um like
anti- acid reflux medication you take
that if it doesn't get any better we'll
do an notra an ultrasound so I said well
okay I really don't want to do an
ultrasound so I'm going to make sure I
take this medication religiously right
to get better uh but it didn't get any
better I just got worse and worse and uh
the stomach pain the um acid reflux
every day I was popping pills every day
like it was
candy um didn't really change my diet
just got worse actually uh eating a lot
of carbs a lot of fast food and I was
overweight at 190 was my heaviest how
tall are you and I'm sorry how tall are
you I am 5'4 okay 54 so um I knew I
needed to lose weight I wanted to lose
weight because I didn't like what I was
seeing in the mirror uh but at the same
time I didn't have that strength because
probably because I didn't understand
what I was doing to myself uh what I was
eating was causing so um eventually I
got to a point where I said okay I need
to lose the weight I'll start a diet and
I started the only way I knew how to
which was
the uh the eating every two to three
hours the snacking in between you know
you got to keep your metabolism working
so um I was doing that and I was
frustrated because I only lost about
nine pounds and then I was completely
stuck and um I remember my mom was
actually the one that's like my biggest
motivation because she is diabetic and
she doing all the researches she found
your videos so she sends me that one day
and I'm like trying to understand what's
going on with her and trying to help her
out but then you kept saying something
about this keto diet and I you know I
was wondering what in the world is this
keto diet
so that's when I started researching
more and more and I just basically
became pretty much addictive to your
videos and started digesting all that
and I just put in practice everything
that you were teaching what you said not
to eat I cut out what you said to eat I
started eating basically and um just
included exercise in there and that's
when I really started losing the weight
wow I wish most most of my patients
would do that that so you so you um you
started adding all these things together
do you did you jump right into
intermittent fasting at first or you
just basically just kind of changed over
on the
keto yeah so when I uh I found the video
where you said you were explaining do to
start out with the intermittent fasting
do the three days the first three days
do three meals with no snacking in
between um and then work up to one meal
a day so I did that cycle for maybe a
couple times and then eventually I just
got to the point where I only
eat uh twice three times the most but
for like every single weekend I only eat
once a day wow so that's where I am now
wow that's amazing so you went from 190
what what is your weight
now I'm 150 now wow so I still want to
lose another 20 but 40 PBS is it's not
bad yeah so so you were kind of in this
state where I guess you're awareness you
just really probably weren't paying
attention or noticing you're just kind
of going along and I'm healthy I'm fine
and then something happened it woke you
up like okay this is yeah I mean it
wasn't just I think for me it was more
seeing how my mom was struggling with
her health uh she's had cancer twice you
know chemotherapy damaged her heart she
had a heart attack so it's been it was
hard for me to go through that and see
her go through that and so I figured
well I don't want to be sick like that
because I don't think I can handle going
through all that right and so I had a
lot of symptoms like dy I was dizzy I
was shaking a
lot um all of the symptoms that go with
um hypoglycemia
so wow and so um can you give me an
example of like what your meal looks
like yeah so when I do have breakfast
I'll I usually like to have a couple
boiled eggs
sometimes depending on how hungry I am
I'll add bacon um the hormone free
bacon um and then for lunch I like to
have a big
salad and then I add the protein with
that and like having the grass-fed beef
grass some sort of grass-fed U
protein and a little bit of fat I add in
that yeah used to add a lot more in the
beginning I don't as much anymore mhm um
but some sort of cheese avocado
something like that a healthy fat so I
combine those three together and but the
for the main uh my main meal it's a lot
of greens a lot of vegetables a lot of
um salads so that's what I usually eat
that's awesome and then do you so do you
find that your Cravings have gone down
and your hunger's gone down now oh yeah
yeah definitely I was a I don't know I
was a addicted to Sugar um and
especially if I was stressed out the
more stressed I was the more sugar I ate
it was really bad I mean as bad as I
would go to the store get me
five uh like Mexican sweet breads or
muffins and stuff like that I would eat
all five that day it was bad that is
pretty bad that is really bad um so um
so now you you just uh you can control
it now what about your mom is she uh
doing some of the things too yes so I um
explained to her you know the more I
learned and uh the more I was able to
tell you know you need to cut the carbs
you need to got her on the wheat grass
uh we supplement with the wheat grass
the electrolytes um the D3 K2 as well
and her A1C started going down slowly
but it's going down so yes we definitely
saw Improvement in her health as well
she wants to be completely off
um diabetic medication she's off the
insulin but we really want to get her
off the metformin so we definitely see
progress there great awesome and then um
were you raised in
Brazil I um yeah I lived there up until
I was 11 years old and then moved moved
here what kind of foods do they consume
in
Brazil uh for the most part rice and
beans
um a lot of um starchy Foods um
carbs uh
pasta um just fast food and in general a
lot of it but um is there a is there a
weight problem there as
well I I think so um but I haven't been
there in so long I think I've been here
more than half of my life but
um yeah I do see a lot of people
nowadays talking about how they want to
lose weight and all that because I think
also uh they recently decided to kind of
kick out the whole GMO food so I know
that's they had the GMO food I don't
know if they still do but and the other
thing too is um I heard this I don't
know if this is a rumor but in Brazil
like all the mothers breastfeed for a
long time right is that
true um I don't know probably haven't
keep track how far back that goes
because um yeah like I said I haven't
been there for a while I mean nowadays
mom um pretty much same as here they
work and you know stuff like that
someone told me that I thought that was
like probably very important as this
child starts developing their immune
system and uh um because in America it's
like no one does it it's like okay
formula and then you get the you get the
GMO sugar water and then boom it's over
um I wish I would have known that when I
had my child that's for sure I know I
know um and then the other question I
have is um your exercise what kind of
exercise are you doing right
now um I like to combine cardio with
some weightlifting not not too heavy um
I started doing I found a a free program
on YouTube as well and they do like a
30-day program uh from beginner to all
the way to like when you're um lifting
really heavy weights like
bodybuilding and I'm still in the
beginner um phase of it but I've always
done I always like running um a lot of
people don't but I love the
treadmill and it just makes me feel
really good when I run especially when
I'm fasting and I run while I'm fasting
for some reason that just it's like a
boost of energy for me oh yeah yeah
because you're also going to tap out
your you're going to actually get more
into a fat burning phase because you're
going to tap out your glycogen reserve
and just running flat which is a cleaner
efficient fuel so it's almost like you
have endorphins and like you can if
you're listening to music it just feels
really good right um what about like um
did you notice
um ever situ like a situation where you
stop losing weight but you started
shrinking in size was that aever
situation yes um and I'm not sure if
that has to do with the muscle uh way or
um since I started the keto diet my
cycle has been changing quite a bit and
so I don't know if it had something to
do with that but I did I was losing a
lot of my waist but the scale is still
the
same maybe three weeks or so yeah that
happens because you're you're preserving
proteins you're getting more muscle mass
and density but you're losing fat which
is a little lighter so that's that's a
normal thing so as long as you're
shrinking that's really the main point
and then you're doing at the days that
you do one meal a day um so what time of
the day would you consume that
meal um I'll fast until probably 3: or 4
in the afternoon wow good and then are
you hungry at that point or could you
keep
going uh that's usually about when I
start getting
hungry okay and then you do you have a
hard time like eating a lot of food now
or do you can you get by on a little
less
food oh I definitely eat a lot less yeah
even when I'm hungry i i two eggs for me
in the morning sometimes is is still a
lot so I definitely don't eat as much as
I used to you you're basically adapting
all these cells to be more efficient so
the amount of food you need is
definitely not the same as doing the
whole carb thing and then how about um
your sleep do you need as much sleep
well I try to sleep at least eight hours
a night okay
um I don't I don't have a problem with
sleeping honestly I used to I used to
have a hard time sleeping but now I can
I sleep like a baby so right and then
what about your digestion do you have
any digestive issues
anymore no all of my stomach problems
went away completely away I can't I
haven't touched any medications and
since I started so it's been about five
by six months
amazing and then do you um I was going
to ask you one more question about uh um
oh do you ever cheat or can you maintain
the
discipline no there's no cheating for me
there's no no I get a lot of people ask
me so when do you take a break like
sometimes I went on vacation and there
was no cheating I cooked at either
cooked at where we were staying or if I
went out for a salad I took my own salad
dressing and stuff like that um and you
know it's just because people don't they
don't seem to understand what ketoses
will do to your
body once you taste that you don't want
to go back right so I I don't need to
cheat no totally I mean yeah you already
know what you're going to feel like and
then do does anyone like looking at you
going wow you're looking great what are
you doing do you get a lot of people
like Curious what you're doing and that
want to do the same thing or what how
does how yeah yeah some people that
don't see me for a while I just had the
other day a lady see me and she was like
you're looking thinner what are you
doing and so and that's when I tell
themo it's the key to diet you know and
I basically just say go look Dr Berg up
because he's he's awesome he's helped me
and he can help you too but yeah I do I
do get people ask me awesome well that's
awesome well thank you so much for this
interview what maybe what we'll do is um
when you hit that additional 20 lbs and
then we'll do another one and then we'll
do some before before and after yep
that'll be fun awesome all right thank
you so much you're welcome my pleasure
have a great afternoon thank you for all
of the um all the material you have um
available for us it really changed uh my
life and and my future basically because
who knows where I would have been so
thank you for that oh my pleasure thank
you thanks have a great day have a good
one
