so recently I was talking to a lady who
told me she went to her doctor and the
doctor said you have visceral fat and
it's dangerous and you need to go on a
diet but he didn't really tell her
exactly what diet to go on so let's just
talk about the dangerous fat okay
it's called visceral fat but let me just
show you the mechanism of how you get
there in the first place so you have
this high insulin okay insulin is a fat
making hormone it's a fat storing
hormone in the presence of just a little
bit of insulin you will not burn fat
because it prevents the burning in the
utilization of fat and what triggers
this is dietary sugars and carbs
frequent eating omega-6 fatty acids like
corn oil sorrel GMO stress and there's a
whole list of other things as well but
these are really important things to
know about 65% of the population is
pre-diabetic so they may not have high
sugars yet like excessively high but
they're their sugars are starting going
higher but I think even a greater
percentage of people have a higher
amounts of insulin because this is what
comes right before the pre-diabetes okay
so you have high insulin and you can
have a whole chain of effects from belly
fat to high cholesterol to high blood
pressure to inflammation to brain fog so
your body then has to protect itself
from the damaging effects of high
insulin and high sugar so it starts to
develop a condition called insulin
resistance this is basically a
protective mechanism to block the
absorption of insulin okay to kind of
limit the amount of sugar and insulin
going in the cells because it's harmful
so if a person continues to consume too
many carbs too frequently you're going
to overload the blood and it has to go
somewhere so that sugar is then
converted to visceral fat so this is fat
around the organs inside the abdomen
because it has no place to go so it's
kind of a spillover fat the liver is
already you know fatty so it has to
spill off into the
domina cavity so you have all this
visceral fat so this is really a storage
facility of the excess energy that's
coming in the body right here that your
body can't do anything with so it dumps
it into some storage you know around the
organs so it's again it's trying to
protect you and it is true that visceral
fat then gives off certain things and
that create more inflammation that's
true this is why they tell you obesity
the risk factor for diabetes heart
disease high blood pressure metabolic
syndrome cancer because visceral fat
gives off inflammatory compounds which
then worsen insulin resistance which
then causes more visceral fat so it's a
vicious cycle so this whole emphasis is
on obesity and the dangerous fat getting
rid of it but what about this thing
right here very little attention on this
it's all about go on a diet do more
exercise eat less calories etc etc so I
just wanted to show you
very simply what's really happening what
the body is trying to do so the question
is is fat really dangerous well not
nearly as dangerous is this right here
thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
