now in the past i've done a lot of
videos on what to do for estrogen
dominance but in this video we're going
to talk about what to do if you are low
on estrogen okay let's say you're
postmenopausal or you just have low
estrogen these are the some of the
symptoms hot flashes thinning hair
breast atrophy vaginal dryness
depression
utis
loss of collagen
so you do not want to do a low fat diet
you want to do the ketogenic diet that's
a higher fat diet cholesterol is needed
to make estrogen all right number two
boron this is a trace mineral which is
very very important in maintaining
normal cholesterol levels and boron will
just help balance estrogen whether it's
too high it needs to come down or too
low and needs to be brought up all right
herbal remedies that will increase
estrogen black cohosh
fennel
wild yam and a very special herb from
thailand pereira marifika all right next
thing is fasting in a low-carb diet why
because fasting and low-carb diet
lower
insulin
now what's the relationship
insulin will increase androgens in a
female body and indirectly lower
estrogen
so
if you eat very frequently and you do a
lot of snacks and you're on a high carb
diet that's going to lower your estrogen
all right next one is vitamin e why is
that so important
because out of all the glands in your
body the pituitary needs a lot of
vitamin e especially
after menopause so if you're deficient
in vitamin e you may not produce the
hormones that signal the ovaries and the
adrenal to make estrogen
if you're going to get vitamin e make
sure it's not just a synthetic version
you want the tocopherol and tocatrino
complex together
this can actually greatly help someone
next thing is adjust your stress levels
if you have high levels of stress you
have high levels of cortisol that is a
hormone that will just shut this right
down because realize that during
menopause the adrenal glands are
supposed to
back up the ovaries they make the same
hormones but just in smaller amounts so
if your adrenal glands are already
stressed
and weakened going in the menopause
they're going to everything's going to
be magnified and the same part of the
gland and the adrenals that make
cortisol also make estrogen so the
bottom line is
lowering your stress is going to help
you make
more estrogen because the adrenal glands
will be able to work better
and lastly you have to adjust your
exercise and make sure you're not over
training
if you're exercising too much you're not
recovering that alone will shut down
estrogen so the key is making sure
you're sleeping well making sure you're
recovering and make sure you don't over
train some people do very well on one to
two workouts a week and as soon as they
do three or even four their body's
breaking down they're constantly sore
and their estrogen will plummet all
right there you go these are the things
that can help you
increase your estrogen levels
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
