so today I want to answer the question
can intermittent fasting change your
nutrient requirements it's not a simple
answer of yes or no there's more to it
so let's take each concept the first
thing you need to realize is that when
you do in a minute fasting or fasting
prolonged fasting you're living off your
reserves unless you're taking nutrients
during that period and by the way I do
recommend taking nutrients during the
fast because we don't know if you're
deficient and there's a lot of variables
involved number one what is your current
diet when you eat or your doing what one
lady said on my show recently internet
keto which is like a random selection of
pretty much anything as long as it's low
carb there's so many things that can
affect this question number one the food
that you're eating
what kind of soils is it growing on a
lot of foods in America are basically
they look good on the outside they're
really big but they're empty with
nutrients like tomatoes for example it's
taste like nothing and you also have
foods that are very deficient in trace
minerals like zinc for example or iodine
because they're not grown on soils that
they replenish them these minerals and
then when you're on the keto plan or
some other plan how nutrient-dense are
those foods okay that's one question
what about your history
how long have you eaten junk foods junk
foods deplete you of nutrients refined
foods pull out the B vitamins and
minerals potassium especially what about
your gastrointestinal tract do you have
enough stomach acid if you're on any
acids chances are you don't have enough
stomach acid and you're not going to be
able to break down the proteins
you're not going to absorb the minerals
effectively that would be one factor
what about the gallbladder let's say for
example you don't have a gallbladder or
you don't have enough bile you're not
gonna be able to absorb vitamin A de or
K as well as you should
are you a medication what if you're on
metformin that pulls out b1 or let's say
you're in diuretics it depletes
potassium there's so many other factors
here at stress depletes B vitamins and
calcium
grains you have the phytates in the
fiber and the brand of grains which
block zinc for example and other
minerals let's say for example you have
malabsorption because you have scar
tissue or you don't have the villi to
absorb certain nutrients in your in your
intestine because you have IBS or celiac
or something like that or you have an
alteration in your genes that don't
allow you to absorb certain nutrients
it's called polymorphism and then let's
say for example you're in keto and
you're consuming less carbohydrates so
you're gonna dump a lot of fluid in
water and with that you lose some
electrolytes sometimes and also salt
when you're on keto you need actually
more sodium you actually need more b2
you need a bit more potassium because
your diet has shifted so different
things can require different nutrients
the other factors that you need to look
at is the difference between water
soluble vitamins and fat soluble
vitamins the water soluble vitamins are
not stored very long maybe several days
with the exception of b12 ok b12 can be
stored for up to a year or more ok and
also vitamin C can be stored in the
adrenal gland but let's say for example
you have adrenal fatigue and you're
depleted of vitamin C I don't know if
you realize this but if you have no
vitamin C for 4 months you can start
developing symptoms of scurvy which is
kind of an advanced deficiency of
vitamin C you have a lot of it's called
classical deficiencies like beriberi
which is a b1 deficiency rickets which
is a vitamin D deficiency pellagra which
is a vitamin b3 deficiency and all of
these are very severe vitamin
deficiencies but let's say for example
you don't have those severe deficiencies
you have a subclinical deficiency well
the body will then ration out certain
nutrients for the most important things
but not necessarily satisfy the demands
for everything in your body so for
example if your body is low in b1 it may
use it
only for blood clotting but not
necessarily for DNA repair a cancer
prevention so it rations out the
nutrients for the most important things
based on what it means to survive right
now and so these subclinical
deficiencies can create long-term health
problems the RDAs were meant to prevent
these major diseases but not necessarily
to optimize all the functions for
long-term health so if you have a
subclinical deficiency you may end up
with a hair loss or have fatigue or have
anxiety or sleeping problems because
your body is using those things for
things that are more important for
survival right now so when you're doing
fasting or intermittent fasting you may
not show any of the deficiencies for the
fat side of a vitamin
mainly the water-soluble vitamins and
this is another reason why you know when
you're doing keto B vitamins are
important now when it comes to minerals
and trace minerals they don't stay in
the body for very long okay except
certain minerals will like it's very
difficult for your body to get rid of
excess iron for example or calcium but
the minerals that you use a lot of like
potassium magnesium but even sodium but
not as much those minerals are used more
and your body can get rid of them a lot
easier than iron and calcium when you're
doing in a minute fasting I recommend
taking two B vitamins as well as these
minerals and trace minerals just to make
sure now another factor is your microbes
your microbes can make certain vitamins
like vitamin k1 as long as you have the
microbes in there so if you history up
taking a lot of antibiotics and you have
an imbalance of microbes or you have
SIBO which is small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth that can alter your vitamin
production from your microbes and if you
have like inflammation in your gut that
can also alter your ability to make
vitamins and if you have damage in the
lining of your gut in the small
intestine or large that can also prevent
the absorption of those nutrients your
body also makes certain Biba
it's like biotin for example so anyway I
just wanted to create this one video to
show that's not a simple answer there's
a lot of things you have to look at you
have to use judgment you have to look at
your history do I have a reserve of
nutrients left in my tissues to pull out
of and as my current diet nutrient-dense
is it healthy keto or not play it safe I
recommend taking B vitamins trace
minerals and electrolytes during the
fast all right thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
