so today we're gonna talk about one meal
a day every other day
recently this came up as a question so I
wanted to do a video just on this one
topic question is is it healthy is an
unhealthy what happens if I don't eat
for a whole day and well just realize
this I mean millions of people are
fasting right now on a regular basis for
religious reasons for health reasons
some people go weeks even a month and
with very little side effects and huge
therapeutic benefits improves your
cognition your mood your inflammation
your heart your brain it's not that
you're starving you're just shifting
your body to burning your own stored fat
so you are eating when you're not eating
you're just eating you're living off
your fat which very few people ever tap
into the guy who took their record for
fasting did it for 382 days ok and they
see I think it was like 450 pounds and
he went all the way down to 180 so what
you need to realize is that when you eat
is actually more important than what you
eat I'm not saying don't do healthy keto
I'm just emphasizing the pattern of
eating is very very very important
because what you're doing is you're
lowering insulin when you're doing this
and you're running on ketones and
there's many other positive benefits
however if you're gonna do this I highly
recommend you do it with a very high
quality electrolyte with a lot of
potassium and magnesium also trace
minerals also be vitamins in the form of
nutritional yeast okay and number three
sea salt if you don't have an assault
you may find that you're tired your
muscles are fatigued that just means you
need a little more sea salt okay for
vitamin d3 in k2 simply because it's
very difficult to get true vitamin d3
from diet and you're not eating so
you're not gonna get vitamin D but
you're gonna get it from the Sun so if
you're getting a lot of Sun great then
you don't need it but a lot of people
are indoors so I recommend the d3 and K
2 together and then we talked about
trace minerals so this is
what you do simply you go three meals a
day no snacks okay if you're new to this
I put a link down below what to eat okay
so you could learn what what to do as
far as healthy keto so you do this for a
period of time until your wake up in the
morning you're not hungry and you go as
long as you can okay before you have
your first meal let's say it's 12:00 or
1:00 and then you have your second meal
and you start to squish those down okay
so you're let's say you're fasting for
16 hours and then 18 hours and then 20
hours and you have a four hour window to
the point where you're eventually at one
meal a day I like to do this gradually
okay and then what happens the next
phase is you just practice this one
principle here if you're not hungry
don't eat okay just ride the wave and go
longer longer to the point where you're
not even eating for a whole day and you
just eat every other day make sure that
the meal you eat though is
nutrient-dense and it's enough of the
right foods and realize that your body
is going to be very conservative it's
going to adapt it's going to be more
efficient the amount of nutrients you
need is going to be a lot less because
your body is recycling a lot of these
things but I highly recommend doing this
pattern one meal every other day for
those people that are just really
plateaued they have a slow metabolism or
they have a water weight to lose and
they want to speed up the process
alright thanks for watching hey before
you go would you mind putting a comment
down below to tell me what you think
about this video
