so today we want to talk about the
gallbladder a relationship - in a minute
fasting some people have been
complaining about gallbladder symptoms
when they do in a minute fasting and I'm
gonna just kind of give you some
insights of why that could be
first of all let's cover the symptoms a
big ol butt or problem usually you're
gonna get right-sided shoulder pain now
it could be up to the neck here it can t
be out here it can either be back here
on this muscle right here it could be by
your scapula it could be by the mid-back
but everything's gonna be slightly on
the right side you can even be on your
head or jaw and cause like even
headaches on the right side of your head
and then abdominal pain mainly on the
right side underneath the right ribcage
you'll feel a fullness of pain feeling
bloated or you might experience burping
or belching or nausea now there's
something that occurs in the gallbladder
when you do a fast now around 10 to 15
hours of fasting you get this saturation
of bile in the gallbladder now think
about it when you eat you're supposed to
release the bile from the gallbladder
that should contract that's contractile
tissue and the bile should come right
out to help you digest and the
gallbladder releases its bile to help
break down fat so when you're not eating
it just sits there and it gets more
concentrated but the maximum
concentrated bile occurs between 10 and
15 hours and this incidentally
corresponds with a lot of these symptoms
that someone has when they start doing
in a minute fasting so in other words
the bile gets thick and it kind of gets
sludgy in other words the ball gets
thick and we call that gallbladder
sludge and it can just cause pressure in
this area so you might be concerned am I
gonna get a stone what am I gonna do
realize that after this peak it goes
down in other words your body starts
thinning the bile as you fast longer or
if you just eat so mainly this effect
occurs when you actually start doing in
a minute fasting as you do it longer and
longer your body adapts and you start to
deal with this excess sludge or
concentrated bile so there's a couple
things you could do to kind of minimize
this in the transition because over a
period of time this is going to go away
in the meantime what do you do well
lemon in your water is going to be very
beneficial even during a fast you can
drink lemon water that will help you
adding apple cider vinegar to the water
with the lemon will also help you
because it actually helps thin the bile
also making sure you don't overdo it
with the fats especially in the
beginning when people start a ketogenic
Plan a lot of times they go crazy with
the MCT oil and drinking fats and doing
butter and their coffee and they're
doing a lot of fats and they're not used
to that so you might want to cut back on
that and go into this very gradual now
if you're concerned about stones let's
just kind of cover the basics of how
people develop stones stones usually
come from having too much insulin this
is why diabetics have a higher risk of
getting kidney stones so as you do a
keto plan and you're doing in a minute
fasting you're lowering insulin you're
going to decrease your risk of getting
stones in general the bile that is
released from the gall bladder helps to
prevent the stones from developing so
then the question is what triggers the
bile release well guess what it's
saturated fats so when you go on a diet
that is low in saturated fats let's say
you're vegetarian you're vegan what's
gonna happen is you're not going to
release as much bile and there's a
higher incidence of kidney stones with
with people that go on a low-fat diet
then a higher fat diet so really it's
not the high fat in the diet that causes
the stones eating high amounts of fats
will actually help you as long as you
keep your carbs low and I'm talking
about the refined carbs and the sugar
also realize the microbes have a huge
influence on your bile because microbes
in your gut help you recycle the bile if
you don't have enough microbes you don't
get the recycling you're gonna be
deficient in bile and if that happens
you you you can actually get stones as
well if you have liver damage from any
reason you can develop stones so but
going on a healthy keto and alumina
fasting plan is not going to cause
stones but it may cause some temporary
saturation or concentration of sludge in
your gall bladder
between 10 and 15 hours of fasting but
this is only temporary and you can
actually do things to minimize it like
adding lemon juice outside of vinegar
and maybe cutting down on some of the
fats as you're doing this program
alright thanks for watching hey if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
