so and another question from someone
that wanted to know how do we tell the
difference between a viral and a
bacterial infection well it's really
really difficult because the symptoms
are so similar unless you get a blood
test to rule out a bacterial infection
you're not going to really know but
you're the common symptoms between both
of them fever you get a cold
you have mucus muscle ache sore throat
also realize that most respiratory
infections are more viral but they can
be bacterial and also you can have a
combination between both of them
together so it's very very confusing if
it's viral it could last seven to ten
days if it's bacterial it could last a
little bit longer about two weeks also
realize that if it's a viral infection
antibiotics will not work one of the
problems that I see with a lot of people
is that they run to the doctor every
time they have a cold or infection they
take an antibiotic what's gonna happen
you're gonna develop antibiotic
resistance over time and they're not
going to work eventually because every
time you take them you set yourself up
for microbes growing stronger resistance
against these antibiotics and it also
weakens your immune system it decreases
the flora in your gut creates secondary
infection so try not to do that very
often that's very important now the two
things that happen with infections
number one is the direct damage the
pathogen causes on your body tissue but
also the collateral damage that your own
body's immune system creates when it
releases certain oxidants to kill off
the microbes okay one thing that can
protect you against that is putting your
body in ketosis when you increase
ketones you can decrease the damage from
these oxidants that your own immune
system is releasing that's why it's
going into ketosis is very very
beneficial when you're getting sick but
because you may not really know if it's
a bacterial or a viral thing here's some
remedies that I recommend first one is
olive leaf extract this is really good
for putting viruses back in remission
but it can also be good for bacteria
okay calcium calcium is really good to
help the viruses go back and remission
because realize that a virus is not
really alive in the first place it's a
piece of Menelik material wrapped in a
sack
that can only invade our tissues if our
resistance is low okay if you're
susceptible to getting that virus so now
let's just say you're in a plane and
someone's coughing you're gonna have
certain people that may get sick certain
people that won't it really depends on
your resistance your your sleeping your
stress level especially stress your diet
your nutrients in your body so as long
as you are fortified with nutrition as
long as your have a low stress that
changes a beginning and are a lot less
okay but the point is that calcium helps
to put these viruses back in remission I
always recommend if you have small
children if they have a fever give them
a little calcium it seems to work really
well also you want to increase your
temperature so climb in bed with a lot
of covers and clothes on so you can
sweat that's gonna actually help take a
hot bath hot shower to increase the
temperature which actually can help
speed things up garlic very good for
bacterial and viral infections put
garlic and everything eat the cloves
have pickle garlic garlic and onion
really good to consume and the last
thing the most important thing is the
fasting when you are sick you lose your
appetite usually right well that's
because your body is telling you don't
eat so fast and can greatly speed up the
time it takes to overcome these
infections so fast as long as you can
don't do snacking through the day and
you can actually really get through this
a lot faster thanks for watching so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications daily notifications
that sounds weird well I'll just remind
you on a daily basis about that
