so today I want to talk about pine oil
which is an essential oil now what is an
essential oil well it's not similar to
vitamins that you have essential fatty
acids or essential amino acids and those
are required because your body doesn't
make them and you need them from your
diet and this sense essential means the
essence of the oil of a plant okay so
it's kind of like what gives it its
fragrance so pine oil comes from the
pine tree the Christmas tree so they
take it from the stump the needles the
cones the twigs and they concentrate it
and it has some real interesting
antimicrobial properties and it used to
be the ingredient in pine saw but now
they took that out and pine salt is a
disinfectant it's a cleaning agent but
what I want to talk about is the pine
oil that you can consume or put on your
body or inhale it's great for if you
have dandruff or you have itchy skin
achy joints respiratory infection
because bacteria hate this oil it'll
help disinfect bacteria viruses funguses
candida and lying ok so if you have the
line this could be a great remedy to
help put this thing back into remission
and then e coli okay and Salmonella and
many other types of infections so how
would you take it there's three ways you
can use it topically on your skin take
it orally or breathe it in okay now if
you're gonna take it topically let's say
you're gonna put it on a joint that is
arthritic or you have pain or in your
skin let's say you have dandruff or
psoriasis something like that you would
rub it in and all you have to do is take
two drops and about two tablespoons of
coconut oil mix it really good and use
that as the SAP that you rub it into the
joint or your scalp now if you're gonna
take it orally you want to take two
drops in a glass of water and drink that
slowly but that's really good for some
internal microbial infection that you
have that let's say you want to speed up
the results with because these microbes
are repelled from pine oil so in this
situation let's say you had lime or you
had some type of respiratory protracted
problem you can actually do this and the
last way is breathing it in okay if you
have a respiratory problem and you want
to speed things up you just put two
drops in the container of fluid okay and
you start slowly breathing this in your
lungs and it will greatly help you and
one less point always start out with a
very small amount just to make sure
you're not sensitive to this substance
and you don't have a reaction to it and
then if you don't have a reaction go
ahead and do more because pine oil is
super concentrated thanks for watching
hey if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
