I'd like to talk about some not commonly
known
symptoms of a zinc deficiency and
because zinc is so important in your
body it's a trace mineral you don't need
a lot of it but if you're missing it it
can create a lot of problems I think
this video is valuable to identify all
these kind of abstract symptoms that you
may not connect with a zinc deficiency
now typically people might know usually
that a zinc deficiency can produce a
loss of smell because of the
concentration of zinc in the sinuses and
also in the brain right behind it which
is called the olfactory bulb and also if
a child is deficient in zinc early on
they're not going to be as tall okay so
they can have a lack of development and
of course most people know that zinc is
so important for the immune system so if
you're deficient you're going to be more
susceptible to having infections
especially respiratory infections and
especially viruses you may also know
that if zinc is deficient the thyroid
might not be able to convert T4 to T3
the active version of the thyroid
hormone and they may also know that it's
related to hair loss or thinning of the
hair and diarrhea as well as dermatitis
because of the concentration in your
skin and they may also know that it can
create some mental
agitation or irritation or even fatigue
but I want to explain seven symptoms
that not many people know about so let's
talk about number one okay we talked
about lack of smell
but let's talk about lack of taste and
I'm talking about when you eat food you
may find your food is just Bland
it might taste more bitter it might be
more
metallic number two is a lack of flavor
okay which relates to the uh something
being Bland but with a zinc deficiency
you won't be able to perceive different
flavors which would really suck if
you're trying to enjoy your food and
everything is just like the same flavor
that would be devastating so having
enough zinc can help you
perceive through your taste buds
different flavors which is very very
important in that perception that
normally we're supposed to have number
three
hypogonadism okay so in other words the
testicle actually shrinks it gets
smaller which is going to relate to a
decreased testosterone okay it's also
going to relate to lower amounts of
sperm because out of all the fluids in
the body a lot of the concentration of
zinc is in the sperm for a survival
mechanism and also to increase the
quality
of sperm and so this could relate to
infertility and low testosterone is a
big deal with men and so and having
enough zinc is a real nice way to make
sure that your testosterone is at the
right level number four we take the
brain and we look at the areas of the
brain that has the most concentrated
zinc the hippocampus comes up as number
one there's other parts of the brain the
hippocampus normally should have a lot
of zinc so if you're deficient in zinc
what can happen what kind of symptoms
could happen if the hippocampus can't
work well let me remember what was that
uh
memory problems
an inability to learn
okay a problem with spatial location all
right number five a higher
susceptibility with an infection around
your nail bed
so if you've ever had like this red
swollen puffy tissue around your nails
that is a zinc deficiency since we're on
the topic of nails there are some other
things too like you may have these
little white dots you may also have
white lines that go horizontal and they
can actually have different shapes too
but if you see these little horizontal
white streaks that is a zinc deficiency
all right number six a lack of repair it
takes forever for your body to repair
after exercise after an injury any
trauma so zinc speeds up your body's
ability to repair and number seven night
blindness now typically night blindness
is associated with a vitamin A
deficiency but also zinc now I mentioned
the hypothalamus being concentrated with
zinc but the retina is also part of the
brain and it too has a very concentrated
amount of zinc and so when you run out
of that zinc it can affect the retina
which is basically brain tissue that's
extending out of your skull in your
eyeball that allows you to see and
especially at night okay so anyway I
wanted to cover these very important
points and I also want to mention
why people are typically deficient in
zinc
usually it's because they're consuming
too many refined carbohydrates in the
form of sugar or pasta or cereal
especially or bread because not only
does this concentrated carb deplete zinc
the phytic acid in the so-called healthy
whole grains also blocks your ability to
absorb zinc so when you see things on
bread that says whole grain bread or
whole grain cereal whatever
that bran is where the phytic acid is
and that can block zinc so you might say
well okay well I won't do the whole
grain I'll do the refined grain well
then I'll let sugar can also deplete
zinc in another way there's a really
simple way to find out if you're zinc
deficient you can buy a zinc test which
basically is a little bottle with a
dropper full and it has some zinc in it
and you put about two teaspoons I think
it's 10 milliliters okay in your mouth
and you hold it for 10 seconds now if
you are deficient in zinc
you won't taste anything it must be
Bland there'll be no taste but if you
have sufficient zinc
you'll start to notice it's going to
taste metallic there's a bitter taste to
it now I've just talked about the
symptoms of a zinc deficiency let's talk
about the benefits of what could happen
if you put the zinc back in and for that
information I put it up right here check
it out
