hey I'm back in this video we're going
to talk about throbbing vascular
migraines that are hormone related okay
now there's a lot of confusing
conflicting information about the cause
of migraines but if you're going through
your cycle and you have a pattern of
these throbbing migraines this might
help you we do know that estrogen is
affected oxytocin is affected this is
another hormone vasopressin is a is
affected on the chain of events and when
people have migraines sometimes they'll
try high-potency vitamin C and sometimes
that works and vitamin C is needed to
make this hormone and sometimes people
take high dosages of magnesium that
relax the tissues well magnesium is also
needed to make this hormone as well and
sometimes people even take a nasal spray
oxytocin nasal spray to get rid of the
headaches so sometimes that will work
other people take salt water that seems
to work for some people but here's what
I'm gonna recommend oxytocin does
deplete sodium and if you're low in
sodium
you'll dehydrate the tissues and
increase cerebral spinal fluid which is
going to cause pressure and sometimes
that can cause nausea so what I'm going
to recommend is not to consume sodium
chloride or salt just increase sodium
from celery juice okay what you can do
is you can juice about four of five
stalks of celery drink that you're gonna
find that that will give you more relief
than a lot of these other remedies go
ahead and try it and comment below
hey guys so I'm doing a survey of a
future video and I wanted to find out
what your biggest body problem is so
that way the content is aligning with
something that you are personally
interested in so please click the link
down below fill it out and I will create
the video thanks
