you know boy my viewpoint and
intermittent fasting has gone from all
the way over here to all the way over
here at one time when someone mentioned
fasting I'm like what is that going to
do fasting it's not going to help you
and then when I started looking into it
I'm like wow fasting is the most
important thing you can do for your
health out of all the things and I'm
going to talk about why that is I mean
if you look at fasting from a scale of
what can a person do to create more
health it's right at the top of the list
it's more important than what you eat
it's more important than exercise I mean
when you think about the survival
mechanism in our bodies right we have
developed some serious
biochemistry relating to preventing
dying from starvation preventing uh
being frozen to death also preventing
being eaten by lions by running away so
we have this fasting we have cold
therapy we have exercise that tends to
mimic how our bodies develop these
survival mechanisms so when you do
fasting you directly trigger all these
amazing survival genes and this involves
pretty much every part of your body
every part of your body starts to
improve I mean if you compare the
environment that we used to be in which
is not frequent eating to the
environment now which is grazing all day
long you can see the problem I mean
today is the day after Christmas okay
now yesterday there was food available
all day long and it wasn't unhealthy
food but it was just a lot of food and I
grazed pretty much all day long and I
can tell you I don't feel very good I
don't feel good when I eat in a constant
way so when you start fasting you know
the first thing you do is you give up
your snacks and then the second thing
you do is you tend to let that breakfast
go away you go as long as you can until
you can get to that first meal which is
roughly maybe at lunchtime and then you
wait until dinner and then you eat and
then you don't snack and yes you can
have coffee you can have tea you can
drink liquids just make sure it's not
like juice or sodas or anything sweet or
anything of any calories now typically
everyone fasts when they're sleeping
right uh why would you want to mess up
the whole fasting by eating breakfast
many people are not hungry in the
morning unless they eat a little
something and then they'll be hungry an
hour and a half so eating does cause you
to be hungry but if you don't give into
that and you start fasting you start to
to repair your pancreas the pancreas has
taken a beating from all this frequent
eating all the carbohydrates so the
little cells that regulate insulin
called the beta cells are really the
cell that gets hammered the most when we
eat a lot of carbs and we eat very
frequently and so it's pumping out all
this insulin all the time and rarely
does anyone actually test the insulin
they look at the blood sugar and
basically 10 to 20 30 years your blood
sugar could be normal but in the
background you have this massive insulin
Spike okay but you don't really test
that over time your body starts
developing something called insulin
resistance insulin resistance is a
situation where the receptors are going
to protect you against this excess
amount of insulin and carbohydrate it's
a protective survival mechanism so even
though you're eating a lot of carbs
everything looks normal unless you check
this insulin situation and then over
time when this pancreas gets exhausted
it can no longer compensate so your
insulin production starts going down and
Insulin keeps the blood sugar lower so
now we don't have that control so now
the blood sugar has no choice but to
start going up so we start getting
pre-diabetes and then diabetes which is
a high level of sugar in the blood
because we now have so much insulin
resistance and your beta cells in the
pancreas are so tired they just can't
work anymore well guess what fasting
starts to repair and protect the the
beta cell the beta cell starts to heal
and Insulin starts to become more
sensitive so you have less insulin
resistance which is going to help
everything so because you're not eating
so darn frequently your digestive system
finally has a chance to relax in between
eating I mean most people are eating so
frequently just think about how much
work that digestive system has to work
but when you do them fasting finally the
system has a chance to not work so hard
you will also have an anti-depressant
effect your mood is going to be elevated
so roughly I'm talking about a pattern
of eating that is a 18-hour window of
fasting so the first meal might be at 12
the second meal might be at six there's
also a large amount of people who also
go to one meal a day now this is not
necessarily just to focus on reducing
calories but it is very difficult to
consume the same calories from three
meals to one meal what you're actually
doing too is you're not slowing your
metabolism you are correcting a slowed
metabolism which really at the heart of
that is insulin resistance okay so now
that you're at one meal a day what's
going to happen next is your
inflammation is going to go way down all
of these inflammatory conditions start
to be improved your body actually makes
antioxidants it's called endogenous from
within uh production of antioxidants
so when you fast your body starts making
more antioxidants to help counter the
oxidative stress you see if you think
about oxidative stress all the things
that you know from radiation pollution
junk Foods it all produces a lot of free
radical damage well if you have enough
antioxidants you can counter that and
the microbes in your digestion which has
a huge influence over your immune system
start to thrive and you get more
microbes so your microbes do better when
you don't feed them so often and having
this Diversified microbiome you get all
sorts of improvements definitely in the
cognitive function there's something
called a brain derived neurotrophic
factor that would be like Miracle Grow
for your brain now and then a lot of
people add um prolonged fasting okay
here and there and that produces even
bigger benefits in prolong fasting like
let's say you fast for two days you're
going to strengthen autophagy mitophagy
is the recycling of old damaged proteins
viruses pathogens in your cell your body
cleans those up and recycles them into
healthy tissue which is pretty wild and
even in the guts of your cells you have
these mitochondria which is the key for
energy production for so many uh things
that are related to disease you can
actually start to repair and clean out
the damaged mitochondria which also can
trigger cancer and getting rid rid of
those and build new mitochondria so the
term for that is called mitochondrial
biogenesis and then some people fast
longer for like 72 hours and when you
start doing that you really start to
strengthen this uh stimulation of stem
cells especially for your immune system
so a lot of people do prolonged fasting
to get rid of cancer in fact it is one
of the best things you can do so in this
video I just wanted to touch on the real
reason why you should be doing fasting
and the amazing benef benefits there's a
lot of details on how to do it um for
that information you should watch this
video right
here
