hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about celery okay I consume a tremendous
amount of celery and one thing you want
to do is always consume organic celery
because the conventional celery has like
19 different pesticides so do organic
it's a little bit more expensive but
it's a lot better you can dip it in nut
butters hummus salad dressing so celery
has an active ingredient that creates
some really cool effects okay the name
of that chemical is three and butyl
Valley like you really wanted to know
that right so this is what this chemical
will do lower blood pressure decrease
muscle spasm decrease fluid it's like a
natural diuretic so if you have a Deema
or swelling in your ankles you consume
celery before bed and you wake up and
the swelling will be gone great if you
have intestinal gas constipation it will
increase testosterone it will help you
relax and improves your sleep quality so
at the last meal of the day just top it
off with some celery with some peanut
butter
it can help dissolve gold stones and
kidney stones improves arthritis ulcers
gastritis so if you have any of these
and you want to address some of these I
would recommend at least three stocks a
day for several weeks all right thanks
for watching so I want to know what
you're interested in as far as an video
click the link down below and share some
ideas I want to hear
