hey guys I'm back in this video we're
going to talk about the pine Neil Glen
it's a very interesting clan
it actually has optical tissue and
that's probably because there's a
connection between your eyes which is
the the retina which is part of your
brain extending into your eye it's nerve
tissue it goes right into this little
gland and it produces a hormone called
melatonin you can buy melatonin at the
health food store or the drugstore to
help you sleep I don't recommend taking
it because it's a hormone and anytime
you take something like that over a
period of time it will then cause the
pineal gland to be dependent on this and
you'll need more and more to create the
same effect
what is melatonin do it actually turns
into serotonin it helps you sleep it
also is involved in something called the
adrenal access which is kind of the
adrenal pathway from the hypothalamus to
the pituitary down to the adrenal gland
so there's this whole kind of a feedback
loop that's involved in the triggering
of adrenal hormones so during illnesses
your immune system is affected by
melatonin probably why you want to sleep
when you get sick okay melatonin is also
involved in your mood it's also involved
in stress when you're deficient in
melatonin you have a weakened immune
system that's why it's really dangerous
not to get a good night's sleep for a
period of time it can set you up for
being susceptible to all sorts of immune
problems you potentially get insomnia
have anxiety and have a decreased
estrogen progesterone
Rachele now as you age melatonin
decreases if your medications especially
antidepressants it can really mess with
melatonin but melatonin is triggered by
darkness there's been a study done that
indicated that if you keep your light on
an hour at night let's say between 11
and 12 and you try to go to bed your
melatonin is diminished by 71% so to
improve sleep what you want to do as
you're whining down for bed is turn the
lights way down keep it dim very very
important also aerobic exercise that's
low intensity lots of oxygen
long walks very beneficial to help your
sleep I personally find that I can do an
aerobic exercise and it really helps me
sleep but you have to make sure you
don't over train because overtraining
will keep you from sleeping as well so
keep your lights dim low EMFs what is
that electromagnetic frequencies okay so
this thing right here don't sleep with
it right by your head don't have
electrical equipment around your bed
that can affect your quality of sleep
stress is a big inhibitor for the pineal
gland so you definitely don't want to
watch certain things before you go to
bed you know terror movies action movies
or even the news you want to watch
something maybe a comedy just keep your
stress low so you definitely want to
limit the caffeine as well during the
day because that could also affect the
output of melatonin and melatonin peaks
at 2:30 a.m. in the middle of the night
which is interesting because this is the
point where cortisol is at its lowest
point so again that stress can
inactivate this hormone right here
alright thanks for watching if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
