so I'm going to talk about the best
prednisone alternative there's quite a
few people taking prednisone and the
problem is when you take too much of it
it creates too many side effects so the
point sometimes where you can't take it
at all anymore because it doesn't work
anymore over 23 million prescriptions
are given out every single year in the
US alone so what is prednisone
prednisone is a synthetic version of our
own adrenal hormone called cortisol is a
very powerful anti-inflammatory and it's
mainly given to people who have asthma
allergies all sorts of skin issues from
psoriasis dermatitis poison ivy pretty
much every inflammatory condition of the
skin pretty would give a person
prednisone and inflammation and I'm
talking about arthritis rheumatoid
arthritis osteoarthritis tendinitis
bursitis any of the itis is because
prednisone works on inflammation
autoimmune conditions prednisone is one
of the main medications they give for
lupus Hashimoto's MS and it works as an
anti-inflammatory because the one of the
main destructive elements of an
autoimmune condition is inflammation so
if you can remove that you can help the
person hives okay which is inflammation
the problem is when you take prednisone
more than seven days you actually
suppress your own body's production of
cortisol okay so it's kind of like a
catch-22 because here you're taking it
to create this anti-inflammatory effect
but the body then doesn't need to make
it so it goes into sleep mode so the
actual side effects of prednisone are
basically shutting down your own adrenal
system and here are some symptoms
cataracts bone loss diabetes which
actually is interesting because the
adrenal hormones are called
glucocorticoids gluco referring to
glucose because these hormones will turn
your protein into glucose and if you
have too much glucose you raise insulin
and you can even have diabetes as a side
effect and I actually have known of
several patients who
develop diabetes after getting a series
of prednisone shots and of course weight
gain and it'll make you fat especially
in the midsection and adrenal atrophy
where the adrenal glands basically
shrivel up and they stop working so if
you look at the adrenal glands down here
they're controlled by the pituitary okay
and the pituitary hormones controlled by
the hypothalamus so you have this entire
pathway here starting from the
hypothalamus pituitary and adrenal is
called HPA axis so the brain is telling
the pituitary to send signals down to
release the adrenal hormones and then we
have feed a feedback loop going around
here turning this mechanism off so when
you take prednisone you basically shut
this whole thing off from this level and
so the adrenal glands just stop working
and so it's very dangerous to take
prednisone for any period of time now I
personally had poison ivy every single
year through my 20s and even partially
into my 30s every single year I was in
the back yard or something and I got
poisoned I'd be really bad so I ended up
having to take prednisone okay for many
years so it really created some serious
damage on my own adrenals so I couldn't
sleep had chronic fatigue syndrome I was
constantly getting sick I had massive
blood sugar problems but the cool thing
is that there's an alternative okay a
safe alternative and it is called
vitamin d3 I mean if you think about it
vitamin D gets great results with asthma
allergies all sorts of skin problems
sima psoriasis and it's a great
anti-inflammatory and it's also very
beneficial for autoimmune conditions
especially MS and hives but if you think
about vitamin D can actually give you
that almost the same results as
prednisone it's kind of like a weak
version of prednisone why because
vitamin D is not really a vitamin it's a
steroid hormone okay it's a very
powerful anti-inflammatory it gives you
therapeutic benefit
at higher dosages unfortunately the RDA
is just way too low and the RDAs for
vitamin D are roughly I think around 600
IU's when you go up with vitamin d3 and
I'm talking like 30,000 IU's you can
create some really cool effects I'm
gonna put some links down below so you
can get more information and research
this but you would want to take 20 to
30,000 IU's of vitamin d3 as well as 300
micrograms of k 2 and this will counter
the calcium issue that can occur from
higher amounts of d3 because d3 doesn't
really tell the calcium where to go it
just increases the absorption of calcium
into the blood by 20 X K to will take
that calcium and drive it into the bone
so if you've taken prednisone and now
you're in a situation where you can't
take anymore because it's going to
create too many side effects you may
want to check this out right here in
vitamin d3 thanks for watching so if you
want to get notified with all my content
click the notification bell next to
subscribed
