hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about the seven keto myths and lies
alright number one no long-term studies
on keto okay yes there are long-term
studies I put a link down below check it
out I mean in the last 50 years we've
been doing a long-term study or shall I
say an experiment on the human
population with the high amounts of
carbohydrate refined carbohydrate and
sugar and low fat and look look at where
it's goddess diabetes pre-diabetes
metabolic syndrome we know that doesn't
work okay but keto is very very healthy
if you do it healthily and you know what
you're doing number two it's dangerous
for your kidneys because it's high in
protein well first of all the ketogenic
diet is not high in protein it's a
moderate amount of protein okay it's
exactly what you need you're not doing
massive quantities of protein it's not
the Atkins diet it's not unlimited
protein so that's false
alright number three adverse reactions
you know you get bat-breath keto flu
keitel rash your performance from
exercise is not that great well you're
only going to have adverse reactions if
you're going into this with nutritional
deficiency specifically potassium and B
vitamin deficiencies okay it's very easy
to counter this just by taking a little
bit more B vitamins from nutritional
yeast and consuming enough vegetables to
get your potassium and you will not have
these reactions okay number four we need
carbs no we don't need carbs there's no
such thing as an essential carbohydrate
our body is our brain our heart can
easily run on ketones which by the way
is a preferred fuel source now there are
certain parts of the body certain parts
of the brain the red blood cell and the
eye that do need glucose however it's a
very small amount but that's why our
liver has the capacity to make glucose
from protein or lipids it's called
gluconeogenesis we don't need to take
external carbs to give our body those
that glucose we can easily make it if we
need a little bit
number five ketogenic diet will slow
your metabolism now this is just a
blatant lie it's not true a high
carbohydrate diet will slow your
metabolism because it increases insulin
and insulin not only it converts sugar
to fat but it will block your ability to
lose fat or use fat as fuel that's
number one
and if you go in a little calorie diet
that will slow your metabolism but a
ketogenic diet is very healthy and it
will speed up your metabolism in fact
the clients that I have that have the
worst metabolism finally lose weight
with this program because we're
combining in a minute fasting and we're
dropping insulin making their metabolism
a lot faster number six
high fat SAR dangerous in the body
another lie no there is no study that
shows high fat diets are dangerous to
the body but if you actually read the
actual studies that link high fat diets
to body problems you're gonna find in
the small print that the food that they
fed the mice always had a higher amount
of carbohydrates like 23 grams of liquid
sugar with the high fat diets they don't
do just high fats low carb it's always a
high fat and high carbohydrate diet but
fats are very very safe for the body if
you don't add the extra carbohydrate
okay number seven it's not sustainable
yes it is sustainable it's going to get
rid of your cravings you're not going to
be as hungry you're gonna have a lot
more energy your moods going to be up
and that's what's going to be very
sustainable it's gonna allow you to feel
better and do this long-term so and a
lot of other diets you're going to lose
weight apparently and then go back to
your original eating habits not with a
healthy keto plan it's something you
could do your whole life without any
complications or side effects alright
thanks for watching
so I want to know what you're interested
in as far as a future video click the
link down below and share some ideas I
want to hear
