so today we're gonna talk about one of
the best remedies for alopecia okay
alopecia is an autoimmune condition
where your body is attacking itself and
it's causing these circular ball patches
okay here's the best remedy onions yeah
onions very very interesting study I'll
put the link down below that found that
within four weeks there was a 73 percent
increase in regrowing hair but at 6
weeks and men there was an eighty six
point nine percent improvement and women
it was a seventy one point two percent
that's incredible so how do you do it
you basically take an onion you cut it
in half and you play it topically
directly on the skin right where you
have these bald patches and of course I
would recommend doing this every day for
six weeks and probably longer until you
get your hair back but it's quite
remarkable so the question is why would
this work well you have several
mechanisms how it could work number one
corset int which is a very powerful
antioxidant which is an
anti-inflammatory and guess what an
autoimmune you have a lot of
inflammation then you have sulfur which
is involved in a lot of detox reactions
onions are antimicrobial
anti-inflammatory and onions have the
ability to decrease DHT this is a very
powerful form of testosterone that can
affect hair growth so the combination is
very very powerful so if you have
alopecia go ahead and do this and
comment below and tell us how it worked
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
