so I've done other videos on depression
I wanted to do one video that covers all
of the reasons for physical depression
I'm not talking about something caused
by the mind or a mental disorder that's
a completely different topic I'm mainly
talking about what can happen to your
physical body that can cause depression
okay so this is the updated video on
depression alright number one if you
have low omega-3 fatty acids now there
are three main types of omega-3 fatty
acids ala and then EPA I didn't put this
in there and then DHA
but DHA is the most important one as far
as getting the active form of omega-3
especially relating to countering
depression because DHA does affect the
mood this set right here called alpha
linolenic acid is mainly in plants not
in animals but this is like a precursor
to this one the problem is it only
converts at 5% so if you're not
consuming things to give you DHA
directly you might not have enough or
you're definitely not going to have
enough because you're not going to get
that much conversion DHA mainly comes
from fatty fish like cod liver oil
things like that it's also an eggs it's
in organ meats things like that and you
can also if you're a vegetarian you can
consume algae to get it
alright so low a mega three can create
depression next one low b12 one of the
challenges would be 12 is that b12 is
mostly in animal products eggs seafood
definitely in liver in meats dairy
however I do know that certain microbes
make b12 but what's interesting is I had
my wheatgrass tested a while ago and I
found out that it had double the RDAs of
b12 which is fascinating because we
cress does not make b12 so it was coming
from the microbes growing within the
product so you potentially can get b12
from certain microbes okay low vitamin D
think about during the winter months
when a lot of people get kind of
winter blues that's because of a little
vitamin D because of the lack of Sun one
point about vitamin D I would I would
point out is that if you're on a low
cholesterol diet if you're taking a
statin that's blocking cholesterol if
you have some type of problem that you
can't produce enough cholesterol you may
not be able to make enough vitamin D
because cholesterol is the precursor to
make vitamin D so the only reason I'm
bringing it up is that if you're on a
cholesterol medication and you're
depressed it could be because of that
connection right there okay next one is
low vitamin b1 which is thiamine
nutritional yeast is the best source
pork actually out of all the meats have
the highest highest amounts of b1 organ
meats have b1 sunflower seeds have b1
what crates of b1 deficiency is refined
sugars in grains okay the more
carbohydrate someone consumes the more
b1 they need so in other words high
carbohydrate diets require twice the
amount of b1 okay next one is high
cortisol that's a stress hormone
produced by the adrenal glands so if
your stress is really high you can get
anxiety and eventually depression
because it's going to affect your sleep
when you're really really tired you can
get really depressed
and a lot of times people that are
depressed are really just fatigued to
the point where they feel depressed but
it really it's a physical fatigue not
even depression so depression is kind of
like a a situation where your apathetic
like you have no motivation you don't
feel like doing anything you don't care
anymore
you're hopeless but for cortisol taking
vitamin D will help sleepy more will
help exercise will definitely help
especially if it's aerobic long walks
low stress lots of oxygen can lower
cortisol I've done many videos on this
as well you can check them out the next
one insulin resistance now this is one
of the most common causes of depression
right here because what this is going to
create is higher amounts of insulin
that's going to lower your blood sugar
so you're going to end up with kind of
low blood sugar situation and you're
going to feel
they're irritable edgy the press down
you know kind of like mentally sluggish
that's a really big symptom so the
solution for this is healthy keto in in
a minute fasting not more carbs less
carbs I put a link down below to really
understand this and teach you what to
eat to resolve this right here all right
there you have it this is an updated
video on the causes of depression if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
