so today we're going to talk about
subclinical pellagra okay
soap Allegra is a vitamin b3 deficiency
and when you have pellagra it's a
classical b3 deficiency and then it's
called the three DS dementia diarrhea
and you get dermatitis okay usually
around the neck in the hands can be a
pretty serious condition but there is
also a subclinical pellagra where you're
not you don't have a full-blown
deficiency but you are deficient okay
and I'm going to talk about what that
would create as far as symptoms there's
a neurological condition called
neurasthenia which is exhaustion of the
central nervous system so the energy
reserves of your nervous system in the
mitochondria is exhausted so you're
mentally exhausted you're mentally tired
headache irritable intracranial pressure
digestive issues fainting if you get up
too fast also you have different
neurological perception changes as well
let's say for example you're looking in
the mirror at yourself and you just see
that the your face is changing okay
or let's say you're reading something on
a piece of paper and the words are
moving or you're walking on the ground
is moving or you're looking at the wall
at the picture and you see it going back
and forth it can also affect your taste
you lose the sense of taste and smell
and sometimes you actually smell
something that's not even there
so b3 or niacin is really a coenzyme
involved in a lot of different chemical
reactions inside the body especially in
the mitochondria the energy factor of
the cell and the way you could become
depleted is by drinking a lot of alcohol
like in college right chronic diarrhea
excessive leucine that's an amino acid
inflamed gut gastric by-pass
consuming too much corn corn has a
protein that can block the absorption of
vitamin b3 also refined carbohydrates
and refined sugars will also create a
vitamin b3 deficiency niacin which is b3
has the ability
to protect against diabetes especially
type 1 so it helps counter the
destruction or the oxidation of the cell
that makes insulin nice and also can
lower your cholesterol so you can see
that vitamin b3 is very very important
in a lot of different functions I
recommend getting your b3 from
nutritional yeast but if you have any of
these symptoms right here start taking
niacin in higher amounts and you can
safely take nice and at 10 to 15 X the
normal amounts all right guys I'll see
you the next video so to prevent me from
running out of content
I have a new survey I want to find out
what you are interested in so please
fill it out the links down below
