so recently on my YouTube channel
someone asked a question what would be
good for TV ok the infection
tuberculosis so let's talk about that
hands down the number one vitamin that
someone needs if they have TB is vitamin
d3 there's been a high correlation of
people that have TB that are very very
low in vitamin d3 and there's some
really interesting studies going on
right now and that are already out there
that show that taking vitamin d3 can
actually speed up the recovery lessen
the symptoms and even put the person in
remission okay so that's pretty cool why
is that because d3 is an immune
modulator which means that it controls
the immune system if you're deficient in
vitamin d3 you're very susceptible to
getting an infection from either a virus
or bacteria and this is why a lot of
people get sick during the winter
because they have low amounts of vitamin
D not to mention 2 billion people on
this planet are deficient in d3 a couple
reasons why they're deficient number one
people just don't go outside as much as
they used to number two it's very
difficult to even get your RDAs from
food so if you're not going outside it's
not on the food chances are you're going
to be deficient as you age you lose the
ability to absorb vitamin d3 the darker
your skin the more vitamin d3 you need
as well and even if you're outside with
your skin exposed to the Sun depending
on where you live as far as how far you
are from the equator can really limit
your ability to absorb the Sun so your
body can then turn into vitamin D also
there's the liver in the gall bladder if
your liver is fatty if you have a bad
liver or you don't have a gallbladder or
you're not producing in a file you're
not going to be able to absorb that
vitamin D too well and microbes himself
have the sneaky little strategy that
they can block the vitamin D receptor as
well like for example epstein-barr virus
will inhibit your ability to absorb
vitamin d so it can then survive even
the microbe TB can inhibit your
absorption about it
and the AIDS virus is worse because it
can completely stop your ability to
absorb vitamin D and there's one less
thing that's becoming more recognized
and that is a genetic defect a lot of
people have it it's called polymorphism
and if you have a certain genetic
variant for a gene but you can't absorb
vitamin D you're gonna be deficient
unless you take larger amounts there's a
test that you can get it's called
23andme that they can evaluate your
genetics and tell you if you have
certain genetic weaknesses for certain
things but getting back to tuberculosis
you would want to take 20,000 I use per
day with your meals you might also want
to take vitamin k2 with it 200
micrograms mk7 version and this will
start helping to build up your immune
system and put this macro back in
remission thanks for watching if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
