hey guys recently I did a video on how
to get rid of neck pain and stiffness on
the top part of your neck now I'm going
to do a video and how to remove it on
the lower part of the neck okay so it's
really really simple
you have the trapezius muscles on the
top part the function of those muscles
is to shrug the shoulders up okay that's
one of the functions so the principle
that I use always uses the opposite
muscle the the opposing muscle to
stimulate it or stretch it to relax this
muscle so if you have tight traps okay
tight shoulder muscles which pretty much
everyone does you're going to be working
on the muscle that opposes that the
muscle that brings the shoulder down
okay and that would be underneath the
arm called the latissimus dorsi your lap
okay there's a couple ways to do this
but I'm going to show you how to do this
on a chair all you need is a simple
towel and a chair so let's show you how
to do it
alright so we got our towel right here
you just roll it up just like that okay
I got a simple chair and you're gonna
take this and place it underneath your
armpit and you're just going to stretch
upward so you're basically stretching
the arm upward okay on the chair so
you're separating out that muscle so
we're just kind of slouching and lifting
it up okay if you have a tall back chair
you could probably do it easier but I'm
just creating a force that goes upward
on my shoulder okay so you're gonna do
that side right there okay and then
we'll do the other side right here okay
simple we're going to stretch down this
muscle just like so and let it push up
okay right underneath the armpit and
there's a little at connects to the
humerus and it comes down on the ribcage
and you're just kind of making that
longer okay just do it for a couple of
minutes okay this is step one and then
go ahead and sit up and what you're
going to notice as your shoulders are
real nice and loose and your neck is
really nice and loose now if you were to
do this on someone else
you can actually lift up take your hands
underneath their armpits in
lift it up and stretch their shoulders
up that are the same thing okay but
that's how you would use this now we're
going to do step two which you're going
to take I'm going to show you on the
back part right through here you're
going to take your scapula okay this is
just bone back there and you're going to
kind of wing it out a little bit and get
hooked on the chair and you're gonna
just slouch down and stretch this whole
shoulder upward okay so you can see that
I hooked the tip of my scapula and that
back part of the chair and I'm just
going to sit here for about a minute and
just push upward and by slouching my
body backward okay
then I'm going to shift and work on the
other scapula I know this looks weird
but it seems to work so I'm just going
to slouch back and I'm pushing my
shoulder upward and working on the
opposite muscles will send signals to
the traps and relax your trap muscles
you just need to try it and you will see
that it will work okay very simple very
quick go ahead and comment and tell me
if it helped you
hey if you're interested in finding out
the underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quiz
