hey guys had another question for
someone that wanted to know could
someone with COPD chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease do keto in a minute
fasting what's my opinion what you think
would help them first of all you this
usually is triggered by a chronic
smoking or a lot of pollution and it
just basically creates an inflamed
irritated long which then develops scar
tissue and obstructs the lungs capacity
to receive oxygen and eliminate co2 we
have coughing mucus shortness of breath
those are some of the symptoms but yes
I highly recommend doing a combination
of keto and then fasting especially in a
minute of fasting of course if you
reduce your carbs on a healthy keto plan
you're going to reduce your inflammation
right there and you're going to reduce
oxidative damage but getting a fasting
is going to drop the inflammation that's
the big thing right there and also if
you do it correctly and do it long
enough you're gonna help clean up some
of this damaged proteins the scar tissue
intamin fasting is good for scar tissue
not just in your lung but in the joints
in the liver as cirrhosis it's a great
reparative action the other thing that I
would recommend is large amounts of
vitamin D but vitamin D in general
handles many problems related to the
lung respiratory stuff asthma even
allergies so vitamin D is very very
important for the immune system and it
can act like an adrenal hormone and
realize too that when you have COPD
you're usually going to have chronic
adrenal problems as well
and one thing that you want your body to
produce enough of is cortisol because
cortisol is a natural anti-inflammatory
as well so vitamin D can help the
adrenals produce more cortisol and if
you're taking higher amounts of vitamin
D I'll put the link down below of what I
mean by that also take vitamin k2
because that will help balance out any
excess calcium that's depositing through
the body hyperbaric oxygen would be very
very
important to get more oxygen into the
lungs and also there's a great product
called pneumo troph in' PMG it's by a
company called standard process I'm not
affiliated but this is really good to
support the lung you would take one or
two of these before you go to bed all
right guys thanks for watching I'll see
you next video
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
