hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about Hashimoto's in Quito okay
Hashimoto's is a autoimmune disease of
the thyroid it creates a high bow state
okay
now the biggest mistake that people make
is thinking that Hashimoto's is only a
thyroid problem no it's an immune
problem you have to look at the whole
body because the immune system is
dysfunctional now this condition usually
starts after some stress event so in the
last 30 years working with tens of
thousands of people I had a lot of
people come in with all sorts of
autoimmune disorders and I would always
ask them when did it start and what
happened just before you developed this
in nearly a hundred percent of the time
actually I think it was a hundred
percent of time and always occurred
after some stress event whether it was a
loss of a loved one a divorce a
pregnancy which is a stress physically
probably emotionally - so it's important
to identify when it started what
happened just before and addressed that
thing because that is the big clue if it
was a stress event and years later
you're still in that stressful state
unless you handle that stress it's
probably not going to get better because
the endocrine system as a whole is very
very sensitive to stress so my theory is
that the autoimmune disorders affect the
weaker links of the body and we do know
that several things that affect the
thyroid gland number one high levels of
estrogen can weaken the thyroid high
levels of cortisol and stress can weaken
the thyroid nutritional deficiencies can
weaken thyroid
consuming junk food can definitely
weaken the thyroid radiation can weaken
the thyroid so let's say you're getting
some dental x-rays but you're not
shielding your thyroid that's one
possibility
gluten can affect the thyroid GMO foods
can affect the thyroid like soybean oil
or corn oil so without getting too
technical with the biochemistry let's
get right into what you can do if you
have a Hashimoto's problem number one
you need to fix the immune system
selenium is a really important trace
mineral to
prove immune function cruciferous
vegetables are very important in
Hashimoto's for two reasons one that it
slowly helps detoxify certain chemicals
that could be affecting the immune
system and the thyroid but also it
contains glutathione which is a very
potent powerful compound that helps
rebuild your immune system so of course
people are going to say wait a second I
thought that the cruciferous vegetables
are going to make my thyroid worse
because it's going to deplete me of
iodine well realize we're dealing with a
an immune problem okay not just a
thyroid issue so we're simply going to
add more seek help to counter any
potential depletion of iodine but the
benefits of cruciferous are huge and out
of all the cruciferous vegetables
Brussels sprouts have the highest
glutathione now in addition to that of
course you're going to do healthy
ketosis within a minute fasting but the
frequency of eating is going to probably
have to be once a day because the
metabolism is going to be severely
affected so you're gonna have to work
slowly to the point where you're just
eating once a day to see results and in
that healthy keto plan we want to make
sure we have enough vitamin A from you
know the cod liver oil or certain fish
in certain healthy fats and egg yolks
vitamin D is very vital for the immune
system - you can get that from the Sun
or take it as a supplement
and lastly bile salts bile salts purify
bile salts there's a product that I use
called gall bladder formula will help
speed up the thyroid because it helps
convert t4 to t3 alright thanks for
watching
so I want to know what you're interested
in as far as a video click the link down
below and share some ideas I want to
hear
