hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about the different effects from
diabetes type 2 medication okay and this
is based on someone's question they
wanted to know the different effects
this lady was on different medications
and she wanted to know what they were
doing to her body so I said tell you
what I'll just create a little video on
it just to give you the overall picture
alright so now we have pancreas that
makes the hormone insulin insulin is
traveling through the blood it responds
to carbohydrates okay and it actually
even protein - it's its goal is to lower
the blood sugar so the pancreas releases
insulin it travels through the blood and
goes into an insulin receptor the
insulin receptor then receives it and
then creates an effect one being lowered
blood sugar and then another of being
storage into either glycogen which is
stored sugar or cholesterol or fat
so there's mainly three different
effects that certain medications create
in this scenario one is there's certain
medications that increase the production
of insulin being outputted right through
here okay so there's this little cell
called a beta cell that makes insulin so
what are the medication that is very
very popular is called sulfonyl urea so
this medication actually increases the
amount of insulin being produced by the
pancreas now if someone has type 1
diabetes and they don't produce any more
insulin this will not work so this just
enhances what's already there all right
the problem with this medication is that
they also use it for an herbicide yeah
because it blocks the certain amino
acids in plants so I'm like wow that's
interesting so is it safe for humans
well I don't know there's some
definitely some side effects
one being increasing risk of
cardiovascular disease and death that's
right that's the warning on the label so
here you are trying to regulate your
blood sugars but then it's increasing
your chance of dying from a heart attack
okay not good all right another a
mechanism is works on the receptor
the insulin receptor people with
diabetes type 2 have insulin resistance
so their receptors are not receiving
that hormone very well this is going to
create a failure of the return feedback
loop to the pancreas so we're not gonna
get this shut off like the turn off
because it's an incomplete communication
so the more that the receptor is blocked
or resisting or downgraded the more the
pancreas is going to produce more
insulin so we're gonna have a situation
we have a lot of insulin but it's not
really working in the body so if you're
gonna take this medication that can
actually just add more insulin to a body
that has too much insulin problem it's
not working over here so you're not
getting the effect but you're getting a
lot of the side effect of having the
high levels of insulin so metformin when
there's other names from it Foreman
increases the sensitivity of insulin so
it allows the insulin to be received
more okay and there's actually a black
label on metformin that talks about one
of the side effects being lactic
acidosis which is a pretty serious
condition because the pH goes way way up
one of the real natural remedies for
lactic acidosis is about mb1 the problem
is metformin also depletes b1 so it kind
of prevents the the countering of that
lactic acidosis so it is a concern a
problem but the way that metformin works
is by opening up this receptor right
here okay so then therefore the pancreas
can actually lower the amount of
production of insulin being pumped out
okay then the other mechanism is just by
giving someone more insulin so a lot of
diabetics type 2 are also given more
insulin on top of it just straight
insulin so it's not necessarily causing
the pancreas to make more it's just
giving you more insulin well here's the
problem
in type 2 many times the pancreas is
already producing too much insulin
because of the insulin resistance not
creating this feedback loop does turn
off so again we're dumping too much
insulin into the system for
purpose of keeping the blood Sugar's
regulated in normalized at the expense
of increasing cardiovascular risk
because that's another side effect from
taking more insulin is you increase risk
of heart problems right there
weight gain and hypoglycemia okay so
because what happens we have this push
down blood sugar situation now you're
irritable now you have they tell you to
eat more you know sugar or carbs to
raise the sugar and then we start the
cycle over again so in summary we have
several mechanisms one is to produce
more insulin from the pancreas another
is to just give more insulin and the
other is to increase the absorption of
insulin all right so what's missing from
the picture okay what's missing from
this picture is focusing on the root
cause of why the body has high sugar in
the first place and that is because
there are too many carbs in the diet
this is ignored alright guys well thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
