wow I wanted to create this follow-up
video on the past video uh with the
situation in North Carolina I wanted to
basically show people where the
donations went this is going to blow you
away this is incredible we were able to
raise almost
$800,000 and I want to talk to uh bill
on exactly where this went and I'm just
blown away so go ahead over to you Bill
we started the launch about a month ago
raising the money on my GoFundMe to
build two homes for people and then I I
really sat at seeing the need for these
campers the different organizations I've
been working with down here the
nonprofits were just telling me they
need campers campers campers I decided
to start maybe buying a couple campers
the money kept coming in so the campers
kept coming in I've been down here now
this is my third trip uh we left Floyd
Virginia last Friday with a convoy of 25
campers every single one of those
campers is now already set up so that's
people that have a roof over their heads
they have a shower they have a small
kitchen and beds to sleep in all the
money I've been raising has gone
basically right now at the campers I'm
still saving enough money to build the
homes but I feel like I haven't even put
a dent in it yet I have put 25 people in
a camper so that that's making me feel
good the organizations I'm working with
they definitely need more campers I mean
I brought this one down this morning I
got a call that the these people didn't
have a camper they lost their home
completely uh FEMA
just dragging butt they're not helping
him with this um you know they've given
him
$750 and they're saying that their house
I'm not even sure what they what they
tell these people anymore but nobody's
getting any money if it wasn't for the
money that these nonprofits down here
are trying to gain and the money that
I've been raising I don't know what
these people are going to do I really
don't I tell you you know you come down
here and you talk to these families I
don't understand what's happening it's
really starting to piss me off a little
bit it's insane insane yeah I know
there's more people that need help and
we're going to continue to do the Gung
fundme and also have another link that
is more of a taxfree because you found
another Foundation that we could even do
tax-free donations right yeah so I'm
working through rise disaster relief and
Recovery they're based out of Spruce
Pine North Carolina I'm going to be
running a lot of this stuff through them
so that we can get um the people with
the bigger donations can get tax credits
you can still use the GoFundMe um it's
quick and easy but we've got the um the
other one set up through our PayPal so
I'll put those links down below but what
I really want to show people is the
reaction of what the money and also the
help through the campers have and the
reaction with from people so we're going
to roll right into that I I want to just
say thank you for donating we appreciate
it so much this is helping so many
people you're going to see that let's
roll right into it now
[Music]
beening my soul working all day overtime
hours pay so I can sit out here
and waste my life away drag back home
and drown my troubl away it's a damn
shame what the world's gotten to for
people like me people like you wish I
could
up I'm here with Pedro and hiih hundra
and they just got their new camper I
brought it down from Virginia you've got
two two children here um you definitely
need a place to stay yeah this will
definitely help out this is your camper
and I'm going to sign the title over to
you so whenever you want to sell it it's
your
money
ex great is that going to do you it's
going to do me and here's a little
Christmas money okay for your service I
want to give you a check for $5,000 to
get you on your peek I appreciate it
okay yes you bet thank you man enjoy it
it's all yours Tracy guys I thank you
all so much for bringing this camper in
for us giving my mom and me a safe
environment may God bless you may God
bless everyone else stay warm out there
we love you guys it's December 20th I'm
in Spruce fine North Carolina and this
is the kind of stuff that is still
everywhere the devastation here you know
everywhere you look in some of these
places you know you can drive down the
main road and and everything sort of
looks fine but you pull down on these
Side Road this house was destroyed by
wind the insurance company's trying to
give them like $39,000 that's what they
think is going to fix this house it is
crazy I'm going down into swano right
now and it's just going to get worse so
help us out you know it's just amazing
to see the spirit of people tested but
not broken by this devastating disaster
we should continue to fund this effort
in donating what we can to get these
families back on their feet and I really
want to thank everyone for their
donations to the new life we're hoping
to give these families after such dark
times during the holiday season I want
to wish you a merry Christmas happy
holiday and a Happy New Year
