so today we're going to talk about the
difference between zero carb and low
carb when you're doing key tail okay
because they're not the same there are
certain foods that have zero carbs and
there are certain foods that are low
carb that have very small amounts of
carbs now realize it's the carb that
determines whether you're going to get
into ketosis or not the higher the carb
the less the ketosis the lesser the carb
the deeper the ketosis and ketosis is
fat burning so here are the foods that
have zero carbohydrates all meats lamb
chicken pork etc all fish all seafood
sardines which is a type of fish butter
coconut oil olive oil whole cream or
heavy cream coffee MCT oil there are
other foods that I didn't mention but I
just want to give you the ones that are
most commonly consumed and by the way
there's something called the insulin
index I talked about this and I have the
scale in my book okay but the insulin
index is a scale of foods that are non
carbohydrate in nature and those are the
foods like fat and protein that have the
capacity to influence insulin and the
glycemic index is a scale of
carbohydrates that affect blood Sugar's
ok so high in the scale would be foods
that will turn the sugar really quick
and raise the blood sugar low in the
scale or carbohydrates that have the
least effect on blood Sugar's okay like
a celery for example that would be very
low high would be jellybeans okay so now
let's talk about low carbohydrates so
even though eggs are extremely low there
is a small amount of carbohydrate in
eggs like just slightly more than a half
a gram per egg but it has just a tiny
amount of carb so we'll keep it in the
low carb range now vegetables are very
low on the glycemic index we're not
going to even count them in the equation
of figuring out your carbs we're gonna
actually ignore these because we want
you to consume large amounts of
vegetables but just realize that a fiber
is a carbohydrate but fiber has no
influence on insulin but there
carbohydrates and vegetables that may
influence blood Sugar's to a certain
degree but typically it's going to be
very low and by the way when you look at
the nutritional facts on the back label
you'll have carbohydrates total carbs
okay then you'll have the fiber then
you'll have sugar okay so you want to
always deduct your fiber from the total
carbs to get your what's called net
carbs so that's what you're working off
of and also you would deduct your sugar
alcohols okay that's like alternative
sweeteners okay so now we have
half-and-half like something you'd put
in your coffee
one tablespoon is just a little bit more
than one gram so it's low but there's
still a small amount hummus one
tablespoon gives you two grams it's low
but there's still some in there berries
one cup is 21 grams of carbs and 15
grams of sugar so out of everything this
would be the highest but because the
fiber and berries it's low on the
glycemic index so it's considered low
carb lemon juice which we don't really
talk about very much but there is a
small amount of carbs 5 grams of carbs
in one whole lemon okay
nuts one cup equals 28 grams of
carbohydrates in 6 grams of sugar now
that compares with berries maybe a
little bit more so it's still low-carb
because we're gonna deduct the fiber the
fiber could range anywhere but depending
what nut you're consuming could range
between 9 and 10 or up to a 12 grams so
that brings the carbohydrates down and
usually people are not consuming an
entire cup of nuts maybe they're doing
1/4 of a cup so this is considered lower
carbohydrate certain nuts also have
higher amounts of sugar for example
cashews have the most sugar content so
those are the ones that you probably
want to avoid walnuts are probably the
best and they also have omega-3 fatty
acids then we get to seeds 1 cup of
seeds is 14 grams of carbohydrate so
considerably lower than the nuts but
look at the sugar it's one point eight
grams of sugar for an entire cup so it's
a much better than
nuts so sunflower seeds are great
pumpkin seeds are really good okay sour
cream 1 tablespoon is like point 3 grams
of carbs very small amounts but there's
still some in there whey protein powder
1 cup gives you 13 grams so there is
carbohydrate in whey protein powder okay
then we have olives 1 cup gives you a
grams of carbs but of course olive oil
is zero
avocado 1 cup 12 grams of carbs realize
there's a good amount of fiber in there
too and then one gram of sugar so this
is pretty good to do on keto the more
that you lower your carbohydrate the
more you go to ketosis so let's say
you're struggling well then look at some
of these items here in maybe you reduce
berries and nuts okay or you substitute
seeds for nuts there's always things
that you can do to keep bringing your
carbs down lower and lower but also
realize that some of these proteins here
have an effect on insulin and you don't
want to do a high protein diet you want
to do a moderate protein diet more of
that data is in this book right here
alright guys thanks for watching hey if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
