let's talk about the number one most
important nutrient
for diabetic symptoms
now i could also name this
presentation as the number one most
important nutrient for losing weight
or burning fat because they're both
directly related now first let me just
touch on uh diabetic symptoms okay we're
talking about a situation where you have
high blood glucose high blood sugar and
when you have high sugar you're also
going to have insulin resistance you're
going to have
either high or low insulin usually it
starts out high
and then goes low
and of course another name for high
blood sugar is diabetes hormones are
communication okay insulin is a
communication that travels to the body
and it follows the principles of
communication
between humans too
so you need a balance of talking
and listening
i remember a while ago my wife and i
went to a restaurant and then we're
walking out of the restaurant and i
remember as we're walking out someone
started talking to us next thing you
know
we're with them at their table for about
an hour okay and both of us could not
get a word in edgewise i mean they were
just non-stop talking and
the minute that we tried to interject
some communication there was no
listening it was basically a
one-way flow
of constant communication
towards us and after a while we're kind
of like phasing out and we're ready to
go and so when there's just talking and
no listening we don't have communication
okay
same thing happens in the body when
there's too much communication like too
much insulin
the cells are going to phase out they're
no longer going to be receptive to that
communication and that's what insulin
resistance is so we have a person on a
high carb diet
they're stimulating a lot of insulin the
cells start to phase out
and now they don't work anymore so what
does the body do initially it starts
making more communication more insulin
to overcompensate to kind of penetrate
through
and everything gets all messed up from
there on out so that's diabetes in a
nutshell now what are the symptoms of
high blood sugar you have
you're thirsty okay you're more thirsty
than usual you're drinking all this
water you're peeing more frequently
especially at night for those people who
get up several times a night you have
fatigue
especially after you eat you may get
some blurred vision
you are definitely hungrier than you
should be and you crave carbohydrates
and you have some mood changes you might
feel angry
or
you might feel sad now on the flip side
when someone has low blood sugar
they might feel more nervous anxiety
and
worry so that's a really good way to
tell what what's happening to someone's
blood sugars on what's happening to
their mood all right now let's talk
about the nutrient that's related to
this topic okay they did experiments in
the 60s
on certain medications
that caused a potassium deficiency and
they always noticed that there was a
problem with insulin the person ended up
with a insulin deficiency and they ended
up with insulin resistance and they had
higher blood sugars and they didn't know
why at first
until they did some more research and
they found out that
there's this huge relationship between
potassium and blood sugars okay insulin
that hormone communication needs
potassium
to help regulate or lower blood sugars
and so if you have a deficiency of
insulin or insulin resistance
okay
you're going to need more potassium to
be able to balance out these blood
sugars okay and if you don't have that
you're going to have problems with your
blood sugar your blood sugars are going
to start to go higher and higher and
higher and glucose needs potassium to be
able to enter the cells
and so if your body doesn't have enough
potassium if it doesn't enter the cells
then it can start to build up so glucose
starts to build up and you start
developing a situation where you have
high blood glucose and when you have
lowered amount of potassium in your body
you're more at risk for getting diabetes
as well as insulin resistance
weight gain higher cholesterol higher
triglycerides a fatty liver so you can
see potassium is really really important
in a lot of issues simply because it's
needed by insulin and your blood sugars
and on top of that you have receptors
for potassium in pretty much every
single cell in your body because it's
also involved in creating the battery
effect of your cells and this is why out
of all the nutrients in your body
potassium is the number one that you
need like the most of you need 4 700
milligrams of potassium every single day
i mean
no other mineral is needed in that
amount all right now the next point i
want to bring up is this
your cells
have minerals outside and inside the
cell and about 99
of all the potassium in your body is
inside the cell only one percent is
outside the cell so
if you get a blood test to measure your
potassium it's not going to tell you
anything about what's going on inside
the cell where the real action is
happening so i'm going to tell you
a little bit on the outside which you're
really going to get correct data so if
you're going to test your potassium you
want to make sure it's an intracellular
potassium test and one test you could do
would be called a red blood cell
potassium test this is why when you go
to the doctor and you get a blood test
and they say your potassium levels are
normal well you're just checking in the
blood you're not looking inside the cell
so you don't really know what's really
going on now how do you become deficient
in potassium okay well
eat a lot of sugar because the more
sugar and more potassium deficient carbs
as in refined carbs you consume
the more potassium you're going to lose
because potassium is sacrificed
when you consume this refined sugar in
carbs because in order to store a lot of
these carbs you need potassium so the
more carbs you eat the less potassium
you're going to have in your body now
there's other things that you might not
realize that are creating the
deficiencies well like going out to
restaurants that are loaded with
hidden flavor enhancers like msg
monosodium glutamate right because the
more sodium you have
the less potassium you're going to have
as well
the average person in america consumes
about i think a cup and a half of
vegetables per day maybe that will give
a person like 1 10 of what they really
need now if they're on a diuretic
because they have high blood pressure
because they're potassium deficient
they're also going to lose their
potassium because one of the side
effects of diuretics are a potassium
deficiency the more stress that someone
goes through the less potassium they're
going to have in their body because
stress increases cortisol and cortisol
creates a potassium deficiency also just
by being a diabetic
you're going to require so much more
potassium you're going to be deficient
if you exercise you're going to be also
deficient in potassium so you can see
the problem
so many things can create a deficiency
yet we need this to help stabilize our
blood sugars so if you are a diabetic
potassium is the most important mineral
to start consuming to help regulate your
blood sugars and then decrease the need
for medication and hopefully at some
point you know make you not a diabetic
anymore now what foods are high in
potassium i mean one cup of lima beans
is over a thousand milligrams of
potassium of course that's not on the
keto plants i don't recommend it
avocados okay avocados one avocado will
give you 800 milligrams of potassium
great way to get your potassium
and keto friendly
melon melon has about 1500 milligrams of
potassium now i don't recommend melon if
you're on the ketogenic diet but i do
remember before i was on the ketogenic
diet
i used to have fluid retention in my
feet because i was doing so many carbs
and i remember someone told me about
juicing a melon i just juiced the rind
and i would drink the juice before bed
i'd wake up and just the fluid would
just come right out that was because
when you increase your potassium you can
decrease the accumulation of salt and
you can get rid of the excess fluid as
well all right here's another one brown
sugar okay brown sugar now where's brown
sugar come from well
if you're talking about sugar cane it
comes from sugar cane which is actually
high in potassium but what happens is
they refine it into white sugar
and molasses which is the waste product
and they might take some of this waste
and put it into the white sugar and come
up with brown sugar but molasses is
really high potassium but you don't want
to do molasses because it has a lot of
sugar in it so really what you want is
low glycemic
uh ways to get your potassium now beet
tops are loaded with potassium so if you
had a cup of b tops you would get 1300
milligrams but beet tops are also high
in oxalates which can lead to kidney
stones if you're susceptible so what i
recommend for your potassium is
vegetables leafy green salads and so one
cup of greens would give you about 500
milligrams of potassium now remember you
need 4 700 so that means you would need
to consume if you're just relying on
greens you would need almost 10 cups but
realize there's other foods that you're
going to get your potassium as well now
you could do an electrolyte powder and
of course i'm not biased of my own but
it is the best quality because i made
sure that the ingredients don't have any
hidden maltodextrin okay which is a
really
terrible sugar that they put in
flavorings they put in citrates as far
as the binding of the minerals as well
as in sweeteners too and i'm talking
about even stevia so the point is if
you're going to do a electrolyte powder
you want to do a high quality
electrolyte powder that doesn't add more
sugar into it so anyway i wanted to
create this video to increase your
awareness on a very important mineral
for blood sugars diabetes and even
weight loss in general now if you have
not seen my other very popular video on
potassium i put it up right here check
it out
