so I'm going to talk about what's really
behind a glute or gluteal spasm when
you're on keto let's say for example you
have a cramp or muscle spasm in your
butt or you've been diagnosed with deep
gluteal spasm or you've been diagnosed
with this thing called piriformis
syndrome which is a muscle underneath
the glutes realize this is an
electrolyte deficiency primarily it's
gonna be sodium a sodium deficiency it
just means that you're not consuming
enough sea salt this happens all the
time when you start a keto plan or
you're doing in a minute fasting you
lose a lot of water and with the water
loss you lose sodium so you need to
increase the amount of sodium in fact if
you've tried potassium magnesium or
calcium for cramps and it still hasn't
worked try more sea salt and I would
recommend depending on if you exercise
or not
one to two teaspoons a day if you're
exercising you may need two teaspoons
now the problem with salt cravings is
that you're not necessarily gonna crave
salt itself
you're gonna crave what your body
remembers as salt in the form of popcorn
chips pretzels that type of thing so
there's a couple things you can do you
can just add more salt to your food you
can add some sea salt to your water and
dissolve it and drink it down with your
lemon you could get sea salt in little
capsules make sure you get the Himalayan
sea salt which is the absolu the best
the volcanic Ridge salt in Hawaii is
also really good now other problems you
might have with a sodium deficiency
would be a worsening of pots that's a
situation where you stand up too fast
and you get really really dizzy there's
an entire condition on it I did a video
on this I'll put a link down below
because if you have this you need to
take about it and be one I have a lot
more information or it could be a low
blood pressure you need more sea salt
and there's a condition called
hyponatremia and that is low salt in
your blood and that usually comes from
consuming way too much water without
salt it could be very dangerous in your
body especially if you're exercising and
you're putting all this water without
the salt it
dilute your electrolytes even more and
the heart starts to work harder and
harder and harder and you can get
actually swelling in the brain it's a
big problem Addison's disease which is a
condition with the adrenals in which the
adrenals are not manufacturing enough
adrenal hormones so the person is going
to be losing a lot of salt and you may
see this if you have severe adrenal
fatigue or some type of dysfunction with
the adrenal you know if you have
Cushing's syndrome you might be
retaining salt okay but the opposite of
that would be Addison's so if you don't
have enough of doing hormones you're
gonna be losing salt and you need to be
consuming a lot more salt on a regular
basis or you're gonna feel very very
weak the more you exercise the more salt
that you need make sure of course it's
sea salt but depending on how much you
sweat that will determine how much salt
you need but some people even need more
than 2 teaspoons a day all right if you
feel weak weak muscles you need more sea
salt possibly or fatigue try adding more
sea salt all right so there's a summary
of the sodium deficiency but if you have
a cramp in your butt try some sea salt
and it may just help you thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
