my name is Stephanie Williams and I am
visiting here with dr. Berger I was
referred to dr. Byrd by my primary care
physician dr. Washington and I came to
lose weight that was my primary concern
and I learned that I need to work on the
inside getting healthy he wanted to work
on what the root of the problem is what
what your areas are concerned and what
is the problem here and how do we fix
the problem area and that he is open to
natural medications not just described
drugs oh he's very attentive dr. Berger
is very attentive he I mean he he not
only explained if you did not understand
he's willing to I took notes the whole
time I was sitting in there and if I
wasn't sure about something he explained
it I learned about the bio you know how
important it is for your bowels to be
working and what their functions are
with the functions of your bio and so he
a great open question and answer session
they're formed I'm receptive to dr.
bridges philosophy on weight loss
because I've been it's been recommended
and or suggested that you know I do some
type of surgery whether it's a gastro
surgery and I just did not feel
comfortable doing that so I liked it not
to get operated on and have any type of
surgery for weight loss and that I was
just gonna just got to be another way
and through prayer I was led to dr. Byrd
so I'm thankful to have met him and you
know had the opportunity that pleasure
to speak with him personally and not
just you know so when you hear about you
never really get to meet then so I'm
looking forward to him working with me
and I were
people sometimes are reluctant because
you know I've been this size for quite a
while and have tried a few things not
very consistent but I think when they
begin to see actually see the results I
think that they may have a little more
faith because everything I ran into I
was shared with someone else so they may
be a little may have been a little
apprehensive but I will genuinely
encourage them to come and visit dr.
birds and and that hit me valuates you
because every individual is different
and let him evaluate you and see what
works for you where your current where
your areas are concerns are and then he
can address what your root but the root
of your problem is I can only you know
maybe share that we may have something
similar however he will people to I'm
sure I have faith and I haven't even
started my products yet but just a mere
thought of sitting down just a mere
opportunity this is down and discussed
with dr. Berwick my areas of concern
were and then to know that I can may
have actually found what the root of the
problem is so we'll see
