so the question we want to answer today
is why are some people very susceptible
to getting infections and other people
are immune from infections I was flying
somewhere this last weekend and I'm
sitting in this plane and the person
right behind me is just coughing and
hacking and the lady next to me has a
scarf around her mouth and I'm sitting
there trying not to breathe the air in
this plane it was disgusting and I had
no symptoms at all but you always think
that wow I wonder if I'm gonna get sick
because I'm all these floating viruses
and bacteria in this very small space
you never know but let me just define
this word susceptible likely or liable
to be influenced or harmed by a
particular thing and we're talking about
viruses and bacteria and microbes what
are the key things that make you liable
to be influenced by a microbe well the
first thing you need to know is that
there's two main parts of the immune
system you have the innate part and you
have the adapted part of the immune
system
now the innate is something you're born
with it's a rapid response of your
immune system it already has a
pre-programmed
function and I'm talking about
neutrophils monocytes and natural killer
cells but the Adapted is very different
when you're born you don't have this
system developed yet and it's composed
of t-cells and b-cells
this system requires education and
training so as soon as you start being
exposed to the environment whether it's
a virus or a bacteria your body starts
reacting and learning and developing a
memory so the next time you're exposed
to it your immune system knows exactly
what to do this system is always trying
to differentiate between your own cells
and not kill your own cells off and only
focus on the invader microbes and of
course certain people in certain times
of their life start having this system
broken down where they can't
differentiate and they start getting
self attack or autoimmune diseases
there are five main things that make you
susceptible to getting infections at the
top of the list it's stress there's some
interesting research on bereavement
which is the condition that someone's in
grieving over a loss of a loved one and
they've done Studies on that and they
found that your immune system is
suppressed neutrophils okay white blood
cells are actually suppressed and when
your immune system is suppressed it
leaves the back door open to have this
microbe invade and create damage
part of this is controlled by the
flight-or-fight sympathetic nervous
system the other part is controlled by
cortisol cortisol is one of the main
stress hormones produced by the adrenal
gland cortisol suppresses white blood
cells so anytime cortisol is elevated
you are susceptible to getting an
infection now if you have a chronic
stress over a long period of time
cortisol tends to go down and now you
don't have the buffer the suppressive
force for these hyper immune reactions
so you can also have problems with the
immune system with low cortisol as in a
condition called
Addison's disease which these people are
usually always sick with viruses just as
much as having high cortisol and there's
a condition called Cushing's syndrome
which involves high cortisol so both can
create this susceptibility to this
microbe I mean when you think about
people getting sick many times it
happens after a stress event then we get
into low vitamin D levels okay vitamin D
is probably one of the most important
vitamins to protect your immune system
simply because it modulates or controls
both the innate and the adaptive part of
the immune system so if you are
deficient in vitamin D both of these are
not going to work and you're not going
to have the defense mechanisms in place
and this is really why people get the
flu in the fall and they get sick in the
winter it's simply because of the
vitamin D it's not the cold it's not the
rain
it's the low vitamin D this is why I
always recommend taking vitamin D
through the winter months and their in
the summer get more Sun then we get to
zinc very important in immune protection
if you're low in zinc
your risk for getting strep especially
strep in your lungs
goes way up also you can't kill bacteria
as well
zinc is present in certain white blood
cells that help kill bacteria and by the
way one billion people on this planet
are deficient in zinc all right number
four vitamin A very important in the
mucous lining of your sinuses of a
respiratory area of your throat vitamin
A is involved in the protective layer on
the inside of the body so if you're
deficient in vitamin A your risk factors
go up for getting infections in the lung
and by the way I forgot to say this when
you're low in vitamin D you definitely
your risk factor for viruses of the lung
go way way up but if you're low in
vitamin A you're phagocytes the cells
that kill bacteria and clean up bacteria
out of the system are suppressed and it
just so happens that there is something
that has a nice equal amount of vitamin
A and vitamin D and you guessed it it's
cod liver oil something that your
grandmother probably recommended growing
up okay then we have vitamin C essential
for your immune system and to protect
you against microbes not having enough
vitamin C makes you very susceptible the
phagocytes don't work anymore you get a
buildup of bacteria you can't produce
antibodies as well anymore so overall in
summary these are the five things
involved in susceptibility to getting
infections so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
