today we're going to talk about the
number one fattest country in the entire
world can you guess what it is go ahead
and comment down below we're talking
about
94.5% either overweight or obese with an
average weight of 225 lbs per person and
on top of it this country has the
highest rate of diabetes of any other
country it's one of the small islands in
the South Pacific it's called Naru but
it's a very tiny uh country it has a
population of
11,000 now what happened in 1975 there
was this huge boom with this mineral
called phosphate and this country became
one of the richest countries in the
world in a short period of time so they
had a lot of money they had a lot of
cars a lot of buildings and of course
with that came corruption until the
point where all of this mineral was
completely gone it was depleted from the
land and this country went into into a
deep poverty state where it's remained
ever since now the question is what
happened to bring this obesity rate from
2% up to I think it's like
61% we do know they went from their
traditional foods to westernized
processed food if you want to call it
that traditionally they ate a lot of
fish they had coconuts fruits they had
vegetables they had terot root but they
didn't eat much grain or seed oil they
had palm oil and coconut oil but they
made the shift to more grains process
grains uh what we call alra processed
foods which also include highly refined
seed oils and so some people might blame
this inactivity that may be part of it
and other people will say it's well it's
more sodium or more saturated fat and
that's not really the root cause of this
obesity problem or diabetes so here you
have this culture that can no longer
grow anything on their soils because
it's been depleted so you can't have a
garden 40% of the marine life has been
destroyed from pollution nearly 100% of
the food is imported they have to import
the water which is expensive it's
actually more expensive than soda they
started seeing obesity start at 15
months old and so if we take a look at
the guts or the basic building blocks of
ultra processed food we have mainly
three major major ingredients okay we
have artificial starches and these
synthetic sugars as well as in corn
syrup or glucose syrup the definition of
ultra means extreme process means you're
changing something into something else
and you've taken every bit of life out
of that food it's not a food the
definition of food is something to
nourish the body to give us energy how
can you do that with these ingredients
and then we we also have these highly
inflammatory seed oils I mean seed oils
are a highly reactive not very stable
fat that can now sit on the shelf for a
long period of Time how can it do that
because it's dead but it's oxidized and
so when it goes in your body it can
create a lot of problems I'm talking
about insulin resistance I'm talking
about obesity on a very large scale in
fact seed oils are really the only
trending item that parallels obesity
even more than sugar sugar actually has
come down but seed oils have gone
straight up in vertical you know when
people talk about Ultra processed foods
they talk about oh yeah it's it's filled
with saturated fats I mean they might
put some saturated fats in there like
palm oil and that's also uh process as
well but that has a lot less amount of
this omega-6 oil I think if I'm not
mistaken it's like 10% of this Omega 6
compared to the others that are just
completely filled with
and so what gets people is that when
they read the label they don't really
understand what these things are so they
don't read labels but the starches would
be called like modified food starch or
modified corn starch or molto extran the
sugars would be corn syrup or glucose
syrup and the synthetic seed oils would
be of course corn canola or cotton seed
or safflower or soy oil now I have a
personal friend that has just visited
vised these islands and they gave me a
lot of information about this topic
they're just filling the shelves with
these oils but not just that they are
also in these other foods and so they
create a lot of damage including
nutritional deficiencies as well as
creating more hunger so it's going to
make you want to eat uh and eat and eat
but never really be satisfied because
there's not enough nutrients in there to
turn off the brain so it's just a
constant hunger in a constant
inflammatory state it just must be
miserable Ultra processed foods should
come with a blackbox warning that they
put on certain medications to warn
people against the serious side effects
I mean the side effects from
multiprocess food are worse than some of
the drugs it should basically say
ultrapress maybe food-like stuff with a
blackbox warning so people know what's
going to happen if they eat that that is
not the solution the solution starts
with education on the Basic Foods that
really fit this definition of the word
food out of the dictionary and if you
want that information I put it in a
video right here check it
out
