hey guys another quick video I want to
show you a great recipe for a natural
sunscreen a lot of the sun blockers and
sunscreens out there have all sorts of
chemicals that actually increase your
risk of getting skin cancer okay so this
is a natural thing you could make at
home and use it as needed when you go
out in the Sun so you're basically going
to take a half a cup of coconut oil 1/4
of a cup of olive oil and then aloe vera
you can get in a gel make sure there's
no other chemicals in there you just
want straight aloe fourth of a cup okay
mix this together just slightly heat it
over the stove just so it can melt all
together then you're going to add
something called zinc oxide 2
tablespoons make sure you get the non
nano version that way it won't absorb
into the skin too much and this will be
a great - combination to help protect
you against some of the UV rays and also
help your skin as far as the oils
alright and thanks for watching so we've
been getting a lot of success stories
but I don't have your success story yet
so click the link down below and upload
you before and after I want to actually
hear about your success story I want to
see your before-and-afters and every
week we do featured success stories so
click the link down below and share your
success
