okay yeah so um so tell me what you just
told me okay I've been here for about a
month and I stopped um I started eating
the doing the cranberry juices and that
was the beginning of I just started
really slow with the cranberry juices
and then I stopped all the wheat
products and I started eating um more of
the greens the broccoli and the kale and
and that's basically what I've been
doing and I've lost like 14 pounds but
that's not what I came in for with lose
the weight more it was I felt so
miserable I was exhausted I was having
just crazy issues with joint pain and
anyhow all that has stopped it's stopped
and basically the biggest thing is that
I'm sleeping through the night totally 8
and 1 half hours like sound sleep as if
I'm taking like sleeping PS um no I mean
no joint pain The Joint Pain's gone the
fatigue is gone and I just feel really
really good that's as simple as
that and no Cravings that's it no
cravings for curbs at all none and I
used to eat bread like crazy I Made
bread I ate bread I mean I love bread
I'd go down and get the Pea Vienna from
the homemade you know homemade N I loved
it I don't have no cravings for it at
all I don't even eat it anymore it's
only been a few weeks I've never done
that before cuz I love chocolate and
bread and anything that's carvs like
that wow so it stopped I mean I think I
don't know it just seemed like once I
stopped the wheat and once I started the
greens the craving stopped and that's
what surprised me the most totally I
mean it's totally stopped wow what about
your joint joint pain and my joint
Pain's gone what was it like before my
well I was getting arthritis in all my
joints and they were inflamed and
actually have nodules in these three
joints here um and they were getting
worse by the day and that's just I mean
the nodules are still there of course
cuz they're not going to go away but the
inflammation stopped wow the
inflammation just stopped wow so I don't
I now I couldn't even close my hands now
I I mean it's crazy just stuff like that
simple stuff like you would never think
so nutrition has sold me totally 100%
and I kept going to the doctors and they
were doing all the blood work and they
she was basically telling me she
basically said you need to go see a
counselor that was the last thing she
said to me and that was the last time I
walked it cuz everything was normal and
I said listen I am a mess and
something's wrong and you're missing it
I thought something seriously seriously
was wrong so that's how I ended up here
I I just I had your card from a couple
years ago from a something I don't even
I think a massage therapist gave it to
me or something I thought well you know
it can't hurt because nobody else seems
to know what's going on and this has
only been a month so
hey hey
really and then one one last question
about um you um with your weight tell me
about how much weight you lost I've lost
14 lbs I was up to 173 I'm down to 160
well 13 this 160 this morning W so
that's the lowest I've been since I've
been a teenager I think
really you know the weight wasn't the
thing I didn't come for the weight so
much as I came for the other symptoms I
was having and that's just sort of a
side effect that's happened I haven't
even been trying to do that that just
happens you know love it now what about
your size of your clothes are any loose
um pants are a lot looser and I think
I've lost a lot in the back my back I
tend to gain my fat on my stomach and my
back and that seems to be where it's
gone did when you first started this did
you have any thought that it was hard
going to be hard well didn't really
matter I felt so miserable I wasn't even
thinking I mean really I just felt so
miserable that I mean the fatigue was
unbelievable the joint pain was
unbelievable I I thought I had cancer I
mean I didn't know what was wrong with
me I just I remember coming in here and
seeing Dr donu and I just started crying
I said I don't know what's the matter
but they can't find anything all the
tests are negative so I'm not sure
what's going on and you know I never
even thought of diet I never thought of
diet being so you know encompassing you
know I never I never thought I ate that
bad I thought I ate pretty good I mean I
never realized I thought my diet was
really good I love to cook I you know I
ate whole I eat Whole Foods I you know
but this was huge this was a big deal
yeah wow and then what would you tell
someone if
they're a little um skeptical or they're
a little um hesitant you don't have to
start like I think it's intimidating
when you look at the book and you want
to you know oh my God I have to do this
liver enhancement I have to do this
that's intimidating but if you just
start slowly even even just start
somewhere like start with the cranberry
juice and start by having um like I
started with just the cranberry juice
and I started with the kale and the
broccoli every dinner at lunchtime I
started having just a big salad from
Fields with just all greens and some
vinegar and that was it and that started
me on it and then I started then I
dropped out the wheat I stopped you know
doing the breads that I used to eat
every day and I and then it just seemed
to everything got easier I mean cuz the
Cravings disappeared so once the
Cravings disappeared you didn't even
want I don't even want that stuff
anymore I don't even think about it you
know which is crazy cuz I mean if you
knew me beforeand I would eat bread like
yeah so I mean diet is nutrition is
amazing it really is and then what about
uh would you consider this a diet or a
lifestyle change no it's a lifestyle
change it's a whole way of looking at
your body differently and the world
differently I think really cuz you have
people that like think that oh I'm going
to go on something and go off of it but
what we're trying to do is U make it
just part of your life yeah it becomes
part of your life cuz you're not craving
it you feel so much better you really do
notice the difference when you go if you
like I I went to a a friends last two
weeks ago for dinner and they had stuff
there that I didn't really want to eat
but I ate it just to be polite and I
really felt miserable and I thought
that's not going to happen again it was
as simple as that it was like I'm just
not going there because it just it's
such a difference and then and you just
really you know you become more aware of
how your body's acting actually you
become more aware of what you're eating
and how you feel after after you eat it
which is really different cuz before I
never thought I just ate cuz I love to
eat I love food of telling you so but
this has changed the way I even look at
Food wow you know so so the educ the
book for example um the education of
like why it works and yes yes yeah
that's that was really important for me
because I'm more of a mental kind of
thinker you know what I mean I need to
have some kind of had to make sense to
me that what I was why I was doing it as
compared to like um Weight Watchers that
says you'll cut calories were trying to
do the opposite I went to Weight
Watchers I didn't even lose two pounds
and then you'd go back and you'd feel
miserable I mean I know it's a really
healthy way to lose weight and it's a
really good way but it just didn't do it
for me it didn't uh it didn't work for
me do you think now that you've
experienced this do you think that uh um
you know now that you won't go back
because you actually have this New
Concept yeah this is more of a lifestyle
this is different yeah this is totally
different no really this is like um this
is this is a lot bigger this is a lot
lot bigger I'm getting older as you get
older you really do notice your body
more because it's not doesn't do like
what you were when you were 20 it
doesn't do what you wanted to do so you
want to feel the best you can for the
longest time you can you know that's the
whole idea so I just wish I had been
eating like this since I was 20 you know
what I mean this is the whole thing I
wish I had been eating like this since I
was 20 Jo a club yeah and I even started
getting my meat and stuff from um a
place that has no antibiotics in it you
know like all green fed I never my
husband's like that's going to be too
expensive but the funny thing is we're
not eating as much of it because it
seems to be more satisfying somehow it
doesn't increase your appetite so
whatever's in the meat that you buy
that's processed it's different than
this I'm telling you uh really cuz we
get it from polyface farms out in Chand
do now and I just want I won't buy
anything else I said to him we don't
need to be eating that stuff I mean it
really there's so much stuff in it that
you just shouldn't have in your body
that you just notice the difference you
you really do this is just this is just
it's simple it's just a simple logic
totally once you do it once you do it
and you stick with it awesome I think
the hardest thing for people would be
social you know social pressure of
families and stuff like that that would
be the hardest thing yeah but even I
went to my sister-in-laws and I told her
I was doing this and she accommodated me
which I said don't worry about it I'll
just figure out I'll just eat around
everybody don't even worry about me and
she had made this like I don't know what
it was some it was um potatoes but she
used the red potatoes small ones she
didn't you know instead of putting all
the stuff like the weed in the processed
cheese is she didn't do any of that so I
mean people will accommodate you it's
not a big deal really yeah it's not a
big deal you think you think it's a big
deal but it's not no and when people
started yesterday I went out with my
girlfriend Tuesday I went out with my
girlfriend I hadn't seen her for a
couple months and she goes oh my god
what have you done your this is
interesting oh this is interesting your
skin has changed she said she said your
skin looks different and I said well I'm
just eating different and my massage
therapist who I haven't seen for 6
months cuz I've been doing you know I
was just not doing anything I went back
to her and she said the same thing she
goes your skin is different like it's
actually the touch it feels different I
said what is it she goes it's like
softer or like it's got more moisture in
it or something it's more
elastic yeah that was just the other day
I thought and I said to my husband I
thought that was amazing because that
was like for somebody who's used to
touching you and feeling your skin
that's mean that's what they do right
she was able to she she she said that's
really really CH I never and I hadn't to
her any of this stuff this was just sort
of something she just came up with I
said well I've been I changed my diet I
said I changed the way I'm eating your
Skin's reflection of what's going on and
what you digest I mean yeah yeah that's
awesome
