are you on keto but you're not losing
weight would you like to know what
you're doing wrong this is a very common
question okay
here's what you need to know as the most
important thing fat is only used up
burnt as fuel in the absence of glucose
it's the hidden carbs that really keep
people from tapping into ketosis and
losing weight they're consuming a lot of
the products like slimfast now has a
whole line of keto friendly products
loaded with multiple dextran for example
so you might be doing that maybe you're
not doing in a minute fasting you're
just focusing on ketosis okay but you're
having snacks between the meal and those
snacks potentially have hidden carbs so
you want to make sure you're not
consuming any multi dextran tapioca
starch so start really evaluating your
carbohydrates you want to bring your
carbs down to 10 or less now there are
other reasons as well let's say for
example you are bloating a lot or you're
constipated that could be a huge huge
barrier it could be because you're
eating so frequently and I'll get to
that in a second within a minute fasting
but frequent eating creates a lot of
bloating and that could prevent you from
losing weight because every time you eat
you spike insulin and insulin creates
all sorts of visceral fat around the gut
so even though you're eating healthy the
fact that you're eating does raise
insulin to certain degree and insulin is
what really keeps you from losing weight
let's say for example you're on social
media and you're finding all these great
desserts like with sugar alcohols and
almond flour so a lot of times when you
start keto you want to make it enjoyable
so you're making all these keto friendly
desserts which is great but a lot of
people have sensitivities to these sugar
alcohols and they get a lot of bloating
the bloating will keep you from losing
weight because you're retaining fluid
all right too many nuts or too much
peanut butter it's actually a go-to food
for many people they're constantly
eating peanut butter through the day or
a lot of nuts and this can irritate the
gall bladder and just prevent you from
getting into a deep state of ketosis or
are you doing too much cheese very
constipating for certain people they
might have allergies and both of both
nuts and cheese can really blow a person
certain vegetables especially if you
have digestive issues like SIBO small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth where
you have all these microbes in your
small intestine and you just gassed out
all the time then you need to cut down
your vegetables I have a video on that
down below if you may have an issue with
too many vegetables
okay so bloating is another barrier and
then number three you're just eating too
frequently there is a large percent of
the population especially over the age
of 40 50 and 60 who have a very slow
metabolism and they're going to need to
do one meal a day you want to work up to
it I have a lot of videos on this I put
a link down below but not until you hit
this one meal a day will you start
seeing the real real benefits so if I
were you I would bite the bullet try
this out because this is like probably
the second most important thing once you
make sure there's no hidden carbs so now
there's exercise act Rafi especially
after menopause looks like fat when you
go through menopause or premenopause you
get this spike of cortisol cortisol
destroys the muscles and you start
getting this flabby tissue it looks like
that but it's actually a loss of muscle
so if you're doing keto you're not going
to necessarily grow your muscles back
right away you're going to need to do
exercise unfortunately it could take
some time it could take up to one to two
to three years to get those muscles back
but I do recommend everyone have an
exercise program and start getting into
that at your level next point is time
the whole philosophy that I teach is you
have to get healthy to lose weight not
lose weight to get healthy if you focus
on the health not necessarily the weight
loss you'll be more successful and I'm
talking about energy levels no cravings
your hunger goes away your cognitive
function is better your sleep is better
your stress tolerance is better that
means it's working but let's say your
weight loss isn't is not happening well
you just got to give it time because in
the process of healing I
your body will focus on certain things
first and other things later so it may
take time especially if you have a
history of severe insulin resistance
which the majority population has a
problem with so to fix this it does take
time and you just have to give it time
so look at all the benefits not just
weight loss and then protein I noticed
that when people do a keto program a lot
of times they might consume too much
protein and that can raise insulin so
you want to moderate amount of protein
usually for an average person it's going
to be between three to six ounces
sometimes seven maybe even eight ounces
but don't go over that alright guys
there you have it these are the main
reasons why people are not experiencing
weight loss on keto thanks for watching
hey before you go would you mind putting
a comment down below to tell me what you
think about this video
