hi guys I'm back in this video we're
going to talk about essential fatty
acids there's just a lot of confusion
I'm going to try to make it as simple as
possible to sort out kind of the big
idea of why you need to be consuming
these and what might happen if you're
deficient well first of all let's back
up okay what is an essential fatty acid
well essential meaning that the body
cannot make it okay cannot make the this
type of fat yet you need it it's
essential because without it you will
die this must be gotten from the diet
and also this category of fats is not
just used for energy it's used to
replace body parts your brain is mostly
fat your nervous system is mostly fat so
we need these fats to make up our body
all right so that's essential fatty
acids back in nineteen twenty three or
four essential fatty acids were called
vitamin F okay but they realized that
it's not necessarily a vitamin per se
it's more of a fatty acid so they
changed the name so there's two main
categories of essential fatty acids you
have a LA and LA and this is where it
gets kind of tricky because the names
for these are very similar this one is
called alpha Leno lennick okay with an n
this one is just linoleic so we both
have Leno this one is lennick and this
is lahic but they're very similar so
it's kind of confusing
this one is omega-6 okay and this one is
omega-3 so alpha linolenic is omega-3
and by the way Omega basically is used
to categorize the kind of the form of
the fat as far as the different bonds
and how it's chemically made up but it's
they use the last letter of the Greek
alphabet which is omega alright so now
that you have that what type of foods do
you have to eat to get this right here
well this mainly comes from leafy greens
flax Chia hemp seed plants and nuts
especially
walnuts so we have also this thing
called EPA and DHA these are two
additional omega-3 fatty acids these two
come from salmon especially concentrated
in the salmon oil and Cobb liver oil
sardines caviar which is fish eggs and
by the way caviar is really good to give
females who are preparing their body for
pregnancy to increase fertility it's
also good for men to increase their
fertility in sperm count and
testosterone levels it just has a lot of
nutrients phytonutrients and healthy
fats okay so we have that and then
seafood fatty fish grass-fed animal
products include grass-fed dairy and by
the way when you consume grass-fed beef
it has a four to one ratio 4 times the
omega-3 to omega-6 as compared to grain
fed beef has two-to-one so grass-fed
gives you double the amount of that so
if you notice that these are all kind of
animal products now there are exceptions
you can get DHA from algae okay but
typically you're going to get your DHA
and EPA from these animal and fish
products right here now I just want to
pause for a second on these two fats
right here if you deprive an infant
DHA the IQ will go down the size of the
brain is limited the child will have
stunted growth the vision will be poor
so we know that DHA and even EPA is
essential in brain function and
formation the retina sex hormones
endocrine function and many other
functions okay so let me just kind of
touch on this for a second if you are a
vegan okay and you do not consume these
right here and you're not even consuming
algae this has the potential to convert
to EPA and DHA but at a very limited
rate from ala to EPA is only like a five
percent conversion
going from EPA to DHA it's zero to 4% so
this is one challenge that a vegan will
have in the conversion to these two fats
so it's just one thing to be aware of if
you start seeing symptoms of deficiency
of these fats right here now I'm going
to come back to this for a second but
I'm gonna switch right over to here to
LA which is the omega-6 this is mainly
the corn oils the soy oil the canola now
I don't want to get into the GMO subject
right now but just realize that when you
consume these oils you're also consuming
glyphosate and herbicide which is a
whole other topic but the point that I
want to make is that these are like
green oils or they call it vegetable
oils but they're really grain oils and
this can convert into another fad called
GLA you can also get GLA from borage oil
evening primrose oil black currant seed
oil and this is good for inflammation
skin health allergies and many other
things okay then this can also convert
to a rock Adamic acid there's another
fatty acid which is a kind of a building
block of something called prostaglandins
let me explain what that is that is
about a chemical that is involved in
inflammation so it actually helps heal
the body in areas of injury and
infection so if someone is taking an
aspirin for example because they have
inflammation or they have pain or
whatever they're blocking this body
chemical right here so that's how that
works
so some people say well you need to
avoid or academic acid well you just
need to realize that if you avoid this
you're blocking also the healing of
these of whatever's going on in the body
as well so we have to kind of understand
why the body is inflamed now the real
big thing that you need to understand
about these fats is that an average
American consumes 20 times more omega-6
fatty acids than omega-3 now the other
thing you to know is that when you are
heavy on
these fats right here omega-6 this hat
competes with ala in other words if
they're both present in the diet roughly
about the same time this will take
priority so this will block the
absorption of this and because you go to
a grocery store and everything is like
omega-6 fatty acid everything's corn oil
soy oil canola and salad dressing and
mayonnaise and all sorts of things and
how average American is very deficient
in this fatty acid right here omega-3 so
what kind of symptoms are you gonna get
if you're deficient well number one your
IQs going down you're not going to be
able to learn you're gonna have problems
with the brain retina vision you're
probably we were glasses you're gonna
set yourself up for heart problems blood
pressure problems inflammatory
conditions of the heart your overall
mood will go down a depression anxiety
decrease sperm count a lot of skin
issues dry scaly skin is a real common
symptom so over the last I would say
forty years there's been a huge spike in
the consumption of sugar but there's
also been a huge consumption of the the
omega-6 fatty acids right here because
certain organizations have been telling
you to substitute the saturated fats
which by the way 98 percent of all the
fats that make up the body are saturated
fats FYI as a side note so what has
happened is we lowered the saturated
fats and we replaced them with the
vegetable oils spiking the omega-6 and
then decreasing the omega-3 if you're on
the ketogenic diet and you're consuming
a lot of nuts and nut butters and seed
butters as your snack and flax or Chia
or hemp whatever and you're not
consuming these fish oils or fatty fish
or grass-fed meats in certain amounts
you too can be deficient in these right
here because the conversions are very
very small so if you're noticing that
your skin
is Raschi it's kind of like kind of red
Raschi and it's flaking it's peeling it
could be a key to rash coming from these
deficiencies of omega-3 fatty acids so
start to add more fish oils and fish
into your diet and don't just you know
fill up on peanut butter all the time
okay so I hope I didn't confuse you too
much but there you have it essential
fatty acids thanks for watching so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications daily notifications
that sounds weird well I'll just remind
you on a daily basis how about that
