hey guys had another question from
someone that wanted to know what is the
ammonia smell coming from my body okay
doing keto in a minute fasting and I
have this interesting odor coming out so
let's first talk about what ammonia is
ammonia is the byproduct of protein
breakdown it's called protein catabolism
which is the breakdown of protein and in
a normal person with normal healthy
kidneys this ammonia should break down
into something called urea and be
excreted okay urea is a a less toxic
material ammonia is more toxic
especially to the brain and the nervous
system so if your kidneys are normal
okay you can make this conversion very
easily and there's no problem however if
the ammonia builds up in the body it can
create not just an odor coming out of
your skin but problems with your mint
your cognitive function lethargy being
irritable seizures breathing problems
and even brain swelling it could be
quite dangerous
okay so that's very interesting but now
what do we do about it well to figure
that out we have to know what causes
this buildup of ammonia there's several
things number one either a fatty liver
or a liver that has cirrhosis that's
scar tissue
because the capacity of liver to
function and detoxify this is not there
there by backing it up to the system
into the blood creating all sorts of
issues kidney damage okay so if you have
kidney damage or liver damage you can
actually easily get a buildup of ammonia
okay number three acidosis
some people get acidosis when they do
the ketogenic plan if they don't do it
correctly because they're missing out on
something called vegetables vegetables
counter the acidity from ketones now
when your potassium deficient
it's called hypo Kalinina your kidneys
can start producing and excreting large
amounts of ammonia hmm I wonder what
food will increase potassium certain
side effects for medication and drinking
a lot of alcohol will also affect
ammonia probably because medication and
alcohol destroy the liver and the
kidneys and lastly a high protein
diet now if you have healthy kidneys and
a healthy liver you could probably
handle higher amounts of protein so if
you start noticing that your body starts
having this odor of ammonia could be the
liver it could be the kidney it could be
that you're not consuming enough
vegetables or getting enough potassium
or your protein is just too high
so if you're enjoying these videos click
Share and spread the word
