hi guys dr. Burke here in this short
video I want to talk about the ten
benefits of something called lactic acid
okay now what is lactic acid lactic acid
is a waste product from a microbe it's
probably one of the most friendly
microbes that you have living in your
body right now okay it's called a
lactobacillus microbe and what this
lactic acid will do is it activates
enzymes in your colon to help you digest
it actually stabilizes blood sugars
that's why people that are diabetics do
very well when they consume foods that
have are high in lactic acid also it
helps correct the pH of the colon and
the entire body without the pH correct
you're not going to absorb mineral so
you're not going to break things down
you can't activate the enzymes so pH is
very very important also moving food
through the body as well increase the
digestion of food in general so 90% of
all of your digestion happens with these
friendly bacteria and if you don't have
the right lactic acid or enough of that
lactic acid in your colon things don't
break down unfortunately because they
don't get activated so supports flora
what does flora flora is a friendly
group of microbes living in your gut
that actually give you benefit and you
support them in that you provide housing
you provide where they live now number
six immune support so the lactic acid
kills off and makes it very unfriendly
for the unfriendly bacteria so it helps
defend you against unfriendly microbes
okay
supports leaky gut so the this if you
have little holes in your digestive
system that are damaged this is very
very important healing that whole system
in supporting that
so these microbes will help heal that
leaky gut number eight
increasing metabolism in general if you
all have a slow metabolism and you have
poor digestion you're not going to lose
weight so it just so happens that these
microbes actually do stimulate your
metabolism which is very very cool I'll
have people that will start to eat
certain
foods that help their digestion and
start losing weight all the time from a
digestive angle not to stimulate the
glands but from a digestive point of
view also decrease unfriendly bacteria
and yeast so what happens is you have
unfriendly microbes mold yeast bacteria
in your gut well if you have enough
lactic acid you can actually counter
that and then it will increase your mood
and decrease anxiety why because there's
a huge connection between the digestive
system in your brain and there's several
inputs one is neurological which is
called a enteric system and the other is
just basically your your ability to
digest food and turn into like
neurotransmitters like acetylcholine
serotonin a lot of the serotonin in your
body is made by your gut and that helps
your mood helps depression anxiety so
there's a huge connection with digestion
and mood and the three foods that I
recommend that you eat to actually start
supporting this lactic acid are kimchi
which is a fermented spicy cabbage from
Korea and there's also and there's other
countries also but pickles very very
beneficial in the lactic acid and
sauerkraut so it's this is basically a
very inexpensive probiotic I think that
these foods are actually much more
powerful than taking a probiotic in a
pill so I would keep these in your
fridge in as much as you can start
including them in the diet and you will
start to build up the flora now there is
another one called kefir but I'm going
to create a separate video just on that
one product okay alright so if you have
any digestive problems bloating
constipation anything going on down here
these are the foods that you want to eat
and to get the benefit of the lactic
acid thanks for watching hey guys thank
you so much for watching please click
the subscribe button and I will see you
in the next video
