when you combine sugar with caffeine you
get a powerful combination of bad things
that are going to happen to you I'm
going to get into those in just a second
but I just wanted to first show you how
much sugar is in these energy drinks an
energy drink is something that you
perceived to be
something not that unhealthy right if we
compare it to a soda well what you're
going to find out is that it's actually
worse than Coca-Cola okay let me let me
explain let's first get into this one
right here rockar Rockstar has 16 tpoon
of sugar it has the most sugar of all of
these but it's not just regular sugar it
is a synthetic industrial created sugar
so it's not good for your liver but 16
teaspoons then we get into the Monster
Energy Drink which is 14 and A2
teaspoons of sugar not as much as this
one right here and then we have
something called NOS which is an
enhanced mental focus drink this one has
13 1/2 teaspoons okay all of these right
here have more sugar than a Coke because
a Coke only has 13 teaspoons of sugar
but if we look at the caffeine Rockstar
has 160 milligrams and also monster has
160 milligram and so does NOS but
Coca-Cola only has 45 milligram so all
three of these have three times the
amount of caffeine as a Coke and all
three of them have more sugar yet
somehow we perceive these to be
healthier but they're all not good for
you because the type of sugar that
they're putting in here and the amounts
is just crazy too high this has high
fructose corn syrup these also have
synthetic sugars Gatorade has a little
more sugar than a Coke like just under
14 teaspoons okay and Powerade has about
13 teaspoons of sugar so all three of
these are similar in sugars now as far
as caffeine and Gatorade there isn't uh
any in this particular drink but in
other drinks it goes anywhere between 23
Mig to 200 Mig of caffeine and Powerade
apparently does not have any caffeine
then we get to this one called Celsius
zero sugars and of course they put
sucralose in there the type of sweetener
that isn't necessarily classified as a
sugar but it creates a similar damage
that Sugar creates but just indirectly
I'm not going to get into that but what
you should know is this one has
270 mg of caffeine over 100 Mig more
caffeine CA than these right here and
almost six times the amount of caffeine
than a Coca-Cola but now let's get into
why you never want to combine a lot of
sugar with a lot of caffeine when you
combine sugar with caffeine you are
creating a ticking Time Bomb let's get
into a deep dive on what happens when
you combine a lot of sugar and caffeine
at the same time you know when people
are doing this I always like to ask what
problem are you trying to solve are you
trying to solve your fatigue
and is this solution going to be the
best solution or not so let's kind of
take a look at this right let's first
look at Sugar first question is do you
have low blood sugar that we can just
add some sugar and raise it chances are
your problem is not even a low blood
sugar situation but if it is it will
raise the blood sugar and give you a
little boost in mental energy and when
I'm talking about a little boost I'm
talking about a very short-term boost of
mental energy right follow Follow by a
roller coaster crash right down here and
all the symptoms of low blood sugar are
irritableness brain fog weakness
tiredness that wouldn't actually occur
if you didn't consume that sugar in the
first place because a lot of these
energy drinks are just filled with an
ungodly amount of sugar and where does
the sugar go when you consume it does it
go to the muscles probably not it's
going to go to the brain the brain has
the priority over incoming sugar
but it's really kind of a fake energy
it's not a real sustaining uh long-term
energy at all it's not going to give you
any type of endurance now when we talk
about energy in the body we're really
talking about the energy Factory it's
called the mitochondria the mitochondria
are in the cells and that is where all
the energy is produced and so food comes
into this machine and then it gets
converted into an energy currency called
ATP so you can look at ATP as some
energy that you can use It's Kind like a
battery it's this reserve of energy
that's is sitting there that you created
by eating certain food and you can
actually use it on demand so when you
eat food it creates so many of these
atps when you consume sugar there's
actually another machine outside this
machine that just deals with sugar and
but it only gives you two ATP then what
happens it can go through here and
produce more energy if this machine is
working correctly the reason I'm
bringing this up because I'm trying to
explain biochemistry in a really simple
way and in order for you to create food
into usable fuel it has to go through a
whole bunch of steps from here all the
way through here and out this side right
here and in that process each little
step is dependent on what's called
co-actors These are the nutrients B1 B2
B3 B5 biotin coenzyme Q10 magnesium iron
sulfur lipoic acid these are the helper
things that allow that fuel to be
metabolized or used or converted to this
right here and the reason I'm bringing
that up is because the sugar that you're
consuming in these energy drinks is
completely empty of these right here now
they do add some of these co-actors into
these drinks okay and they somehow they
know that if they don't you're going to
create a lot of deficiencies right
because your ability to make this energy
is dependent on these guys right here so
if these aren't in the food that you eat
then the body is just going to suck it
from your tissues from the reserve this
is why when you eat a lot of refined
sugar as in these drinks right here
you're going to deplete these nutrients
also if you eat like food like fruit for
example it has a lot of these nutrients
it also has antioxidants to protect
against the massive amount of sugar that
you're taking in but of course when
you're consuming refined sugar you don't
get the benefit of antioxidant So
eventually you end up destroying this
machine right here and now you can only
really get a small amount of energy from
that sugar this is why people that
consume these energy drinks over a long
period of time get more tired and more
tired and more tired until the point
where it doesn't give him any energy at
all because the machine is broken
another term for that is insulin
resistance now the other interesting
thing that the sugar does is because
there's so much sugar that comes into
your your gastrointestinal tract when
your body has this concentrated sugar
just like in a diabetic what happens it
must dilute this concent ation by
pulling water out of the cells and into
your intestines and this is why when you
consume a lot of sugar in sports drinks
and energy drinks you might have
diarrhea abdominal pain and check this
out dehydration in the cells because
when you consume this concentrated sugar
the body has to pull fluids out of the
cell going from a normal cell to a
raisin like cell so a lot of these sport
hydrating Dr drinks are really
dehydrating drinks we get like a roller
coaster effect of blood sugar you might
need more of the drink to have more
mental energy so this is going to affect
your mood create inflammation fatigue
affects the gut microbiome because
you're consuming a lot of extra sugar
that feeds pathogens but one of the big
things that consuming a lot of refined
sugar does is it depletes potassium
because there is a potassium sodium pump
in your body you have like millions and
millions and millions of them all over
the place and this potassium sodium pump
powers like a battery your nerves and
your muscles and allows everything to
work well one thing about refined sugar
is this going to deplete you of
potassium a lot of these drinks do not
nearly have enough pottassium and unless
you're getting it from the diet you're
just creating a lot of potassium
deficiency then all of a sudden the
muscles and the nervous system start
getting weaker and weaker and weaker our
bodies need a tremendous amount of
potassium and many people don't get that
much I mean we need like
4700 milligrams every single day we need
a massive amount of potassium for a
reason it Powers the sodium potassium
pump and I don't think a lot of people
talk about this but as you consume more
refined sugar you become potassium
depleted and then all these functions
that potassium gave you kind of
disappear like the regulation of your
heart rate so the heart rate starts
going higher also pottassium is a
physiological tranquilizer at night it
helps you calm down let's shift gears to
caffeine right so now we're going to add
caffeine to Sugar what does caffeine do
believe it or not a little bit of
caffeine actually can help the
mitochondria a little bit but the amount
of caffeine in these are off the chart
what does caffeine actually do does it
give you energy no it does not give you
energy what it does is it blocks a
certain chemical compound that normally
makes you tired but it's not giving you
energy it's tricking the body into
thinking it's not tired the problem with
a caffeine in these energy drinks is
just way way too much so you can really
overdo it a little bit of caffeine is
fine a lot is not good for a lot of
things number one it's going to increase
adrenaline heart rate goes up blood
pressure goes up stress on the
cardiovascular system another
interesting thing about caffeine is it's
a diuretic it's going to pull water out
so here you are drinking an energy drink
or a sports drink and hydrating drink
and the sugar and the caffeine I don't
think these have caffeine but other ones
do basically dehydrate you so you take
these to get energy and to be hydrated
but they actually create fatigue and
dehydration also it creates a stimulus
on your adrenal glands it's going to get
them working a lot more than they should
and it's going to create adrenal fatigue
So eventually when you start out you
have a lot of energy and then over a
period of time time you're just more
tired more tired more tired it's called
chronic fatigue syndrome it's going to
affect your sleep too a better solution
would be to get the diet corrected so
actual food gives you longterm sustained
level energy most people do not need to
add sugar to the diet their body can
easily make energy from the fat that you
have in your body also from this machine
if it works correctly so I'm just trying
to increase the awareness on too many of
these over time comes with a package and
there's a much better way to be hydrated
and create more energy uh from using
food by consuming more electrolytes or
actual salt and as a side note uh if
you're deficient in sodium you will have
weak muscles salt is important to take
with water if you're working out and
you're sweating thanks for watching and
I will see you in the next video
