warning you may never eat bread again
after watching this video now I do know
that even at hinting at this idea of
taking away someone's bread can stir up
a lot of upset emotion resistance Etc
but I just want to challenge you to
watch this video because the question is
why do people love bread so much I mean
what is it about the bread that is so
special that people like so much well
you're about to find out that there is a
huge push to get everyone on this planet
to eat more grains the problem is we're
already eating too many grains there's a
new term I want to introduce to you
called Health washing Health washing is
a term to described um giving certain
claims to foods that are not necessarily
true I mean everywhere you look the
grains are natural they're wholesome
whole grains are a part of a healthy
diet I mean they're high in fiber which
they actually are not as high in fiber
as other Foods they're loaded in
vitamins and minerals and we won't talk
about the anti-nutrient called phyas
that blocks those minerals and grains
are heart healthy and they can even help
you lower your your belly fat but the
problem is that most of these studies
are surveys they're questioners they're
not peer-reviewed Placebo control
clinical trials and if they are they're
industry sponsored studies the point is
that when we're continually told to
consume six to 11 servings of grains as
our foundation for our diet one half of
them being whole grains the other can be
refined grains that's a tremendous
amount of carbohydrates that are
introduced to our diet but today I'm
going to talk about just one little
tiny aspect of bread okay I'm not going
to talk about how it turns into the
sugar and it can cause weight gain I
want to focus just on this one little
thing called gluten okay now what is
gluten gluten is the protein in a lot of
grains Okay especially wheat and gluten
is a term to describe um various
proteins within this category and one of
the proteins is called gadin derived
opioid peptide okay now what the heck is
that that is a protein that can create
an opioid effect so in other words it
can mimic morphine to a certain degree
now what are the effects of opioids well
right now we have a major problem around
the world with opioid addiction
synthetic opioids where it literally
like fentanyl destroys people's lives
it's highly addictive so just one thing
an opioid will do is it'll increase
endorphins okay
endorphins are internal body chemicals
that make us feel good that can help
decrease pain okay and our bodies make
endorphins there's another term I want
to introduce to you called exorphins
okay an
exorphin is an endorphin that can be
triggered by food okay you consume
certain things and it creates an
endorphin effect now this is very
important to know because this is why
you like bread so much bread stimulates
endorphins it gives you this euphoric
feeling it can stimulate appetite that's
why they serve you the bread before your
meal so you'll be hungrier and want to
order more food and so the reason why
people love this bread is because it's
altering our chemistry it's increasing
our endorphins okay now the problem is
that it comes with a little bit of a
package you may have heard the celiac
disease which a person has a severe
reaction to gluten okay in the GI tract
they're going to get the classic
symptoms diarrhea bloating and abdominal
pain okay and a lot of other conditions
too like inflammation in the gut
eventual atrophy of the little Villi or
the little um internal roots on your in
your small intestine that are supposed
to help you absorb food those become
smaller and smaller to the point where
they're just no longer there so you have
a major digestive problem and the
problem with Celiac is it's very hard to
diagnose unless you do a biopsy and so
you might say well I don't have Celiac
um I don't get diarrhea bloating
abdominal pain when I consume breads so
what's the big deal well there's
something called non-celiac gluten
sensitivity and this is basically
asymptomatic Celiac in other words a
person will have Celiac without the
symptoms of the digestive tract at least
without classical symptoms diarrhea
bloating abdominal pain but they have
other issues okay because the problem is
still occurring at your gut level the
damage is still being done uh on these
Villa you're getting inflammation you're
getting atrophy that will eventually
show up in other problems down the road
but you may not experience really any
symptoms when you have
bread but what I want to do is I want to
expand your awareness on some other
symptoms that you may be experiencing
that are connected that you might not
think are connected let's first talk
about the mental connection how it can
affect uh your mental say well first of
all it can create symptoms like add
depression anxiety and even autism and I
will put that research down below it can
even lead to things like schizophrenia
which I will put that study down below
as well the other problem is a
permeability issue in your gut so you've
heard of leaky gut right well that is a
condition where you have holes in your
gut that's created by the inflammation
because there's so much Omega 6 fatty
acids in bread and Grains like if we
were going to compare omega3 to Omega 6
it's like one to 22 so in other words
there's 22 times more omega-6 fatty
acids than there is omega-3 so there's a
lot of inflammation going on which is
going to create holes or permeability
issues in your lower gut and when you
have holes you allow proteins to go
through and you create all sorts of
immune reactions and then you create
allergies and eventually autoimmune
problems especially of the thyroids like
in Hashimoto and then another one is
psoriasis okay which is an autoimmune
condition so we get damaged to our
intestine and then we start getting
malabsorption we no longer absorb
certain things and that leads to vitamin
and mineral deficiencies and a whole
Cascade of additional problems which I'm
not going to get into another common
symptom is insomnia which leads to
fatigue you may have brain fog you may
also become anemic because you can
absorb iron and it can lead to digestive
problems like gird which is a severe
acid reflux and headaches and migraines
and list goes on and on and on now
sometimes uh when people live in America
they consume like a pizza for example
and they feel very bloated but then that
bloating goes away and maybe they go on
a trip uh overseas maybe they go to
Italy and they eat a pizza but they
don't react and they're wondering why
can't I eat grains in certain countries
but I cannot consume them in in other
countries like America well one of the
reasons is that when you ferment grains
into bread or pizza dough or
whatever the fermentation the microbes
actually eat the protein they start
reducing the gluten considerably so for
example sourdough bread has a lot less
gluten as other breads and this is why
they might not experience the bloating
and so in America the way they make
bread is they don't ferment it for two
or three days they they maybe ferment it
for like an hour or so and so we retain
the gluten so the more gluten that a
grain product has the more you're going
to have a problem with this now the
other point I want to bring up is that
over the years we've hbr different
grains uh like wheat to have more gluten
okay and this is one additional problem
and then there's also additional
problems too when you enrich um or
fortify these flour products especially
bread with um synthetic vitamins and
iron uh a lot of people react to that as
well now the point I'm trying to make is
that I'm just taking one aspect of
grains and that's gluten but there's a
lot of other additional problems as well
but I think even when people go off
grains and they start the ketogenic
plant one huge reason why they might
even feel so much better is not even
necessarily the lowering of the
carbohydrates it is the abstinence of
eating these Gra
that eliminate a lot of the inflammation
that is going on in the gut and then all
the associated symptoms so I want to
challenge you just
to avoid eating bread okay for one week
okay in fact avoid all grains for one
week and just see how you feel then the
next week go back to eating bread and
Grains and then see how you feel and
then compare these two and then decide
whether it's worth it or not now if you
have not seen my video on sugar and how
that affects the red blood cell that's a
real interesting video I'm going to put
that one up right here check it out
