hey guys someone had a question how do
you actually become deficient in vitamin
b1 because uh and these other videos I
was talking about the importance of b1
when you're doing keto and I'm gonna
fascinating to also protect you against
the damage of high levels of insulin and
high sugar okay this is how you become
deficient number one you consume refined
grains in the form of breads pasta
cereal crackers this gets white rice
things like that alcohol will do it
liver damage as in a fatty liver or
cirrhosis of the liver
which a lot of people have and they
don't even know it yet stress and
cortisol from medications that you're
taking prednisone anti-inflammatories
that type of thing
metformin which is the main medication
for type 2 diabetes creates a b1
deficiency which then can set the person
up for experiencing complications of
diabetes so if anyone's on metformin
they better be taking b1 at the same
time to counter the side effects there
were six sugar any of the sugars will
deplete b1 unless you're consuming
actual sugar cane by itself because
that's that has a lot of b1 but of
course no one does that and I don't
recommend it because it's actually still
high in sugar but it will not deplete
you of b1 because naturally sugar cane
has b1 in it but the refined version
does not okay number seven tea there's a
certain acid called tannic acid which
blocks b1 so if you're consuming a lot
of tea you're going to deplete b1
certain raw fish will deplete b1 number
nine sulfites okay I have a video on
that I put a link down below sulfites
they're actually in quite a few foods
that has an anti b1 effect okay number
ten
insulin resistance okay and also that
includes being a diabetic because when
your insulin resistant you can't pull in
the b1 and this is like probably 60% of
the population right here number 11
coffee will deplete b1 three ways from
the tannic acid from the calf
and from another chemical called Oh dye
phenols okay so if you're consuming
coffee you just make sure you're taking
nutritional yeast and try to keep it at
one small cup per day 12 medications
annotate acids antibiotics diuretics
tamoxifen which is a medication that
blocks estrogen in the body and there's
a lot of other medications as well 13 GI
problems let's say you have some IBS or
gastrointestinal problems low stomach
acid will block your absorption of b1
there you have it these are the reasons
why you would become deficient thanks
for watching if you're enjoying this
information and getting something out of
it please give me an unbiased Google
review I put a link down below thanks
