hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about hidden insulin okay so you
might not be aware of this but MSG
monosodium glutamate will increase
insulin by 300% okay
and it's also hidden as modified food
starch so monosodium glutamate is
modified food starch there's some other
hidden names too like hydrolyzed
vegetable protein or hydrolyzed yeast or
hydrolyzed soy so when you read the
labels make sure that you don't consume
food with any of this right here so what
I'm going to do is I want to just kind
of expand your awareness of where you
might be exposed to msg it's not just in
Chinese food okay so check this out I
think they're really good you know why
modified food starch you wouldn't
suspect cottage cheese right check this
out modified corn starch modified corn
starch modified food starch a modified
food starch here it is again modified
food starch I used to love these in
college here's another one
modified food starch Rahzel modified
food starch there's a couple ingredients
check that out paper towels now no on
the street I can you can eat this press
the subscribe button forgot the last
part and I'm going to see you next time
am I going to I will press up food and
yeah you'll get future updates that's
right updates I knew there was a word
press the subscribe button and I will
keep you updated on the future event
