the absolute worst diet and nutrition
advice that doctors still give people of
course I'm not talking about all doctors
just certain doctors that are more old
school that just focus on medicine the
last advice that I'm going to talk about
is the most dangerous one number one
people can get all their nutrition from
food they don't need supplements there's
several problems with this Theory number
one the rdas for most of these nutrients
are over a hundred years old completely
outdated it's almost impossible to get
Vitamin D from your food potassium
someone needs magnesium someone needs
top of that people are eating the wrong
foods that deplete them of nutrients
especially refined carbohydrates and
sugar over 50% of their calories are
refined foods that depletes a lot of
nutrition then we have the missing
nutrients in food because our soils are
so bad when you go to the grocery store
and you buy just salad you think that
salad is grown on soil it's not it's
grown either on dirt where they just
give like three mineral
a lot of the salad is hydroponic you
don't get the benefit of all those
microorganisms in the soil unfortunately
the microbes are really the key giving
the food nutrition then we have the
medications that deplete you of
nutrients too like statin drugs the drug
that blocks cholesterol if you're taking
that drug you're going to be low in
something called co-enzyme Q10 you take
Metformin you're going to be very
deficient in vitamin B12 and B1 a lot of
indication that you take will deplete
things like magnesium trace minerals I
don't think many people have a evaluated
their food to see if they're getting at
least the rdas let's take potassium you
need 4700 mg then you have the argument
there's no evidence that shows that
supplements will help you just because
something has not been researched
doesn't mean it doesn't work it's even
interesting because there's certain
articles in the news vitamin A vitamin E
causes more harm to you so we should
avoid these vitamins the next time
someone tells you oh yeah nutrition
doesn't work you shouldn't take it can
cause more harm than good just ask them
this maybe we should just refine the
food take out the nutrients and eat
what's left that's what we've been doing
now we've been eating refined food
basically calories without nutrition
next recommendation take more calcium to
prevent
osteoporosis because our bones are made
out of calcium and we just need to make
sure we take more of it did you realize
that you can test someone's blood and
they can be completely normal with the
levels of calcium but have S severe bone
loss you could have severe loss of
calcium in the blood and show normal
bone health most of the time uh people
get osteoporosis as they age usually
after menopause when our hormones start
going downhill especially estrogen and
also testosterone estrogen helps
maintain calcium in the bone when women
get their ovaries removed osteoporosis
risk goes up there's something else
involved with osteoporosis I want to
mention and that is parathyroid glands
if you look at the parathyroid hormone
you can kind of look at it like an extra
vitamin D it helps increase the
absorption of calcium in the blood the
body you know says oh listen we need to
maintain this calcium because it's super
important for signaling communication
between cells one of the purposes for
bone is to act as a calcium Reserve like
a storage or calcium what is that paraa
going to do if we're low in vitamin D
it's going to steal it from the bone and
it's going to put in the blood to
maintain normal calcium when someone's
vitamin D is low parathyroid goes up it
grabs calcium from the bone to maintain
that calcium along with that you have
another very important vitamin called
vitamin K2 which actually helps take
that calcium from the blood and put it
into the bone without vitamin K2 the
calcium doesn't really move that much
and also to build bone you need
magnesium of course you can have
osteoprosis if you drink too much
alcohol or you don't exercise at all or
you take an acids this next one really
gets to me sunblock because the Sun
causes skin cancer here's the problem
with this sun blocker this allall
started in the 80s where we had a lot of
health problems go up I wonder if it's
connected to vitamin D because of this
introduction of what's called Sun phobia
we did not get a reduction in melanoma
it continue to go up I agree that we
shouldn't go out in the sun and get
burned but we need to go out there to at
least get enough vitamin D think about
What vitamin D does with your immune
system it feeds certain cells that kill
cancer cells we cannot get enough
vitamin D from our food but if you're
operating off this completely false idea
that all we need is 600 international
units of vitamin D3 as the rdas which is
completely bogus an average person only
gets like 500 IUS of vitamin D3 from the
Sun so it's just not enough we need as a
maintenance dosage 10,000 use every
single day just to function normally the
next bad advice snack frequently to
prevent overe eting this is not true
what you're doing when you're snacking
is you're raising insulin and you're
creating a blood sugar situation you're
actually keeping the hunger strong when
you snack eating simulates hunger when
you don't eat you give your body a
chance to convert into burning your fat
you can't do that if you're snacking why
because the darn insulin thing insulin
is the hormone that will block your
ability to tap into your fat Reserve
snacking is bad advice intermittent
fasting is good advice this next one is
bad you can have sugar as long as it's
in moderation it's Hy protose corn syrup
toxic food alcohol smoking do you
realize who came up with that advice
food manufacturing companies they came
out with that because they had to get
people to eat it somehow what's the next
best thing we'll just have a little bit
just in moderation you're going to get a
lot of people that agree with that
listen let me tell you the big problem
with that advice when you eat your
carbohydrates in moderation you will not
be able to tap into your fat reserves
some people might if they have a super
good metabolism but most people can't
because they have insulin resistance
that'll keep them from being able to
burn their own fat which means they
won't be able to get rid of their
appetite try to do a program or a diet
when you're hungry all the time so many
people can stick with it if you just
help them get rid of that appetite and
that hunger and to do that you cannot
consum carbs in moderation the next one
you need to be very careful of your
saturated fats you want to eat lean
protein saturated fat does not clog your
arteries the carbs are a much bigger
risk for heart problems than saturated
fat we need cholesterol for our brain
for our membranes around our cells for
our hormones think about when someone
gets on a stat and Drug the risk for
cancer goes up if you're just going to
just shut down cholesterol through the
entire body you have a ser
misunderstanding with the function and
the purpose of cholesterol in the body
the body actually makes most of the
cholesterol we have only a small
percentage comes from the diet next one
start consuming more whole grains
because they heart healthy whole grains
trigger blood sugar many products don't
just have whole grains in them they have
refined grains mixed in with them and
maltodextrin modified food starch I mean
there might be a few products out there
but they're not as common as mixed with
other things the other problem with
whole grains is that we have have this
thing called Fates a chemical compound
that blocks certain key nutrients and we
have the gluten in the whole grain
gluten really irritates the gut another
advice that I I really disagree with is
so you better avoid red meat because red
meat causes cancer World Health
Organization and other organizations
recommend that you avoid red meat
grass-fed grass finished red meat has
higher amounts of Omega-3 I really
believe that grass-fed grassfish red
meat is the healthiest thing you can eat
it does not cause cancer another point
is that it's okay to eat sugar or carbs
because our brain runs on glucose yes it
does run on glucose but it also can run
in ketones and if you keep feeding your
brain glucose you're going to create a
situation in your brain where your cells
can't even use glucose anymore called
insulin resistance your neurons will
start to starve and you'll start getting
symptoms of dementia just do the simple
experiment cut down carbs have a high
quality prote and just see how your
brain feels within an hour it'll just
feel much better then go back to the
carbohydrates see how your brain feels
you go right into the brain fog another
one is if someone has high blood
pressure they're told to restrict salt I
think a much better solution would be to
eliminate the junk food that has the
refined carbohydrates which is directly
behind the hypertension and also to
increase vitamin D and especially
potassium start increasing potassium to
balance out that sodium you can have
minimize the blood pressure you can put
the person in a good situation cut out
the carbs and get to the root cause the
last piece of bad advice all calories
are equal it doesn't matter if those
calories are from sugar or from celery
they all are the same this is outdated
old information you end up blaming the
patient for low willpower because they
can't stick it out over a period of time
because they're always hungry and
they're craving the wrong things the
body does not treat all Cal equal
instead of creating a calorie deficit
only create a carbohydrate calorie
deficit what's going to happen when you
reduce those calories for carbohydrates
is you're going to force the body to
then have an alternative fuel it's going
to burn more fat your hunger and
Cravings will diminish and you be able
to stick to it a lot longer practicing a
minute fasting and get the benefits of
that since we've been focusing on all
the bad device let's give you some good
advice of exactly what you should be
eating with this video right here check
it out
