I'd like to explain the difference
between the two different forms of B3 we
have niin and we have netmite the two
big differences are this niin will give
you the flush okay that flushing
response the vasodilation response but
nicomide won't so it's a non-flush
effect of B3 other important distinction
is with niin you get all the lipid
benefits okay so you have all all these
great benefits with um lowering
cholesterol lowering LDL increasing HDL
decreasing inflammation inside the
artery whereas niacinamide does not have
those benefits so if you're trying to
lower your cholesterol niin is the one
you want to use now both of these
vitamins chemically work in a similar
way especially in turning food into
energy Now
nasin is really effective for fatty
liver not just a fatty liver but a liver
that's inflamed uh a liver that is
developing Scar Tissue like in therosis
and so nasin is a really good to remove
fat from your liver now what's
interesting about this B3 both nin and
niacinamide is the amount of research
that is done on this compound I mean
it's like it's mindblowing and to me I'm
just curious like why would they do all
this research on something that's like a
a vitamin it's so cheap when that
competes for certain drugs I mean they
found nasin to be a standalone effective
remedy for managing your cholesterol and
doctors used to use uh nasin before
Statin came on stage but if you dig a
little bit further you're going to see
um quite a few articles and uh internet
links to the dangers of nasin so I want
to talk about that you know it's a lot
of discouragement from using nin because
it could be dangerous to your liver can
create liver toxicity and if you
actually read some of these articles you
would never take niin well if you dig a
little further you're going to find out
that it's rare it's usually involved
with a certain percent of the population
like 20% of the population that is
taking very high doses over a long
period of Time and Time release nin it's
actually not as common as you might
think I mean when you think about even
watching a commercial a drug commercial
in the
US I mean may cause projectile vomiting
suicide it might put you in coma and you
might die I mean think about the side
effects from medication and then you
compare that to some rare side effect
from a vitamin it just does not compare
I mean you know any medication that
doesn't produce side effects very
commonly now there is one article I want
to bring up just right now um related to
ni and increasing your liver enzymes
right which again is rare but one doctor
had an interesting um commentary on that
that point because when you start to
increase niin and you start to increase
this co-actor of making energy not just
in your liver but in all the organs
apparently there's going to be more
demand for liver enzymes to make that
happen so one potential possible reason
for an increase in liver enzymes is just
that you're converting more energy and
giving more energy to the rest of the
body so now that I got that out of the
way let's talk about some other benefits
nin
apparently it has been effective for
schizophrenia now there is some data
related to certain genetic variations or
problems which can put someone at risk
for having schizophrenia and apparently
this Gene which is n a p r T1 is the
enzyme for making niin interesting
coincidence so if any of you know anyone
with schizophrenia definitely haven't
watch this video and there's also
another uh condition that I want to
bring up called drug induced discinesia
which is a condition where you're having
these involuntary abnormal movements of
your body and there's some great
research on adding nasin and manganese
for that condition so if you have
discinesia you may want to use those two
things so now let's shift over to naside
talk a little bit more about that what
other conditions has this been shown to
be effective in well number one acne
dermatitis rosacea and even psoriasis
both taking in capsule form as well as
in a crane there's a lot of things that
it can help you with that I'm not going
to get into but basically it'll lower
your histamines it will reduce uh
certain immune inflammatory factors
it'll help decrease the flaking or the
plaques on your skin and for acne it can
actually help decrease sebum which is
the oil in the SA gland which is
inflamed Nomine has also been effective
for arthritis it's used a lot with
certain facial creams for preventing
aging and hyperpigmentation Nomine is
also good for the person who has a
temper uh you can give it to your kids
that have have a temper tantrum and
it'll just chill them out it's good for
anxiety okay and so is B1 but B3 is also
good as I was reading the side effect
from n you know I was just thinking what
if you became deficient in B3 what would
be the side effects of that right people
don't talk about that that's called pgra
that is a serious condition where you
have diarrhea you have depression uh you
could die you can get dementia and
develop a really serious skin disorder
but you can develop a B3 deficiency by
drinking a lot of alcohol by consuming a
lot of refin F Foods especially corn
apparently corn tends to bind up uh
tryptophan which is amino acid that
turns into niin and so the early Indians
when they used to um use Ma or corn in
their food they had a technique they
would soak it in lime and that would
alkalize this corn meal and that would
free up the nasin that was necessary to
prevent pgra but of of course nowadays
we don't do that right we just grind up
the corn and we just eat it in corn
chips and all sorts of foods but if
you're living on a diet just of corn
chances are you probably are going to
develop pgra in summary nasin gives you
the flesh Nomine won't give you the
flesh nasin is really good for
cholesterol all aspects of cholesterol
your lipids and a fatty liver it's good
for all that it's also good for
schizophrenia discinesia and then
nicomide is really good for um
everything related to the skin and
inflammation and arthritis and anxiety
now since we touched on these lipids and
cholesterol I did an exclusive video on
the relationship between taking niin and
what it can do for your cholesterol in
more detail you should check that out I
put it up right here
