I want to talk about the problem with
research studies the first point I want
to bring up is just the assumption that
medicine is scientific okay because
medical doctors were white lab coats in
so do scientists so therefore its
scientific right but medicine has become
the management of symptoms using drugs
which then give side effects which then
you add more drugs and just keeps going
around around to me that's not science
now I'm not talking about emergency care
you break a bone I'm talking about just
the amount of medication given to people
I think it's like four billion
prescriptions every single year that's
thirteen drugs for every man woman and
child to me that's a bit too much now
the first problem with research studies
is the interpretation very few people
can actually interpret what they mean
because it's encoded in a special
language and you also have to have some
basic physiology to be able to
understand it as well so now you're
relying on someone else interpreting it
for you and of course who knows if
they're biased if they're taking an
objective view will exactly what was
shown in the study but I think it's even
third hand information because you have
the researcher that's doing their
interpretation of the data and then you
have someone interpreting and then you
get this this funnel effect you know and
then some people actually get their
information from the media
interpretation of the study so it gets
watered down even more you can probably
get the opposite finding if you listen
to the media but the point is that very
few people can interpret and really
understand what the study says and let
alone actually read the study very few
people even read the study they they'll
just get their information from someone
else who read it online or something
number two I don't know if you realize
this but seventy-five percent of the
studies and journals are funded by big
pharma so right there that really lowers
the credibility of the study number
three data can be manipulated you could
make a study basically say whatever you
want okay I'm going to put an article
down below with more data on that it's
actually quite fascinating but a lot of
the studies out there have data that's
been manipulated okay like let's just
take the Framingham study and that study
they omitted some real key pieces of
data they just took it out and so the
the data that they wanted to prove their
theory so when you have a researcher
going into a study already knowing the
conclusion which is very common by the
way they're gonna they're gonna
manipulate it how they want it okay
there's also corruption going on all the
time so in 1965 the sugar industry paid
off some really key credible Harvard
researchers okay to downplay the effect
of certain research to kind of ignore it
and suppress the effects of sugar on
cardiovascular and also sugar on dental
decay and emphasize the cholesterol so
there's a lot of corruption going on as
well number four it's very difficult to
do studies in general and prove
something because there are so many
variables how do you isolate something
especially when you're dealing with food
because the combinations of food you you
know you're isolating a nutrient you're
taking this out there's so many
different compounds so it is very
difficult to do studies especially if
you're doing in on complex food groups
and things like that now I just want to
let you know I'm not against studies I
just think you should also include this
other thing called experience okay which
is firsthand you experiencing a diet or
a combination of foods to see if it
works on you of course you have to have
the correct knowledge but if you apply
it okay to yourself you get the
experience then you personally will have
the certainty firsthand and you're not
going to be distracted by maybe some of
these sites studies that will oppose you
because you actually got the results
like in the ketogenic diet for example
there's not a lot of research but we
have a lot of people have gone through
it with amazing results incredible
results life-changing results no one's
gonna tell them it didn't work on them
so don't forget about using your own
personal experience especially where
relates to diet and exercise and
intermittent fasting alright guys so go
ahead and comment below and tell me what
you think about this topic hey guys so
there's a whole bunch of people that
really need this information so press
the share button and let's get it way
out there
