my name is Toby Harden uh I'm originally
from San Diego California but I've lived
in the Washington DC metropolitan area
since uh
1989 I met Dr Berg through a health
lecture at my church in
Alexandria and uh I listened to the
lecture and it was very uh informative
the information was new I learned some
new things that I wanted to immediately
incorporate in my diet however um there
were a few uh areas that I wanted to
check out I've really been a healthy
person I haven't I don't have any
medical issues significant medical
concerns but I had some a few little
problems that I wanted to see what he
had to say about them so my sister and I
uh who attended the lecture decided to
come to the office and get an
evaluation I was concerned because I had
some acne um I'm in my 40s and I started
having a really significant case of acne
and it wasn't in the usual uh area it
was not in the T-Zone which uh most
adolescents have acne in that area uh it
was in the lower face area and uh it was
it was significant uh some of the other
issues that were significant for me were
uh knee pain my had knee pain in my
right knee I had been actually diagnosed
with arthritis and I had been trying
some herbal treatments and some
Chiropractic treatments that had
temporarily helped but uh I had this
knee pain that was um significant it
bothered me going coming down the stairs
at my house or when the weather changed
I could feel pain in that knee so the
acne the knee pain um I'm I have a a
very curvaceous figure I was a little
concerned about the um weight in my hips
and thighs it seemed to not be moving I
couldn't move it so those were the
reasons that I uh decided to go see Dr
Berg on the initial consultation I was
amazed because all of those issues the
acne the hips the little stomach pouch
the thighs the cellulite in my thighs
and the knee pain were all related to
one Central thing and that was um
estrogen I had too much estrogen
estrogen in my body my body was creating
too much estrogen was causing the
infertility issues that I had uh the
fibroids the celluli
the the weight in my hips and thighs and
the acne uh also he explained further
that he felt my knee pain was not um due
to the arthritis but it was due
to not enough protein in my diet and uh
when you're not having enough protein
your body will take protein from joints
or wherever you can find it so because I
wasn't eating enough protein um it
caused this knee pain that I was that I
had been having for maybe 5 years or
more more so I immediately um got on his
diet plan and I wanted to start the
treatments I got on the diet plan I
started the treatments and I'm amazed
that the knee pain is gone completely
gone that's the most amazing thing is
that the knee pain is gone uh I I'm
eating a lot of protein a lot more
protein and so I haven't had any
problems with my knee I don't even hear
the grinding in my kneece that I used to
hear when I um Ascend the stairs anymore
so I'm really amazed with that I have
lost some weight I've slimmed down I
look much better I feel much better I
have more energy my skin is clearer uh
yesterday I went in the store and I was
telling someone about Dr Berg and she
was like really she said you had acne
and I said yes I had terrible acne I
told my friends at work my face was like
Braille you could read it it was so
bad uh Dr bird listened very well to all
the things that um all my concerns uh
and during my treatment here um I had
some other questions and he was always
willing to come in and hear what I had
to say and make some Su suggestions or
changes that I could do to try to solve
those problems so he's been very helpful
to me um very easy to talk to uh his
stylism he has a humorous side but it's
very lowkey so he's easy to talk to and
he's actually a little
funny
