today we're going to talk about one of
the best remedies you can do for dry
wrinkly hands now especially in the
winter when it's dry out and you don't
have enough vitamin D your hands can get
extremely dry but there's a lot more to
this and there's some great things you
can do to resolve this problem and for
those of you that are wondering if I'm
growing a beard yes I am starting to
grow a beard I'm going to try it out
let's see what happens now when people
start putting all sorts of lotions on
their hands they don't realize that
everything you put on your hand doesn't
just disappear it doesn't evaporate it
gets sucked into the pores goes into the
bloodstream and goes right to your liver
so you really want to make sure that
what you're putting in your skin is safe
22% of all uh personal care products are
petroleum based which includes solvents
like Benzene it includes mineral oil
which by the way will pull out a lot of
the key fat soluble vitamins like vitam
a d e and vitamin K leaving your hands
very dehydrated dry red cracking and
even itchy then we have the chemicals in
tap water I mean you have fluoride
chlorine which are very very harsh uh on
your skin not just your hands but your
face your entire body when you take the
shower really good idea to get a shower
filter but our skin is constantly
bombarded by all sorts of chemicals and
things that make us look older now if we
compound on that by our current
situation where people have to wash
their hands 20 times a day you can
imagine uh what this does to the hands
now I'm going to be totally upfront I'm
not against washing your hands I think
you should definitely be washing your
hands to decrease the spread of viruses
I wash my hands very frequently so I'm
not against that however if you find
that your hands are completely dried out
red itchy cracking looking scaly and old
there's some important things you can do
other than just going down to the local
drugstore and getting some lotion and
putting it on your hands and then
finding out that wow within five minutes
it's right back to being dry again what
you have to be aware of is that there
are thousands of different types of
species or microbes friendly microbes
living on your hands and all around your
body and yes you can call them germs but
they're friendly germs
okay you also have friendly funguses
about 14 different funguses that are
living on your hands now what's
interesting is they've done different
assessments on this microbiome living on
the surface of our skin and they
isolated different types of microbes and
different places and I found it
interesting that the area of the body
that had the most Diversified fungal
species is actually on your heels
fascinating but on your hands you have
about 14 different types of funguses and
these are friendly we call this microb
relationship um a symbiotic relationship
symbiotic means working together having
some mutual benefits back and forth the
microbes protect us we give them a home
to live then you have all these
different types of microbes that have a
symbiotic relationship with each other
so they have to learn to live together
right I mean I wish we as a human race
could actually be more symbiotic um some
people just have a very difficult time
tolerating differences different
cultures different viewpoints and
different beliefs so in order to have a
symbiotic relationship we have to have a
lot of Tolerance of differences and you
need to have the awareness that these
so-called germs are not harmful and we
don't necessarily have to have this
anti- germ or microbe um Viewpoint
because we can't even exist without
these microbes they actually help our
survival they make vitamins they give us
immune protection and without them being
on your hands the pathogens the the bad
microbes start to develop and they
create a lot of problems and there's
also another interesting thing you can
have non-pathogenic microbes and change
the environment like make the
environment more stressful and have
those non-pathogenic microbes turn into
pathogens so just a change of
environment will alter the type of
microbes that are living on your body
apparently when you stress them out some
of them go a little bit crazy so it's
very very important to have a good
environment a healthy environment for
your microbes to live and not
continually stress them out and this is
why when you get to the remedy there's a
couple things that you'll add to the
skin that will make a huge difference in
having these microbes start thriving now
the other thing I want to bring up is
the pH of your skin it's not alkaline
it's acidic it's between four and 4.5 so
that's actually pretty acid and if the
pH goes to high becomes more alkaline
all sorts of things happen your skin
starts to swell it can become inflamed
so you really need to understand what
you put on your body so you don't put
the wrong thing and end up creating a
problem now I do want to mention one
other thing and this is what I try to
educate people on over and over and over
your external skin the way you look your
hair your nails are a reflection of
what's going on inside what you eat what
you avoid what you do to your body to
keep it healthy so what I show you for a
remedy will help you but you really need
to focus also on your diet internally
and so every part of your body
externally can look youthful and yes I'm
talking about lowering your
carbohydrates and doing intermittent
fasting two very powerful things that
will slow down the oxidation or the
rusting out of your tissues because it's
the sugar the refined flour products
like in grains as well as the so-called
vegetable oils which like the soy canola
oil that is in so many of our foods that
just makes our skin especially age at a
very fast rate so there's two um main
goals uh for the hands okay number one
we want to of course avoid things that
are making them dry and old
so in other words if you're using
lotions that have petroleum based
products you know just don't use those
anymore and as a side note um I have a
greenhouse so I'm working with soil all
day long I learned very very quickly
that you must wear gloves because if you
dig your hands into soil with all the
Clays and all the different um minerals
and the microbes living in the soil Bo
you can dry out your hands so fast so
you have to wear gloves if you're
working with soil or if you're working
with Pottery or you're being exposed to
different chemicals at work uh I know of
one gentleman that was working with
solvents and uh these solvents just
pulled out all the vitamin E from his
hands and they were literally red
cracking blistery and so any type of
petroleum based mineral oil
solvents um pull out all these fat cable
vitamins so you better put it back in
and so the two main goals I would
recommend is number one put back in into
your hands these fat cable vitamins
vitamin A d e and vitamin K and number
two recognize that you have these
friendly microbes living on your skin
they're symbiotic and don't try to kill
them continually without allowing them
to be reestablished so it's very very
important between the constant washing
of the hands and uh exposure the
chemicals that you allow the hands to
reestablish their microbes and even
nourish the microbes with what I'm going
to show you next so here's the remedy
it's going to be a blend of just three
simple ingredients okay one is you're
going to use egg yolks okay you're not
going to put the white of the egg you're
going to use one egg yolk put a little
bowl what's so special about an egg yolk
an egg yolk is an embryo and it contains
all of the fat cble vitamins as well as
other essential fats that it's going to
be really hard to get in other Foods and
so this egg yolk is loaded with retinol
vitamin A vitamin E it has vitamin D it
has vitamin K it has omega-3 fatty acids
and all of these vitamins are going to
be able to be absorbed into the skin not
to mention it's very high in lethin and
lethin really helps to soften up the
hands lein also is the antidote to
cholesterol so it helps to break break
down cholesterol too and then we have
choline which is is another good um
nutrient that can help act as a bile
salt actually and help to dissolve some
of these other key fat cable nutrients
so it can go right into your skin so we
get a little bowl take one egg yolk put
it into the bowl then you're going to
take one teaspoon or 14 grams of raw
honey preferably Manuka honey and you're
going to put that in the bowl too and
you're going to mix it around now Manuka
Honey is
antibacterial
anti-viral anti fungal it's great for
won healing it's great as an
anti-inflammatory it's wonderful for
your skin plus the sugar in the honey
actually feeds the microbes and this
application that you're going to mix up
and use on your hands um I only
recommend using it like twice a week
because you don't want to make sugar
Junkies of these microbes and feed them
too much sugar but one strategy for
farming is to add some type of molasses
or something into the soil so these
microbes can live because microbes do
eat carbs microbes are not on the
ketogenic diet all right so now the last
ingredient is two tablespoons or 26 gram
of extra virgin olive oil make sure you
get the real stuff okay not the fake
stuff I've done videos on that if you
haven't seen that video I put it down in
description all right so we have the egg
yolk the honey and the olive oil all
right so you mix it all up really really
good and then you apply it to your hands
okay for 20 minutes don't wash your
hands right away let it soak in okay let
it heal let it feed the microbes and
reestablish some of these microbes and
then after 20 minutes just rinse your
hands off you're going to find that your
hands are extremely soft and they feel
really good and I recommend doing it
right before you go to bed so that way
all night long you're not washing your
hands you're just allowing them to heal
and I would recommend doing this two
times a week all right so now that you
have that remedy the next video I'm
going to recommend has to do with
anti-aging and looking useful if you
haven't seen that video you definitely
need to check it out I put it up right
here
