so I wanted to talk about the six
reasons or causes of cold feet this is
an updated video I did one before on the
five causes there's some more
information I'm going to talk about
there's actually probably seven causes
one would be you're about to get married
and you have cold feet that was a joke
but let's start with number one low
adrenal hormones okay there's a
condition called Addison's disease were
you basically running out of adrenal
hormones and you have extremely low
sodium you have to constantly consume
salt because a big part of the adrenal
function is to regulate minerals
including salt and that would be right
here number four you can actually have
cold feet if you have low sodium okay
and this can occur if you're on the
ketogenic diet simply because when you
go keto low-carb you lose a lot of fluid
excess fluid and with the fluid you lose
salt and other electrolytes also you're
giving up a lot of junk foods processed
foods that have a lot of sodium hidden
even bread for example and so when
you're on keto you do want to increase
the salt the sea salt in your diet and
people that go on keto sometimes they'll
notice especially in the beginning that
their feet are cold unless they consume
more sea salt
number one is low adrenal hormones or
adrenal fatigue and also this could
cause low blood pressure which could be
another reason why you're cold as well
number two hypothyroidism this is the
kind of the classic reason why people
are cold you need more iodine and
selenium selenium is needed for the
conversion of hormones like the inactive
to the active form of thyroid hormone
and iodine is needed just to make the
thyroid hormone in the first place so
these two minerals are very important if
you deficient in these minerals
potentially you can actually develop
hypothyroidism now a version of
hypothyroidism called Hashimoto's
responds pretty well to selenium
selenium also is very beneficial to the
immune system I'm gonna do a separate
video just on selenium okay number three
diet bad egg
especially when you get neuropathies
like you get nerve damage in the lower
extremity or even in the hands you start
losing circulation and in your feet and
your fingers don't just get cold they
can actually get become numb and they
can have tingling and it's called
peripheral neuropathy and before I
talked about that you need more salt
because a low sodium diet can cause you
to be cold especially in the feet and
number five is low zinc
okay and number six is low iron as an
anemia that can also cause you to be
cold now the question is which one
relates to you you want to look at some
of the other symptoms that you have to
see which one aligns I put a bunch of
videos down below
for example the symptoms of low zinc or
the symptoms of low iron symptoms of low
sodium so you can kind of differentiate
and figure this out alright guys thanks
for watching so if you want to get
notified with all my content click the
notification bell next to subscribed
