you know some people are actually too
tired to be able to sleep and rest
no matter how exhausted they get
their body just does not allow them to
get into the deep dealt with sleep
yet other people have way too much
energy and they can't sleep because you
have too much adrenaline or nervous
energy flowing through their bloodstream
so it takes a healthy amount of energy
in your energy factories called the
mitochondria to be able to have this
really wonderful sleep so today we're
going to talk about three things that
you can do to improve not just sleeping
but resting
there just happens to be
a clock
in your brain it's called the Supra
chiasmatic nucleus that tells you or
tells your body when to go to sleep and
when to wake up and so I'm going to give
you some tips on how to get your clock
to work better okay
all right let's first talk about energy
right um we're talking about the
mitochondria and this is in relationship
to
um healing or supporting the
mitochondria in the brain the organs
that have the most mitochondria
are in the heart and your brain okay so
both of those organs need a lot of
oxygen
and when they don't get oxygen when
they're dysfunctional
you have problems so there are several
things you can do to increase oxygen
into the mitochondria into the brain to
help you
really sleep and go to sleep quickly the
first one is the obvious one exercise so
when you exercise you get more oxygen
and so I like to do two types of
exercise mainly every day I do a higher
intense exercise and I do weight
training and with the higher intensity
exercise I do really short durations
but I always do long walks or hiking
um I go up hills things like that so I'm
always doing that that which is a low
intensity walking and that's great for
sleeping okay so exercise is the top of
the list number two be one another name
for a B1 or thiamine deficiency is
called
pseudohypoxia that's right hypoxia that
is a lack of oxygen
and so this can occur in the brain
at the very heart of the autonomic
nervous system which is in the brain
stem which has everything to do with
your breathing okay and so when you're
deficient in B1 your breathing is going
to suffer and your oxygen is going to
suffer and you're going to trigger
What's called the stress reflex and try
to sleep when you're stressed you can't
so it's all about increasing the amount
of o2 in the mitochondria and B1 before
bed is a great way to do that the next
thing is just to open your windows if
you can at night when you're sleeping
that is going to give you more oxygen
than trying to recirculate some of this
kind of stale air that's in your room
having plants in your room also will
increase the oxygen because they give
off
oxygen and they take in CO2 another
thing that increases the oxygen is a
coenzyme Q10 and then another great
remedy is called methylene blue this was
the first drug that medicine ever
introduced in their Health Care System
methylene blue it's been around since
the 1800s methylene blue will make your
urine green okay because it the blue
mixes with the yellow and then it turns
out green but there's a lot of
interesting positive things when you
take it in small or diluted amounts okay
and I'm going to put the link down below
on that video so you can learn more
about it but it can greatly increase
oxygen in your brain and other parts of
your body all right so now let's talk
about that circadian rhythm controlled
by the Supra chiasmatic nucleus how do
you get that to work uh correctly
it's controlled by light in dark Cycles
okay so when you are in your house at
night with the lights on all the way up
until the time you go to bed that is
going to be very very
bad because it's going to work against
that rhythm
the ideal situation is to work with this
light and dark cycle with this rhythm
with nature and that means that you
would want to start to turn down the
lights at Sunset okay now
that's really difficult in the winter
isn't it when it gets dark out at 4 30
but typically in the summertime starts
to get dark at nine o'clock so if you
were to be in your house and start to
use
um like dim lights okay that would be a
really good thing so your body's
starting to get used to this this
decrease in light and you can even
replace certain lights in your house
with incandescent lights which give off
more infrared which is uh very very good
for your sleep cycle so infrared you can
also avoid blue lights like your
computer now that's hard for some people
but not for me because I'm not on my
computer at night I'm in the computer in
the morning
but that the blue light that's emanating
from your electrical devices definitely
can can worsen your melatonin okay the
thing that helps you sleep at night you
can get some red lights you can start
dimming your lights get some
incandescent lights and not be around
the LEDs
if you had the light from your fireplace
or a even a campfire
where that you have that yellow golden
light that's giving off a lot of
infrared and very low blue light if any
that's very therapeutic for sleeping or
um let's see you get the blue light
blocker glasses and you can filter out
that blue light that's beneficial
but the point is that if you're going to
start watching TV turn off the lights in
the room okay so it's really dark so you
have just smaller amounts of light that
is going to be very very uh therapeutic
for your circadian rhythms and I even
wear an eye mask when I go to sleep
because I have to have it you know pitch
black my wife can sleep if it's the
lights are on I can't your timing of
eating okay you're gonna find that if
you don't eat too late you're gonna
sleep better
I mean if you can really do this if you
let's say you ate one meal a day and
that last meal was right around three
o'clock that would be the ideal
situation to eat to improve your
circadian rhythms but it might interfere
with your social life because a lot of
people don't
eat at that time so you might be eating
by yourself
or if you're doing two meals a day maybe
you do the first meal in the morning and
the second meal at three right that
would be ideally the situation if you
can't do that then do something that's
related to that and just avoid eating
five hours before you go to bed so if
you go to bed at 10
consume your food at five okay that will
at least give you five hours for your
system to kind of get settled in to
start aligning with their circadian wave
I mean just do an experiment eat a very
heavy meal before you go to bed and then
see how you sleep
just doesn't work so I just want you to
experiment with it and see if it doesn't
help you if you're traveling okay even
in the same time zone
that is going to interfere with this
clock in your brain and the GPS that's
in your brain that can identify where
your location is in space
and so a good way to handle jet lag when
you travel is to take a lot more vitamin
D3 Apparently that is the key nutrient
that helps reset those mechanisms to
really help get you on track a lot
faster I do this all the time so I might
take like say 30 40 50 000 I use the
vitamin D if I'm traveling two different
um Country Now what time should you go
to bed typically the best time to go to
bed is like 10 o'clock I tend to go to
bed between 9 30 and 9 45 but some
people can't do that they're just
there's too much going on you definitely
want to avoid going to bed before 12
right because there's there's definitely
a situation if you go past 12 all of a
sudden the body will start waking up and
you miss that wave and now you have to
kind of wait like 90 minutes before your
body's tired and that's happened to me
several times where I'm extremely tired
at 9 30. and I'll push through it and
then now I'm awake now I have to wait
for a period of time until I'm tired
again so you want to work with your
body's waves and you want to catch the
wave so you can go right into the deep
sleep you know experiment what works for
you but uh 10 o'clock on average would
be the best for most people I do a
little bit earlier and then I will sleep
for seven hours sometimes seven and a
half hours some people need eight hours
but anywhere between seven and eight
hours is the best situation if you get
up in the middle of the night let's say
a two ish or even one that usually means
that your adrenals are stressed out and
you need to support the adrenals with
certain types of adaptogens and hold
desiccated adrenal supplements and if
you're getting up urinating frequently
that means that you still have to deal
with insulin resistance I have videos on
that if a muscle cramp wakes you up you
may need more magnesium potassium or
calcium now I think sleep is so
important for so many things and if you
haven't seen my more comprehensive video
on sleep you should check that out and I
put it up right here
