so I've gotten this question a lot
what remedy
can help with my brittle nails
now that's a good question because
there's a lot of different remedies that
can work but I always like to use the
now as an indicator to look deeper
inside the body and the nail is a really
good place to start because it gives you
a lot of Clues on what's going on in the
body but brittle nails is very similar
to like a symptom of fatigue there could
be many different reasons for that
problem so you have several options you
can actually take a remedy to strengthen
your nails or better yet you can try to
understand what the nail is doing so you
can actually fix the problem once and
for all unfortunately in medicine they
don't do that everything is based on a
certain symptom and a treatment so today
let's do this differently let's take a
look at the nail and look at all the
potential reasons why you might have
I don't know slow growing nails or
brittle nails or lines to your nails
or a problem with the nail and when I go
through this I think what's going to
happen is one or two things that I talk
about
will become more real to you and it will
pop out as a potential problem let's say
for example something that's missing in
your diet or maybe something that you're
eating that you shouldn't be eating so
let's start out with protein your nail
is protein it's a very specific type of
protein called keratin and the thing
that you need to know about keratin is
that it's very high in Sulfur okay and
also amino acids because protein is just
a combination of amino acids so doing a
deep dive and understanding kind of
what's making up this specific body
tissue can give you Clues on what you
may need to eat more of so the two main
sulfur amino acids are cysteine and
methionine and so for example if you're
eating foods that don't have those two
amino acids or are incomplete that could
be the reason why you are missing those
amino acids and developing problems with
your nail and realize if you have a
problem with your nails it's not just
happening with your nails it's happening
all over the place so you could either
be deficient in Sulfur okay which by the
way the number one symptom of a sulfur
deficiency is brittle nails or it can be
very specific amino acids that you're
deficient in because you're eating foods
that are not complete with the amino
acids now rather than bore you and
complicate things tell you all the foods
that don't have that I'm just going to
recommend eating foods that contain
plenty of all of the amino acids that
way you don't have to worry about trying
to focus on just you know increasing
very specific amino acids you got to
realize amino acids is not just about
making your your nails your hair your
muscle your skin it's about making all
these other proteins involved with
biochemistry energy production digestion
everything your body has millions of
different enzymes and they need these
amino acids so what kind of foods can
you eat to get a complete amino acid
profile okay well the best foods you can
eat would be animal products
specifically things like eggs fish Meats
versus
legumes or grain type proteins with
those you're always going to be missing
one or two amino acids or those amino
acids are going to be very very low and
you're going to have to do food
combining to fix this problem you also
have the factor of the hydrochloric acid
in your stomach if if you don't have
enough hydrochloric acid you can't
digest these proteins to extract the
amino acids from the protein and so how
do you know if you have a lack of a
hydrochloric acid well you have
indigestion you have gas you have
bloating heartburn if you have
intestinal inflammation
you could also have a problem with amino
acid absorption now the other thing
that's interesting about protein is that
you may tend to not be satisfied when
you eat unless you have sufficient
amount of that balanced amino acids as
your requirements because out of all the
macronutrients like carbs protein and
fats proteins are probably needed as the
most important survival
raw material and so in other words let's
say you're eating a lot of food but
you're not hitting that requirement for
amino acids the hunger won't turn off
you'll just stay hungry you'll never be
satisfied so this is one problem with
vegans is that they'll tend to try to
get their amino acids from plant type
things and Grains and legumes but since
they need to consume so much of those
foods to get the required amount of
amino acids they end up overdoing it on
the carbohydrates now if you want a
general pretty good estimate of how much
protein a person would need on average
now this is on average it could go up it
can go down I would do this I would take
0.64
grams times your body weight in pounds
that you weigh and you'll get a good
estimate of roughly how much protein
that your body requires you know when
you're deficient amino acids boy all
sorts of things will happen
not just the increase in appetite
without being satisfied
but you could even develop edema in your
legs a swollen belly you can be
chronically fatigued but again I'm just
emphasizing out of all the macro
nutrients protein is the most important
and if you're deficient in amino acids
and it's showing up in your nail realize
it's also going to be affecting your
immune system your endocrine system your
reproductive system the next topic is
trace minerals and minerals trace
minerals act as helper called cofactors
or coenzymes for proteins so we just
talked about amino acids which are
proteins now to activate these proteins
that help you grow nails okay you need
certain helper minerals or trace
minerals which are just kind of minerals
needed in smaller amounts so the most
important mineral would be sulfur you
can get it in cruciferous vegetables you
can get it in eggs
you can get it in meats and fish you can
also get it in garlic and onion there's
also a product that can help brittle
nails called MSM but I would recommend
try to get it from the food then you
have zinc another very very important
cofactor where do you get zinc red meat
animal products shellfish Seafood
selenium is another one copper is
another one magnesium is a factor it's
not very common but the can show up in
the nails if you're deficient in
magnesium and that would be more of the
leafy greens but the amount of calcium
that's in the nail is very very very
tiny so if you have a Calcium deficiency
it's probably not going to show up
necessarily in brittle nails I mean
potentially it could but it's more
likely these other elements silicon also
a lot of people take silicon to improve
their nails because silicon is involved
in the formation of collagen now another
important vitamin to strengthen the
nails is is vitamin C now typically
you're going to get enough C if you're
doing leafy greens or sauerkraut or
Peppers or lemons but if you're
consuming a lot of sugar that is
definitely going to block your vitamin C
biotin is another B vitamin that people
take in very high levels to help their
nails and yes that will work but what
you have to realize is that you produce
just as much biotin as you get from your
diet and chances are
the real reason why you might be
deficient in biotin has to do with your
gut micro Flora more than your diet
maybe you had an antibiotic maybe you
have some type of gut issue maybe you're
not eating right maybe you don't eat
enough Probiotic foods or Prebiotic
foods and that's why you're low in
biotin but biotin is very high in
chicken liver beef liver eggs salmon and
pork and a couple other reasons why you
might be deficient in biotin you drink a
good amount of alcohol you're on some
type of medication you have low
hydrochloric acid you are an athlete
okay you exercise a lot that can create
a major deficiency in biotin or you're
getting older and so the requirements
for biotin go up B6 is another vitamin
that is involved in the production of
protein but typically it's not going to
be very common for you to have brittle
nails if you have a B6 deficiency B12 is
another factor that can affect the blood
flow to the nail any type of anemia
whether it's B12 or iron can show up in
the now as a brittle now choline is
another they classify it as a B vitamin
if you're deficient in choline maybe you
have a genetic factor that doesn't allow
you to absorb choline like myself and
that puts you at risk for a fatty liver
and if you want to eat foods high in
choline eat more egg yolks now to keep
the Keratin strong there are two fat
soluble vitamins that are also very
important vitamin A and vitamin D
where do you get vitamin A from I'm not
talking about like spinach that's
beta-carotene which turns into Vitamin A
but just a small amount you want to get
your vitamin A from egg yolk okay fish
or animal organs like liver and things
like that or even cod liver oil and of
course vitamin D is difficult to get
from the food but cod liver oil has it
you can get it from the Sun and other
types of fatty fish or seafood has some
vitamin D in it now I created another
video on nails so it's actually quite
interesting that goes beyond just the
riddle now and if you haven't seen that
video I put it up right here check it
out
