hey guys today we're gonna talk about a
very serious disease that was just
invented
it's called orthorexia okay so I'm just
gonna go down the list to see if you may
have this disease you may have it so
number one do you have a fixation or a
focus over the quality of food that you
put in your body do you limit foods to
organic whole raw foods farm-fresh if
you do go ahead comment below let me
know okay next one do you have the
concept that anything bad you put in
your body should be avoided yeah you
might have this alright next one are you
cutting out entire food groups like
processed foods sugar and gluten now
guys you might think I'm actually just
joking around but I am totally not
making this up alright there's actually
people out here that are going with this
in believing this crap okay next one are
you losing weight because you're cutting
out the food grips last one do you have
an increased concern with avoiding GMO
foods now I think this whole thing was
totally created by having the food
manufacturing companies get in a room
and come up with some new strategy to
get people to eat their food I really do
it's just ridiculous okay so here's the
risk factors okay malnutrition now I'm
trying to figure out how you can be
malnourished if you are eating quality
foods you're avoiding the bad fits just
doesn't make sense to me depressed I
don't think so
anxiety rare cases death really you're
gonna die by eating health foods and
avoiding bad foods that makes a lot of
sense so now like what is the what is
their solution well the cure is
psychotherapy and drugs will cure you of
this very dangerous disease guys put
your comments below tell me what you
think about this I'm really curious
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
