how do you go back to sleep if for some
reason you wake up between 2: to 300
a.m. in the middle of the night I would
consider myself an expert at insomnia
because I had this for over a decade and
it was destroying my life it was not
just getting up at 2: or 3: in the
morning sometimes I wouldn't even sleep
for one minute the entire night I would
lay there just it was basically torture
what's unique about 2 am is something
called the Circadian rhythm with
cortisol this is a stress hormone
cortisol should be at the lowest point
in this Rhythm at 2 am and the highest
point at 8 a.m. for me everything was
backwards I was very very awake at 2 but
I was extremely tired at 8:00 a.m. in
the morning I tried everything I even
tried prescription medications it didn't
work in fact what I didn't know at the
time was those medications actually
worsen your cortisol they raise your
cortisol we can also look at things that
help you lower cortisol and one big one
is magnesium magnesium has the ability
to actually lower cortisol and your
cortisol can actually go up if you're
deficient in magnesium also if you're
sitting there watching right now and you
have any tightness in your muscle and
your upper back lower back or if you
point your toe okay and it cramps that's
a sure sign that you are deficient in
magnesium the type of magnesium that I
would recommend to take is something
called magnesium glycinate it can
actually help relax your muscles and and
help reduce cortisol when you want to
take it is at night before you go to bed
towards the later part of the morning
right around 6:00 a.m. is when you have
the least amount of magnesium in your
tissues this is also probably why a lot
of health problems occur in the early
morning like heart attacks stroke
restless leg syndrome because a lot of
these things are influenced by magnesium
one last indication of magnesium
deficiency is twitching so if you're
getting this twitch underneath your eye
or your arm that's a sure sign that you
are deficient in magnesium magnesium
controls calcium and when you don't have
enough magnesium you get more calcium
and the calcium just causes cramping in
different areas of the body the other
thing that can raise cortisol at 2 a.m.
is a low blood sugar situation let's say
your diet is heavy in the carbohydrates
and so you raise your blood sugar go to
sleep at night and the blood sugar goes
down guess what happens when your blood
sugar goes too low the body's going to
raise it how does it raise it with
cortisol because of your diet we've
talked about magnesium deficiency and by
the way when you eat a lot of
carbohydrates and starches that creates
the magnesium deficiency but if you're
just eating sugar in general you're
going to have a blood sugar issue that's
going to affect cortisol and wake you up
in the middle of the night this is what
you should do if you're getting up at 2
a.m. you want to evaluate what you ate
the day before do you have refined
starches do you go out to a restaurant
did they give you something called
called MSG which also can affect your
blood sugar also alcohol alcohol will
really make you feel like you're
sleeping but you're not really sleeping
that well you're probably going to wake
up at 2 or even 3: a snack at night
you're going to raise your blood sugar
and it's going to kind of come down
right around two and that can keep you
up so it's so important not to snack
after 6:30 let's say for example you ate
very very late at night and you ate a
lot of protein protein tends to
stimulate the body and that can
interrupt your sleep in fact one thing
that I find that really works for my
sleep is if I have my last meal later in
the afternoon and then I don't eat after
that boy do I sleep a lot better if I
don't eat too late at night another
thing with salt Cravings let's say for
example you crave salty chips at night
the reason why people crave salt is
because they're usually deficient in
sodium sodium helps low lower cortisol
when you're deficient in sodium or
you're not having enough salt your
cortisol will go up add more sea salt to
the meal through the day do that to the
point where you crave no salt at night
another thing that will increase
cortisol is watching a suspense or
action movie before you go to sleep this
is why I watch boring movies or
something that's really light because if
I watch an exciting movie I'm not going
to sleep at night it's also important
not to have the blue light from this
thing or your computer before going to
sleep because the blue light interferes
with melatonin that helps you wind down
and go to sleep another thing that can
increase melatonin at night is getting
enough sun exposure getting more Sun
during the day does definitely help you
sleep at night over 50% of the Sun as
well as the light from a fire or even
candles can give you infrared that
infrared will increase tonin in the
cells if you're deficient in B1 you're
going to have a lot of energy in your
body because you have a more of an
energy capacity problem that you have to
do something to get that energy out of
your body so if you don't exercise
you're going to have a harder time going
to sleep so I highly recommend you go
for long walks do some workout that will
get you tired but I have to work out to
get the energy out of my body another
thing that can affect your sleep at 2 or
3 a.m. is something going on with your
liver the liver is the organ that
detoxifies between 1 and 3 in the middle
of the night if there's anything that's
related to that let's say alcohol you're
trying to get rid of alcohol or you're
taking medications that your your liver
is trying to get rid of something that
can throw off your sleep take milk
thistle before you go to bed that's
really good for the liver another uh
thing that happened with me is restless
leg syndrome that is a classic B1
deficiency or it's a magnesium
deficiency probably because because
you're consuming too many carbs I was if
you can just fix that you won't have
restless legs anymore it's a real easy
thing to fix just start consuming
natural B1 and magnesium before bed
check your pulse rate because if your
pulse rate is too high that could be a
potassium deficiency I remember one time
I was trying to sleep and I noticed like
I felt this pounding and I checked my
pulse rate I'm like oh my gosh my pulse
rate is like boom boom boom boom boom
there's two things that cause a high
pulse rate it's low pottassium usually
because you're eating too many car or
your pH is too acidic in the past I
would take Kombucha tea or I would do
apple cider vinegar right before bed and
I would take it too concentrated and
that acidified myself that was problem
that I ran into for some people drinking
alider vinegar more diluted can help
them but also the alider vinegar really
helps stabilize the blood sugars through
the whole night if you suspect blood
sugar problems apple cider vinegar is
great before you go to bed and uh it'll
also help you increase the absorption of
certain minerals and if that doesn't
work and you're laying there for a
longer period of time I would pull out a
book uh nothing too exciting would just
start reading a book until you get tired
and fall asleep the next day what I
would do is I would go for a really long
walk not to raise the puls rate but just
to kind of like have this a lot of
oxygen so you can kind of just drain out
this cortisol and adrenaline that has
built up go ahead and try these things
and then comment down below how that
they've helped you
