I have a lot of videos on what to do for
mucus especially upper respiratory mucus
sinuses but this video is going to give
you another tip that is very very
powerful and I think you'll like it and
it's very effective so if you have post
nasal drip chronic rhinitis or sinusitis
or sinus pressure or sinus headaches or
cluster headaches or even sinus
allergies okay this can apply to you an
average person might do the steroids
they might do medication which always
creates more side effects or they might
do the surgery and the complications
from that are are pretty huge but
there's a another thing you can do that
is very powerful and you can either do
it as a nasal spray or you can consume
this food and I'm talking about like hot
peppers like Cayenne or other hot spicy
peppers now there is this thing called
pepper spray which is kind of like a a
weapon against people and you spray it
in their eyes we're not talking about
that concentration we're talking about a
very very diluted
cayenne pepper or it could be
horseradish or other types of pepper in
a spray that in greatly improve your
sinuses and I'm going to talk about this
the main phytonutrient in these Peppers
that is doing all the magic is called
capsaicin you know when you eat these
hot peppers it's that phytonutrient that
creates this hot sensation has nothing
to do with increasing the temperature
it's all a chemical signal that tells
the brain that it's very hot and it's
the plants defense mechanism to get
predators to not eat that plant and so
there's different levels of hot okay but
what's interesting is that the tarantula
Venom uses the same pathway and so that
would make sense because there are
peppers
that are so hot that'll literally like
burn your mouth and it can create a
serious problem with your breathing and
everything else you know like you're
sweating and some people can tolerate
them some people don't but there's some
great research on what capsaicin can do
for your sinuses other people get it as
a cream and they put it on their body
for pain and arthritis and like
rheumatoid or Osteo or even gout but
there's actually nasal sprays that have
um some cayenne pepper very diluted or a
concentrated extract giving you this
capsaicin that you can spray into your
sinuses and so if you look at the
research
it can definitely help Purge mucus from
your sinuses it will help drain off this
mucus versus some of the medications
that suppress the mucus this one kind of
purges it out but it then reduces the
nasal hyper reactivity so you're going
to find that your
mucous membranes are not reacting nearly
as much as they were before to the
environment whether it's an allergy or
something else that's creating this
mucus so it can help open the sinuses
drain the sinuses and it can help
desensitize the mucous membranes okay so
they like I said before now they're not
as sensitive so
that irritation that redness that
inflammation goes away not to mention
having another property of antimicrobial
so many people who have a chronic sinus
problems chronic rhinitis have like a
fungus growing on their sinuses or even
a bacterial infection now you have a
couple choices you can use it as a nasal
spray or you can start consuming these
Peppers okay and it will create a very
similar effect I tried an experiment
long ago which I will never repeat I
actually drank 12 ounces of daikon
radish juice okay and I had so much
mucus drainage I don't even know that
much mucus could be drained out of your
sinuses but it just came out and then I
noticed about an hour later boy I just
dried right up so radishes can be used
too they're pretty spicy and any Peppers
that are hot will do the trick now
sometimes when people consume these
peppers
it's so hot they have to neutralize this
this hot burning in their mouth so they
start drinking more water water is just
going to intensify this hot sensation
another remedy which is even better than
milk but milk will help neutralize it
okay some people use ice cream but I
recommend milk but there's something
even better than milk
because it's the casein the milk protein
that is the antidote okay to this
burning
sensation in The receptors so what has
the most casein
and the answer is cottage cheese that's
right cottage cheese is just loaded with
casein but I wanted to give you another
remedy that you can do if you have this
chronic sinus problem that's pretty easy
and it's pretty highly effective I've
done another video on mucus not just in
the sinuses but mucus that can drain
onto the lungs and that actually got a
lot of use if you haven't seen that I
put it up right here check it out
