I wanted to create a video in a onesie
and its accuracy it's definitely a great
test to do as part of your evaluation
but don't put all your eggs in that one
basket because of several reasons
basically its how much glucose that's
sticking to your red blood cells over
time so it's an average of blood sugars
for like three months so if you have
high sugar in your blood and it combines
with the protein the red blood cell they
can measure it through a test called a
once-a-year it's called hemoglobin a1c
now if it's 6.5 or more that would
correlate to a fasting blood glucose
test of 126 milligrams per deciliter and
that would be diabetes also if it's this
high there's also correlation with
increased retinopathy which is damage to
the retina and they also found if you
decrease it just by one percent your
death rate goes down from diabetes by 27
percent your micro vascular
complications the problems in the eye
and also the feet the the vascular
system to the nerves of your toes and
your fingers and your eye goes down by
37 percent also myocardial infarction
goes down by 40 percent
now here's the problem when you measure
anyone seen if you're anemic and by the
way 30 percent of the population is
anemic this is going to be invalid it's
going to alter the test if you have
sickle cell that will also invalidate
the test because there's a problem with
the shape of your red blood cell if you
have an iron disease it's gonna alter
the a1c test but what's even worse than
that is this the red blood cells die a
lot sooner and a diabetic than they do a
healthy person so the turnover rate for
red blood cells for diabetic it is 81
days versus someone that's healthy it's
a hundred and forty six days so if
you're measuring the red blood cells
with a short period of exposure to
glucose it can dramatically affect which
shows up on the a1c results because it's
all about how long
those red blood cells are exposed to
glucose in your blood
better test would be fasting glucose or
post mule glucose or Homa ir this is
probably one of the best this will
measure insulin resistance there's been
a handful of people who ask me this
question they keep showing up high blood
sugar in the morning yet they're also
showing high key challenge okay at the
same time so how could you actually have
high blood sugar or let's say it's a
hundred or 105 and ketones that's
impossible right well there's something
called the dawn phenomena which occurs
usually in the first part of the day
where your blood sugars are high and
that's coming from certain hormones like
cortisol growth hormone glucagon
adrenaline your body is actually
generating that glucose several
different ways it's turning something
called the glycerol in the fat or
triglycerides into glucose it's turning
certain protein into glucose it's even
turning ketones in the glucose so here
you are you have this high sugar in the
morning you're like what is going on I'm
not consuming a lot of sugar
well that's called gluconeogenesis this
means new this means the generation or
creation of so it's the making of new
glucose but why because you've had this
condition for quite a while called
insulin resistance in some resistance
basically is a protective mechanism that
your body develops from having excess
amount of insulin so and this takes a
while to correct it could take even up
to a year or a little bit longer but
think about this if your cells are
resisting insulin and insulin controls
glucose you're not able to pull that
glucose inside the cell so your body's
in the state where it's sensing low
sugars so it keeps making more and more
even if you don't consume sugar it has
to do with the feedback sensing loops
because you have insulin resistance
usually when you measure the fasting
glucose later in the day it improves
this usually happens only in the morning
primarily because you if you look at the
rhythm of certain hormones
cortisol spikes at 8 o'clock in the
morning so that is probably a big part
of it I would not worry about this this
is a transitional phase if you went out
and did some exercise it would burn off
there's sugar all this means is you had
this one condition
insulin resistance chronically and it's
going to take a while to fix if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
