hey guys I'm back and today we're going
to talk about the fasting eating cycle
in a little more detail but I'm going to
try to make it as simple as possible
it's actually very interesting okay so
over here we have the Emeka nism that
occurs when we're eating okay over here
we have what happens when we are fasting
when we're not eating so the cell needs
to be fed so when you're eating insulin
is involved to feed the cell so what
it's doing it's taking the excess
glucose out of the blood and it's
feeding the cell now if you're consuming
a lot of carbs which most people do
it'll then take some of that sugar and
it converts into storage sugar called
glycogen but we don't have a lot of
glycogen storage we have like a limit we
could only store like 2,000 calories
anything more goes to fat and
cholesterol we have an unlimited
capacity to store fat so this is where
most people end up right down here okay
so now when we're not eating and we're
fasting there's another hormone involved
called insulin-like growth factor so
insulin like growth factor is very
similar to insulin in that it does also
feed the cell glucose but the glucose is
not coming from the diet it's coming
from the stored glucose as glycogen from
your liver and from your muscle so
basically your cell always gets fed one
way or the other either from the food or
from the storage okay but we don't have
a lot of glycogen so did you fast a
little bit longer it'll start tapping
into the fat and release that and feed
the cell so we have this nice little
balance going back and forth so IGF is
under complete control of the growth
hormone which is produced by the
pituitary and it works through the liver
and a lot of the functions of IGF are
the same as growth hormone so this is
also involved in releasing fuel to the
cell as well but I'm not going to get
into that much detail so if we have
enough growth hormone we have enough IGF
and everything is cool and by the way
our bodies have about a hundred times
in quantity in volume this hormone to
insulin what does that mean that means
that our bodies were designed to not eat
way more than we eat and the problem
that we're running into right now is
people eat too frequently and they eat
too many carbs now recently I did a an
interview with a guy that was on The
Biggest Loser
he was I think 325 pounds he lost I
think 114 pounds in three months and
then he gained it all back he found some
videos that I did he'd liked the concept
of healthy ketosis in a minute fasting
he then proceeded to lose 90 pounds okay
so he did very very well but what was
fascinating about his interview which
I'm gonna put the link down below was
what he ate during the Biggest Loser
versus my recommendations as far as
eating and they were definitely
different because I recommended no fruit
potatoes but I think the biggest
difference is that he started doing
fasting because when he was on The
Biggest Loser he was like eating every
hour and then he was snacking at night
so you're just like constantly raising
insulin over and over because every time
you eat you spike insulin so our bodies
were designed to fast a lot longer than
we eat and when we do that we all sorts
of health problems clear up when you
combine frequent eating with a chronic
carbohydrate consumption with low
potassium you get massive problems with
huge spike in insulin so as we increase
insulin and we become insulin dominant
we start not needing to use this anymore
so we actually suppress IGF we suppress
growth hormone now if we compound that
with age and liver damage because this
will eventually create a fatty liver and
inflammation and eventually cirrhosis of
the liver if we compound that then we
actually get even a lesser amount of
growth hormone and a lesser amount of
IGF okay so now let me just show you
what happens we have all this
carbohydrate and all this insulin being
produced the body will start to protect
itself so it develops insulin resistant
okay so now what happens is we need more
and more insulin to create the same
effect so what happens is when we have
more insulin we just said we still have
normal blood sugars okay because we have
more insulin to lower them so when you
get checked like oh you're fine you
don't have diabetes but they never check
for insulin so give it more time and
then the pancreas starts getting
exhausted now we get to the point where
this mechanism is overwhelmed so now
what happens is the blood sugars start
going higher and higher and higher and
that's what we call diabetes but before
that you may have a spike in insulin and
end up with hypoglycemia because there's
too much insulin that's pushing the
blood sugar down well IGF comes in there
to protect you against that so we have a
combination of growth hormone igf-1 go
down to low but if we have liver damage
because of these factors right here we
no longer have the protective effect
against the low blood sugars and so you
have other hormones that are countering
insulin as well and that would be
cortisol okay that's the stress hormone
that's one of them and adrenaline
so this basically would just turn your
muscles into sugar so that's why you'll
start seeing people with a loss of
muscles in their leg they get really
kind of thin legs no butt and it's all
in the gut so there's these three
counter hormones that are working hard
to keep the sugar high but depending on
if you have a problem with the liver or
your dreams you may have symptoms of
hypoglycemia before you get
hyperglycemia which is diabetes some
people don't have a problem with that so
they go right from pre-diabetes to
diabetes which is hyperglycemia high
sugar and when you actually lose growth
hormone you lose the protein sparing
effect and you also have additional
muscle loss just from that alone so the
combination of high cortisol and loss of
growth hormone equals loss of muscle
mass you see this a lot in menopause
growth hormone also stimulates cartilage
growth so you see a lot of people as
they get older they lose their
joints as well because of this all right
so what are we gonna do to solve this
number one we don't want to eat so
frequently we want to do in a minute
fasting that's going to take the stress
off the pancreas and you'll instantly
start improving your liver
you'll start increasing growth hormone
we want to add exercise that's gonna
also burn off the excess glucose and get
you into fat-burning a lot faster as far
as what to eat we want to go a low carb
we want to go high potassium I put the
link down below with exactly what I'm
gonna recommend is called healthy
ketosis alright guys thanks for watching
and I will see in the next video so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications daily notifications
that sounds weird well I'll just remind
you on a daily basis how about that
