did you realize that you can identify
arsenic poisoning through your nails
arsenic which is a very potent
carcinogen has affinity for keratin
which happens to be in your nails so the
presentation would be this transverse or
horizontal whiteness or a band across
your nails I realized that that's just
one indicator and unless you actually
get tested you're not going to know for
sure but this is definitely one symptom
so if you have this go get a check
there's other symptoms too that can
relate to arsenic poisoning skin issues
like a red rash or swelling warts
abdominal pain nausea vomiting diarrhea
muscle cramps headache peripheral
neuropathies which is either a pain or
tingling or burning on your feet or your
your fingertips and this could also be
caused by diabetes but arsenic poisoning
is one of the causes now the important
thing about arsenic is to differentiate
between the two types of arsenic you
have inorganic arsenic in organic
arsenic now this word organic is a
different definition than if you were to
buy organic food okay
organic food relates to food without
pesticides or insecticides or even
antibiotics when we're talking about
organic arsenic we're talking about the
arsenic that is naturally in the soil
okay it's a different type than the
inorganic which is man-made organic
arsenic is it is in the soils and it's
pretty much going to be in all
vegetables to some degree however it
doesn't accumulate in the body like in
organic and it's a lot less toxic and
your our bodies generally can deal with
it much better but this is the problem
right here inorganic arsenic now take
awhile guess what country is the world's
leading user of arsenic since 1910 this
is a hint right here it's the u.s. of
course so in America we use a tremendous
amount of arsenic we've used 1.6 million
tonnes of arsenic that's a lot of poison
put into our environment and that can
come from many different sources
pesticides insecticides
they used to put it in fertilizers with
the chicken byproducts I think they
banned that in 2015 but don't quote me
they might just he'll be using it then
we have rice 70% of the arsenic that's
in our environment is from rice
especially brown rice rice has grown in
a very wet environment and apparently
that environment or that condition
allows the rice to poll this arsenic
into the plant so if you're consuming a
lot of rice you could potentially have
higher levels of arsenic but of course
if you're on the keto diet you know to
worry about that
and then fruit in fruit juice
contributes to 18 percent of the arsenic
exposure and of course if you're on keto
you're not consuming fruit and
definitely not for juices and then you
have the vegetable family which is
giving us about 24% of all the arsenic
but realize that if the vegetable is
organic and not grown with insecticides
pesticides that type of arsenic is
probably mostly organic so it's a lot
less toxic fish also has some arsenic or
organic arsenic in very very small
amounts and there's a couple natural
remedies that can also help detoxify
arsenic the biggest one is alpha lipoic
acid and then choline and then the B
complex I would recommend getting the B
complex from a natural source like
nutritional yeast that's unfortified or
unenriched alright that's a wrap and
thanks so much for watching so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
