I want to share a very exciting natural
remedy that you can take to enhance your
sleep as you know sleep is so so
important and there's one remedy that I
think will work really good and you just
take a half a cup of this before bed and
uh you will sleep better and that thing
is
kefir now what is kefir well it's
similar to Yogurt but it's better than
yogurt it has a lot more microbes it has
between 12 to 50 different strains where
yogurt only has between like one and
three maybe maybe four or five and as
far as the quantity of microbes not just
the strains uh kefir has five times more
microbes than yogurt and a lot of these
microbes survive uh the stomach acids
whereas they don't with yogurt now the
real unique thing about kefra is it has
not only friendly bacteria but it has
friendly
yeast so the combination between
friendly yeast and friendly bacteria
very important in their functions also
with kefir you're going to get less
problems with with lactose intolerance
because those microbes in kefir eat
lactose milk sugar so you're going to
have less milk sugar and you're just
going to have less symptoms especially
gas when you have kefir versus when you
have yogurt and there's a lot of other
benefits with kefir you'll have less
less liver fat you have less allergies
less constipation an improved immune
system better blood sugars better blood
pressure because of how it acts as an
Ace inhibitor and less pathogens now
regarding sleep itself let's talk about
what Keir can do directly for your sleep
benefits your microbes make serotonin in
fact 90% of all the serotonin in your
body comes from your microbes so more of
the right microbes the more serotonin
and serotonin is a Feelgood hormone it
is a hormone that can affect your mood
it can help reduce stress not to mention
kefir makes microbes that can make
melatonin directly now there's several
things in your body that make melatonin
in fact all your cells can make a
melatonin but uh mainly people think of
the pineal in your brain that makes
melatonin but your gut also makes
melatonin both the microbes as well as
certain cells specifically an
interesting cell called enterochromaffin
cell that's a it's kind of an
interesting cell because it's a
neuroendocrine cell so it's kind of a
half neurological and half
hormone and those cells make melatonin
and they control inflammation and they
also control acids and kefir makes
microbes that make the amino acid
tryptophan tryptophan turns into
serotonin and then it turns into
melatonin so again another thing that
will help you sleep kefir also has a
really good source of bioavailable
calcium which can also help you get to
sleep and stay asleep now the microbes
in kefir also make certain B vitamins
including B1 thiamine which greatly
helps stress especially if you're trying
to go to sleep and you're thinking and
you're thinking and you can't turn it
off B1 is what you need and the
lactobacillus micro in kefir helps
reduce cortisol now try to sleep when
your cortisol is too high it's
impossible so anything you can do to
reduce cortisol will help you sleep so
that's quite a few things that directly
help your sleep that stem from
kefir now as far as the type of kefir
that I'm going to recommend I highly
recommend you make your own there's a
really great website that I get my kefir
crystals from that it's like a starter
little uh group of microbes it's called
kefir live grains but there's no grains
in it and the website that I go to is
called happy herbalist
docomo with this website but it's just a
really good source of high quality um
very inexpensive uh starter um key for
grains I would would highly recommend if
you had the choice use goat's milk but
you can use cow's milk and on their site
they explain how to do it they send you
a little guide and I will put the link
down below but basically what you do is
you just take one tablespoon and you put
it right into um two cups of milk and
you don't need to heat it or anything
you just take it out of the fridge you
put it on your counter put a little
cloth top or even a paper towel with a
little rubber band and you just wait for
a day 24 hours and you have kefir which
is not as thick as yogurt but you're
going to have a huge benefit of all
these great microbes and you can
experiment with the temperature to make
it a little bit warmer or a little more
concentrated or leave it out for a
little bit longer to make it more sour
which means there's going to be less
lactose in there and more lactic acid
and the cool thing is you can take these
grains out and keep them in a little bit
of milk and then keep reusing them over
and over and over and this way you have
a fresh batch of kefir uh on a regular
basis and I think the next best video
for you to watch would be the one on
using other things to help yourself
sleep better
