hey it's me again we're going to answer
the question do we really need fat in
our diet okay mainly I want to talk
about the essential fatty acids
essential meaning must come from diet
your body cannot make it it's required
by the body and there are basically two
categories of essential fatty acids uh
we have one category which is omega-6
fatty acids which are generally
inflammatory uh and then you have the
omega3 fatty acids which are anti
inflammatory and you need a ratio of
one: one most people have a ratio to
like 1 to 10 Omega 6 they're heavy on
the Omega 6 or 1 to 25 very heavy on the
Omega 6 that's why they're so inflamed
and they have arthritis and they have
heart issues I was at the fair uh this
last weekend in
Pennsylvania um I've never I've seen so
many deep fried uh places where you
could buy deep fried anything um they
deep friy cheesecake and Oreos and uh
vegetables and everything of course they
kill everything and of course I had to
look behind the curtain and see what
kind of oil they're using and it's
vegetable oil which is actually soy oil
okay so that's GMO soy heavy Omega 6 or
they might use corn oil which is also
GMO so I think the biggest confusion
that people have is with the chemistry
name linolic versus alpha linolenic acid
okay this is linolic versus Alpha LOL
lenic lenic is the vegetable oil the
corn the soil the safflower oil
sunflower oil cotton seed oil but it
also has other types of a category which
is called the GLA which I'm not going to
trying to keep this as simple as
possible but it's hard GLA type fats
which are anti-inflammatory so they
they're different than this but if
you're consuming like um an omega-6
borage oil evening Primal oil black
current seed oil those are
anti-inflammatory those have a lot of
health benefits and they're very
different than these oils I mean it's
okay to consume some safflower oil but
um the problem is like don't consume so
much where you don't have enough omega-3
so this is what we need to focus on
having more of omega-3 fatty acids fish
oils that's why I like the CER oil
virgin civer oil is the best if you
could find some it's a bit pricey um or
just fattier fish um sardines are really
healthy uh walnuts nuts are high in
Omega-3
flax is pretty darn high in omega-3
seeds other seeds are real high in
omega-3 Chia has the most omega-3 of all
the seeds then we got hemp seed canola
and soy have around between 8 and 10% so
has a little bit of Omega-3 but because
it's GMO we're not going to recommend it
okay um so you also have other things
that are essential uh in the body called
fat cable vitamins so we we don't just
have essential fatty acids we have
actual vitamins that are essential that
you need and you can't live without and
that would be vitamin A comes from the
fat vitamin D E K2 so those are
essential uh and it's also K1 as well uh
so a deficiency of essential fatty acid
would leave you with scaly dry skin
dermatitis all sorts of skin issues uh
alopecia where your hair is falling out
low immune system a lot of um autoimmune
cases are low in essential fatty acids
so it worsens your memory your cognitive
function suffers it worsens your overall
mood you can become depressed it affects
the cardiovascular system and there's
one more point about this alpha
linolenic acid which is a type omega-3
fatty acid we need this raw material to
be able to enhance the most abundant fat
in your nervous system in your brain and
your retina of the eye uh to prevent
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and to
prevent loss of vision and that is to
have this turn into something called DHA
Okay now you can get DHA directly from
fish oils and egg yolks and other uh
fatty foods but if you're trying to get
them from vegetable sources and you have
insulin resistance you're not going to
convert those into the actual fat that
you need so you might have a problem so
to answer your question do we really
need fat in our diets well the answer is
absolutely but we want to make sure we
have a ratio of 1: 1 omega3 to to Omega
6 thanks for watching hi guys Hey listen
I created a pretty amazing evaluation
quiz down below that actually analyzes
your symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
