welcome everyone we have a new interview
Prinny who I actually got you before and
after and I just had to share the
results with everyone and want to just
know your history and do have a little
dialogue so can you tell me a little bit
about you know your upbringing and did
you have a weight problem your whole
life or what happened yes so um
I yeah I've had a weight problem pretty
much my entire life and I I think
growing up I didn't have the best
nutritional advice from from my mom but
you know I wouldn't blame her she had a
lack of information herself and sugar
and and and and unhealthy diet was
always a part of my lifestyle growing up
now you did you grew up in South Africa
yes but what was this food back then
because in my mind I'm thinking wow
Africa they probably had really great
soils really healthy vegetables is that
true yeah yes it is it is very fertile
country it's got got fantastic food well
my dad used to run a restaurant so after
school every day we would go back to the
restaurant and and hang out there from
lunchtime to about three or four in the
afternoon and it was a free-for-all for
me you know so so I could eat whatever I
wanted so I had four hearty meals
deserts soft drinks it was just yeah
life was nutritionally not a problem
exactly
Wow so so that went along again and then
when did you tend to peak out your
largest weight what age were you at your
most weight I think when I when I got
into college that's when I just moved to
to New Zealand I went to university that
was at the age of about 1718 and I
started living by myself and
I was eating literally for six months my
diet consisted of pizza and beer for six
months nothing more nothing less
just pizza and beer and I topped out at
a hundred and thirty kilos I got to 130
kilos in our seventeen how many pounds
is that I think it's almost three I can
do a quick calculation but about 300
pounds Wow Wow
286 that's that's a good amount of
weight did you feel heavy be like
walking around in your joints or what
wasn't liking that
that way yeah it was it was terrible
you're always out of breath he couldn't
walk you know if there were if there was
a class on level 4 and and the lips
weren't working I wouldn't go to because
I just couldn't plug four flights of
stairs that's crazy
so so then how long did it did you just
go for a period of time when did you
start like going okay I need to turn
this around
um so my I stayed at 130 kilos for about
three to four years um and there was a
point where I was just sick of being the
most unpopular and the first kid in the
university and I decided that something
needed to change and and so I I started
researching a bit but nutrition and all
of that and and I made very small
changes at the time and those small
changes changed quite a lot in my dad
and those small changes consisted of
getting rid of sugar Wow yeah and then
you started losing weight and did you
when did you start and did you do
ketosis at all at some point so I got in
touch with a nutritionist to help me out
with losing weight and she introduced me
to ketosis she introduced me to what it
was what the diet looked like and all of
that and I got the first time I did
ketosis it took me about six weeks to
get into ketosis and I stayed in ketosis
for maybe three or four weeks and and
and got kicked out after three or four
weeks because I took a shot a single
shot of tequila kicked me others ketosis
but look during that journey I lost
about 40 kilos I went from 130 kilos to
89 I'll tell you how much 89 kilos is
just now 196 pounds wow that's a lot
yeah it was quite a bit but I was doing
a lot of workouts as well I was doing
Crossfit I was dreaming I was cycling
and running most mostly all four in a
single day as well as being on on on
ketosis
that was my first weight-loss journey
then I stopped all of that and and the
weight slowly started coming back on
because even though I had been doing
this for six months it had not become a
lifestyle it was still a regime right
and then I had stopped all of that and
life had gotten back in the way and I
slowly started putting on weight and in
about two years I put on 25 kilos and I
and I jumped up to to back up to 253
pounds
so at the start of this year I was 253
pounds and getting back to that 286
pounds point you know and I decided to
look into ketosis again and that's when
I came across your channel that's when I
came across your information and and I
realized what I was doing the first time
wasn't actually the best way to do even
though I got rid of all the refined
sugars I hadn't gotten rid of the the
carbs I would still have you know a
sweet potato in my diet for brown brown
rice or you know whole whole wheat pasta
and I realized who I hang on that's
still that's off-limits as well you know
and so when I tried it after after
seeing your information when I tried it
again remember the first time it took me
six weeks to get into ketosis the and
then when I tried it with you it took me
two days to not not even high two to
three days to get to D ptosis that's
fantastic
did you also add in a minute Vesta
fasting with it yeah so it's a bit and
fasting i I do intermittent fasting
right now I eat one to two meals a day
but that's not because I conscience
consciously adopted it it's just that
I'm not hungry enough to eat three meals
a day so I eat breakfast at around
eleven Latta and lunch / dinner at
around four and then that's it um and
then for forty eleven I yeah but that's
again it's not because I'm starving
myself I'm forcing myself it's that's
just when when I'm hungry that's
incredible so you don't have the
cravings anymore um sometimes I do do
but nowhere near as as much as
I used to carry near as much as I used
to so I'm back down to 104 kilos which
is 229 pounds and my goal is to by the
end of the year get down to 85 kilos
which is 187 pounds that's my that's my
goal
how tall are you 5 almost 5 8 ok that
sounds good that sounds like a good way
and I used like when you eat a meal give
me an example of what you eat breakfast
for example would be eggs bacon cheese
and a bit of hummus on the side that's
correct and then for dinner what would
you have or for farm steak and a chorizo
salad with feta and and and homeless on
the side as well but just a teaspoon or
two of hummus
I just love hummus and I'm so glad that
I'm able to have that I love hummus - do
you know the problem in the United
States with hummus is that most of its
soy soy base they don't even put olive
oil I'm like what I was going to ask you
what about are you still doing your
workouts like you were before right so
no I'm not doing Crossfit and jimang ira
[Music]
this year I decided to stop doing the
things that I hate because last time I
even though I was doing all these things
I didn't love what I was doing right so
this year I decided that I'm what I'm
trying to do is make a life start what
I'm trying to do is make a lifestyle
that I love that is my lifestyle that I
can sustain for the long run so instead
of going to the gym and doing crossfit i
found things that I do love so squash is
a sport here which is very similar to
racquetball in the States so I play that
on Saturday mornings with my friends and
then Monday and Wednesday nights I play
Ultimate Frisbee now these are fantastic
workouts you
no it's it's the the calorie burn is
twice as much as what I would get at a
gym you know and so that's what I do
three days a week and that's my that's
my workout so I'm trying to build a
lifestyle that that I love and can move
forward with for the long haul I love it
I love it to try to workout that my body
loves the most is chopping wood believe
it or not so I have my backyard we have
all this wood that's I'll chop wood for
a good salad half-hour
I like I walk by I'm just like sweating
I get my whole body involved so that's
what I do yeah
and what about what about your any other
benefits like energy level or cognitive
function so nowadays I wake up at around
5:30 in the morning and and and go on
till about 9:00 or 10:00 in the evening
and I used to always take a nap in the
afternoon I used to always have that 3
p.m. crash and my productivity around 3
p.m. was dead but now it's I don't feel
lethargic
I'm always ready to go whenever some of
the fiscal cliff Squasher let's go play
frisbee or whatever it is I feel my
energy levels are a lot more stable
rather than a high in the morning crash
in the afternoon and then high again in
the evening and late nights and things
like that so I feel like there's a lot
more stability and other people like
looking at you going support like just
like wow what did you do I can't even
recognize you do you have any of that
yeah yeah I'm getting a lot of that now
more so than I would say maybe a month
ago and I'm telling them everything but
every single person is also really doing
I say all you gotta do is go to youtube
type in dr. Eric bug and that's it so I
tell them that I'm on on the ketosis
diet and and and and then I refer to to
them on
to you on YouTube I've got other than
Instagram channel where I'm sort of
trying to help other people I'm just
sharing my result and if that inspires
other people fantastic and whenever I
talk about ketosis I talk about you know
dr. egg berg is my source of information
when it comes to the ketosis sauce and
thank you yeah I'm trying to keep it
simple but I think it's really important
for just doing these interviews for give
other people an idea that it doesn't
have to be you know doom and gloom it
needs to be a lifestyle change and you
have to make it part that fits you not
try to force things and I think a lot of
people that even do other programs like
Ideal Protein for example it's a
struggle they're doing snacks and then
they lose some weight and then they gain
it right back and they're in the same
shape that they're in so it's good to
hear your story I think it's going to be
very inspiring for other people yeah
yeah fantastic there's this some yeah
there are a lot of these shake ketosis
shake and I have no idea what ketosis
shakes are I've been approached many
times to try the shaken and it'll put
you in ketosis and blah blah blah and it
I don't understand it it doesn't make
sense to me I'm sticking away from it
but I shouldn't be drinking a shake and
well I just don't think it makes sense I
do maybe I don't know enough about it
I'm for me to make a judgment call on it
yeah I think it's gonna it's one of
those things this is my personal opinion
kind of a little bit of a gimmick that
well you can get Keaton you can actually
make your own ketones very inexpensively
with food and you don't just by not
eating certain things you don't have to
necessarily take ketones to burn those
ketones as fuel so I didn't really I
didn't in its multi-level so that turned
me off right there about anyway I'm not
into it right right but anyway this is
an amazing story printing I really
appreciate you sharing with us eight I
think it's amazing the before and afters
like incredible so
inspiring a new pleasure and thank you
for for taking the time to to make this
content and send it out and you know I
mean you're basically helping people
like me to to lose weight with
information and Atlas fantastic I I'd
like to thank you for all the effort in
time that you're putting into making all
this content oh wow
I appreciate that and thank I appreciate
thank you okay well you have a wonderful
afternoon or evening whatever time it is
over there 4:30 a.m. okay well thank you
for giving up in the middle of the night
and doing this video no worries no
worries dr. big okay have a great one
okay see ya
