hi guys dr. Berg here in this video I
really want to talk about chronic pain
after surgery you probably know friends
or family that have this chronic
residual pain after surgery and I want
to I want you to share with them what to
do I want you to watch this video okay
because it's so easy to fix
pain that resides in is residual after a
surgery there's two things one is a
surgery is an additional trauma because
they're cutting you or repairing
something okay
of course you're under anesthetics but
your adrenal and the body still
experience the trauma you just don't
have you're not awake to feel it so it
is a trauma it's necessary but it
creates more trauma many times okay so
instead of showing you how to treat
every single possible surgery that
similar to have and what to do I'm going
to give you a principle and then show
you a couple so you can think with it
one is that let's just take phantom pain
they cut off the leg for example and now
you have pain on the phantom side of the
leg you have pain where they cut it even
though there's no leg there right well
why is that because the left and the
right side of your body the front and
back are connected neurologically you
have nerves that crossover they're on
the same circuitry winning up trauma to
a body part you lose nerve supply you
lose circulation blood supply waste
removal you basically lose the
connection between your brain and that
that body part what happens is your body
will set up a kind of a stuck flow where
you have now it's constantly hurting
constant inflammation it won't heal now
in the case of the leg being removed
you're just sensing where that leg was
but it's hurting right where you had the
leg which is fascinating but it happens
a lot so here's what the principle is
what you want to do is never do therapy
on the same location where you have the
surgery
do therapy massage acupressure on the
mirror image now if you've been watching
my videos you already know this but the
mirror image why because it's on the
same circuit you can affect one part of
the body can affect the other side of
the body okay so let's just take a look
phantom pain you had the leg removed on
one side no more leg but you hurt down
here you do massage on the opposite leg
okay and watch how the pain goes away
it's always going to be twice as tender
on the opposite side of the leg now you
might be watching this video and be
laughing like that's a joke it's not
scientific whatever but just go ahead
and do it and see if it works it's going
to work I've done this thousands tens of
thousands of times highly effective and
it does work so unless you try it you'll
never know because that's how you get
rid of phantom pain mastectomy they
remove a breast okay of course once they
remove the breast in the shower with
maybe some lotion or something right
after the shower you could actually
massage the opposite breast because that
would be the opposite mirror image side
it'll be tender on the good breast and
what will happen you'll actually knock
out the pain on the area where you had
the mastectomy so that's how you would
do that one hernia let's say you had a
hernia down here on the left lower side
of your abdomen just massage on the
mirror image on the right side the
abdomen okay and when you're talking
about massage it can be a gentle
irregular motion it doesn't have to have
any pattern to it you can do it with
massage tool your hand you can do it
with them a vibration tool whatever now
let's say you had a damaged pelvis on
the left side of your pelvis just work
on the opposite side and the pelvis okay
the key is getting the exact point of
where you had the most trauma like the
EPI Simar epicenter on the opposite side
okay
little secret there let's say you have
low back pain right that was right in
the center of your lower back well
what's the opposite side it's on the
front side you work on the
front right here so at the bellybutton
that would be l3 so you have to go like
two two and a half inches lower to get
l5 and when you work on that area you'll
find like wow it's tender right in that
spot because it's always going to be
tender on the other side shoulder you
had let's say you had surgery to the
bicipital tendon on the left side work
on the opposite bicep tendon
let's say you had a head trauma on or
surgery to your skull on this side work
on the opposite side let's say you had a
Morton's neuroma surgery on the bottom
of your left foot work on the opposite
side this is the most effective
technique out there and it is so easy to
create a very cool effect thanks for
watching
hey you probably already subscribed but
if you haven't press this little button
down below and I will keep you updated
