in this video I'm going to talk about
how to lose weight without losing muscle
so if that's your concern um take notes
because last thing you want to do is do
all this weight loss and then end up
with like loose skin and look flabby and
get weak and that can happen but there
what builds up your protein to keep your
protein from breaking down because
there's three sources of fuel number one
you have sugar fuel okay then you have
fat fuel but you also have protein your
body will break down your own protein in
the weight loss process if you if you
don't have enough of this you need
something called branched amino acids
now what is Branched amino acids those
are amino acids one would be uh thing
called ISO Lucine
Lucine and um a couple other ones okay
so don't worry about the names of them
just go to the health store and get
branched amino acids if you wanted to
supplement but you don't really
necessarily need to get these because
I'm going to tell you the foods that you
can get them in um there's three foods
are high in Branch amino acids that will
protect your muscles from breaking down
when you're trying to lose weight um
number one would be eggs okay eggs are
number one number two cottage cheese are
loaded with this branched amino acids
and number and the next one would be soy
now we don't want to do soy okay that's
out that's it has the branch amino acids
but it's a low quality and it'll mess up
your liver now eggs are good but um the
main thing with cottage cheese is that
when you buy cottage cheese that's not
organic a lot of times in the label
they'll add modified food starch and
that would be MSG so you do not want to
consume anything with MSG so make sure
it's organic organic cottage cheese okay
and then you're good
um so those are three great sources of
protein to prevent the breakdown of
muscle tissue when you're working out
okay so that's how to prevent the muscle
loss when you're trying to lose weight
