so I wanted to answer another question
related to internment fasting someone
wanted to know what's the minimum amount
of time that you can fast to see the
benefits okay and that is 18 hours okay
and there's many different ways that you
can do this you can eat at 12:00 and
6:00 you can eat it between one and
seven eleven and five okay or ten to
four okay so this would give you a six
hour eating window and an 18 hour
fasting period the key is not snacking
okay so then you have this thing called
a bulletproof coffee right where you're
actually consuming some coffee and MCT
or coconut oil outside the window so
realize when you're adding fat on a
positive note you are adding more
ketones to the whole system but you
potentially you could be causing your
body to use that as fuel versus your own
fat and if you really want to do this by
the book I would recommend only doing
black coffee and not anything else in it
and if you consuming anything other than
water you are gonna break your faster
that includes coffee so coffee in
general if it's organic and you're
having a small amount could create some
other benefits that can help you with
this and I like to go longer so I'm not
telling you not to consume that coffee
but you may want to tone it down with an
MCT oil and the coconut oil because that
could actually be too much especially if
you're trying to lose weight but the
other bigger point is you don't want to
do snacking outside that window a lot of
times people will take the peanut butter
right like just allow them to go longer
well there's carbs in that peanut butter
so at least with the bulletproof coffee
there's no carbs there's just fat but to
achieve the full benefits you want to go
18 hours or more I like 20 hours with a
four hour with an eating window that's
kind of what I focus on and you'll
experience some great benefits and then
maybe you can do some periodic fasting
once a week or once a month all right
guys thanks for watching so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
