hi guys today we're gonna talk about key
tell Platt tell okay you get on the
ketogenic plan and you lose all this
weight initially maybe like the first
month for six weeks but then things
start slowing down what's happening this
is very frustrating it may cause you to
want to quit or stop but you may not
because of all the other benefits you
might be looking better feeling better
in your clothes and you might have no
cravings no hunger and have more energy
okay but let's just talk about plateau
in general you know about The Biggest
Loser
right these people workout basically
eight hours a day they reduce the
calories they eventually lose the weight
do they gain the way back yes pretty
much all of them gain the way back why
because of this one simple fact losing
weight is not a normal thing for the
body it's anti is survival I mean just
think about what fat is fat is stored
energy in fact your body doesn't even
care what you look like it just wants to
store the energy and hold it you know
this is true because it's much easier to
gain weight than it is to lose weight
alright so now when you go on a diet and
I'm talking about a low calorie diet
your metabolism will adjust and it will
start slowing down it will adapt and you
will eventually create what's called a
set point which is a weight that it's
almost impossible to bust through so
let's say for example you're on the
program and you get to let's say 180 or
170 and you just can't seem to get below
that okay you're just like no matter
what you do so what really stops you
from busting through that Plateau that
set point that weight that your body is
very comfortable at is high levels of
insulin okay so too much insulin won't
counter your ability to burn fat because
it prevents fat burning okay and usually
what comes along with that is insulin
resistance so the combination of insulin
resistance which the majority of the
population has and excessive insulin
they goes both go hand-in-hand
is what's behind this set point okay all
right the big question is does keto slow
your metabolism like other diets
and the answer is this not if you're
adding intermittent fasting okay now why
do I say that and by the way what's the
difference between intermittent fasting
and a low calorie diet some people will
say they're the same thing because you
are consuming less calories if you're
not eating so frequent right well
there's a huge difference and it boils
down to this one reference right here in
guidance physiology okay on page 930 and
we're talking about other factors that
stimulate insulin okay it says
gastrointestinal hormones there's a
hormone called GI P now what does that
mean it means that when you eat when you
eat frequently you trigger insulin so
key tell is low carb and that's gonna
lower insulin in a min fasting is less
frequent eating less GIP hormone less
insulin okay so both these actions keto
low-carb interm√≥n fasting less frequent
eating will lower insulin and improve
this set point this plateau where as low
calories doesn't focus on frequency of
eating in fact when you're in a low
calorie diet you have to eat frequent
meals and snacks you're probably doing
five to six meals small meals well try
this experiment at home go ahead and
fast and then go ahead and eat just a
little bit of protein let's say two
strips of bacon and I've done this
before you eat just a little bit of
protein I will guarantee within an hour
you are gonna be starving okay why
because of this you're eating and every
time you eat you spike insulin almost
regardless of what you eat anything
so it'll spike insulin the blood Sugar's
will be plummeted and then you will be
hungry so with low calorie diets you are
constantly hungry okay and you have more
insulin production within a minute
fasting despite having the same amount
of calories okay as a low calorie diet
you have less insulin spike because
you're not eating so frequently but the
cool thing is you're not hungry
why
because when you lower insulin you
finally get to tap in your fat reserve
now there's a great analogy is that
someone added to one of my comments in
the YouTube channel when you're doing
the low calorie diet and you're
dependent on sugar fuel you're basically
living paycheck to paycheck because
you're dependent on the sugar okay
you're not tapping into the fat you tap
into fat you have to lower the insulin
when you're doing keto and I F you're
tapping into your reserve fuel the fat
this is your wise investments that build
up a reserve over time that give you
interest now with this model you may
have a huge reserve in the bank you
might have a million dollars in the bank
but you're not able to tap into it
because insulin is like the lock that
holds it there alright so in order to
tap into this fat you need to lower
insulin and that's gonna help lower your
setpoint
now the main reason why you get a
plateau on keto mainly has to do with
your past dieting okay
you may remember when the first time you
died it worked
second time maybe worked third time it
didn't work is great for time it's not
working that great and then to the point
where now it doesn't work at all all
that means is you've generated so much
insulin in your body and you do so much
instant resistance that's what's really
behind this problem so when you do keto
and you definitely need to add if' to it
and that's the secret to speed this up
realize that the barrier is the high
insulin and you need to actually do a
little bit lower carb with the keto and
you need to decrease the frequency of
eating and get a little bit stricter
with your intimate of fasting now a lot
of you based on survey are doing a
six-hour window of eating in an 18 hour
fast okay but you're still doing two
meals which is fine but if you plateaued
and you want to speed things up okay
what you want to do is you want to go
down to one meal a day okay it's called
Oh mad what that will do that will speed
things up because you're gonna really
drop insulin down and the other tip you
want to do is when you do keto start to
lower your carbs even below 20 grams
maybe down to even
10 grams or even lower okay and there's
one more thing that you want to do that
I talked about in other videos and I'll
put the link down below
it's called prolonged fasting you can do
it periodically once a week do once a
month so I put a link down below on that
video specifically and I also put a link
down below of how I would recommend
doing in a minute fasting so check it
out
bust through the plateau through
lowering your insulin improving insulin
resistance thanks for watching so I want
to thank you for being here and watching
my videos if you haven't already
subscribed go ahead and do so so you can
stay informed of future videos
