let's talk about the benefits of
sweating from exercise there's other
benefits of sweating going to a sauna
but I want to emphasize more of the
benefits of sweating from actual
exercise what's interesting is that a
person could actually lose two to four
liters of sweat and at one hour time
it's incredible that's a lot of sweat
sweat is composed of sodium potassium
calcium magnesium
these are the main electrolytes and
chloride and some of the trace minerals
copper iron chromium and urea which is a
byproduct of protein and even lactic
acid so when you sweat it's like a mini
air conditioner it's gonna help with
thermal regulation it's going to cool
you down it's also going to rebalance
your electrolytes and the advantage to
that is that the average person is
carrying around way too much sodium and
in fact in America based on our diet we
consume about a thousand milligrams more
sodium than we really need and with that
comes all sorts of issues which I'll get
into in the next slide and also sweating
can increase your endorphins which can
make you feel better it will decrease
stress it will also enhance your sleep
and the combination of an average person
having way too much salt in their body
and sweating out this sodium which by
the way you can eliminate on average 900
milligrams of sodium every single hour
and sometimes up to 2,000 milligrams of
sodium in a given hour and when you're
sweating you're not really losing a lot
of these other minerals at all it's
mainly gonna be sodium okay now let's
just talk about sodium for a second you
need just the right amount of sodium you
don't want too little sodium and you
don't want too much sodium and by the
way when I'm talking about sodium I'm
not talking necessarily about salt salt
is sodium chloride in this situation I'm
talking about sodium of course I would
recommend getting your sodium from sea
salt that's the best source and I would
recommend one teaspoon per day of sea
salt that will give you
about 2,300 milligrams of sodium as well
as chloride and you're actually gonna
get 40% of a teaspoon is going to be
sodium and 60% is going to be the
chloride and you need that chloride to
build your hydrochloric acid to help you
digest but if you just keep it simple
and just stick with one teaspoon of sea
salt a day you're gonna be fine for the
average person if you're doing a high
carb diet you want to take less and I
don't recommend doing a high carb diet
but if you are doing high carbs the more
salt you do the more fluid you're gonna
retain unfortunately when people get
their salt they usually get it in the
form of like a salty chip a pretzel
popcorn pizza they're not getting it
from things like olives or actual just
sea salt but here are the symptoms of
too little sodium fainting dizzy you get
up too quickly and you feel dizzy low
blood pressure weak muscles low
tolerance to heat so let's say you're
out of the heat working out and you just
feel really really bad you can't
tolerate the heat that is basically low
sodium and craving salt these are the
indications of a sodium deficiency how
do you know if you're getting too much
you're getting an edema
you're gonna swell you're gonna also
lose your calcium so you might get
cramping and the calcium could
accumulate in your kidneys and give you
a kidney stone that could be one side
effect or high blood pressure possibly
it all depends on how much potassium
you're consuming I know there's a huge
push to get everyone off of sodium but
realize we need sodium we need this much
per day
the correct thing to do would be to
supply this and supply the opposing
mineral which is potassium okay and that
comes from the leafy greens but getting
back to the sweating there's many
benefits of sweating from actual
exercise that's the best way to sweat
exercise to the point of sweating and
maybe a little bit beyond and in the
days that you're not working out
intensively go on the long walks all
right thanks for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
