so the question we're going to answer
today is why dietary protein does not
cause gout many people think that it
does they do have this consideration
because purines turn into uric acid and
foods that are high in purines are organ
meats veal turkey venison sardines and
fish and red meat well let's just first
talk about what uric acid is uric acid
is a byproduct of protein and when uric
acid gets too high in the blood it can
precipitate out and settle into certain
joints and create all sorts of
inflammation mainly in your big toe but
it can happen in your knees your hips
your shoulders anywhere in the body then
you have all this advice to cut out the
medes and become a vegetarian etc etc
but I want to explain a couple
interesting facts number one over 60% of
the uric acid in your body does not come
from the diet it comes from your own
body your body makes it
it's called endogenous so that means
that only one-third of the uric acid
that's in your body actually comes from
the actual diet now when people do
fasting for example or go on a ketogenic
diet they may have an initial spike of
uric acid in the transitional stage and
that occurs because of the fact that
uric acid is also a major antioxidant in
your body so apparently when your body
is fasting and on a low-carb diet your
body is needing these antioxidants which
are made internally to clean up or heal
certain things I mean think about it
it's really the protein that's causing
the uric acid why would you have a spike
of uric acid when you're fasting and
you're not eating anything and the next
point I want to bring up is this 90% of
people with gout heavy problem with
eliminating uric acid not the
overproduction of uric acid only 10% of
the people with gout produce too much
uric acid so the real problem with gout
is that you're not able to eliminate the
uric acid so what does that mean it
means that the problem was within the
kidney itself so there's some type of
kidney damage or some type of kidney
dysfunction where you're holding on to
uric acid so the next question is what
types of conditions create kidney damage
now the top the list we have diabetes if
you're diabetic you have a major risk of
getting gout why is that because when
you're diabetic now I'm not talking
about type 1 I'm talking about type 2
which is the majority of diabetics you
have a higher level of insulin okay of
course it's not working so you have
insulin resistance so that means you
have a situation where you have the
cells not absorbing insulin so the body
compensates by making more insulin so
you have all this insulin that's
ineffective because you have insulin
resistance so we have high insulin but
it's not working
you have high glucose okay because you
don't have insulin in there to regulate
it even though you have an excess of
amount but it's dysfunctional and that's
what causes the kidney destruction
there's actually four areas of your body
of that insulin and high sugar destroys
one is the nerves in the brain number
two is the eye and the heart the vessels
around the heart and the heart muscle
itself and the kidney so insulin
resistance is really behind the gout so
fructose for example will really cause
gout pretty quick
why because out of all the sugars
fructose has the biggest impact on
causing insulin resistance and fructose
directly can increase uric acid so high
amounts of insulin and/or high amounts
of glucose cause the kidney to retain
uric acid they also cause the kidney to
retain fluid so now this is making a
little bit more sense it's not the
protein it's the insulin resistance so
what can you do alright number one you
have to heal insulin resistance now when
you start a healthy key to a plan and
you do in a minute fasting you may find
that your uric acid does spike only on a
temporary basis but if you continue it
and you get through the adaptation
this that will go away but you want to
do health Aikido and in a minute fasting
to target this to improve this so you
can improve this and then eventually
this right here so as a side note in the
meantime what you could do to
temporarily reduce the gout symptoms is
to alkalize the body a little bit how
with potassium citrate okay you can get
it in an electrolyte powder or just take
potassium citrate that will increase the
ph a little bit of the urine and that
will inhibit the formation of uric acid
in the joints alright thanks for
watching so if you like this video go
ahead and share it with someone that you
know that can truly benefit from it
