hey guys I recently had a question and
can I consume watermelon on a ketogenic
plant okay so let's just talk about that
there's two things that you need to know
one is the glycemic index okay that is
the speed at which sugars are elevated
in the bloodstream okay
that would be considered like if I had a
gun right now and I shot a bullet it's
the speed of the bullet then you have
also something called the glycemic load
and this is the quantity of carbohydrate
so that would be how many bullets coming
out so the glycemic load is the glycemic
index times the digestible carbohydrates
divided by a hundred okay
so it's just a value less than ten is on
the low side so watermelon has a low
glycemic load but a pretty high glycemic
index now here's the thing if you
consume larger and larger amounts of
watermelon or or any food this gets
multiplied so with the glycemic index
this pretty much stays the same same
effect but adding more quantity will
increase this so if you keep a small
amount you're going to be okay as long
as you stay within your net carbs and
one last point I'm gonna bring up if
your metabolism is really slow you want
to avoid watermelon and even avoid the
berries and not even give in to that but
for most people that have a relatively
good metabolism they can get away with a
little bit of watermelon and some
berries alright thanks for watching
hey guys a quick survey question I want
to know what topic you would like me to
do a video on so each week I'm coming up
with different types of videos but I
would rather have you tell me what
you're interested in so I put a link
down below please fill it out
