let's talk about the biggest barrier to
recovery in actual healing and that is
stress and the activation of the flight
or fight mechanism it's called the
sympathetic nervous system and a person
is in sympathetic dominance and you have
high levels of cortisol and high levels
of adrenaline both produced by the
adrenal gland the activation of the
sympathetic nervous system and the
activation of cortisol really wasn't
designed to go more than 90 seconds
problem is nowadays it's just all day
long our environments our life is filled
with things that keep us in stress mode
when the body is in flight-or-fight it's
preparing for emergency survival running
away from something or fighting and you
will not heal a hundred percent if
you're in this mode many people have the
switch turn on and they just can't turn
it off and this prevents the sleep which
has an entire cascade of additional
things that can happen I did a whole
video on that it also release glucose
okay your body has a stored glucose as
glycogen it's gonna release glucose when
you have high levels of cortisol I mean
even another name for cortisol is
glucocorticoid it's a glucose
controlling hormone and it will activate
insulin that's why a lot of times people
become diabetic when they have stress
for too long so you're not gonna be able
to recover your digestion is not gonna
work that well the speed of wound
healing is less you retain sodium and
you'll dump potassium the more stress
you have the more that you just will
lose potassium chronic stress destroys
something your brain called the
hippocampus and hippocampus has to do
with memory learning and locating
yourself in time and space so you're
like okay we're gonna do with those keys
where did I park you're studying
something but it's just not quite going
in it could be from the stress affecting
this brain structure also stress is the
main activator
or disease and especially infection it's
almost impossible to get sick if you're
stress-free it's virtually impossible to
have a disease if you don't have any
stress you take a look at anyone who had
a disease or an infection and they had
stress right before that happening
chronic stress then causes cortisol to
be resistant very similar to insulin
resistance you can have cortisol
resistance so your body is pumping out
more cortisol but it's not really
working and because cortisol is an
anti-inflammatory that function doesn't
work anymore and you just become one big
ball of inflammation being in the flight
of fight mode too long can increase your
risk of heart attacks and it can even
cause a loss of bone formation I had a
patient when I was in practice come in
the office and she was postmenopausal
she her entire spine collapsed where
she's now she's like a hunchback and the
bones are literally caved in on each
other it was really really weird so I
sent her out to get tested and her
cortisol was off the charts
so cortisol can definitely affect bone
formation as well as caused a loss of
College information now what part of
your body is collagen ligament tendons
and cartilage so your joints so the
joints become a big problem plus they're
gonna be inflamed but other than that
you're gonna be good to go and the
biggest symptom to know if you're in
this situation is to look at your
tolerance to stress you may find that
you have a great difficulty in
babysitting my five kids for more than
eight hours that might get on your
nerves you have low patience for very
slow drivers in front of you but it is
your ability to have patience which is
the best indicator for strength of your
adrenal gland your ability to be calm in
chaos that would be a very strong
adrenal all right so here are a few
things you can do the more stress that
you have the more your inflow fight the
more you should exercise this is a
really good therapy for a lot of people
walking hardcore exercise just
more exercise of course diet I'm talking
about healthy Kido talking about fasting
it's very very important acupressure put
some links down below that will really
put you in a state of relaxation b1 the
most important nutrient to take for this
condition nutritional yeast take a lot
of it potassium very very important it's
a physiological relaxer it calms the
nervous system down magnesium very
important and then we have breathing
there's a great technique to actually
affect your nervous system so when
someone's in a state of stress they
breathe like this their exhalation is
very fast or shortened so what you want
to do is you want to breathe in slowly
and breathe out slowly at the same rate
whether it's three or four seconds in
it's going to be probably four or five
seconds in and then four or five seconds
out if you practice that you it'll
actually pull you out of the flutter
fight mechanism the keishon that is very
very therapeutic you need to find a
desert island where you can go by
yourself for three months I actually
said that another video and a lady that
I met recently told me she heard that
advice and she did go on a vacation for
two months in Italy and she'd lost all
this weight and she did great so this is
very good therapy if you can do it don't
take things so serious people that are
in stress mode are very very serious you
need to be the opposite of serious you
need to be playful you need to be
carefree you need to be relaxed you need
to pull yourself out of this excessive
worry and thinking and analyzing and
solving problems 24/7 anyway I have some
additional videos that you definitely
need to check out on stress on this page
check it out
