hey it's me again in this video we're
going to talk about the six tips doing a
keto ketogenic diet with a sluggish
gallbladder so many people have a slug
of stalled letter and that those
symptoms would be bloating after I eat
right side of underneath the rib cage
feels full and kind of maybe even sore
painful pain that goes up into the right
shoulder blade intolerance with fat your
when you go to the bathroom it floats so
there's a whole series of things burping
belching indigestion those are signs of
a sluggish gallbladder okay right
shoulder blade pain headaches on the
right side anything on the right side up
here is usually gallbladder so I'm going
to give you some tips to so you can
you're able to do the ketogenic diet
with a sluggish gallbladder and actually
improve it okay number one I always
recommend adding in a minute fasting to
the ketogenic diet simply because it
allows the gallbladder to reset if you
think about the purpose of the
gallbladder it's the SAC that helps
concentrate bile well you're going to
have to concentrate about between meals
if you're snacking all day and eating
too much too frequently you'll never
concentrate the bile to the point where
it's supposed to be like 20 times more
concentrated so that way when you eat
this concentrated bile really helps them
multiply and break down the fat
extracting the fat soluble vitamins as
compared to having some dilute bile that
doesn't really do the job because you're
eating too frequently so taking the
stress off the liver and gallbladder the
way you do that is not easy so in a
minute fasting like three meals no
snacks and then two meals no snack
snacks very very important ok number two
add a lot of vegetables why because
you're going to be in fat boating so all
the fats going to have to go through the
liver through the gallbladder and you're
going to have to flesh it out and keep
things going if you do the ketogenic
diet without vegetables you probably end
up with a fatty liver so we always want
to keep those very very high you're not
going to be able to get your vegetables
from pills you're going to have to
actually eat actual vegetables so it
might be a new concept not fruits but
vegetables the more bitter the better
that's not kind of funny but like
arugula is really good kale is good
Swiss chard is good spinach is good if
you have kidney stones don't do spinach
okay the other thing you can do is
radishes onions garlic it's all really
good for the liver but a lot of
vegetables to keep the flow going and
offset a lot of the fat burning that's
taking place the other thing that's
really good is parsley beet tops were
really good for the gallbladder and
think about the reason you have a
sluggish gallbladder in the first place
is probably because you're not eating
those foods so it will prevent a problem
down the road and even correct it okay
number three adding bile salts what is
bile salts that's the actually the stuff
that's in here that is bile it's
purified bile salts if you think about
what we're trying to do we're trying to
prevent gall stones okay what causes
gall stones is a lack of bile okay it's
not too much fat or cholesterol it's a
lack of bile bile salts break down
cholesterol without bile salts you get a
super concentration or super saturation
of the cholesterol that forms the stone
so by adding more bile salts in a
supplement form you can actually help
like replace what's missing in there and
also speed things up I have a gall
bladder formula you can check it out
there's link below or just get some bile
salts but you need to have that like one
after each meal especially if you have a
history of gallbladder problems number
four do not consume grains or sugar
especially if it's combined with protein
or fat because you're going to spike
insulin the number one cause of a
sluggish gall bladder and gall stones is
too much insulin so we're trying to keep
the insulin low and every time we have
the grains and sugar it's going to
aggravate the gall bladder way more than
eating saturated fats well number five
avoiding protein powders did you realize
that the more low-fat protein you
consume like whey protein the greater
the insulin spike in nature protein
never comes
as pure protein it comes with fat and
protein usually so having having too
many protein powders can aggravate the
liver and the gallbladder I believe it
or not because you have this this
protein without the fat that stimulates
the vile so it's a strain on the
gallbladder I had this patient she went
to this weight loss program and they
gave her this this diet of protein
powder and that's pretty much it she
ended up with a permanent gallbladder
disorder constant burping 24/7 it drove
her husband crazy so I wouldn't do
protein powders if you have a sluggish
gallbladder okay number 6 avoid doing
too many nuts a lot of times people when
they start doing the ketogenic diet they
start adding more nuts to this diet and
that can mess up the gallbladder can
irritate it so just kind of go light
with that because that could be the
reason why you might have some worsening
of your symptoms okay so I hope you got
a couple tips thanks for watching put
your comments below hey you probably
already subscribed but if you haven't
press this little button down below and
I will keep you updated
