so I wanted to answer the question why
has Kido got such a bad rap in the first
place why do you see in the news that
it's such a dangerous thing to do
there's so many side effects it's gonna
cause constipation high uric acid it's
going to pleat your calcium a little
magnesium kidney stones golf stones high
cholesterol vomiting diarrhea fatigue it
can even create hypoglycemia low growth
so it can stunt your growth abnormal
heart rhythm but guess what all these
symptoms could happen if you do keto but
here's the differentiation if you do the
traditional or classical version of the
ketogenic diet which was designed for
children with epilepsy to do but just so
you know I want to differentiate this
from the healthy version of ketosis
because if we're going to talk about
dirty Kido this is dirty keto on
steroids look at some of the foods that
they're gonna use they're gonna allow
mayonnaise with soy oil salad dressings
with more soy oil which is all GML more
vegetable oil they'll use this thing
called keto Cal 3-1 which is more
refined vegetable oil soy and other oils
which are GMO
casein which is actually approaching
over here and this is obviously not
organic or it's not grass-fed at all
it's a type of protein and it's
definitely very low on the list as far
as quality of protein and they're not
looking at the nutrient density they
will recommend synthetic vitamins but
that's not real nutrition and they even
allow certain carbohydrates in small
amounts but they still allow some bread
some rice some orange juice diets soda
corn syrup solids multiple dextran so if
you're gonna add these refined
carbohydrates you're gonna deplete
nutrients you're gonna deplete trace
minerals and minerals if you're going to
load the person up with a lot of oils
and heavy cream that is not like high
level stuff you're gonna create a lot of
gall bladder issues and congestion and
digestive issues like diarrhea for sure
not to mention
loading and all sorts of things and one
thing they don't emphasize is some
vegetables of course because kids don't
eat vegetables right but they might
recommend some broccoli if it's you know
using the microwave or overly cooked
with some maybe some Velveeta cheese on
it it's just the quality is so low that
we just don't have the nutrients to
prevent these side-effects so when you
see these things in the news realize
they're actually getting studies that
were done but using this version of
ketone and the reason why this does work
over 50% of the time with epilepsy is
because you do lower the carbon enough
to spike the ketones and ketones are a
preferred fuel for the brain so you're
going to see some benefits for sure but
we're just not creating a healthy body I
mean if we take a slow growth okay
stunted growth that is completely
related to how many trace minerals that
that child is consuming through their
diet so I just wanted to create this
quick video to differentiate these two
things and also for those of you that
are new I have the video on how to do
keto the healthy way check it out
