hi guys I wanted to create a very short
video on answering this question will
Stevia worsen your blood sugars and the
answer is no it won't well that was a
quick video wasn't it well let me just
tell you why real quick um some people
have this idea that because Stevia is
sweet your body won't determine the
difference from sugar so it's going to
trick your body and think that it's
really sugar and then it's going to
raise the blood sugar and then insulin
is going to bring it down so you're
going to end up with hypoglycemia and
then the adrenals are going to put pump
up adrenaline and cortisol and and it's
going to be really bad for your adrenals
that's not going to happen that's not
going to happen I don't know where they
got that information from but because
things are similar doesn't make them the
same
okay Stevia does not increase insulin it
doesn't um Stevia um if it comes with
maltodextrin or sugar that might be a
problem so just make sure sure that you
get plain Stevia without the extra stuff
sometimes Stevia comes with the reol
which sometimes is GMO unless it's non
GMO of course you don't want to do that
because that's made out of corn but the
point is Stevia by itself is a good
thing it is not bad for you it does not
create problems and you can consume it
as a sugar substitute thanks for
watching hey if you're enjoying my
videos press the Subscribe button below
and I will keep you updated on the
future events thank you so much by
