you know I've done videos on some of
these fake Meats fake cheese fake eggs
and in this video I want to share with
you my thoughts on why it's really never
going to go mainstream recently I was at
an outdoor restaurant and um
I saw on the sign it said Burgers right
so I ordered a burger and she says you
know that's it's a vegan burger and I
said no thank you she said no no they're
really really healthy I mean everyone's
doing them I said no thank you if you
don't have any real meat
um what else do you have and they said
well we have omelets with real eggs
perfect
so I ordered the omelette with feta
cheese I quickly realized there was
something not right because my my throat
was itching and I was like what the heck
is going on with my throat and um
it was real eggs but the feta cheese was
fake cheese okay and so I went up to the
person and I said what are the
ingredients you guys serve real cheese
or is it some other ingredients and then
they showed me the ingredients of the
cheese and this is what it had it had
canola oil which is super processed
highly inflammatory it also had tofu
which is not a fermented product it also
had soy protein which of course is GMO
and highly processed it had something
called bottleized yeast which no one
knows what's in that and then another
ingredient called carrageenan okay so
any one of those ingredients could
create an irritation in my throat and I
don't know exactly which one it was but
my body totally let me know don't eat
that so what's gonna happen over time as
more and more people are testing out
some of these alternative animal
products their health is going to suffer
because the ingredients are not healthy
I think a lot of people have bought the
Kool-Aid that beef is a very unhealthy
food and it's destroying the planet and
we must get rid of cows and of course
I'm not talking about the factory
farming cows I'm talking about Farmers
that actually let their cows graze on
pasture I mean what is wrong with 100
grass-fed beef uh it's actually a super
healthy food and it's extremely healthy
for the environment before we get into
that I want to mention something about
the impossible burger and I think
there's another one called Beyond Burger
so here's a list of the ingredients in
the impossible Burger soy protein
isolates which again are GMO you also
have potato protein okay I mean how much
protein is in a potato and is it really
complete or partial protein or amino
acids it also has cultured dextrose okay
so we have this cultured synthetic sugar
we also have modified food starch and
just so you know modified food starch is
maltodextrin okay it's
higher than sugar on the glycemic index
so we're going to add this sugar to the
protein not a good combination it also
has something called methyl cellulose
okay that is for texture and who knows
what that's going to do in your gut
microbes it's definitely a synthetically
made product
and it's processed and it's inflammatory
but they have to use it to give you the
texture of meat then you have another
ingredient called soy leg hemoglobin now
what the heck is that
well it's basically a bioengineered
protein from soy which gives you the
taste of meat the texture of meat but
it's not meat and because it's not
really classified as a food it's not
recognized as being safe there's really
no long-term safety studies so who knows
what it's going to do to the population
then we have another burger called the
Beyond Burger and this one we have pea
protein isolates very highly processed
protein out of peas and if I'm not
mistaken the way that they process it
they have to use things like hexane just
like they do in canola oil and other
seed oils but the point is they're not
just taking peace from the farm and you
know making this in the burger they're
actually turning it into a highly
processed product and of course canola
oil which is another GMO oil and then
rice protein and then mung bean protein
and then we have to add the methyl
cellulose which we've just mentioned
before and to put the ice cream the cake
we have potato starch just to make it
taste a little bit better so we mix this
starch or sugar with the protein and we
get this glycation not good for your
body you see in regular grass-fed beef
you don't have potato starch you don't
have seed oils you don't have to add
things that give it texture so
unfortunately you're in a big experiment
right now so as far as sustainability
they're not sustainable for your health
and they're not sustainable for the
environment but the bigger message of
this video is something that's very very
important what is it about cows that are
grazing in the pasture that is so
healthy well um I want to show you this
book right here this book called soil
grass and cancer okay
cost me 250 it's it's like you can't
find something uh Kindle this is the
link between human and animal health and
mineral balance of the soil okay I read
this I'm on my second time through it's
a fascinating uh book on the
relationship between what's going on in
soil what's going on in the plant what's
going on in the animal and then how that
relates to our human bodies as far as
our health if there's something missing
in this chain it can greatly affect our
health I mean if you think about if you
take um land let's take the worst case
scenario like you have just dirt right I
mean there's no fertility in that soil
how are you going to make that soil
fertile you can't do it without putting
an animal on that land so cows are the
best way to make soil very very fertile
and how do they do that well through a
cow pie okay manure the cow pie is the
ultimate fertilizer it's loaded with
nitrogen
phosphorus potassium that goes right
back in the soil it also has carbon that
is put back into the soil as well
but more than all of those things it
puts the microbes back in the soil but
it's really the concentration the
density of those microbes in the soil
that makes the plant nutrient dense the
animal nutrient dense
it all comes from the microbe now I
recently did a video on this one topic
and I interviewed Dr James White who has
his PhD in plant biology and it's
fascinating discussion because the way
that a plan gets its nutrients is
through the microbes dissolving minerals
from rocks and then exchanging with the
plant root carbohydrates that feed the
microbe and then the microbes give the
plant nutrients like certain minerals
but there's something new that I just
learned that just was actually
mind-blowing there's another mechanism
where a plant gets its nutrients it'll
actually attract microbes and suck the
microbe right into the root and into the
plant and extract nutrients from the
microbe like nitrogen phosphorus and
other minerals so in other words it's
not just the exchange of microbes at the
root level it's actually pulling the
microbe in taking out the nutrients and
then pushing this microbe back out into
the soil to recycle and get more
nutrition to bring it right back in
there's a whole machine going on in the
soil level that that plant is dependent
on that microbe and that's called the
rhizoph phagy cycle rhizo meaning roots
and phagy meaning eat so the roots that
eat microbes that pull the nutrition in
there so to create Health we need
nutrient dense foods okay and the only
way to get the nutrient dense foods is
to consume food that's grown on nutrient
dense soils and so I will guarantee the
plants that are in the impossible burger
that are in the fake cheese that are on
the Beyond Burger are using genetically
modified things which then inhibit this
microbial growth I mean even take a look
at glyphosate right which is a Roundup
Ready they classified that as an
antibiotic what do you think that does
to the soil microbial life and so if you
haven't seen my video on some recent
mind-blowing research
comparing grass-fed grass-finished beef
to grain-fed beef
you have to check that out I put it up
right here
