so let's talk about how vitamin D can
actually reduce your inflammation but
the first thing we need to understand is
what actually is inflammation well it's
this the immune system responds to a
stimulus that is viewed as foreign or
toxic to your body
we call that an antigen so an antigen is
something that is foreign to the body
it's a threat to the body where your
immune system then has to attack it and
get rid of it and dismantle it or
neutralize it in the process of dealing
with this foreign threat we're gonna
create inflammation and inflammation is
going to mobilize our defences okay the
white blood cells so inflammation is
part of the defense mechanism very
similar to the TV series The Game of
Thrones where they had to defend the
wall well in your body you have an army
of cells that are constantly defending
against foreign attacks so there are
some incredibly sophisticated strategies
in complexities within your immune
system you have cells like the B
lymphocytes that act as advance guards
to protect certain tissues neutrophils
are like kamikaze pilots that will drop
certain chemical bombs to kill invading
microbes then you have macrophages which
basically gobble up the invaders they
just they just eat them
there's no bombs of all betas will
consume them and then the T lymphocytes
track down and destroy the invaders and
they use certain chemicals they might
use hydrogen peroxide and other
oxidizing agents now a fever is used as
another mechanism to literally cook
these microbes to kill them but with
inflammation we get a blood rush to the
area that can bring the immune weapon
tree now with an inflammatory condition
after an injury that's slightly
different your body's not trying to kill
anything off it's trying to mobilize a
joint for example to prevent motion your
body will produce pain signals to tell
you don't move let this area heal
there's all sorts of reparative actions
coming in there with collagen and scar
tissue to help mobilize and basically
repair the tissues so with
information you either have an
overreaction or an under reaction
depending on what's going on so one of
the biggest weapons that your immune
system has are inflammatory chemicals
like cytokines prostaglandins and
leukotrienes so these chemicals are
communication messengers that help
signal and trigger the white blood cell
army so it can tell the immune system
what type of cell should be triggered
and how many should be triggered and
this is a very important part because if
it miscalculates or miss estimates and
it has too much immune system you can
create too much collateral damage and
that's exactly what happens in
autoimmune diseases you have this your
own immune system that's attacking
itself and destroying the entire body
and then you have this other effect
vascular dilation so you get swelling
you get redness you get more blood flow
in the area so inflammation has a
purpose but the problem is if there's
too much firing or not enough firing and
the collateral damage let's get the
vitamin D why is vitamin D so important
vitamin D is an immune modulator okay
what is a modulator that is something
that modifies or control something it
varies the strength of something okay
so vitamin D either turns up or turns
down these chemicals right here just
like aspirin will inhibit and turn down
prostaglandins vitamin D will do the
same thing but guess what it has no side
effects so whether you have inflammation
from an injury or an immune reaction
that has become chronic or an autoimmune
condition vitamin D is one of the best
approaches to take now as far as how
much to take I would take minimally
20,000 I use if you're in the chronic
phase you might want to go up to 30,000
IU's 40,000 maybe even 50,000 IU's you
have to make sure you have vitamin k2
with it as well now if you just take a
look at how many people in the US alone
have
Rytas asthma allergies autoimmune
diseases fibromyalgia and these people
are not taking vitamin D because if they
were they wouldn't even have the symptom
and they're usually deficient in vitamin
D it's just completely unnecessary for
them to suffer with pain inflammation
because vitamin D is so powerful so if
you have inflammation or you have pain
or you know someone that has
inflammation that's gone on too long
recommend vitamin D at least 20,000 IU's
it'd be good to have them take it with
food or with a little bit of fat because
it's a fat soluble vitamin which will
help them absorb vitamin D a lot better
and last thing I want to say and then
I'll stop talking is that the majority
of the population is deficient about a
min D we don't get outside we don't get
it from the Sun as much anymore and it's
almost impossible to get vitamin D from
your food thanks for watching so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
