I want to talk about one of the best
natural antihistamines that you can get
so if you have sinus congestion some
mucus in the lungs for example or hives
rashes itching asthma allergies you
definitely want to try this out and the
natural remedy is called corset in' now
of course it didn't is in a lot of
different foods it's very high in capers
radish leaves carob dill cilantro fennel
red onion especially the outer portion
and kale but if you have any of these
conditions you probably want to get it
in a supplement i don't have a specific
brand you're gonna have to do research
on that based on reviews but if you have
it really severe i would recommend
taking higher dosages so if it's in a
powder you can take 1 teaspoon if it's
in a tablet you can take a thousand
milligrams that could you know depending
on if it came in 500 milligrams or 250
milligrams you could take a thousand
milligrams at a time and then you would
do that 4 times a day so you would take
4,000 milligrams a day and that would be
for a severe situation if you have a lot
of mucus now the active ingredient is a
phytonutrient it's a certain poly phenyl
that has antioxidant properties
anti-inflammatory properties so this is
also good for any of the inflammatory
processes like the itis is bursitis
arthritis tendonitis that type of thing
but hands down it's one of the most
powerful natural antihistamines that you
can get with very minimal if any side
effects alright thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
