[Music]
you know I had this patient uh she's 25
years old she weighed 325 lbs and she
came in and she did my program the first
month she lost absolutely no weight but
she wasn't unhappy because her Cravings
were gone she was sleeping better she
had lots of energy her skin tone was
much better and then the second month
she lost 21 lbs
third month she lost
63 lb it was at that point where I
really realized that you don't lose
weight to get healthy you have to get
healthy to lose weight and this
principle has been so successful that in
fact I don't even know a time where it
didn't work it works pretty much in
everyone and if a person doesn't
understand that philosophy of that
sequence it boils down to a correct
sequence they're very susceptible to the
next unhealthy program that com along
and there's so many unhealthy programs
and I'm not going to mention any
unhealthy program names calerie
counting uh prepackaged
Foods B12 shots all these programs don't
necessarily get you healthy the
foundation of getting
healthy is actually
nutrients so unless the person has the
nutrition in those calories you
never have increased the Health in fact
Cravings won't go away either one of the
reasons why people have cravings has to
do with nutrients do they have nutrients
in the calories or not if you stimulate
the body with B12 shots and all sorts of
diet drinks you won't necessarily
improve the person's health so the first
principle that you need to know is that
you need to get healthy then lose the
weight so one of the things I want to
talk about is the adrenal body type um
the adrenal
gland monitors stress it counters stress
so all the stress in your body um is
reacted to by the adrenal gland hormone
so there's a couple things you need to
know about stress stress is accumulative
old injuries injuries
infections um there's no difference no
reaction difference between having a
loss of a loved one and getting hit by a
car it's the same reaction on the
adrenal so all stress is cumulative and
um one of the things that we found with
adrenals is that the adrenal gland tends
to keep the body in a constant state of
stress and that interferes with sleep so
let's take a look at sleep here and we
have um this time picture this is
midnight and this is noon and this is
when you sleep take a look at these
waves right here this is the hormone
called growth hormone and this is where
you burn all of the fat you don't really
burn any of the fat during the day it's
all at night I mean you might burn a
tiny bit during the day but it mainly
happens at night and here's the problem
is that stress hormone cortisol uh
interferes with growth hormone so the
more stress you have the less you can
sleep uh in fact let's just take a look
at something right here when you go to
sleep there are four waves or what's
called circadian rhythms that one goes
through um these are 90minut Cycles
they actually go 90 to 110 and this is
the REM sleep that's when you dream it's
very active it's actually not a um
restful sleep but rapid eye movement is
is kind of a superficial type sleep now
down here is where you have the Delta
wave this is the really good sleep
that's all the Regeneration that's the
Rejuvenation this is where you burn the
fat right
here what you do during the day like how
you exercise all that um affects you at
night when you're sleeping in fact it
all the um exercise and the eating good
things that you do during the day will
end up burning fat 14 to 48 hours later
when you're
sleeping so sleeping is a very very very
important part of burning fat in fact if
you're not sleeping and you burn all the
fat when you're sleeping then it's
obvious what's causing the problem but
the sleep cycles are important important
to remember and also just to realize
that um getting the proper sleep when
people sleep they go to bed like at 1
you miss the wave so you never get that
full
Rejuvenation um with the adrenal body
type um they can't really get to sleep
if they if they don't go to sleep by a
certain time they miss the wave and now
it takes like 90 minutes to finally get
into that
sleep there's something else I want to
show
you um I'm going to draw a body here
this is my great handwriting
here here's what we
found the body accumulates stress so
it's very important when um when
evaluating someone that we look at the
accumulated stress physical stress as it
relates to um their sleep patterns so
let's say they broke their nose or they
get hit in the nose or they got hit in
the head they broke an arm they had a
whiplash injury they had three children
with a C section they fell on their
knees many times sprained
ankles they fell in their tailbone which
uh locks up the back of the the neck
right here see what happens when you
injure uh a part of your body the force
gets stuck on the next bone over so if
you fell on your hand your elbow will
start hurting or your shoulder so let's
say they had that they fractured a rib
they have their gallbladder removed
appendix removed tonsu removed sinus
problems asthma these are all the
questions that I'm interested in knowing
about because that's the stuff that is
still stuck there so the body especially
the adrenal gland circuits tend to um
keep the pain or not just the pain but
the energy stuck in these different
points so we do what's called ACU
pressure and the ACU pressure is a
technique to release this old stress uh
from old old um infections or old
injuries and when you release that
stress and it's done in a very unique
way um we don't actually press on the
old injury we release it with a
technique called aset acupressure stress
elimination technique it really helps a
person get into the deep sleep cycles
right here so we actually do a test and
I want to show you uh a diagram of this
test I'll show you what it looks
like this right here it's a little blur
but you can see this is one of the tests
that we do we measure power of the
nervous system this dial right here
should be completely balanced it should
be right here it shouldn't be that low
this tells me the person is uh burnt out
so we're actually able to measure how
much stress is in the body so let's take
a look at someone else here and this one
right here here's another
example this person is physically really
stuck in a lot of stress it's way too
high High remember this one should be
balanced so this person is stuck in
stress this person is already burnt out
this person is in the process of burning
out this person already achieved burnout
so the reason why we do this test is
we're able to measure how much stress is
in your body and we use this as our our
feedback to when we do the technique
acupressure we do before and after so
we're able to see the stress coming out
of the body the thing that most people
focus on is trying to they're tired and
they try to stimulate their body with a
B12 shot or a caffeine or something like
that we have a different approach we're
extracting old stress from the body that
makes the graph get better and pulls the
stress out and allows the person to
sleep better that's part of our program
now if the person has good graphs we
don't do that but if they have a lot of
old stress stuck in the body it's
essential to help them it's one part of
the uh getting healthy um removing
stress it's why because of this darn
hormone called
cortisol cortisol interferes with weight
loss so the more stress we can extract
from your body the the better chance you
have of losing weight
