I want to share five secrets that the
sugar industry does not want you to know
about and you probably have never heard
about number one they hid the truth
about 60 years ago and I'm talking about
a study that related eating sugar to
increasing the risk of heart attacks and
other cardiovascular events and certain
types of cancer and this hiding of the
truth actually occurred even before
the tobacco industry hid some of their
studies and what they did is they
quietly paid researchers to cover this
up to basically lie and the study was
called I think project 259 and what they
did is they shift the blame from sugar
to Fat number two
they actually made sugar an essential
ingredient in Foods you know this is
probably why they talk about you know
sugar is necessary for your brain
because it's a primary source of fuel so
we need sugar right because it's
essential the sugar industry is a 37
billion dollar industry and that was in
2021 I don't know what it is now they
produce over 180 billion metric tons of
sugar every single year an average
person in United States consumes 26
teaspoons every single day that's what
this is right here 26 teaspoons that's a
lot of sugar all right number three
sugar is subsidized
in the U.S tax dollars goes to pay these
Farmers to produce sugar so basically we
pay double and when I'm talking about
paying I'm talking about four billion
dollars a year and on average a
household of four people pays about
fifty dollars a year this is regardless
of whether you eat sugar or not you're
contributing to the overhead of the
production of sugar incredible why don't
they do that with salad or vegetables
you know something that's good versus
the thing that is behind
so many health problems the lobbyist
group are so powerful they they actually
kind of keep things controlled pretty
well all right the next Point there's
something called the Bliss point
it's an optimized amount of sugar to
create this delicious effect
if you keep adding sugar to any
ingredient at some point it's going to
be like that's too much I don't like it
so there's a certain amount of sugar
that you have to put in certain foods to
optimize this
Bliss moment this point of like wow this
is just delicious and what happens in
the brain is you get this spike in
endorphins endorphins
give you the sensation of pain relief of
stress relief of well-being
of Happiness pleasure so it's training
us that if you feel bad or if you want
more pleasure you just need to keep
eating this thing and this is really
what's behind an addiction all right and
number five you have the Academy of
nutrition and dietetics this is the
group of dietitians which basically are
the most influential group
over food policy and what Americans eat
and they have a very close symbiotic
relationship with
the ultra processed food industry there
is this a journalist Ruskin so what he
did is he filed the Freedom of
Information Act because it was very
difficult to get specific donations to
this organization and from that action
he got 80 000 papers okay any
found in this paper something very very
shocking he found massive donations to
this organization I think between the
years of 2011 and 2017 it was actually
15 million dollars basically The
dietitian group has become a pro voice
for these industries I mean just look at
the food pyramid I mean you'll just see
that it's all based on
how strong the lobbyist group is sugar
is composed of both glucose and fructose
glucose is metabolized by pretty much
all your cells in your body but fructose
unfortunately is only metabolized by
your liver so when you consume excessive
amounts of table sugar and high fructose
corn syrup and all the sodas and drinks
and things like that you're creating a
very Toxic effect of the liver which is
very similar to alcohol toxicity there's
a term called glucotoxicity okay too
much glucose another term for that is
hyperglycemia the cause of hyperglycemia
is this diabetes but what are they
missing
they don't even mention the consumption
of too much sugar that's not even in the
area of causation at all on the flip
side when you cut the sugar out of the
diet your body replaces that with
ketones
there's a great article I'm going to
share with you it's on ketones being a
super Fuel and I'm going to put that
link down below there's one way you can
fight back
just go on a low carb diet because the
less you buy these products
the greater the market will change and
provide products that are healthier now
if you're new to keto and want to know
exactly how to get started watch this
video right here I made it very very
simple
