hey guys dr. Berg here in this video I
want to share with you how to eat more
calories and actually lose more weight
okay so let me just kind of give you a
little background when you go to the
grocery store and you buy foods you look
around and you're gonna see a lot of
marketing things that emphasize this has
certain amount of calories low calories
and some people still have this idea
that that's gonna help them lose weight
when they keep trying over and over and
over and over and it never works despite
that people just have are fixated on
these calories okay well has a couple
things I despite it but if even if ice
cream has low calories or cookies or low
calories or puff cereals or low calories
it's not gonna help you lose weight if
you took 1,500 calories okay
versus 2,000 calories and in this
example right here you have breakfast
lunch snack dinner snack at night as
you're grazing and even if these snacks
were an apple or nuts or something so
called healthy like a protein bar
something like that versus 2,000
calories a day having the frequency of
only two meals a day no snacks
you're gonna lose way more weight doing
this then you would this right here and
so there's two main missing pieces of
the puzzle that most people that are
trying to lose weight are not quite
aware of and I want to share that with
you number one every time you eat you
trigger insulin okay so if you're having
six meals a day versus two meals a day
the frequency of eating is a big factor
in the release of quantities of insulin
okay insulin is the hormone that blocks
your weight loss in the presence of
insulin you're not gonna lose weight the
second point which is just a little
refinement of what I just said is that
all it takes is a tiny bit of excess
insulin above normal to completely
nullify your chances of losing weight so
if you're eating so-called healthy foods
yet you're still eating them frequently
that is enough to bump you out of weight
loss okay now so I just want you to do
an experiment with yourself take one
week can
1,500 calories and spread it through the
day and then increase your calories to
2,000 and only have a lunch and a dinner
and no snacks and prove it to yourself
you're gonna find that you're going to
lose more weight here and the reason is
that you're triggering insulin a lot
less so go ahead and try this out and
get the results for yourself
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know hey that runs
