hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about your pulse rate in relationship to
your sleep okay
people that have sleeping problems
sleeping disorders generally have a
higher resting pulse rate okay medically
they just talked about the Association
they don't talk about cause and effect
I believe high pulse rate will keep you
from sleeping okay it's not the other
way around it's not that sleep problems
will increase your pulse rate it's more
try to sleep with your pulse rate just
going boom boom boom boom boom you won't
be able to rest or relax in fact when
you go to sleep your pulse rate should
normally go down by 10 points or more
sometimes so what causes high pulse rate
okay low potassium will do it why
because you're not consuming the foods
that potassium or you have instant
resistance that's blocking the
absorption of potassium
very few people consume enough
vegetables for that low b1 why because
they're consuming too much refined flour
and grains and wheat and sugar that
depletes the b1 stress will do it too
number 3 hyper thyroid conditions that
will definitely raise the pulse rate and
keep you from sleeping if you have a
hyper thyroid condition do not consume
iodine or seek help that will make it
worse
do not consume purified bile salts or
gall bladder formula why because you're
going to convert more thyroid hormones
and speed up the thyroid more so that'll
just make it more hyper thyroid number 4
acidosis when your pH in your blood
becomes slightly lowered it's less
alkaline more acidic your pulse rate
will go up too that can happen when
you're starting the ketogenic program or
even if you're a diabetic or if you're
consuming too many acidifier for example
let's say you're doing too much outside
of vinegar or kombucha tea I remember
one time I consumed just a whole bottle
of kombucha tea which is a very acid
drink and I thought my pulse rate is
going bam bam
I couldn't sleep for like a few hours so
that could actually do it normally when
you consume kombucha tea you only want
to do a little bit I drank the whole
bottle not a good idea so the bottom
line is if you have a sleeping problem
don't forget to check your pulse rate
normally it should be about 72 if it's
too high then look at one of these four
items to see if you can improve it thus
improving your sleep hey thank you so
much for watching keep spreading the
word and share this video
