hey I'm back with a real interesting
alternative therapy for allergies I
think it's really beneficial if you have
allergies you might want to consider
this and of course I would always
recommend Alice taquito
and in a minute fasting because that
just might handle your allergies right
there but for those people that have
some serious allergies that are just not
getting help you may want to do some
research into low dose allergen
immunotherapy Lda I'll put a link down
below and you can check it out I mean it
has like a ninety-one percent success
rate not 100% but pretty close it's good
for hay fever dust mites sinusitis
asthma hives
chemical sensitivities certain symptoms
with autoimmune ADHD autism IBS migraine
headaches ixia
psoriasis so it's used for a lot of
different things and so what they do is
they take a wide variety of the things
you're allergic to okay
in extreme low doses okay so I'm talking
like one part per ten million or one
part per one quadrillion so it's very
similar to homeopathy then they actually
inject it underneath the skin not into a
blood vessel but right underneath the
skin but here's the secret sauce they
add something called enzyme beta
glucuronidase okay this enzyme is the
key to the whole thing it basically
tells the immune system to ignore the
allergens so I really like this strategy
there seems to be very low side effects
and this enzyme is pretty natural and
it's working with the immune system it's
not suppressing the immune system so
click the link below and check it out
and see if it can help you
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
