so let's talk about the foods that most
commonly rob you of nutrients so this
video is not about getting nutrients
from food it's about being aware of
certain foods that deplete you of
nutrients so you have to know both sides
so the first one I'm going to talk about
is raw egg whites okay anytime you eat
raw egg whites you can create a biotin
deficiency biotin is really important
for your nails and your hair it makes
the hair and nails thicker and stronger
and if you're deficient of biotin you're
probably going to notice that your hair
is starting to become brittle your nails
break easily biotin also can become
depleted after taking an antibiotic
because a good portion of your microbes
also make this biotin which is a B
vitamin now of course the next three
foods are you pretty much already know
this but refined sugars refined grains
and alcohol will deplete you of vitamin
B1 zinc magnesium
and vitamin C massive calories in a diet
they're usually going to have these uh
these deficiencies it's going to show up
as bleeding gums fatigued because of the
vitamin C they're also going to notice
that their immune system is going to be
very weak because of the zinc issue as
well as noticing skin issues a lot of
skin issues are related to a zinc
deficiency and of course a B1 deficiency
will cause a lot of anxiety nervous
tension excessive stress thinking about
things worrying about things too much
muscle cramps at night uh difficulty in
getting to sleep because your muscles
are so tense next one is caffeinated
beverages like in coffee and tea and
soda the two key nutrients that will be
depleted from caffeine B1 and magnesium
and then we get uh into something else
called uh Trion Inhibitors like what's a
Tron inhibitor Tron is an enzyme and if
you inhibit that with the following
Foods soy grains beans nuts seeds and
night shades you could have a problem
absorbing certain amino acids also
absorbing fat cable vitamins now what a
lot of people do to counter that is they
germinate or Sprout those foods but
people that don't germinate it and they
just eat it raw thinking it's going to
be better are are in for a surprise
because in that raw food that
ungerminated food um there's certain uh
defense mechanisms that those plants
have created to uh prevent the digestion
of those plants and then we get into
another uh chemical called uh tannins
and that's in tea that will definitely
create a B1 deficiency especially for
those people that are big tea Drinkers
and they just drink tea all day long
which is actually better than coffee but
it can create a B1 deficiency and it can
start affecting your sleep and your mood
if you are taking too much calcium you
can actually create a magnesium
deficiency this also goes along with
consuming a lot of dairy without leafy
greens you create a magnesium deficiency
magnesium helps you relax at night it
helps the muscles relax it prevents
cramps arrhythmias and also uh magnesium
is behind energy so if you're fatigued
chances are you might be magnesium
deficient then we get to something
called oxalates so oxalates are
compounds that bind with calcium
magnesium and iron and when it binds
with the calcium it can actually form
kidney stones and there are certain
foods especially in the ketogenic diet
that are loaded with oxalates spinach
being at the top of the list but I think
there's one bigger than that that would
be beet greens okay beets also have
oxalates almonds uh almond flour
chocolate Swiss chard and other non-keto
foods like grains and beans phosphoric
acid and sodas actually will definitely
deplete you of magnesium and calcium
this is why drinking a lot of those
sodas can actually really destroy your
bones and of course you know I don't
even consider uh soda food but I just
threw that in there and lastly I want to
mention something called Fates or phytic
acid same thing Fates are in certain
foods that then block zinc calcium
vitamin B3
chromium copper iron magnesium manganese
and vitamin D like kids have a lot of
cereal they're getting a lot of Fates
and that's going to deplete the zinc
which is really really important for the
immune system and um in certain parts of
the world uh the children that are
deficient in zinc have a massive problem
with diarrhea and so that can cause
other problems with electrolyte
deficiencies so in summary the foods
that really deplete you of other
nutrients would be grains at the at the
top of the list now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other side and out
of all the foods that I talked about the
common nutrient that seems to be most
depleted
is
magnesium and magnesium has a lot to do
with your energy production so if you
have not seen this video on the
relationship between magnesium and
energy I put it up right here check it
out
