so let's talk about the difference
between drinking soda and a hun percent
fruit juice what would be worse what do
you think well this is worse right here
I'm going to tell you why soda that
contains high-fructose corn syrup has
55% of it fructose okay one percent
fruit juice has actually more fructose
65 percent of it being fructose now
what's so bad about fructose it comes
from fruit right well fructose is
treated in a similar manner that alcohol
is treated in the liver because the
liver has to deal with it a hundred
percent so your cells can't really
absorb fructose so everything is forced
down to the liver and there's a
condition that's created called de novo
lipid Genesis but basically your body is
converting that sugar into fat okay and
you're developing a fatty liver and
insulin resistance which is setting
right up for diabetes children and teens
get 15% of their total calories from
soda and fruit juice but a lot of times
people think that fruit juice is so much
better what actually it's worse so not
only do you have more fructose with
fruit juice but very low nutrients
because it's pasteurized it's cooked to
allow it to sit on the shelf for a lot
longer so a lot of the nutrients that
you see in the label are added back in
there they weren't in there originally
because the heat and the oxidation
exposure to oxygen has destroyed those
nutrients of course you have no fiber -
so you're drinking just a lot of sugar
and then you have the American Academy
of Pediatrics which basically gave their
daily juice recommendations if you're
less than 12 months old they say do not
routinely give the child the juice okay
well why don't they just say do not give
the child the juice routinely so don't
make a routine out of it if you're
between 1:00 and 3:00 you're allowed up
to four ounces per day between four and
six you're allowed six ounces a day and
if you're between 7 and 18 you can drink
eight ounces per day now why would you
even want to drink this juice if you
getting all this fruit juice and you're
setting up yourself up for a fatty liver
another big problem with fructose is
that it creates ten times more glycated
proteins than glucose what does glycated
proteins that is the sticky damaging
protein that occurs when you combine a
sugar with a protein molecule so when
you consume all this juice in your body
it starts combining with various
proteins and starts creating a lot of
problems for you all right so the final
question is should you drink soda or
fruit juice Nev there okay
drink water alright see you later so I
want to thank you for being here and
watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
