so is the ketogenic diet now causing
brain tumors now recently there was a
study done on the ketogenic diet
increasing tumor growth specifically the
growth of glioblastoma which is a
specific type of aggressive tumor that
grows in the brain and I want to discuss
the study so I reached out to Professor
Thomas Seyfried to get his opinion on it
and I copied his response in the
description below the entire thing so
you can check it out this abstract or
data about this study was presented
before the peer review okay so that's
point number one so it really wasn't
reviewed before it was published and if
you don't know anything about Thomas
Seyfried he is a professor when
researching cancer for decades at Boston
College and he is author of this book
cancer as a metabolic disease an amazing
amazing book the research that he is
doing using the ketogenic diet with
fasting is amazing and it'll blow you
away I put some links down below so you
can get more data on that so the success
rate on different types of cancer
including glioblastoma is remarkable but
what I want to talk about is basically
the most important factor it's the type
of mice that they use in the study
it was a u-87 - mg xenograft Mouse okay
specifically n OD s CI D what does it
stand for non obese diabetic severely
compromised immuno deficiency mice
that's a mouthful so in other words they
chose a type of mouse that has no
relevance to either normal humans or
normal mice at all what's really
important to mention is not only do
these mice have compensated innate and
or adapted immune systems okay there's
two parts of the immune system that we
have innate and they adapted well they
had weaknesses within both parts okay
but they also Express characteristics of
type 1 and type 2 diabetes and then he
also mentioned
these findings are inconsistent with
other studies that show opposing data so
how they recommend that you read the
entire correspondence because the news
will take this and blast it out there
and distort it and people won't ever
understand the study they won't read the
study they don't know it's on types of
mice that have nothing to do with our
human bodies okay they don't know the
research of Professor c3 what they're
gonna look at is this and that's going
to discourage them from doing the exact
diet that is going to help them avoid
cancer or tumors in the future and I
also put a link down below of an
interview that I did with Professor
Seyfried when he gets into the actual
cause of cancer itself and it has to do
with the mitochondria the respiration or
the normal machinery that burns fuel is
altered to a completely different
mechanism because cancer cells ferment
glucose they also ferment glutamine but
mainly glucose and they do this
anaerobically
or without oxygen so when the
mitochondria get damaged the cell to
survive flips to a different type of
machinery that can burn a different type
of fuel and that happens to be the
mechanism for cancer which he talks
about extensively in this book right
here and you'll see it also in the video
so it just makes logical sense oh it's
running on glucose so let's go low-carb
right and there's also a factor about
glutamine that he'll talk about as well
which is the type of amino acid and that
is why you would want to do low-carb
keto within a minute fasting so we can
then have the combination of lowering
the glucose and that specific type of
amino acid so anyway I wanted to point
this out you do not have to worry about
the ketogenic diet causing brain tumors
unless you are a non obese diabetic
severely compromised immuno deficiency
Mouse thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
