hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about essential fatty acids okay
essential meaning must be consumed from
the diet your body doesn't make it
there's basically two different types
you got Omega 3 and Omega 6 okay and you
should have a one toone ratio the names
are very similar but they're a little
confusing this one is called Alpha
linolenic this is
linolic okay very similar but different
uh I recommend not necessarily wearing
about getting your ratios you should
have a one to one ratio because it would
be almost impossible to figure out from
your foods to balance this and balance
that um I would just consume some of
these Foods flax seed chia seed hemp
seed and walnuts okay that will give you
a nice balance of these fatty acids now
of course some of these fatty acids are
also in vegetable oils uh and vegetables
themselves I don't recommend the oils
that some of these are in like soy or
corn oil but if you're eating a healthy
uh diet you should get the right ratios
uh but the point is this if you're
deficient in this specific fatty acid uh
it'll stunt your growth uh a little bit
it'll also uh you'll you'll feel weaker
you won't have the stamina uh your
vision can go bad learning difficulties
so how important is this to give to a
child uh mood
changes and omega-6 fatty acids has a
function of transferring oxygen to the
lungs so it exchanges it helps that
oxygen exchange it's like an oxygen
magnet it pulls the oxygen in and it
allows it to go into the blood the
hemoglobin and also directly to the
cells so we really need this fatty acid
uh membrane in our cells to allow the
oxygen to transport through it but
essential fatty acids really make up the
structure of your cell membranes um and
also a lot of the structures inside the
cell they're called organel is a little
Machinery that run the cell um now if
you're deficient in in this fatty acid
you have a lot of skin issues eczema
hair loss dehydration slow healing
sterility in a male body miscarriage in
a female arthritis heart problems it
also will help you recover so let's say
for example you do this intense workout
and you're sore and you L lactic acid
buildup boom take some flax seed oil or
some chia seed oil and you will recover
faster why because the oxygen carrying
capacity and also it gets rid of lactic
acid uh it's an anti-inflammatory too
now together essential fatty acids
looking at the whole thing there's some
classical symptoms one is dry flaky
peeling cracking skin okay you probably
know people like that and you see them
and I I usually see like older men with
these kind of crusty skin you see in
their ears that's they need this right
here um bumps in the back of the arms
right through in here that's Omega uh
that's fatty acid deficiencies so go
ahead and um apply this if you have
these symptoms start consuming some of
these Foods right here and put your
comments below thanks for watching
Press and uh yeah you'll get future uh
updates that's right updates I knew
there was a word uh how about um I'm not
sure just press it press the Subscribe
button and I will keep you updated on
the future events
