hey guys we're gonna talk about the
terrible side effects of going on a
ketogenic diet okay this is called keto
adaptation and several ways to deal with
it okay now we can do the gradual way or
we can do peel the band-aid off and do a
fast approach okay the gradual way is
basically you're gonna have some mild
symptoms because what you're doing is
you're making a transition from running
your body and sugar fuel to fat fuel so
you may have some fatigue flu keto rash
headaches and feel weak so the gradual
way involves not adding in a minute
fasting all you're doing is you're still
doing your three meals maybe even snacks
but you're cutting your carbs down you
do going higher fat okay it's it's more
comfortable you might have some some
slight side effects here but it's not
going to be as intense okay but it's
going to last longer in other words
you're gonna have some of these symptoms
for a longer period of time because
you're not adding in a minute fasting to
this keto but if we want to go fast peel
to band it off and just get it over with
and get in the fat burning you could
probably do it in two days or less okay
now you may have more symptoms of
fatigue keto flu rash headache possibly
okay I'll come back to that but we want
to add in them in a fasting why because
we're gonna get to keto we have to drop
the carbs and force our body to burn fat
we have to deplete the glycogen Reserve
the storage of sugar and in a minute
fasting is hands-down the most powerful
way to do that and if we actually don't
consume carbs and add these together we
can get through this really fast verses
this way where you're you're eating a
little more frequently you're raising
more insulin okay you're converting more
to sugar you don't really delete this as
fast and you kind of just prolong things
so I'm gonna recommend rip the band-aid
off do it fast
add in a minute fasting with keto and I
put a link down below of exactly how to
do this if you have it if you're not
familiar with it now if we want to just
take it one step further in
minimize these side-effects maybe even
down to zero I'm gonna recommend you
just right before you do this transition
and during the process you take B
vitamins and I recommend you get
nutritional yeast and also in addition
to that get some additional bees
especially vitamin b1 that would be very
very important and if anytime you're
taking any individual bees always take
it with the B complex get it unfortified
you can get it in tablets so the B
vitamins are very important because the
enzymes in the pathways of burning fat
fuel require more B vitamins they also
require more potassium and magnesium so
get a good electrolyte beef up your
vegetables so you have more potassium
and other minerals to actually make it
easier because if you're deficient in
potassium and other minerals it's going
to be you're not gonna be able to get
rid of these as fast okay and sea salt
very very important Himalayan sea salt
is the best to avoid headaches and
weaknesses these two are really a sodium
deficiency so if we add them in fasting
and add these nutrients right here you
may not even feel any terrible side
effects from Kido
but if you don't add in them in fasting
and you don't add any nutrition you can
experience these a lot longer because
this is kind of where keto gets maybe a
bad name with some side effects but if
you understand I do it you can get
through it very smoothly so go ahead and
try it and put your comments down below
so I want to know about what you think
about this video so please comment below
and tell me what you think
