if you had cravings for salty foods at
night especially this video is for you
and I'm talking about in the form of
popcorn peanuts pretzels chips I believe
the reason why you crave that is because
you actually are deficient in sodium
okay now why would you crave those foods
those junk foods and not just regular
salt well it's similar to if a woman is
pregnant and she craves ice cream for
example she's usually deficient in
calcium and there's other people that
have some pretty strange cravings too
like for example dirt they might need
iron so apparently when you're deficient
in something your body will cause the
craving to something that maybe
resembles that that mineral or nutrient
and this topic of salt is very
fascinating now realize that salt is
sodium chloride sodium is one of the
minerals so I'll try to differentiate
between sodium and salt as we go through
this presentation but the World Health
Organization is advising that people
start lowering their salt intake to
about 2000 milligrams or less per day
and it would take about 1 teaspoon of
salt to achieve 2300 milligrams of
sodium so realize that the soul has the
chloride and there's also requirements
for that but we're gonna focus on sodium
right now and also salt now it is true
that Americans consume more than this
amount by a factor of a thousand so
they're usually doing about 3,300
milligrams of salt per day but that's
salt that they're consuming is not
coming from the salt shaker it is coming
from the other foods with the hidden
salt in it the refined carbohydrates the
bread the cold cut deli meats so of
course someone along the line had this
idea that wow people are consuming too
much salt so it must be the salt that's
the culprit is there a possibility that
could be the other ingredients that come
with the salt I mean before
refrigeration we salted our foods
successfully we consumed a lot more salt
in meats and other foods and our risk of
heart attacks back then even blood
pressure was a lot less than it is right
now but of course if you look at this
logically if you add more salt you have
more fluid have more blood pressure have
more heart attacks right that makes
sense logically
but there's some fascinating studies
that I'm gonna put down below that I
highly recommend
you read if you're on a low sodium or
low salt diet because what these studies
show in their very credible studies that
your risk for heart problems stroke
insulin resistance go up when you go on
a low salt diet and there's another
study that I'm going to show down the
description that when you increase the
sodium in the diet the risk factors for
heart attack and stroke plummet why is
that well if you read the study you're
gonna also find those people that were
increasing the sodium also we're
increasing their potassium okay and it's
the potassium that protects the heart I
mean it's an incredible push to put
everyone that has high blood pressure or
heart problems on a low salt diet but
there's hardly any emphasis on raising
the potassium levels or even more
importantly is removing the refined
carbs that are attached to the salt
their focus is to lower the salt as
insult free refined carbohydrate type
foods which leads to more consumption of
the refined carbohydrates that are now
salt free now this next part is very
very interesting if you've checked out
check back in right now because this
part is very very important your body
has a hormone called aldosterone that
has one vital purpose to retain and hold
sodium your body wouldn't have this
hormone unless there was a very
important purpose of having sodium
without sodium your nerves cannot
conduct nerve impulses without sodium
your muscles can't contract your fluids
would not be in balance okay you
wouldn't be able to transport calcium
and other nutrients as well without
sodium there's this thing called a
sodium potassium pump in nearly all of
your cells of your body that help
transport things through the cell
membrane very very important so this is
why the body has this hormone
aldosterone and take it well guess what
triggers aldosterone a low sodium or low
salt diet okay so your body will make
three times as much aldosterone
when you're on a low-sodium diet if you
think about blood pressure medication
there's several medications that work by
blocking aldosterone okay or a diuretic
which will cause an excess release of
sodium and water through the urine and
as a side note older people lose this
function in other words they don't have
the amount of aldosterone to hold the
sodium so usually they're a very very
deficient in sodium I mean the side
effects from not having enough sodium
are way worse than having too much
sodium so if you combine someone on a
salt-free diet okay on diuretics then we
have the excessive amount of water and
I'm talking about people that are
drinking massive amounts of water not
eight or ten glasses I'm talking about
like a gallon in a day and they're not
working out and they're on a salt-free
diet that can be very very dangerous to
the heart you need sodium for the heart
to work for your muscles to work when
you're on a ketogenic diet you need more
salt as well because when you're on the
typical diet which is high carbohydrate
you're retaining a lot of fluid you're
holding more salt okay when you're on
keto you get rid of the excess fluid and
you also get rid of some of these
minerals so you need to put them back in
exercise produces sweat and you're gonna
lose sodium through exercise and of
course being out in the heat will do it
as well a pro football player could
potentially lose up to six thousand
milligrams of sodium in ninety minutes
if you have liver damage as in cirrhosis
you could actually be deficient in
sodium with adrenal fatigue you're gonna
have low sodium this is why like for
example in conditions like Addison's
disease where they don't have enough
adrenal hormones you always see a severe
deficiency of sodium and these people
have to consume a ton of salt and you're
also going to see a sodium deficiency in
hypothyroidism I would recommend
consuming at a minimum between 1 and 1.5
teaspoons of sea salt per day if you
increase your salt you should get rid of
the cravings for salty junk foods at
night and it would be very very
beneficial for you to take one average
day of eating and analyze how much salt
you're actually consuming or how much
sodium you're consuming
and just compare it to this to see if
you're really under or you're over and
and also to see if you actually crave
salty foods at night and then you can
make adjustments on that as well because
there is a lot of salt in the food that
you're eating already
we just want to know how much you need
to add to that to meet your requirements
you're also going to notice that your
energy is gonna go up you have more
endurance because the cardiovascular
system will function better the other
important thing to realize is that the
sodium works with potassium okay in the
body so we always have this ratio if
you're increasing more sodium you need
to increase more potassium we need 4700
milligrams
very few people consume in this amount
if you're consuming this amount you
absolutely positively do not need to
worry how much salt that you're
consuming because it you're gonna have
enough to act as a buffer and one way to
achieve that is to increase your
vegetable amounts okay 7 to 10 cups of
vegetables per day it's not that hard
you have two salads I do all my sell in
one sitting I have one large bowl and
it's roughly between 7 and 10 cups some
people can't do that
there are vegetable substitutes you can
do to enhance your vegetables I'll put
some links down below but you do need to
start increasing this in the diet
because this will also give you the
magnesium and a lot of people put sea
salt on their salad which I highly
recommend or they might put salty olives
or Parmesan cheese which is salty or
other cheeses that would be a very very
good idea and lastly if you're in a low
salt diet because your doctor told you
you need to be on one send your doctor
the studies that I put down below to
have them just take a look at it because
this is quite fascinating where you have
these diets that talk about the risk
factors for high blood pressure and
heart problems go down when you increase
more salt it's really because you're
increasing this the potassium as well
alright guys there you have it these are
the action steps
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
