we can learn a lot about the number one
selling drug in the world now I'm not
going to tell people not to take this
drug I'm not going to tell people to
take it and I'm definitely not here to
get in the middle of you and your doctor
with this
medication but if I had this particular
illness and needed this drug and I was
told about this drug I would want some
additional information and that's what I
want to share with you today this drug
is projected to produce over 20 7
billion at the end of this year 2024 and
it's a cancer drug and it's very unique
in that it's creating a paradigm shift
in oncology because what it does is it
actually uh targets a very specific
thing for certain types of cancer not
all of cancer it's called Precision
medicine so it's not a broad-based
antibiotic or like chemotherapy it's
very targeted to this one thing it
releases the breaks on your own immune
system cancer is always trying to evade
your immune system this specific drug is
called Kuda which does something to
block that mechanism and allows your own
immune system to be able to tag and see
where the cancer cells are so they can
kill it so that's one thing I really
like about the strategy is that you're
getting your own immune system to do the
work
it's like training this elite special
forces to do a very specific job to
attack a very specific Invader okay they
also use this drug for autoimmune
diseases infections and cancer you know
I like this strategy better if you have
the type of cancer that this can help
you with versus chemotherapy which kills
off cancer and your immune system it
pretty much wipes everything out we're
dealing with something called
immunomodulation okay this is something
that either increases or
decreases or blocks your immune system
there are quite a few side effects as
I'm going to scroll down and you can see
all the different side effects there's
there's many so it doesn't come without
its problems now the other problem with
this drug is that it doesn't work on all
types of cancer cancer is very diverse
in other words there are certain cancers
that don't even have the specific
pathway for this to deal with and cancer
has a superability to also adapt the
cancer cells that are remaining from
that insult they become resistant they
become super strong and they can go out
of control similar to taking an
antibiotic these microbes uh resist that
and then become stronger now you have
these super bugs also this drug does not
address the fuel for the cancer or it
doesn't block the raw materials that it
needs to build cancer cells and the drug
doesn't address the the micro
environment where this cancer lives I
think an approach that uses multiple
strategies at the same time just would
be really smart if you have cancer so
the first question is is there anything
natural that is in an immunomodulator
and the answer is yes there are a lot of
different natural remedies that help to
increase or decrease the immune system
in fact this is how a lot of drug compan
get their ideas and develop patents for
various research in the area of plant
chemicals if I'm not mistaken I think
it's over 50% of all drugs are
derivatives of something that came from
nature so we have a stralis okay that's
very potent we have the Rishi mushroom
there's also other types of mushrooms
too that deal with cancer and then of
course you just have vitamin D in
relationship to cancer and think about
what vitamin D does as in an
immunomodulator I mean I personally take
20,000 iuse of vitamin D3 every single
day especially if someone's dealing with
an autoimmunity type problem or
inflammation I would also address the
diet I would do things to avoid fueling
the cancer cell I would also do fasting
because that is the most powerful thing
to help starve off cancer and if you
can't do prolong fasting you can do the
fasting mimicking diet okay which is a
bit easier and you would do that for 5
days once a month month maybe every 3
weeks and also there's something that
medicine doesn't really get into it's
the mindset I personally know people who
are very strong willed they're not going
down with cancer there's a reason why
when the doctor says you have this
amount of time to live that there's a
high correlation between the person only
living that amount of time because
somehow that gets in your mind and you
agree with it and then all a sudden that
happens but I think it's really really
important to disagree with cancer and
basically say you know I'm going to
survive no matter what I'm going to make
it happen there are also nutritional
protocols to help starve cancer and if
you have not seen my video that I
recently did I cover all the protocols
and what you need to do and I put that
video right here check it
out
