so I want to share a short story that
relates to the topic live on a farm I
have a goat named Bennett no matter what
I do Bennett seems to get through the
fence and will start eating trees on the
other side of the fence and this has
been going on for quite some time okay I
got it figured out I patch the holes
there's no way Bennett is getting across
the fence next day I come out Bennett is
across the fence so I started out with
this fence then reinforcing with an
electric fence putting mesh behind
electric fence
to eventually building a wooden fence
okay but even this wooden fence
reinforced with electrical wires didn't
hold Bennett in our Paddock so then I
had a bright idea of reinforcing all of
this with chicken wire that was grounded
into the Earth I finally got it solved
there's no way he's going to get through
this fence this time the next day
Bennett is on the other side of the
fence now Bennett is a very cute uh
dwarf goat that looks like a cartoon tun
character so it's hard to get mad at
Bennett but I was definitely Furious to
Bennett and so I had one last thing I
was going to do before I basically
hopeless in the situation and that was
putting cameras all the way around the
entire Paddock okay that's a big job so
we did
that and take a while guess how Bennett
was getting through the fence he wasn't
getting through the fence little tiny
dwarf goat Bennett was able to jump over
the fence
which was shocking and this is called
missing information okay and this
relates to the topic and sometimes the
information is not obvious especially
when you have a dwarf goat that
apparently can jump extremely high no
one ever told me that I had no idea so
let me Dive Right into and share some
information related to dementia that
you're going to be very glad that you're
watching this video you know when you
evaluate a problem and you do a real
good thorough job of looking at all
angles of this problem and everything
just makes sense then we're getting
closer to the truth I want to start this
whole presentation with talking about a
drug called Lupron it deals with certain
cancers because it suppresses certain
sex hormones okay like testosterone
estrogen progesterone Etc but I looked
at one study relating to
Lupron that decreased significantly
dementia symptoms and the missing
information about Lo
is that Lupron is a potent suppressor of
this hormone called lutenizing hormone
it's a hormone made from your pituitary
and it basically signals down and tells
the body to make various hormones like
progesterone like testosterone and
Lupron suppresses luteinizing hormone as
men get older lutenizing
hormone goes up I'm talking about a th%
higher than when you were younger if
there's some type of blockage or a lack
of a hormone down in the ovaries or
testicle okay then the pituitary is
going to start to really increase this
luteinizing hormone and really what
happens is as you get older you lose the
function of the testicles and the
ovaries but we're going to just kind of
hyperfocus on this lutenizing hormone
right now because of this missing piece
it's involved an age
related cognitive decline
neuroinflammation inflammation of the
nerve cells and synaptic dysfunction
those a little you know the little
connections between the nerves they
start to malfunction and apparently
patients with Alzheimer's have higher
amounts of LH luteinizing hormone than
people that have normal cognitive
function now let's talk about
progesterone okay because
progesterone
significantly tanks
when you have high levels of luteinizing
hormone apparently progesterone is a
very powerful neuro steroid neural being
nerve steroid meaning a type of hormone
it supports the development of neurons
and I'm telling you when I started
looking at these studies which I'm going
to put down below there are a ton of
studies on progesterone with this
interesting function of supporting the
brain because women have more
progesterone apparently they have less
negative effects if they get traumatic
brain injury than men progesterone keeps
the inflammation very low in your brain
cells progesterone enhances
serotonin and they have found that when
this happens there's less addictive
behaviors like gambling and taking drugs
like cocaine people that have more
addictions apparently have lower amounts
of progesterone interesting progesterone
prevents apop Tois which is a
self-destructive thing uh that occurs in
a nerve cell or a cell in general if
there's some damage in the cell it
commits suicide so progesterone prevents
that progesterone even decreases blood
brain barrier leakage I mean even think
about like after menopause what happens
to Progesterone in women it just goes
way down to next to zero in men it might
occur a little bit later like in their
70s for example
so now the question is there something
barely natural that can help suppress
luteinizing hormone and the answer is
yes it's melatonin melatonin has the
ability to suppress luteinizing hormone
indirectly increasing progesterone now
there's a fascinating book that I'll put
the link down below and I really like
the author because in several of his
books he just evaluates the crap out of
different topics I mean he looks at
things from every different angle he
recommends that if someone has dementia
they should be taking like 75 milligrams
of melatonin before bed and for men it
should be 125 milligrams before bed my
idea about melatonin was for sleep and
also I have videos on what melatonin
does to the cells it's a powerful
antioxidant but what was missing was
this information on it lowering
luteinizing hormone and indirectly
increasing progesterone there's an
interesting study on mice which I'll put
down below that had Alzheimer's symptoms
or dementia melatonin and then they had
them exercise and it halted the symptoms
of Alzheimer's and even the author in
the book uh has taken for over a year
500 milligrams of melatonin without any
side effects so when people take
melatonin they usually take like three
milligrams right before bed uh we're
talking like 75 to 125 it's an extreme
dosage there's a lot of benefits of
melatonin I mean it's definitely with
cancer because melatonin is made by your
mitochondria and it's a powerful
antioxidant now there's some additional
things that a person can take to help
decrease luteinizing hormone okay and
also to help raise progesterone and one
is something called
DHEA and taking more DHEA can also
decrease your cortisol levels as well
you could actually get a blood test to
see where your DHEA is at if you're
going to take that but it's something
you could you know as a supplement
another supplement is called
pregnanolone but before taking that you
might want to just get a blood test to
see where your levels are at and there's
other ways you can get melatonin as well
but going to bed with the lights turned
down can help stimulate melatonin in
your pineal gland but
95% of your melatonin can be gotten from
the Sun okay and I'm talking about a
certain frequency or energy of the sun
called infrared most of the UV radiation
is in the middle of the day but not in
the early morning or the light night
that's when you get infrared without all
of the ultraviolet and it goes right
into your body it'll go through your
clothes so one time I was out in the
woods and I have this device that can
measure different frequencies of light
from the sun right and I was walking
through the woods and I just noticed
this interesting pattern it was almost
completely dark in the woods how is this
certain pattern of light penetrating
same thing happens when we sit in front
of the fireplace or a campfire it's
going to increase and enhance our
melatonin and also if you want to learn
about the early signs of dementia and if
you haven't seen this video I think I
had like 11 million views I'll put it up
right here check it
out
