boy if you have blood pressure problems
you're going to be pretty happy you
watched this video I'm going to talk
about why people have hypertension the
number one mineral deficiency behind
this whole thing 90% of all hypertension
is essential hypertension what does that
mean it means unknown cause which is
very convenient for a drug company who
sells medications for blood pressure I
mean in fact anti-hypertensive
medication is right at the top of the
list as far as most prescribed
medications in the world first of all
what what is hypertension what is blood
pressure this top number which is
systolic and the bottom number which is
diastolic normally it should be 120 over
80 and what this number represents is
the contraction of the heart muscle that
pushes the blood throughout the whole
body down to the little capillaries
where it then goes through veins and
eventually ends up into the lungs where
it gets re oxygenated so the top number
is the contraction of the heart and the
bottom number is the relaxation of the
heart muscle collectively together this
systolic and diastolic is a heartbeat
and when you have high blood pressure
there's some type of resistance going on
it could be a blockage it could be a lot
of things but the point is that when you
have any type of blood pressure issue it
puts more stress on the heart there's a
lot of research in the relationship
between a potassium deficiency
personally I think a potassium
deficiency is behind a good majority of
this essential hypertension why do I say
that well number one most people are
deficient in potassium why are they
deficient because it's a bit hard to get
potassium since the requirements are so
high out of all the nutrients potassium
is the largest amount of nutrient that
we need we need
4700 milligram and an average person
does not get that much and the other
interesting thing about medicine is that
the whole focus is to reduce sodium for
hypertension right but what about
enhancing potassium didn't really talk
about that what does lowering sodium do
well it indirectly increases potassium
we need about half the amount of sodium
to potassium and I think these ratios
are more important than the amounts many
people are very heavy in the sodium very
low in the potassium to the point where
they're like three times as much sodium
to potassium
but what does potassium actually do to
your blood vessels and your heart number
one it directly controls the tone of the
vascular system which is the
neurotransmitter for the autonomic
nervous systems which is directly
connected to a a high blood pressure
situation because when you're running up
a hill you have adrenaline that kicks in
to raise the blood pressure well
potassium lowers adrenaline pottassium
helps support the layer of the inside of
the artery called the endothelial layer
and potassium also helps improve insulin
resistance it makes insulin more
sensitive and what's Wild is that when
you go buy a potassium supplement
usually comes like no more than 99
milligrams per tablet how many tablets
would you have to take to achieve
4700 now there are electrolyte powders
that have more than that the other
consideration that people have about
potassium is that oh potassium is bad
for the kidneys that is completely false
potassium is very very healthy to the
kidney it's protective of the kidney
when you have advanced kidney disease
like stage four stage five that's when
potassium can be dangerous now this next
thing I'm going to tell you is even more
interesting because if you look at the
top medications for blood pressure they
all retain pottassium
interesting could it be that some of the
positive effects of the these blood
pressure lowering medications could be
because of the potassium effect now
where do we get our potassium from well
you can get it from salads but you'd
have to consume at least 7 to 10 cups to
make a dent into this potassium
requirement and the average person only
consumes like a cup and a half and also
these leafy greens contain magnesium too
so the combination of both potassium and
magnesium will greatly help the blood
pressure there's also data that in the
prehistoric Paleolithic times there's
estimations that we consumed like 11,000
to
15,000 milligrams of potassium now
there's no way to know this for sure
it's just a good guess but if you think
about what we used to eat way back in
the day we pretty much ate whatever we
could find if we could catch an animal
we would eat it if we couldn't catch an
animal I'm sure that we would eat
vegetation or anything laying on the
ground like an acorn or anything but
when we consume refined Foods especially
refined sugar we lose potassium when we
increase adrenaline or cortisol we lose
pottassium so I have a challenge for you
I would recommend that you start to beef
up your potassium consumption through
salad just try it for one week and see
what happens to your blood pressure if
you can't seem to manage that much salad
then find a good electrolyte powder high
in potassium I think you might be
pleasantly surprised if all the amazing
benefits now just to give you some
visual on how much salad you should
consume I put that in this video right
here check it
out
