alright guys so I wanted to do a video
on the importance the vital importance
of sleep when you're doing keto and in a
minute fasting to make it all work out a
lack of sleep a lack of high-quality
sleep could be the reason why you're not
losing weight because most of the fat
burning like the hardcore fat burning
through the stimulation of growth
hormone happens at night that's why you
can wake up in way a little less than
before you go to bed alright
also to fix insulin resistance and blood
sugar problems you need sleep on the
days that you don't sleep or shall I say
if you're a diabetic and certain days
you don't sleep you'll notice that your
blood sugars are way off they're worse
so sleep is really important in the
recovery cycle of all the different
organs and insomnia is really a symptom
of something else it's not a disease in
itself so let's go through the different
reasons why you might not be able to
sleep number one which is not this one
by the way is frequent eating if you're
not doing it a minute fasting and you're
eating between the meals snacks that is
going to keep spiking insulin okay and
you're going to be tired during the day
but it's going to prevent you from
sleeping at the night so one of the most
important thing is to plug in this
intermittent fasting three meals no
snacks and then go to two meals no
snacks very important okay so now the
official number one would be bladder
problems which is basically you're
getting up through the night one two or
three times in your urinating that is a
problem with insulin resistance if you
think about one of the big symptoms of
diabetes it's frequent urination and a
lot of times it can happen at night and
if you do intermittent fasting in keto
correctly that will eventually correct
the urination problem at night which
will then help to sleep which then the
sleep will help the weight loss and the
improvement with insulin resistance so
they both help each other but it's very
important to realize that your urination
could be the thing that's waking you up
and keeping it from sleeping because
your blood sugars are off now if you
really wanted to do an accurate test to
determine a problem with insulin resist
it's not going to be a fasting glucose
test it's gonna be a fasting insulin and
a glucose test
it's called coma I are highly recommend
you do this and then that will tell you
what's going on with your insulin
resistance and explain why you're
getting up to the night but if you do
this hardcore you'll find that you won't
be getting up to the night anymore okay
but you have to make sure you don't
snack between meals you got to make sure
you eat the right foods I've put a link
down below okay number two this is
really common adrenal problems stress
accumulated stress builds up in the body
to the point where your body is in a
constant state of flight-or-fight it
won't turn off so you go to bed at night
and there's certain parts of your body
that are kind of activated and you just
can't either you can go to sleep but
you'll get up like at 2:00 or 3:00 or
4:00 and can't get back to sleep or you
can't get to sleep if you have an
adrenal issue this usually works pretty
nicely this is my sleep aid this is not
a sleeping pill this is to support the
adrenal to relax the adrenal so you can
sleep take one of these before bed but
this probably works 80% of the time if
it doesn't fully handle your sleep then
that means that you have different parts
of your body that are stuck in stress
mode in which case you need to do the
massage tool Do It Yourself massage tool
I'll put a link down below of a stress
webinar to show you how to use it but
this extracts all the stress in your
body so I use it before I go to bed and
I also take one of those and what
happens is that I can drift off to a
nice deep sleep a lot faster because
there will not be any part of my body
that is like turned on I'll relax my
body go into a real nice rejuvenating
Delta sleep and then wake up feeling
good and also when you do keto an
immanent fasting over a period of time
the need for sleep does diminish so
you're not going to need the quantity of
sleep then when you're on higher carbs
okay you can get by with a little less
sleep but an overactive adrenal is
definitely gonna keep you from sleeping
consistently okay but we have to pull
the stress out and support the adrenal
with some nutrition
number three digestion if you're
consuming foods that are bloating you if
you're consuming new vegetables that
you're not digesting because like the
cruciferous kale shakes brussel sprouts
cabbage broccoli and you're getting gas
and you're feeling bloated that's going
to keep you from going to sleep because
the gut all the the nervous system in
the digestive system which by the way
you have more nerves in your digestive
system than you do in your spinal column
go right up to the brain through the
vagus nerve it comes right down so it
can really affect your head and keep
your head from going to sleep okay so
sometimes you're laying there but you're
tired but your your heads just going
going going going
so digestion is really key factor make
sure you don't can consume anything
that's bloating you that's why I like in
a minute fasting spaced out finding the
vegetables that you can digest maybe
you're not going to be able to do
cruciferous maybe we just do regular
lettuce then improving digestion will
then help your sleep okay so then we
have sleep apnea which is going to
affect your breathing when you're
sleeping which is purely a problem with
insulin too much insulin and it sort of
resistance so by correcting it by doing
these two you'll eventually not have a
problem with sleep apnea anymore and
then that will help you sleep even
deeper all right so that should do it
and your next step is to figure out
which one of these you have a problem
with and go ahead and apply the solution
thanks for watching hey guys I had a
quick question I'm thinking about doing
a keto summit in Washington do you see
this fall and the reason I want to do in
the fall that's my favorite time of the
year where the leaves are falling it's
going to be gorgeous in Washington DC
and I wanted to know if you would be
interested in coming out so this will
have a chance to meet you and cover the
entire subject of keto and in a minute
fasting so I haven't formulated all the
details yet but I just wanted to find
out if you'd be interested I put a link
down below let me know
