I have some more bad news for you
guys it's just been
reported on the news in New research
finding intermittent fasting May pose
risks to your heart the practice where
people eat within an 8 Hour window or
less researchers finding it poses a
significant risk of dying from
cardiovascular disease now this sucks
because I have to now change
442 of my videos so I got my work cut
out for me this weekend so just to be
safe I I think what you should start
doing is you should start eating at
night snacking between your dinner and
right before you go to bed and then soon
as you wake up start eating because we
have to save your heart now apparently
this study is mainly focused on
cardiovascular
mortality but they did find that if you
do fast for longer than 16 hours it does
lower your risk for cancer so you need
to choose do you want to lower your risk
for heart attack cancer now of course
I'm being super sarcastic again this was
an abstract okay that means a short
summary of an observational study it was
based on a 24-hour dietary recall it's
based on having that person remember
what they ate which I don't even know
what I ate two days ago and they mainly
looked at this pattern of 16-hour
fasting with an 8 Hour eating window now
this was sponsored by the American Heart
Association so we know it's legitimate
because they're very unbiased the
finding set to be presented at an
American Heart Association conference
but this is just another one of those
studies where all you have to do is put
a little doubt in the consumer's mind
and that's enough to get people to
question you know should I do it should
I not is it going to be dangerous and
going I die have a heart attack this is
a tactic that the tobacco industry has
used for many many years now what I
found about the author Victor Wentz Zang
from China I've heard about this author
before which directly opposed red meat
and eggs and cholesterol and of course
all of these studies are also
observational studies and so apparently
lead studies were sponsored by the
American Heart Association strategically
focused research networks but the
American Heart
Association is the same Association that
promotes healthy seed oils for your
heart personally my viewpoint is they're
not very heart healthy but the reason
they get away with it is because it does
apparently lower
cholesterol but that's a whole different
topic what I want to just kind of
mention right now is four more credible
studies that were peer-reviewed that
talk about the benefits of intermittent
fasting and supporting cardiovascular
health so the first one was a single
blinded randomized study and I'm going
to put all these Down Below in the
description uh longterm effects of Tim
restricted eating
with resistance training right this was
over 12 months significant decrease in
body mass fat Mass decrease in
inflammation increase in insulin
sensitivity and also a more balanced
lipid profile without adverse effects it
was safe and effective for improving
cardiovascular function number two this
was a non-randomized control clinical
trial for Tim restricted feeding on body
composition in cardiovascular risk so
they didn't 18-hour fast significant
decrease in waste circumference and
significant decrease in cardiovascular
risk all right number three systematic
review impact on intermittent fasting
with cardi metabolic risk factors
through four randomized control trials
the results were intermittent fasting
demonstrated significant reduction and
body weight waist circumference body
mass fat Mass blood pressure decreasing
cholesterol triglycerides fasting
insulin levels and Improvement in
insulin resistance all right number four
also evaluated this pattern of 16 and 8
16h Hour fasting and 8 Hour eating
window this was on breast cancer
survivors it was just for eight weeks
but there was a significant decrease in
cardiovascular risk there was decrease
risk in visceral adapost tissue and so
you know as much as I hate doing another
video on something something ridiculous
like this someone's going to read it and
someone might have some doubt you don't
have to have any doubt this so-called
study was completely ridiculous and you
pretty much can ignore it and since
we're talking about cardiovascular
health if you have not seen this video
you should really check it out I put it
up right
here
