so today we're going to talk about
what's behind leg and feet cramps at
night when you're doing keto
it's called nocturnal leg cramps so if
you try to look this up you're not gonna
really find very much in fact they don't
really know what causes it
I'm just going to give you my two cents
on this because we've gotten some really
good results dealing with leg cramps
when you doing keto this is really an
electrolyte problem electrolytes are
electrically charged minerals that help
the conductivity of certain things in
the body specifically muscles and nerves
and they help push fluid in and out of
the cells so we're talking about
potassium magnesium calcium things like
that so the two most common minerals
involved with cramps are potassium and
magnesium okay the symptoms of a
potassium deficiency are very similar to
a deficiency in magnesium magnesium by
the way is a cofactor it's a helper
mineral in over 300 enzymes so it's
involved in anything nerve and muscular
including the heart it generates ATP
which is the energy of the cell and so
if you're deficient you're going to get
tired you're gonna have muscle weakness
tremors okay it could be like little
resting tremors arrhythmias which is an
abnormal rhythm of the heart and
hypokalemia which is basically a low
potassium so if you're low in magnesium
you can also then affect the potassium
levels also loss of appetite and I
already mentioned weakness okay with
potassium very similar symptoms
potassium controls the cell energy it's
involved in the cell pump of things
going in and out of the cell it's
involved with nerve and muscle and also
sleep both these minerals are involved
in relaxing the body and helping it feel
calm and the other thing that these
minerals are involved in is the ability
for the muscle to fully relax and not
stay in a cramp okay so now you're on
keto why are you getting these cramps
and why are they at night so I have some
theories and why they are at night
versus the day but let's first talk
about what could happen when you do keto
especially in the beginning when you are
in key to adaptation
your body does require more potassium
and more magnesium especially if you're
going in the keto coming off of a high
carb diet because you've already been
depleted because high amounts of carbs
will deplete these and so you're now
going into keto and you're doing if' and
you're by is using your reserves which
if you don't have much there you can end
up with a deficiency so this is why I
always recommend either taking potassium
magnesium with electrolyte powder or
making sure you're getting it from the
diet so the foods that are high in
potassium magnesium are really the leafy
greens okay at the heart of the
chlorophyll molecule which is all the
green stuff when those leafy greens you
have magnesium so magnesium are in the
greens also potassium are in the greens
and I've been recommending consuming 7
to 10 cups today now you might say well
that's a lot of greens and when I
consume that I might get bloated in
which case that means that you have an
intestinal problem and you probably want
to lower it okay but if you don't have
an intestinal problem you want to start
to increase your greens now should they
be raw or should they be steamed or
slightly cooked I would say do 5050
because when you cook them you actually
do enhance certain phytonutrients and
you do increase the availability of
certain nutrients and on the other hand
when you have some raw you also get
other factors like enzymes and you get
other nutrients that a little bit higher
but as far as minerals go when you steam
vegetables
you're not going to lower your mineral
content unless it drains out into the
liquid into the water that you're
boiling with but if you're steaming it
and you're consuming the whole thing you
actually are increasing the absorption
of minerals because you're getting rid
of some of the anti nutrients which I'm
gonna do a separate video on that
also when you're steaming the vegetables
or your stir frying them a lot of people
have an easier time of consuming them
they're easier to digest but here's the
thing that I want to talk about ok so
here you are you're on keto and you're
doing a lot of greens and you're still
getting cramps that is because your salt
is too high when you increase your salts
you actually can throw off the ratio and
in other videos I recommend taking more
salt ok
in this situation if you get cramps and
you're consuming a lot of greens just
cut back your soul a little bit because
you're doing too much and then your
cramps will completely go away and then
another situation you're doing keto but
you're not consuming enough greens but
you're doing a lot of salt all you need
to do is increase your greens to counter
that and of course I'm recommending sea
salt not regular table salt but these
are some just really key insights that
you need to know that salt tends to
throw off of these two minerals here and
then you'll have this imbalance last
scenario you're getting a cramp because
your pH is off now I'm talking about the
blood pH so normally the pH of the blood
should have a very tight small band of
being slightly alkaline okay so it is
alkaline but it's just slightly Ocalan
if the blood is slightly too alkaline
what happens one of the symptoms is
twitching okay technique could be here
it could be the arm and cramping okay
and this is another reason why I
recommend apple cider vinegar right - in
your water through the day because
adding apple cider vinegar can help just
push your pH into the right level make
it not as alkaline and then you'll start
absorbing these minerals a little bit
better including calcium okay so in
other words in order for these minerals
which are alkaline including calcium to
be absorbed more readily you need the
right pH and even if your stomach is not
acid enough that can create the same
situation
so in summary consume large amounts of
greens if you don't have a problem with
your digestive system make sure you
regulate your salt not too much just the
right amount okay and outside the
vinegar if you're getting a problem with
that and your cramps should go away
thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
