hey Dr Burg here in this video we're
going to talk about the digestive system
now the purpose of the digestive system
is to take the food that you eat break
it down into very small particles and
extract nutrients from it to allow you
to convert food to body tissues like
hair nails skin heart liver lungs all
the body parts and it's really simple
there's all there's like five different
parts of the digestive system you have
the liver stomach gallbladder pancreas
and intestine
now the purpose of the liver is to help
make digestive juices that's one of the
purposes that's stored in the
gallbladder so the gallbladder is a
reservoir or a holding tank for the
digestive juices that come out of the
liver the purpose of the stomach is to
produce acid to break down proteins and
the strength of that stomach acid is so
powerful so acidic it can dissolve a
razor blade so we need to digest the
protein here and then it goes right into
the right into this part of the small
intestine where it's activated by this
digestive juice from the gallbladder
comes out that's called bile b i l e Not
Bow like waste but bile and that the
purpose of the bile is to break down
fats and to extract nutrients from the
fats like vitamin A E K and D those are
called fat soluble vitamins you have a
water soluble but you also have fat
soluble vitamins so you're going to
vitamin A E D and K in fatty foods okay
now right here the pancreas produces a
lot of different enzymes to digest
carbohydrates proteins and fats as well
it also makes certain hormones and then
all this bacteria down here you have
like a over 100 trillion bacteria that
are helping you break down food even
further and they have little hairs in
the small intestine like little roots
that absorb all the nutrients like a
root in a plant pulls it in and it goes
right into the liver and it goes into
the cells okay so that would be the
summary of the five areas of
digestion so the gallbladder right here
is does not produce anything it actually
holds something it holds bile and what
happens is it fills up with B when you
eat and then it squishes and it
contracts
that bile that goes down these little
tubes they're called bile ducts now if
there's a problem with not enough bile
you will start developing Stones like
this and so now the bile can't be
released because it gets all plugged up
and then they have to remove it now when
that thing swells up and it gets too big
it pushes on a nerve that goes all the
way up to the right shoulder and the
neck it can cause all sorts of issues
we'll get into that in a second but a
normal gallbladder should be free of
golf stones and it should be able to
push the bile through this duct right
here okay let's talk about bile what is
bile bile b i l e is the detergent that
dissolves the grease or the oil from
your Foods the fats and that includes
even fats in vegetables as well um so
you have vitamin A D and K and E that it
extracts from the food so here's what
happens I'm just going to do a little
demonstration here if my cameraman can
hold this for a second I'm going to open
this thing up here and we're going to
take this dishwashing liquid which is
detergent and um pour it
into the
oil okay so we're just going to pour
that in there and we're going to just
give this back right here and what's
happening now is this detergent is
breaking down the oil I'm going to make
sure this is shaked um uh sealed pretty
good cuz I'm going to start to shake
this here and start to dissolve
it okay so this is what the gallbladder
does with fats look at what happens it's
breaking down the fats into small little
particles so we go from fat to fatty
acids fatty acids are small particles of
the fat and this is exactly what bile
does to that fat that you eat it breaks
it down so you can use it and extracts
the nutrients vitamin A d e and K now
the thing that you need to realize is
that it also acts as a detoxer so if
there's anything toxic in the liver or
there's dust in the body or particles
that you breathe in or preservatives or
whatever it will go to the liver and
come out through that bile so bile is
important in the
detoxification of chemicals and
toxins so each year 20 million people
are diagnosed with gallbladder problems
and over half that that's 10 million
people have their gallbladders removed
so when the gallbladder is removed or
it's dysfunctional that doesn't mean the
problem is gone that means you're never
going to have enough bile to be able to
help you digest here are some common
symptoms that occur with a bile is
deficiency number one bloating because
you don't have anything to digest
everything's going to be um because bile
is a Lo lubricant everything's going to
be constipated as well so you have
constipation burping belching those are
the top three right shoulder pain why
because when that thing enlarges it's
going to push a nerve called the frenic
nerve that goes all the way up to right
through here up into your neck and even
in your scapula back here right back in
the back part right there so anything on
the right side it could be underneath
the right rib cage heaviness on the
right side on the upper part of your
body and and right side of the neck and
of course headaches nauseated that's why
um females when they when they have a
baby and all that's different pressure
that puts up in the gallbladder they're
going to become
nauseated headaches are migraines uh 98%
of all headaches are related to the
gallbladder or lacking a bile now if you
have a headache and you were to press
right on this one point over here where
the gall Bladers and give it some relief
and allow it to drain the headache
probably would be relieved um
now we also have not satisfied when you
eat if there's not enough bile you're
not going to feel satisfied you're going
to feel like you're missing something
because you're not pulling the nutrients
from the fats or the foods so you're
always going to be missing and you're
going to want to keep eating also you're
going to Crave fried foods or you need a
little bit of sweet after you eat
because the bile is very essential in
the regulating the blood sugars because
if you're pulling nutrients out you're
stabilizing the the blood sugars and
then itchy skin itchy eyes hives that
would be another symptom of gallbladder
problems and also sneezing it's another
one now bile is made out of cholesterol
now I know people have this thing about
cholesterol it's bad and everything but
here's the facts on cholesterol
75% of the cholesterol in your body
right now is made by your own body it
makes it surrounds the raw material that
build the membranes of all your cells in
your body it's raw material to build all
the sex hormones in your body including
cortisol which is for an
anti-inflammatory uh your lens of your
eye the retina um it's used uh to
balance out estrogen in a female so it's
very very necessary to uh regulate
hormones to help heal the tissue
especially under stress and without
enough cholesterol there's a lot of
other symptoms because your body will
start to to um basically cannibalize
parts of your tissue that have the
cholesterol to use that back so the
thing is it's cholesterol is not a bad
thing but in excesses it can be a bad
thing but as long as you're eating
enough greens and vegetables you're safe
because all that vegetable will flush
out any type of buildup of cholesterol
I'm not saying eat huge steaks and all
this fat and bacon
grease but I'm not opposed to it if you
consume the amount of vegetables to
clean out the liver so there's nothing
wrong with some fatty foods as long as
your your liver is healthy okay but the
point is that when you mix all the
breads pasta cereal or breaded meats and
all that cooked fried food and you have
this little side salad that's not going
to be enough to get the liver so so
that's why you have a problem with
cholesterol and also carbohydrates like
refined sugars and bread and pasta and
carbs convert into cholesterol as well
all right so those are some common
symptoms and if you don't have the bile
you won't be able to mulon break down
the cholesterol and it can build up in
the body as well now because the
vitamins um the fat Ty of vitamins are
associated with bile problems if you
don't have enough bile you become
deficient in vitamin A and that's when
um the vision becomes a problem at night
night blindness and dry skin vitamin A
is for the skin and the eye so you get
dry cornea or eye dry eyes and then you
can have a lot of other skin problems uh
with vitamin A Accutane is a type of
vitamin A so what is that use for acne
skin problems warts cornea issues little
grow of um that little deposit on your
eyes so vitamin A is very important but
it's not necessarily what you eat that
makes you healthy it's what you digest
without that bile which I find a lot of
people don't have enough bile you can't
extract the vitamin A to get the the
relief or the benefits from vitamin A
vitamin A uh supports all the mucous
membranes in your sinuses so when you
start digesting and getting vitamin A
your sinuses clear up as well vitamin D
uh is a fat type of vitamin so you can
get winter Blues depression that time um
like in the winter uh bone health
vitamin E is muscle tissues without
vitamin E the heart has to work really
hard because it's not going to be able
to retain the oxygen to the heart so
you're going to lose endurance so you go
up an incline and you get out of breath
very easily that's because vitamin E is
a fat cable vitamin so the heart and
muscles are con uh need that vitamin A
the retina retinal degeneration occurs
in the absence of vitamin E because
vitamin E is a great healer for certain
tissues and the pituitary runs on
vitamin E as well so during menopause
because you lose the
ovaries um the requirement of vitamin E
goes up by 100 100x because the
pituitary is not working like it did
before and the V uh so that's just
another thing after menopause you see a
lot of women that just dry out but you
can't absorb vitamin E if you don't have
the bile all right then we have vitamin
K you need that for the bone health and
in a deficiency you'll have bleeding
bloody noses so those are some of the
symptoms a of a biod
deficiency okay so now let's talk about
the causes of a problem with the
gallbladder and a bile issue number one
junk food uh that would include breads
pasta cereal crackers biscuits waffles
pancakes all those wonderful things
fatty foods why because uh too much fat
can clog up that whole system um what
can aggravate the gallbladder are nuts
when you start eating a lot of nuts is
you start eating healthy and you start
loading yourself up with nuts or peanut
butter and you start having right
shoulder pain that's because it's
aggravating the bile duct which is going
right up to the right shoulder okay
sugar will do it we talk about grains
soy protein isolates yeah that there's
been know um it's been known that it can
create liver tumors so it's very uh
irritating to the liver now where do you
find so protein isolet it's in a lot of
vegetarian patties that they have at the
uh store vegetarian food uh it's also in
a lot of diet foods all those
prepackaged Foods read the label a lot
of protein powders have soy protein
isolates as a cheap protein but it's
very hard on the gallbladder in the
liver um I had a gal come in she did a
diet down the street and they gave her
this protein powder and it was just soy
protein chocolate flavored soy protein
icelet she started burping for an entire
year and no one knew what it was it just
basically destroyed her gallbladder she
couldn't stop burping and that's why she
came to see me um cooked protein too
much heavy cooked protein because it
you're when you eat cooked protein
there's no enzymes enzymes are are are
destroyed with the heat and it it has to
these guys have to work harder even when
you eat roasted peanuts it will make the
pancreas enlarge because it has to
produce more enzymes to digest that
roasted nut I'm not saying not don't
worry about cutting that out if you're
eating good overall you don't have to
worry about it but if you're just eating
all cooked foods that would be very bad
for the liver and then we have alcohol
of course that's a given and then
estrogen estrogen will constrict this
duct and cause problems with the bile as
well that's one of the side effects and
that would be birth control pills
hormone replacement therapy uh becoming
pregnant that spikes the estrogen that
time of the month when you spikes the
estrogen or actually ovulation a fibroid
can um cause too much estrogen uh doing
too many soy products will cause a lot
of estrogen problems so estrogen can
definitely create a issue with that and
also uh cause headaches uh cortisol
cortisol is connected in the recycling
process of bile so over a period of time
when you get really stressed out over
many many years it will deplete your
bile and cause digestive problems so you
start bloating like you eat something
you just feel like you're pregnant and
then at night you're more bloated and
during the morning it's actually
flattens because there's less stress
okay so there's a connection between
stress and digestion and then lack of
the right Foods if you're not eating
enough vegetables you're going to end up
with a problem with this cuz this the
vegetables clean this thing out there's
some interesting points um if you find
that you sleep on your left side and
it's more comfortable than the right
side I'm sorry if you sleep on the right
side and it's more comfortable than the
left side chances are this there's a
problem with the liver and the gall
butter because the heart's over here and
so if you sleep on your left side down
this thing is too heavy it's going to
compress and push like a vice on the
heart and it's going to be hard to
breathe so the best position to sleep
with the gall blood problems on your
right side okay also the thyroid Works
through the liver in order 80% of the
thyroid is converted to an active form
of thyroid hormone in the liver so if
this is blocked up down here you may
find that the thyroid might not work as
well and also with a problem with this
you're going to have you're going to
start building up estrogen and that
indirectly decreases testosterone and
that's why you see a lot of men that
start are get breast tissue they're
getting breast cancer um they're losing
their chest hair all these problems with
estrogen and progesterone so there's um
one of the products that I use is called
gallbladder formula and I created it not
just to give the person some bile salts
but I put several things in there
because there's a lot of different
issues that can occur uh with with the
gallbladder number one it could be too
thick it could be that your stomach is
not acid enough to to release your own
bile so I put Bane hydrocloride in there
as well I put beets to thin the bile
there's bile salts in here to give you
bile so you can start recycling it
there's Spanish black radish that's good
for the liver as well and that thins the
bile to allow it to work better so it's
not so congested there's Stone root and
that is um known to actually dissolve
stones and there's an enzyme that the
stomach needs to and then their slippery
elmark to help lubricate this whole
process now I'm just letting you know
that I'm not saying
that this is going to replace or cure
your gallbladder all I'm saying is this
is what I use to support a healthy
gallbladder function so if you need some
you might want to try some take one
before a meal every time you eat a large
meal um and because it's not a drug it
works kind of slowly and you're going to
find that you're going to digest better
and your stomach's not going to be so
bloated so um if you need it go ahead
and try it I hope you enjoyed the video
I'll see you in the next
video
