hey guys had another question from
someone that wanted to know what is the
hormone glucagon I've talked a lot about
insulin but I haven't really talked
about glucagon and your pancreas you
have two cells you have the beta cells
that basically make insulin but you also
have alpha cells which make another
hormone called glucagon and glucagon
basically opposes insulin so if insulin
will lower blood sugar and then glucagon
will raise blood sugar how by breaking
down glycogen which is stored sugar in
your liver it also will make new glucose
if it needs to that's called
gluconeogenesis it will also activate
fat release that's why it's one of the
major fat burning hormones it will
inhibit fat storage insulin will cause
fat storage it will also increase bile
release as well so we want higher
amounts of glucagon and lower amounts of
insulin all right now the question is
what triggers glucagon number one lower
blood glucose or lower insulin okay
it's a ketogenic diet in a minute
fasting alright number two amino acids
which are proteins if it's in a moderate
amount okay if it's a little too high
and also if the carbs are too high
insulin is going to override this whole
mechanism because insulin is a
dominating hormone so you really have to
make sure that there's a low carb
situation and a moderate amount of
protein make note number three exercise
and the more exhaustive it is the more
triggering up to four to five times all
right there you have it that's what
glucagon is so I hope you're coming to
the keto health summit coming up in
October so I want to quickly comment on
what we're gonna do that's different
from other conventions okay the problem
with these other conventions is they
give you information over a load okay
it's so much data that you're basically
swimming in a sea of information we're
going to do things very differently
we're only going to cover the most
important things that make a huge
difference now there are three very
powerful strategies
that we're going to be talking about at
the summit that you will not find and
any of my youtube videos number one is
on memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory and concentration
that's going to blow you away and number
two I'm going to show you how to
increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism if you've
dyed it for a long time and everything
is kind of just really slow I'm going to
show you how to get complete control
over your metabolism so you can
literally turn up the dial as high as
you want and control as much weight as
you want to lose and these three things
are just a tiny bit of what you're going
to learn in the summit so click the link
below get signed up and I will see you
in October
