you know the nerve support formula is
something that I've been using my office
for the last two or three years um I
mean hands down it's it's the best
treatment for prip neuropathy medical
doctors do not have a clue of what to do
for that condition when your blood sugar
goes too high as in diabetes um what's
going to happen is that it's going to
destroy your nerves it's going to
actually destroy the the the coating
around the nervous system causing
numbness tingling and even burning in
the feet or the hand hands um I've been
in practice for 25 years I've trained
over 200 doctors in the field of
Alternative Care uh worked on 35,000
clients I've done 4,800 seminars I
worked at Harvard University as an
associate professor so I've been out
there in the area of healthcare um and I
highly recommend if you have any
problems with periphal neuropathy that
try this product now I'm not getting
paid for this endorsement but it's just
the truth you know so if it if you have
any of these conditions diabetes periph
opathy give it a try um I think it could
really help
you
