all right today we're going to talk
about how to use Quito to balance your
hormones okay
there's several reasons why Aikido is
very very good for the endocrine system
number one you have to realize there's
two sets of hormones you have those
hormones that are made from proteins to
call peptide hormones and then you have
those hormones that are actually made
from cholesterol called steroid hormones
that's right there's a whole series of
set of hormones that are actually made
directly from cholesterol that's the raw
material testosterone all three
estrogens progesterone growth hormone
cortisol that's a stress hormone
aldosterone DHEA so by going on a keto
plan you are going to be doing higher
amounts of fatty foods especially
healthy fats so you're gonna actually
get the cholesterol you need as the raw
material the essence of keto and
especially in a minute fasting is to
lower insulin and a lot of benefits that
happen when you lower insulin one is you
actually help balance androgens and
females there's a condition called PCOS
polycystic ovarian syndrome which occurs
in females and that is an androgen
dominant situation the excess antigens
are making facial hair loss of hair in
your head deeper voice so in men when
you lower insulin you actually raise
testosterone and the next point is that
when you reduce insulin you also reduce
sympathetic dominance so you improve
adrenal function many people are in this
mode Werther and flight-or-fight all the
time well by lowering insulin you take
the person out of that state that
condition and they feel very calm and
the next point I wanna talk about is
when you're in ketosis you're actually
burning fat you're removing visceral fat
as well and liver fat you're improving a
fatty liver you're improving liver
function now there's something in the
liver I'm not going to get into the
technical part of it but there's
something in the liver that binds
certain hormones to keep them in check
it's like a buffer for hormones to make
sure that you don't end up with
excessive amounts of cortisol or
estrogen
and when you improve liver function
you're able to buffer these excesses
more efficiently oh let me just back up
for a second one more point I want to
bring up about insulin when you lower
insulin you improve certain pituitary
hormones as well luteinizing hormone and
molecule stimulating hormone the ratio
of those two those are the two hormones
that help regulate the ovary and the
testicle and when you decrease insulin
you improve these ratios right here
all right the last point is that when I
mentioned Kido I always mentioned the
healthy version of Kido healthy keto and
one of the things that I recommend is
cruciferous vegetables cruciferous
vegetables are unique in that they
actually have the ability to detoxify
endocrine disruptors now think about the
endocrine system is the superior
communication system you have the gland
that makes the hormone that sends
hormone that gets received in a receptor
and it transmits back so you have this
whole communication thing going on and
endocrine disrupters any chemical and
environment whether it's pesticide
herbicides insecticide
heavy metals that can interfere with the
receptors of certain hormones by
consuming cruciferous vegetables and
other vegetables as well you can
actually lessen the amount of these
poisons in your liver cruciferous
vegetables help to detoxify these
chemicals and when you're doing organic
you're also decreasing the GMOs and the
glyphosate which is an herbicide all
right guys so I hope that made sense and
one thing I want to point out is that
when you do keto you also want to do in
a minute fasting i don't even mention
all the benefits from that but those two
together are essential for helping to
balance your hormones
so if you like this video go ahead and
share it with someone that you know that
can truly benefit from it
