so today we're going to talk about why
your urine may give off a strong ammonia
odor when you're on keto now ammonia is
the byproduct of protein now what
normally should happen is when you
consume protein some of it goes to the
tissues some of it is used as fuel and
the rest goes through waste through your
urine okay as urea so ammonia is the
intermediate step between protein and
urea now if you have liver damage let's
say you have cirrhosis this cycle here
gets interrupted and you start building
up too much ammonia and that can back up
in the blood and be very toxic however
there is another condition where you can
have ammonia in the urine and it's not
toxic and here's why acidic urine
triggers the production of ammonia and
I'll put a link down below but when your
blood becomes slightly too acidic you
trigger the production of ammonia
sometimes up to five to ten X and why is
that
because ammonia is extremely alkaline
it's 11.7 so neutral is seven as you go
lower it becomes more acidic as you go
higher becomes more alkaline now just to
give you more reality on the pH scale
seven is neutral six is acidic eight is
alkaline when you go from seven to eight
eight is ten times more alkaline and six
is ten times more acidic so it's by a
power of ten so if we're going nine ten
eleven point seven this is extremely
alkaline so ammonia is there to buffer
the acidic pH now this is not a bad
thing and you don't have anything to
worry about especially if you don't have
liver damage or cirrhosis so basically
you're on the ketogenic diet things are
becoming more acid to balance that out
your body makes a little more ammonia
what you could do is increase the amount
of vegetables to increase your alkaline
minerals magnesium and potassium because
if the pH is not overly acidic you won't
have this ammonia but if you're doing
ketosis and then you add intermittent
fasting you're gonna actually generate
more ketones and you may have some
ammonia nothing to worry about
alright thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
