today we're going to talk about how to
block the effects of sugar and other
carbs and other things as well if the
person's on the ketogenic diet and they
somehow come off the ketogenic diet and
they eat something that they shouldn't
be eating and how do they neutralize the
effects of that that's what we're going
to talk about all right so let's start
with number one sugar your friend has
just eaten some sugar what should they
do to counteract the effects of the
sugar now the damaging part of sugar is
that it tends to act like rust in your
arteries destroys your energy factories
your mitochondria you have something
called the glycemic index right of foods
so you eat a certain food and the higher
the sugar the higher the spike and it
creates damage and so each carbohydrate
has a index from high to low and you
also have something else called the
glycemic load and that's looking at the
carbohydrate in food but it's also
taking in to consideration fiber because
fiber tends to buffer and inhibit this
sugar Spike and so out of all the
carbohydrates fiber which is a
carbohydrate has no effect on insulin so
other carbohydrates will raise insulin
but not fiber so it's neutral and so the
more something has fiber in it the less
the sugar effects like carrots for
example are loaded with fiber and so
it's really hard to spike the blood
sugar uh if you're consuming a carrot
unless you juice the carrot and just
drink the juice right carrot juice which
I used to do a long time ago so what you
need to understand if your friend uh
consumes some sugar is to recommend that
they start consuming some Fiber right
away and if there's fiber in a salad
that would be the best thing because
that will buffer or slow the effect of
this Spike the other thing to know about
sugar is that Sugar especially refined
sugar depletes you of potassium B1 zinc
and magnesium and so if you were to take
some electrolytes and B vitamins and
trace minerals that will counteract the
deficiencies that you just created from
that trigger so that's just a way of
kind of minimizing the side effects from
that um grains because eventually grains
turn into sugar and there's different
things about grains that you need to
know number one you have the refined
grains right so if you're consuming
refined grains it's going to deplete you
of certain nutrients because when you
refine the grain it's like empty of
nutrients so when you consume that um
your body starts to metabolize it and
then it needs to pull from its Reserve
certain nutrients to burn it up and so
this is why the more refined grains or
even sugar that you consume the more of
certain nutrients that you need because
refined foods does not come with these
nutrients so you have to tap into your
own reserves to be able to uh process
them or digest them so refined grains
have their own issues but then you have
the whole grains whole grains has some
nutrients not as much as you might think
but it also has something called phytic
acid and other anti-nutrients so the
phytic acid actually blocks you from
absorbing certain minerals so if you're
consuming whole grains you might want to
consume an oyster or some shellfish to
get those those minerals back because
shellfish especially oysters are loaded
with zinc the other big problem with
grains is the gluten that's the protein
in the wheat or some other grain so you
can have gluten allergy you can have a
gluten intolerance but it can really
tear up and create inflammation in your
gut on so many people especially because
they've did hybrids of grains especially
wheat and they don't just come with more
carbs they come with um more protein in
some cases and that protein can do some
interesting things to your gut it can
even mimic uh a bit of morphine which
numbs the pain that it creates making
you think it's totally fine to consume
right so you keep eating it and then
sometime down the road you have this gut
inflammation that creates all sorts of
other additional problems that you
didn't suspect so just as a side note to
counter inflammation in your gut okay
let's say you want to counter that you
can take glutamine or consume foods high
in glutamine what would that be meat and
this is why when someone goes on a meat
diet or a carnivore diet and gets all
this glutamine from that they tend to
heal their guts as long as they're not
consuming at the same time the sugar and
the grains and the starches things like
that so this video is all about
neutralizing the effects of some of
these carbs and other things as well the
other thing refined grains depletes is
vitamin E and there's a big correlation
between a vitamin E deficiency and
angina because the heart needs that
vitamin E in fact if you're low in
vitamin E your muscles including your
heart muscle will work harder and you
might have more weakness within the
muscle so when you think of eating
refined grains or your friend eating
refined grains think of deficiencies in
the B complex especially B1 and other B
vitamins as well as Vitamin E so you
want to put those back to neutralize the
effects you can even consume some
nutritional yeast to kind of get your
Natural Bees just make sure that they're
not enriched with synthetic B vitamins
also I want to mention if you're
consuming grain foods like breads pasta
things like that in Europe um people
have less bloating because they ferment
the grains longer which actually tends
to break down more carbs because the
microbes eat the carbs and also it can
actually break down a lot of the gluten
as well and all that enrichment of iron
and synthetic vitamins will tend to make
your gut feel very heavy the other thing
about grains is a lot of times they'll
use Roundup Ready or called glyphosate
which is a
herbicide to kind of dry dry out these
grains so now you're consuming this
grain that has um these chemicals in it
which is not good so it make sure you
have an organic grain if you're going to
do grains as another side note I want to
mention um the chemistry of glucose is
very similar to the chemistry of vitamin
C so if you're eating sugar right don't
expect any vitamin C absorption because
it's it's competitive and this is why
when people take like those vitamin C
gummies I mean they're just loaded with
sugar
you're not getting any vitamin C so just
realize that glucose blocks vitamin C so
one thing you need to do or tell your
friend when they consume this carb or
sugar to have more vitamin C Foods the
food that has the most vitamin C is the
sauerkraut but then you also have bell
peppers lemons or really any of the
leafy greens has a good amount of
vitamin C and I also want to mention
berries any of the berries are a good
source of vitamin C when you start
consuming fruit okay okay people always
ask me about fruit um is fruit bad well
yeah it's high in sugar and our bodies
were designed to consume moderate
amounts of fruit that wasn't genetically
made sweeter but nowadays they are
produced with more carbs and sugar
contents but also fruit is seasonal
right but we have it all year around but
is there a big difference between fruit
and high fructose corn syrup uh yes
there's a huge difference the fruit has
the fiber okay hose corn syrup is like
drinking this pure fructose or an En
glucose and it's just it creates a
completely different effect than if you
were to even like get your fructose from
the juice from a fruit because you have
the antioxidants you see if someone's a
diabetic right and they have high levels
of sugar in the blood and if you're a
diabetic you should know this you have
all these side effects these
complications from diabetes you can
greatly nutralize a lot of those side
effects by just consuming antioxidants
from veget vegetables and also things
like benam is a really good one or
alphalipoic acid I mean a lot of
diabetics get like peripheral neuropathy
of their feet where their feet are numb
or painful if they just took some botam
or alphalipoic acid they would at least
not feel that pain anymore because it
decreases the complications of diabetes
diabetes affects four areas your brain
and nervous system your vascular your
arteries and the eyes and the kidneys so
of course changing your D is the
ultimate solution but also just to
counteract um or neutralize some of
these other effects you can just start
eating these high antioxidant foods and
you can also exercise you may have high
blood glucose not necessarily from
eating carbs but it can come from stress
it can come from not sleeping it can
come from various reasons let's say
you're on the ketogenic diet and you
haven't transitioned and your body's
still producing sugar because it has
really bad insulin resistance you can
counteract a lot of that just by
exercising every single day because that
burns off the sugar and it actually
strengthens the mitochondria it actually
makes new mitochondria and then there's
another thing you can do like a lot of
people are on Metformin being a diabetic
if you were to um take berberine for
example it's a natural uh remedy there's
studies that show that it can create a
similar effect but with less side
effects cinnamon is another thing you
can take just put some cinnamon on your
toast in sugar in your butter where you
you make the cinnamon toast I'm just
being sarcastic uh but cinnamon actually
can help stabilize blood sugars and so
can apple cider vinegar that helps to
neutralize some of the effects of
consuming sugar and refined carbs one
from acidifying the stomach another from
just helping your blood sugar so you'll
find that if you have some apple cider
vinegar in the morning when you wake up
um if you did have some carbs your
sugars will be a little bit better from
the alide of vinegar and the other point
I want to bring about that because since
we're on the topic of your blood sugars
is that if you consume lean protein as
in Whey protein powder you can actually
Spike insulin that's the thing that
helps to control blood glucose now
there's something called the insulin
index and that is looking at all the
non-carbohydrate things that can
increase insulin that go beyond just
like sugar and things like that so the
thing that really spikes the insulin is
the Whey Protein because there's
absolutely no fat in there so this leads
us to the next Point fat has one of the
least effects on insulin like fiber and
fat they don't trigger insulin too much
so fat is a way to buffer the insulin
response so if you had the choice
between egg whites and the whole egg
always have the whole egg uh or a fatty
hamburger versus a lean piece of meat do
the fatty hamburger if you have the
choice between a fatty nut like
macadamian nuts or maybe peans those are
much better than the nuts that are
leaner or whole fat kefir or cheese
versus low fat or no fat cheese huge
difference go for the fat the fat will
buffer the insulin response from the
protein another thing that will help you
neutralize the bad effects from the
sugar is fasting okay if you fast
definitely do regular intermittent
fasting but a periodic prolonged fast
will greatly help reduce the damage that
that sugar has done to your cells I
think if we combine certain things we
can create a cool effect let's say you
had a salad right you have the fiber in
there doesn't have a lot of sugar in
there we add the apple cider vinegar to
it and then we add the olive oil okay we
have fat we have the vinegar we have the
fiber so the oil actually helps pull the
fat side able nutrients out of the salad
and this combination is kind of a nice
compounding effect of one meal to help
counter maybe some bad things that a
person ate now I talked about sugar I
talked about grains now I want to talk
about alcohol a bit alcohol is from
grains and alcohol depletes you of B1
alcohol is detoxified from the liver as
a toxin so it takes priority and it it
creates damage to your liver and
inflammation Etc so if you happen to
have known of someone who has drank some
alcohol tell them to counter it by
consuming B1 vitamin B1 or nutritional
yeast but B1 is a good one they probably
won't have a hangover from that uh
pickle juice also is a good kind of an
electrolyte that can help counter that
or just taking electrolytes in general
can help reduce the effects of um a
hangover which is the toxicity that
you're feeling of what's happening in
the liver and anything that you take uh
to damage the liver milk thisle is a
good antidote or neutralization Factor
milk thisle is good for anything
poisonous whether you had a snake bite
or consumed a poisonous mushroom or you
drank alcohol or took Tylenol or the
next thing in the issue which is drugs
if you're on certain drugs they can
damage the liver take some milk thistle
that will help counter or neutralize
some of the bad effect if you're on a
Statin drug make sure you take co-enzyme
Q10 or you may end up with some muscle
damage if you're a diabetic and you take
Metformin make sure you take B1 and b12
and if you're on an antibiotic make sure
you take a probiotic if you're on an an
acid really you just need to take Bane
hydrochloride because that ant acid is
going to get rid of acid in your stomach
and usually the true cause of an acidic
stomach is a lack of acid so a lot of
times you'll go from bad to worse so if
you start to add more acid in there it
will actually help neutralize some of
the side effects that it's creating
which is a lack of stomach acid number
four is um if you let's say you consumed
a lot of salt or like sodium and you
basically you started retaining sodium
and you wanted to neutralize some of the
effects let's say it affected your blood
pressure just take potassium potassium
helps counter the bad effects of sodium
so you're going to get rid of fluid
retention uh you're going to feel less
bloated and potassium is really good to
help maintain blood pressure too so have
a big salad or some high potassium food
and the same thing goes with like sugar
if you eat a lot of sugar you deplete
potassium and then without potassium
your pulse rate starts going higher and
higher and higher and so again an
antidote for a high pulse rate would be
that potassium number five is not a
carbohydrate but it's it's called ox ex
let and since we're on the topic of kind
of neutralizing things I just want to
mention it um when someone gets on the
ketogenic diet they usually are doing um
spinach and they're usually doing some
chocolate like some no sugar chocolate
and almonds or almond flour all those
are a bit high in oxalates so if you
were to consume uh some cheese with any
one of those you would help to minimize
the bad effects of that and also I
almost forgot magnesium magnesium will
also reduce the effects of that as well
now since I mentioned salt or sodium
let's also mention the drinking too much
water let's say you drink a lot of water
and just so you know uh drinking too
much water can dilute the blood of
sodium and it can create some serious
problems called hyponatremia and your
brain can swell uh people have died by
consuming a gallon of water in a short
period of time like three hours so you
want to drink when you're thirsty and
make sure you don't over drink but the
solution the antidote is just to take
some salt if you drink too much water
and other electrolytes as well number
seven if someone goes in the ketogenic
diet and they do intermittent fasting um
what happens is they the demand for
minerals and B vitamins goes up so some
people if they're not taking
electrolytes or B vitamins or eating
foods high in those nutrients they can
end up with some side effects like keto
rash keto fatigue things like that
number eight is not food but I think
it's kind of an important just to bring
up it's just stress okay how do you
neutralize the effects of stress well
what does stress do it can deplete you
of zinc B1 magnesium so of course taking
B1 would be very good to help counter
stress you will find if you take B1 your
anxiety will go away you'll feel less
anxious a magnesium deficiency will
cause cramping in the legs and fatigue
if you take magnesium you'll have more
energy you have more endurance and you
have less leg cramps and stress also
depletes zinc so when you're low on zinc
you may find your testosterone goes down
your immune system Goes Down And if
you're very deficient you might even
notice your smell and taste go away as
well and another way to counter the bad
effects of stress is exercise long walks
in physical work you want to do
something that just pulls you out of
your head and sleep as well sleep is the
antidote to stress now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link down below in the description I
will see you on the other
side
