so I want to create a quick video to
answer this question why doesn't muscle
loss occur during fasting or in a minute
fasting okay it has to do with this one
single hormone called growth hormone
human growth hormone when you do fasting
or imminent fasting you majorly trigger
this hormone in very large quantities
and growth hormone protects and
preserves body protein and muscle is a
body protein and there was some research
done that validates this what they did
is they had this group of people take a
drug which suppresses growth hormone
okay so we just take growth from the
picture while this group of people were
fasting okay and what they found was
they actually lost 50 percent of their
muscle without the help of growth
hormone so growth hormone is the key
factor that preserves and protects your
muscles from being lost fat is the
tissue that is used for fuel okay when
there's no food available muscle is not
the tissue used as a fuel source only as
a last-ditch effort to help you survive
when you're starving but you would have
to be very very into that stage of
starving and very sick before that
happens so exercise is really the main
tool to help you build muscle fasting in
a minute fasting is a tool to protect
and preserve the muscle from being a
lost as well as in the reparative
functions of muscle alright thanks for
watching
hey guys so I hope you're gonna make it
to the Kido House summit October 13 and
14 now we're going to cover a tremendous
amount information but there's one thing
that I think is going to be very
important to fully understand it's a
situation where someone is fasting doing
one meal a day and it's really healthy
keto yet still the person is only losing
tiny amounts of weight per week okay
like barely anything we're going to talk
about exactly why that is what to do and
how to correct it and it usually has
nothing to do with metabolism this
information is completely
brand-new and not on any YouTube videos
so click the link below get signed up
and I will see you in October
