hey everyone I'm excited to bring you
another special guest dr. Mercola is
here how are you dr. Mercola I'm doing
great good I guess you know I'm up here
in Maryland it's snow outside it's
freezing I need some Sun I need some
vitamin D looks like you
you have some nice vitamin D down there
we do well it's a little bit deceptive
because I just got back from a week in
Costa Rica oh but it is it's gonna be in
the 70s today so and sunny so that's
that's good
I suppose it was rough you had to put a
towel on when you got out of the pool
right that was pretty big pool person
I'd rather swim in the ocean so oh yeah
that's nice so you know we're gonna
basically it's non-scripted we're gonna
just I want to go through some things
today with you lately I'm sure you've
heard the news Jillian Michaels she had
this whole thing against the ketogenic
diet have you heard about that
seriously configures women yeah yeah so
I did a video on her and on her
confusion and and we basically got sixty
seven hundred views an hour it's blowing
up and yeah I think it's been three days
and we're it's like twenty five hundred
years an hour so there's a lot of
interest in this time as a personal
trainer
he doesn't have formal science training
oh yeah she's a TV celebrity she's not a
scientist
she's clinician no I know she has a as a
major confusion on insulin she doesn't
understand what that word is and what it
does so yeah yeah I know so a couple
things I wanted just to kind of bring up
you you've recently read you recently
wrote two books and you're you're on
your next one actually you you have a
lot of books but one of the books
actually I'm we're gonna I'm actually
currently working well I'm not gonna
we're gonna two books one for next year
and the year after so I'm doing in
parallel you know I can't just work on
one project I have to do several things
at once I just get bored so I have to
kind of mala it's not a board thing it's
just that there's they're really
important topics that need to be to be
out there so and
one of them is personal to us for
longevity so that's that's you know as
I'm writing the book I'm learning things
and applying them for myself so by the
time the book is written I'll have had a
lot of experience and personally be able
to validate many of these strategies
that's great
the first topic I want to bring up this
in a minute fasting um
your your next book that you're writing
your you found some interesting data
with detoxing like when people do I
think you you know most of the toxins
are stored in the fat cell so what
happens if you detox org fast too long
there's a potential of detoxing some of
these chemicals tell us bread yeah so
it's actually it's not intermittent
intermittent fasting was my last book
with bad for fuel which essentially
describes a process that is necessary to
become metabolically flexible and you
can actually regain the ability to burn
fat because I would say 3/4 of the
population aren't able to do this
because of their consistent indulgences
and excessive carbohydrates which
essentially shuts down their ability to
burn fat effectively and they develop
insulin resistance and then secondarily
all these other metabolic consequences
especially obesity so that's the
baseline if you you know to stab
establish metabolic flexibility and
that's typically done with a compressed
eating window which is the most one of
those profoundly simple and effective
strategies to regain health is just to
restrict and time your that you're
eating the window eating period to about
six to eight hours and you mate
you know it's shocked me but I guess it
shouldn't have that ninety percent nine
out of ten people eat more than twelve
hours a day
let alone six or eight we're talking
twelve twelve hours it's not natural
it's just not natural but we're so used
to it it's this what's your thoughts on
this I mean massive habit of just
snacking like it's almost like you
people can't even go a few hours without
eat they have to constantly snack
that has pushed on us I'm not opposed to
snacking it's not like a magic you have
one or two meals in fact I have a six
hour
window and I eat liberally in those six
hours I said you know and but before
those six hours or after those six hours
I don't eat well that's what I'm talking
about I'm talking about like yeah night
in the morning all snacking at night is
one of the worst thing I could possibly
do to your body yeah I bet your viewers
would like to know why because when
you're getting when you're consuming
calories you're converting those
calories to energy and the process the
energy the biochemical metabolism that's
required to do that generates reactive
oxygen species and they tend to back up
and you expansion expand the production
of those oxidative stress errs when you
eat when you're not using the energy and
it's exactly what you do when you eat
before you go to bed because your energy
consumption drops dramatically when
you're sleeping there's no need to have
extra energy so it's just you're just
damaging your body when you do that so
one of the most important principles
does not eat for three hours before
you're asleep so let's just clarify that
for those people when you talk about
Ross or reaction auctioning species in
relationship to what you said just make
it really simple like what how could
someone really get that what does that
mean well there is a process that occurs
when you're creating energy and it
usually occurs in our mitochondria those
are these little organelles and our
cells that are considered to be the
energy producers and they create ATP and
that process is has a leaky production
of these electrons that go out and they
cause free Router they cause reactive
oxygen species which are responsible
producing free radicals which can create
cellular damage and proteins DNA cell
membranes okay so net and it's the many
people have heard that and they think
free radicals are bad but actually the
truth is that you need a certain level
of them to operate and be healthy there
are important biological signaling
molecules so that if you
indiscriminately suppress them with
excessive antioxidants that could
actually cause problems but the key here
is not to take external exogenous
supplementation's but to live
it the production and one of the ways
you can do that is by not exposing
yourself to ionizing radiation there's
no dispute here's it's non-controversial
the last thing you want to do is stand
in front of an x-ray or a cat scan on a
regular basis because you're going to
die prematurely or handle radioactive
material we know that and if we have
time later on we'll talk about the non
innovative radiation but similarly you
don't want to expose yourself to
excessive oxidative stress errs by
eating at the wrong time because it's
trying to cause similar damage okay so
now when you talk about I mean like just
eating in general or certain things will
create more oxygen stress both actually
timing is probably the crucial one but
certainly eating the wrong foods things
like trans fats or industrially
processed vegetable oils you know are
really pernicious to your health and and
the trans fats are probably in the
industrial process oils they're worse
than sugar in my view because the sugar
will create these this pulse of
oxidative stress but then it's gone it
doesn't do any long-term damage from
that perspective but these industrial
oils get embed yourself membranes they
stick around for a long time and they
really plug up your system and make it
difficult to stay healthy so when you
don't eat when you're fasting what
happens with these do you just have less
free radical damage
well you're not well because you're
eating at the right time you're not
creating excessive free radicals but
there's there's a lot of other magic
that occurs metabolic magic when you're
not eating because you're replicating
what our ancestors did they went
regularly through times of not eating
and they never had access to a
refrigerator 24/7 where they can eat
like most of our population does I said
90% people eat more than 12 hours a day
I mean that's essentially every waking
hour they're eating yes crazy when would
they get up to the moment they go to bed
and that is a prescription for metabolic
disaster so that was one that was one
aspect and the other is that I'm well I
forgot what they did your question was
there well just just the relationship to
when you when you don't eat I think
there's a fasting elicit some genetic
things what so that what happens
you're not eating is that you will
actually stimulate some very important
metabolic about a process called autopsy
which is from the Greek word to self eat
and that is a clean up process that you
have the cellular debris these
organelles these cells that clog up your
system that essentially are removed when
you're not eating because your system
shuts down it has clean and repair and
then your digestive system is given a
chance to rest to so that you are less
likely to have leaky gut and absorb
these large molecules from your food
that you're eating into your system and
cause autoimmune problems so it's it's
really an important process that we were
designed to follow if we want to stay
healthy oh yeah you know I was before I
was a Carroll I was a x-ray tech and I
did x-rays in nursing homes that would
portable x-rays said go out there and I
didn't have time to you know properly
bring a shield I would take x-rays with
this little unit like from one foot away
and no shield like I know I was filled
with radiation so that's just something
that in the back of my mind that's why
I'm kind of like really you can be
filled with glyphosate from eating
non-gmo foods but you can't be filled
with radiation you're exposed to and
then it causes damages you have to deal
with unfortunately there are some
strategies because the ionizing
radiation your is exposed to as an x-ray
tech is very similar to the radiation
you're exposed to flying at 35,000 feet
I don't know about you but I'm pretty
much on an airplane at least once a
month and there are some really
effective strategies in would you like
to know one of the simplest and least
expensive strategy to protect it to do
this basic but when you're flying does
this have to do with fasting it has to
do with fasting because you up regularly
you the other interesting thing when you
don't eat food is that you increase the
levels of one of the most important
coenzymes in your body which is nad
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and
that is really the fuel for an enzyme
that repairs the DNA damage response or
helps repair the damage and it's called
poly poly adp-ribose polymerase or par
for short and it's so when you're the
the radiation comes in damages the DNA
this PARP can facilitate the repair but
this part requires nad so when you're
fasting you're going to increase your
entity levels now there's other ways you
can do that you can take exogenous
ketones which is very expensive it's
going to be about 25 to 40 dollars a
dose depending on how much ketones
you're taking and you know it's in a
work we're presenting in fact they're
studying this exogenous ketones with the
NASA is for the astronauts to mitigate
ionizing radiation damage but you can
just do it by not eating and you know
that gets into my next book which is
keto fast that comes out in May which
talks about the benefits of partial
fasting as opposed to long-term
multi-day water fasting which is what I
was thinking I was going to promote
because initially I liked this time last
year I thought five-day water fest was
the best metabolic intervention I'd ever
seen in my entire political career and
it still is powerful but I think in the
21st century it's not a wise solution
that's the conclusion I reach after
studying this very carefully now I
recommend a partial fast which I
described in keto fast like intermittent
fasting I'm sorry intermittent fasting
no it's different intermittent fasting
let me let me describe a keto kisses
because it's a bit confusing
intermittent fasting is the base so that
you do this for you know eat within a 6
to 8 hour window for at least a month
and then your metabolically flexible and
upon that platform you add another level
of fasting which is you would your first
meal instead of having to whatever 2,000
3,000 4,000 calories a day that you
normally eat your first meal of the day
after fasting for 18 hours would be
anywhere from 300 to 600 calories maybe
800 if you're a really big muscle
builder so you just have that one meal
and that's the only thing you eat that
and then for 24 hours you don't need
anything else
so for 42 hours you're only having
anywhere from 300 to 500 calories that's
it so that's the partial fast which will
not give you the identical benefits of a
5 day water fast but will
give you a large percentage of them
probably 80 to 90% of the benefits which
virtually no the downside which involves
liberation of these toxins from your fat
cells and being unable to effectively
process and eliminate them from your
body causing further damage so so so
clarify that so we're talking about a
pattern of eating and not eating um and
you said you know you have this certain
intimate of fasting and then
periodically you do that's right that's
the key it's not something you do every
day right just like exercise if you do
extras intense exercise every day you
will kill yourself prematurely you're
digging a hole as you can't get out of
this and fasting or partial fasting is
very similar exercising that is it's a
pulse it definitely in some ways weakens
your body but it makes it stronger when
you get out of it on the other side so
you only want to do this like once or if
you're if you're metabolically deranged
you're damaged then I could say your
weight a hundred pounds overweight they
may want to do it twice a week but for
healthy people I think once a week is
enough maybe even a little bit less than
that but I try
depending on my schedule when I gain
enough weight I'll partial fast like I
partial fasted Sunday and so that we're
reporting this on a Thursday so and I
lost six pounds and I regained the six
pounds and so then when I get to that
threshold of weight then I then I can
know I can partial fast I'm gonna lose
five or six pounds my partial fast this
is the way it works it's interesting
because you're you're talking about
something that I've I'm also
experimenting on right now as well when
it you know because you think about it's
a little bit like muscle confusion if
you training over time decreases your
gains because your body adapts to it so
you have to constantly switch it up
because it's and it probably goes within
a minute faster I mean you take a look
at how our bodies were designed way back
it wasn't such a regular thing it was
like one day we're eating two days we're
not you know right right I mean we see
this in nature all time I'm watching
this brilliant planet Earth 2 on BBC
documentary X and it's just so
fascinating to watch the animals
a charlie I mean Laden don't make it
they just don't get the food on their
dead but I mean that food supply is not
guaranteed on a regular basis it's
intermittent yeah my wife we're now just
watching that last night - with the
little starfish and they're there like I
mean there's the tides coming and I'm
like this is incredible with this I just
as much planet Earth oh okay which is I
liked even I mean I like getting better
because it's terrestrial animals and
it's like it's just so fascinating these
wild wild stuff I was gonna I wanted to
ask about an interesting phenomena that
occurs and you touched on it when you
fast there's a your body basically
resists stress it protects you I guess
it's a I guess it's the term is it
resists oxidative stress it actually
it's not like an emergent like like
Julie Michael she's saying oh yeah
ketosis fasting it's an emergency state
like actually it's not necessarily
stressful it's gonna your body's gonna
actually protect you against oxidative
damage and that is a very interesting
phenomena because you would think it's
just the opposite oh I'm gonna starve
I'm stressed out I'm not gonna eat she
hasn't she probably doesn't even know
what a ketone is No so for your and many
of your here's may not either so it's
you know we hear all the time but what
the hell is a ketone you know it is a
simply put it's a very small chain it's
usually two three or four carbon chain
fat that's because it's so short
its water soluble and is consensually
penetrate almost every cell in your body
can easily pass the blood-brain barrier
and supply your brain with fuel that
makes it mentally alert and sharp yeah
interesting yeah I you know just one
side out on that just because um what I
don't understand about and the reason I
bring this up just because it was a hot
topic and I wanted for those of you that
are listening you know there's a dr. axe
is one of his companies called ancient
nutrition I think and cheese she's one
of the investors and I'm just surprising
because why would you bash keto if
you're investing in a company
has all these keto products so it's just
it's weird I don't understand it
so inconsistent yeah you mentioned about
radiation
what about EMF I just wanna a lot of
people don't know what that is I know
you're you're interested in it you you
know a lot about it just give us some
data on that well there we talked about
there for hours essentially the reason
why there's a lot of confusion out it
relates to the reason why there's
confusion about conventional medicine
because there's very powerful
corporations and with respect to
medicine that's primarily the drug
companies that can go out and influence
the public and in fact there was an
article published two weeks ago in JAMA
that reviewed medical marketing and a
night in 1997 they spent 2 billion
dollars on direct to consumer
advertising direct to consumer every
time this is what you see on TV that was
in 1997 ok to confuse people now
remember the United States is only one
of two countries in the world where this
is legal you can't do it in any almost
any other country in the world so what
do you think they spent 2016 what did it
go up to literally 20 years later I have
no idea 10 billion dollars what 10
billion dollars was spent direct to
consumer advertising okay that sounds
like a lot right what did they spend in
1997 for for manipulating deceiving and
confusing positions how much 16 billion
Woods thousand 16 and went up to 30
billion dollars oh no you know and this
is so that sounds like a lot of money it
is and the reason I went on this tangent
is that most of your viewers are
familiar with the process of
manipulation and deception and fraud
that occurs in medicine otherwise they
wouldn't be watching your channel
wouldn't be watching me so the where
they're not familiar with they're not
familiar with is the EMF of component
and you need to understand that the
level of
corporate influence is exponentially
higher when it comes to the
telecommunications industry they dwarf
the pharmaceutical industry they have
been able to centrally manipulate the
federal regulatory agencies including
the FTC the FDA the EPA that this is
safe
they these guys are bought and sold I
mean the former head of the FTC was the
head of the telecommunications lobbying
industry it's like this is icky the fox
guarding the hen house Wow so and and we
don't have to there's a great there's a
I don't think it's on Netflix it's on
Amazon Prime you have to pay for I think
is merchants of doubt' which doesn't
brilliant expose on the the corporate
influence a lot of these policies and
they did they focused a lot on tobacco
industry and yeah there's also a book if
you prefer reading which preceded the
movie or the documentary but the purpose
of this is to know to understand that
the CDC and the FDA believes if DEA at
the FDA and CDC both came out Surgeon
General and denounced smoking yet the
tobacco industry was able to convince
the public and created enough doubt that
they were able to delay the final
acknowledgment in the day of the dangers
of smoking for three decades 30 years
now again tobacco industry is peanuts
compared to telex telecommunications and
we don't and and they had the federal
regulatory agencies saying that it was
harmful we don't have that with EMF so
understand the very basic protective
mechanisms that are the government is
supposed to have don't work when it
comes email if they just don't work so
that you have to understand any of the
public health authorities that what
you're going to see in the media which
is bought and sold for by the industry
is going to confuse the heck out of you
but yet there are like the bio
initiative report published
years ago and it's updated annually has
thousands and thousands and thousands of
studies documenting clearly in
peer-reviewed published journals the
science that that that that
authentically validates the danger of
these exposures you talk about EMF EMF
yes stuff that stuff yeah so you're
holding a cell phone I'm assuming that
it's an airplane mode good question but
let's see without it's no it's not an
airline or airplane mode yeah
okay so the airplane mode okay all right
well you that's good and even dr. bird
in airplane mode and hopefully I will be
able to convince him of the danger from
my perspective unless you have a medical
emergency or something that's really
just shockingly critical you should
never have your phone on your body
unless it's an airplane mode and this is
even validated by the instructions that
come with each and every phone it needs
to be at least six to eight millimeters
away from your body okay so first of all
why why should we keep it an airplane
mode well because that will lower
radically by orders of magnitude the
radiation that comes out from there
won't eliminate it but it almost does so
basically I have to turn it on right now
right era airplane mode yeah yeah turn
it on right and then you can put it on
then do funny about you sure damage it I
mean you know you know Senator McCain
died recently right yeah glioblastoma
that was from a cell phone he also got a
parotid tumors I exactly what where he
held a cell phone Wow
I mean it doesn't discriminate against
you know who you know who you are what
type of political office you hold or how
much money you have it's gonna hit you
either way so so this this information
you're saying it's not readily available
I mean it's like this probably been
since lightly suppressed it's readily
available but there's just like that's
why the book merchants of doubt' is so
good because it helps you understand the
strategies that the court
it's corporations used and it wasn't
just tobacco it's asbestos and climate
change global warming it's this whole
there's a lynnium about six different
areas that they discussed it's the same
down strategy every time Wow
telecommunications industry is still
they they hire the same PR agencies that
tobacco did interesting you know so you
just understand it you know because
people are going to think I'm way out
there and I'm confused and I don't know
what the heck I'm talking about but once
you understand the foundational
realities of what was that
seeking to confuse you then you then you
can realize well maybe there is
something more listen you feel easily
validate this you can do this yourself
problem is most of us don't have the
time right you know I'm in a position in
life where I delegate been able to
delegate almost every non-essential
thing in my life out and I just have
loads of time where I can research and
stuff and most people don't have that
luxury so right you know and I can read
it and compile and put it together and
put in a book that you can read and
there's other people who do that too I'm
not the only one certainly but you know
it's there and you can independently
assess it and figure it out yourself
fascinating you know I I'm very very
very sensitive to this phone I can't I
hate talking the phone I I never ever
hold it up to my ear however the and I
don't know a tremendous amount amount
EMF but the way I learned about it is I
used to do seminars and all the
governmental agencies in Washington DC
and I went into the an agency the
National Science
'national Science Institute I go in
there to do a seminar and this guy came
up to me he was one of the scientists
and he he says what's your thoughts on
EMF and at that time I didn't really
have any data and he started to educate
me from he was doing research at that
institution on EMF and telling me yeah
it's it can create tumors it creates
this and I just was a sudden awareness
of like I had no idea and if you're
studying this you know there's must be
something to it
yeah there is a lot to it and the we're
not going to I said we wouldn't need two
to three hours to cover this copper
sensibly and I could easily do that
without notes but we don't have the time
to do that now so for those who are
interested in this simple book that's
easy to read and gives you a lot of
pretzel strategies until mine comes out
in 2020 would be the non tin foil guide
to EMF a Nicholas pin alt and it's
available on Amazon so that's that's a
good one to say because it goes with
basically it's not for the the research
savvy scientist or clinician who wants
the details because this is written for
the consumer which is you know really
the target of most people watching this
so that that's a strategy for sure and
the other component to understand we
talked about nad before now there's if
for those of you who are a little more
science oriented there's an incredible
research paper written twelve years ago
now is written 2007 by Paul patcher PA
CH ER and it's called parry oxy nitrite
PE ro X y ni t RI t parallaxing nitrite
in health and disease and it's a
literally a hundred and forty page paper
it is a book it is a book and it has
1,400 references
it is literally I read hundreds and
hundreds and hundreds of thousands of
studies every year and this is one of
the best written papers I've ever read
in my life is just unbelievable and it's
free there's no charge for it love you
know half the journal articles you got
to pay $30 $40 to get this write free go
online on google type in what I said
line I gave you a title and you'll get
get this paper and he helps you
understand this is such a foundational
critical paper it really is a foundation
for the next three books I'm writing is
to understand we talked about oxidative
stress and we took then most people
think our OS reactive oxygen species but
it's not just our OS it's our NS
reactive nitrogen species and the most
toxic probably the most toxic species is
Perry oxy nitrates so what the heck is
it well this is what happened this is so
just understand it is a thing that you
you and I were not taught in school and
I would say almost all medical students
today are not taught in school okay
because this is biology there's just
figured out in last 10 years ago maybe
15 years so and then I learned about if
I'm Martin Paul who should my view
should get him a Nobel Prize for this
he's a little too deep for most people
watching but he does MPA ll Martin Pau
pal-14 and EMF on YouTube and get he's
got dozens of hour or longer lectures
we'll go into the deep science of it and
far more detail than I had time to do
now but he told me about Paris I mean he
talks about Paris tonight reelection and
he seems like everyone knows about it
but no one knows about it that's why
this paper I mentioned it's so critical
because it help you understand it
because this is a foundation and the
problem is when you're exposed to EMF
like you are when your phone wasn't in
airplane mode or almost everyone
watching is because they are at home
where the Wi-Fi is on and believe me if
you don't understand this you need to
know that having a Wi-Fi modem in your
home on is like having a cell phone
tower in your house yeah that is a same
thing that's why when I'm talking to you
from my home studio and I do not have
any Wi-Fi in here I have a very safe
signal I'm in the green zone with
respect to I'm less than point zero 1
volts per meter of radio frequency
exposures so that's great but almost
everyone is watching this on Wi-Fi and
they got their phone on they're getting
blasted so what is happening what is
happening when you do that these radio
frequency signals typically in the
gigahertz range but even at lower
frequencies will go and stimulate the
voltage-gated calcium channels of V
GCC's they're embedded in all the cell
membranes the neurological tissue like
the brain and the conduction pathways in
your heart at the highest densities so
that's why there's so many people now
with brain tumors and cardiac
arrhythmias afib a flutter you know and
if you know anyone who has these
conditions you've got to tell them be
enough because that's probably that's a
good likelihood that's what's causing it
so anyway these voltage-gated calcium
channels get activated and it's just a
gate right it's just like a gate you
have on your front yard when you open it
up things come in so there
a calcium gauge so the calcium floods
and calcium is really high outside the
cell orders a magnetized on the inside
and which opens up the calcium flows in
the cell so what happens when now
calcium flies into the cell it act it it
does two primary things is a signal and
it will causes more nitric oxide and
superoxide to form and these are very
reactive molecules they get within a
hair breadth of each other a hair growth
of a hair growth of each other and they
form peri oxy nitrite why is this so
dangerous why is it so much because the
most dangerous ro s is hydroxyl free
radical hydroxyl free radicals and I
know many people have heard of this
think what they don't know about
hydroxyl free radical is his only last
one billionth of one second much very
short-lived it hardly goes anywhere so
most of the art most of the hydroxyl
radical is actually created in energy
generation in mitochondria so and when
it only lasts of billions of a second it
can only travel for the distance of a
protein or so so essentially that means
it doesn't escape the mitochondria and
cousin go to the cytoplasm it doesn't
travel into the nucleus but peri AXI
nitrite not only is it not just the
mitochondria it's hitting it all the
cells but the entire cell is going in
but but it lasts nine billion times
longer and hydroxyl free radical so I
usually travel out of my Kandra into it
can go out of the cell back in the cell
into the nucleus all over a cause is
damaged so it's not as a aggressively
voracious as hydroxyl but it lasts nine
billion times longer so it's 99 billion
times more potent from that perspective
now the hydroxyl radical has two needs
either iron or copper to be reactive
right now that's just catalyzed it's
called the fencin reaction that the
catalyzes that reaction what does this
created it's created so the Fen
catalyzes that so if that's another
that's another interesting point that
most clinicians are ignorant of
essentially that's the best term that I
would use to describe the dead excess
iron your body which almost all your
adult males watching this and any
postmenopausal women is a problem so
you've got to measure your iron levels
and the best way to do that it's fair
and ideally should be between 20 and
simple thing that'll radically lower
your risk of heart disease and cancer
and dementia that's well documented
right so how do we how do we get these
this this new radical thing well how do
is it from the EMF or what what's
creating it no no the primary that's a
great question the primary catalyst for
that is this excessive disposer to EMF
that's the molecular necklace he I knew
about EMS for two decades and probably
you knew about him to take so treat it
and you know we're told by the people
who should know that it's dangerous and
should but it's so darn convenient that
we don't want to believe it right right
and you know and and these merchants of
doubt are creating doubt they're create
all these studies to say well it does it
you know so you're using data
justification to perpetuate your
ignorance or lack not ignorance but lack
of action to effectively mitigate your
exposure to this so I was like that up
until a few years ago and a clean heart
catalyze my interest in this and they
started studying and Paul is really the
genius in this whole area who's really
sure I think should get a Nobel Prize
but what so once you once you understand
the mechanism that there's actually hard
science behind this then you start to
believe it Wow okay so it's basically
creating this influx of calcium in the
cell what what are some of the
consequences other than you know signal
signaling problems
brain tumors there many that's why the
title of my book the tentative title for
2020 is EMF the extinction event yeah
because your your what is it I already
mentioned earlier it's going to hit the
heart so you'll have arrhythmias but on
the beginning and end of the spectrum
it's certainly not the only variable but
it's an important variable to contribute
to the the occurrence of autism in
autism even by conservative measures the
last measurement that by the government
by the government when I was in med
school when I started practicing in 85
wanted I didn't see any autistic
patients because there was one in 10,000
we're autistic faces I have 10,000
patients okay I've seen tens of
thousands of patient business but I
didn't have 10,000 patients so I never
saw an autistic patient and tell us the
instance start increase now today they
admit conservative it is probably much
higher this is one in 40 one in 41 40
Wow
so from one in ten thousand one and
forty so that's one consequence
glyphosate is another issue
vaccines are another issue but probably
collecting they are the two biggest so
that's one so you've got you know if a
trial with autism requires care givers
otherwise they're gonna die they just
can't take care of themselves so you
have an enormous amount of resources
being invested in the taking care of the
autistic ators and then the other in
this spectrum you've got Alzheimer's
which we have a tsunami an epidemic of
Alzheimer's which is clearly EMF is
contributing to this Wow so you know
both of those are increasing
exponentially so if you've got you know
half the population demented in the
other half I mean we're going to one in
two autistic birds that care for
themselves how can the society survive
the only segments or remnants of the sub
population of those survivor that people
aren't exposed to have these types of
exposures because they're you can't it
just it'll collapse
it's just destined to collapse unless
there's some changes incorrect
what now as someone ages there's
definitely this huge problem and I don't
know if this is related with calcium
calcium deposits you have arthritis you
have calcium yeah well there's a lot of
variables for that it's like a chronic
inflammation and right and in vitamin k2
is another important because that sucks
the calcium from the lining of the blood
vessels back into the bones where it
belongs so and it you know in the
hormonal component so it's not just a
simple I mean you shouldn't be taking
calcium supplements for the most part
but you should but you know museum is
far more important but you know excess
calcium could be in there but it but
it's not it's more of a symptom that it
caused yeah exactly
okay so as far as the viewers right now
or they're kind of probably gonna go
alright you opened a can of worms at
least need to know something about
because they all have cell phones
only put in airplane mode if it's gonna
be in your body what it what about the
earphones that earbuds see they have
different kinds what yeah yeah well
we'll talk about that but let me just
finish this airplane mode okay how often
do you charge your phone every day at
night how often do you think I charge my
phone I have no idea yes when it runs
out yeah well yeah I guess a phone
depending if it's on I guess it lasts
what every two days every day once once
every seven to ten days what yeah that's
how often I charge my phone
what yeah how does it last that long I
have a super battery no cuz it's an
airplane mode that you're putting into
the battery is creating radio
frequencies which are exposing you your
body and your family to these this
energy interesting so acid mine is mine
is on occasionally I mean but even if
you don't you ever turn it on it's still
gonna vary probably only last maybe two
weeks before it goes dead so so you
basically extend your battery life when
you it's in yeah exponentially alright
so then your other question was well
what do you do you know how do you
protect yourself well the first step is
airplane mode is almost all the time and
use a landline you can easily use a
landline by using your computer there's
voice phones on your computer which is
what I do all the time people cannot
caught they know I I don't text I just
do not use my cell phone
I mean I'll use text occasionally but I
mean I get more the amount of texting I
do today in a year is equal to most
people's what they're doing today
essentially you know I do it to over and
catch an uber or something and it's not
a text but that's a using my cell phone
but anyway so what can you do if when
you do use it make sure it's far from
your body so if you're going to hold it
you speaker from them you know that's a
lot easier more community because you
all we have speaker always have the
speakerphone actually you never know not
necessarily going to have your headphone
Asst yes inconvenient it's a hassle so
most of them you just go to
quite place you know I mean you don't
want to annoy or disturb others so like
if I'm in an airplane lounge and the
only that's the only phone I have I'll
use mice but a whole far from you and
I'll have it on the speaker mode I mean
you're still hurting your hand but at
least it's a far away from them what
really counts because the your friend is
distant so the further away from your
body it is the better and you have to
know though and I with with the
equipment the and the best meter to get
for remittitur and radio frequencies for
everyone is called the acoustic comm -
acoustic just like it sounds with an om
and a - and get that out it's very hard
to find though because it's it's so it's
a very obscure website it's called
Amazon $150 and I actually the battery
lock I think I've had mine for two years
I have been change the battery but it's
it's an analog signal so you can
actually it has an acoustic sound so you
can get audio feedback and by the type
of the sound it can tell you what's it
where the signals coming from this
coming from a cell phone is coming from
a Wi-Fi router is it coming from a cell
phone tower so it's pretty interesting
so from anything else will tell you the
level you can see it and hear it and so
you know those of you there watching
he's talking about a device to measure
EMF right well well one love one type of
EMF there's many types this is a radio
frequency typically from a few hundred
megahertz to like eight gigahertz but
then there's also higher frequencies and
radio frequencies and then there are
magnetic fields and electrical fields
this doesn't measure magnetic or
electrical fields okay so like around
someone's house what are some of the big
sources of EMF that's a great question
probably the most important is I already
mentioned the Wi-Fi router Wow your cell
phones are the two biggest threats you
have here to your health so for that
problem what is the solution for that
problem well the first step the baby
step to get you put your toe in the
water is to turn off your router at
night because you're not using it okay
turn off your router or night you can
easily do that you can buy a $25 switch
you plug in your you actually plug your
router into that and then you can
control the switch with a with like a
garage remote control
but the bet the law that's not the
long-term solution launcher solution is
to get rid of your turn your wife left
permanently in hardwire your house pain
in the butt but it'll help you and your
family quite a bit you know I I agree a
hundred percent because I there was a
our power went down for three days in
her house and all the Wi-Fi went down
and man did I just I slept better
I felt better I'm like what what's
different I just feel so good yeah and
he saw also my computer my hard drive
was very close to underneath my desk and
I felt like I was literally being
electrified every single day as like it
and I said get this thing well you well
it's not your hard drive it's that it's
that your computer is using the Wi-Fi
st. Louis right next to you so and that
and don't make the mistake I did say you
hardwire your house right you know have
no Wi-Fi you still have to go to your
desktop even though there's an Ethernet
cable and it's getting a signal from the
ethernet you have to turn the Wi-Fi off
you have to put in an airplane mode just
like your phone otherwise it's
continuing to blast you with a signal
okay yeah so it's the confident Devils
of the details because your body it
doesn't matter what your attention is
you have to take it attention to details
because your body will suffer otherwise
can you hurry up and finish this book
well the book is almost finished I'm
just tweaking I it's already written I
just have to put it together in a in a
cohesive and motivating and catalyzing
way so that it will convince people of
the dangers but there's a lot of books
written up this is not the only one and
I said Nick's book is really pretty good
for the most part it's just not gonna go
in as much of the science as I'm gonna
do and really some of the other
components and go more into the
deception in the fraud so that people
aren't because what people understand
the basic reason why they're being
deceived and manipulated then there are
more open to the science I think because
you scan him with a science you got a
you got a paint the picture for ya see
see the full frame yeah and then the
other thing is that I think one of the
big challenges is especially when I did
or do our summit we had the speakers fly
in and people want application
want simple ways of applying it because
right they don't want all the science
they want okay what do I do with this
information you know what practical
things yeah well you need to be
motivated first of all that's the key
Thanks so that's the reason for the
science and for me I I was it gave me a
simple implementation measures to follow
but unless I was convinced it was an
issue I wouldn't do it I didn't do
anything right we convinced first right
but next book goes into great detail all
little little things but the most
important thing is your cell phone and
your Wi-Fi may those are the big ones I
mean the magnetic fields are an issue
but they're pretty easy to find and
mitigate against electrical fields
there's a lot more complex topic that we
have time to talk about now but but it
does things it is a big issue for people
with solar panels and I happen to have
you know 15 kilowatts of solar panels on
my roof and the problem is there's
nothing no nothing wrong with the solar
panels because they create DC power and
DC power is fine the problem is that you
anyone who is almost anyone who's using
them has an AC converter so they
converts the DC to AC instead inverter
that causes the complication which
creates a massive amount was called
dirty electricity which inputs high
voltage transients into your wiring
system which causes electrical fields
which go go throughout the wiring of
your housing can cause similar problems
as the cellphones Wow a mechanism Wow
fortunately there's things that you can
do to address that but most but you got
to know it's an issue to begin with
right yeah this is fascinating
this is great data I had no idea now you
got me really interested now I'm gonna
dive in the optics here I'll pick up
next book because that'll give me the
best strategy right away cuz my books
not gonna be out for it could be out
within a year
I mean it's entually written I just had
to fine-tune it well and the book I'm
ready now now we'll see the book I'm
ready and now it's going to be it's my
master but it's gonna have thousands of
references it's how it's how to extend
your life but but it's based on the
preceding book so you know intermittent
fasting
partial fasting e-m-f remediation you
got to do those that's the basics right
you don't do to the advanced stuff until
you do the basics
agree
yeah down and then when you're there
then you can do the fine-tuning awesome
Wow well thank you so much for your time
this has been great I think a lot of
people got a lot of great content and
also a lot of ideas to start we opened a
can of worms but now it's time for them
also to take do their own research and
start learning about these you know be a
skeptic I think it's their skepticism is
a healthy strategy you know you have to
be careful and ideally validate these
things yourself I mean it has a good
source you says be careful especially
with with the EMF because you're gonna
find a lot of confusing material out
there based on the deception and fraud
that the telecommunications industry is
introducing into the system so no but
you can you can pretty much if you go to
these studies you can see who funded
them and find out you know why they're
confused
fascinating Wow well thank you so much
for spending the time okay well good to
be with you
