today we're going to talk about the
liver and for a lot of people they have
this slow liver death the cells become
fatty inflamed and then they develop
scar tissue and so that kills these tiny
cells but what is the cause well I'm
going to show you and this is going to
not only shock you but it's going to
really piss you off so I'm going to
cover the seven early signs of liver
damage these are weird symptoms that you
might not connect to your liver but
they're so important to identify because
the problem with the liver is by the
time you find out you have liver damage
sometimes it's too late simply because
the first signs of a liver problem are
basically no signs you don't know what's
going on until sometimes up to 90% of
that liver is destroyed I have a lot of
experience with this because I had liver
damage early on in my 20s and so I want
to tell you what happened nowadays
alcohol is not at all the cause of liver
problems compared to what it was long
ago I would say if we took alcoholic
fatty liver disease and we compare that
with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
alcohol induced fatty liver is roughly
about 4% okay that's 12th of this other
fatty liver problem but before I get
into the root cause I want to talk about
these early warning signs the number one
symptom is kind of a fullness or a
tightness or even it could be a pain
underneath your right rib cage that
sometimes can refer to the right
shoulder or even down the arm or on the
back part by the scapula I didn't know
what it was it was my liver and the
liver swells up and it puts pressure on
these little tubes that go to your
gallbladder and at one time I thought it
was my gallbladder but it really was my
liver since the liver controls the
gallbladder and the gallbladder is just
this little sack that stores and
concentrates fluid called bile which is
made by your liver and bile of course
helps you digest fats I didn't have a
clue what was going on but I will say
that that pain radiates up to the right
side through this little nerve it's
called the franic nerve up to the right
side of the shoulder so you're going to
feel it right here okay like a tightness
I don't care how many times someone Mass
es you it's just going to be tight and
sometimes it can refer in the back and
to the romboid around your scapula on
the right side but that's all liver
issues what eventually happened to me is
the vertebra of my neck these are not
bones in your neck but in my neck okay
all this tension on the right side was
pulling these vertebrae to the right
side and that pinched a nerve that went
down my arm and I had all sorts of
referred pain down my right arm I had no
idea it was connected to my liver I
thought it was a problem in my neck and
I had massages it never got better
there's nothing like treating the wrong
problem that just keeps that problem
there I did not connect the dots okay
all right number two is a loss of energy
now you might not feel like a noticeable
fatigue but you'll notice that you can't
go a long period of time like your
endurance is suffering especially if you
were to do exercise or exert yourself
you kind of run out of gas a lot sooner
in fact you might need to go to bed
earlier because you don't have the
endurance and that full energy that you
should have you might get tired after
you eat you don't have this solid good
endurance it kind of comes up and down
like that now this fatigue can also roll
over into weakness so you just lose that
Vitality that strength I mean I know
some people with liver problems that
getting out of a chair is difficult or
if they're sitting on the floor and
getting up it's like it's taking them
more than they should to get up number
three is it
somewhere could be in the bottom of your
feet for me it was the bottom of my foot
right by my Arch but it could be
anywhere in the body this is the bile
salts backing up into your tissues okay
and a lot of times you'll notice these
in your extremities either your hands or
your feet and for some reason people
notice this more at night than during
the day when they're moving around
probably because the circulation and it
kind of pushes the bio salt through the
body but if you're just in one position
for a period of time you might notice
like more itchiness in the bottom of the
feet backing up into the blood into the
tissues number four is these little red
dots or spider veins okay this really is
coming from higher levels of estrogen
for men they might have extra breast
tissue for women there's a whole series
of problems with estrogen dominance too
much estrogen is not good for the body
okay it can actually lead the cancer
with men as they get older and their
liver becomes more damaged if you notice
their skin becomes softer because they
have more estrogen which is interesting
estrogen kind of gives the soft layer
around a female body also when you have
more estrogen than you do androgens okay
you're going to lose your hair on your
skin this is probably why older men
start losing their hair on their lower
legs as well and then the skin gets very
very soft and shiny that's usually liver
problem and the accumulation of estrogen
all right the fifth symptom relates to
your th thyroid the thyroid is dependent
on the liver for the activation of the
thyroid hormone with a liver problem
you're going to notice the thyroid is
going to start to go downhill now that
can give you a lot of different symptoms
from fatigue loss of hair loss of energy
higher cholesterol the skin gets dried
out it could be a lot of things but it's
specifically a lowered functioning
thyroid all right number six low vitamin
D situation now you might already have a
deficiency of vitamin D because most
people do but with liver damage it
becomes a lot worse why because when you
actually consume a vitamin D from the
foods or you take vitamin D from a pill
or you get it from the Sun it actually
goes into the blood and eventually goes
through the kidney and it becomes an
active form of vitamin D3 what you need
to know is that you need your liver to
be able to work in this process of
storing and utilizing vitamin D if the
liver is not able to put that protein on
on that vitamin D you're going to be
vitamin D deficient the specific type of
vitamin D that's going to be low is
something called 25 hydroxy vitamin D
that is the type of vitamin D that they
check in your blood and so here's a
person taking all this of vitamin D
they're getting more sun but they can't
seem to get their levels very high why
because their liver is damaged all right
what are some of the symptoms that would
show up with that inflammation somewhere
in your body probably more in your lower
back area but you can have inflammation
anywhere in the body so your
inflammatory markers are going to be
much higher your immune system is going
to be weaker you're going to have a
problem with calcium so you may notice
that you have problems with muscle
spasms tighten muscles muscle knots all
of that vitamin D is so important in the
body it influences 10% of all of your
genes you're talking like 2500 different
genes it influences so the function of
vitamin D goes Way Beyond just
inflammation or calcium regulation or
muscle and number seven your urine's
going to be a little darker than it
should be you're also going to notice a
weird smell with your urine like what
the heck just happened when I urinated
that is a liver problem but now let's
dive into the actual root cause of a
liver problem because there's a lot of
confusions when you look at Wikipedia
it'll tell you well there's associated
with this or associated with that and
all you need to do is focus on losing
weight because obesity has a higher
incident or it's a risk factor blah blah
blah blah it's all very very confusing
I'm going to show you a real cause of
not just a fatty liver but an inflamed
liver and a liver that turns into
curosis and this goes beyond the alcohol
cause so check this out we're going to
talk about the root cause of not just a
fatty liver but liver disease in general
obesity is associated type 2 diabetes is
associated with it as well as something
called metabolic syndrome so basically
we're dealing with high blood sugar high
cholesterol high blood pressure obesity
all are responsible for non alcoholic
fatty liver disease now of course we
need to make these sound very scientific
so high blood sugar is going to be
hypoglycemia or type 2 diabetes high
cholesterol is hyper cholesterolemia
sounds a little more scientific then we
have high blood pressure which is
usually essential hypertension then
you're giving these medications men
Forin Lipitor for cholesterol linol for
high blood pressure you're also given a
diuretic called
hydrochlorizide which is going to thin
your blood and maybe some OIC now all
this treatment has been normalized for
people okay it's very scientific it's
normalized and when you get into
causation you know it's always this
Association you talk about risk factors
all of these right here and the reason
why you're treated in other words we
have sugar starch which is sugar and
seed oil these three ingredients are the
root cause and even more of a root cause
are these guys right here who fund the
dietitians and have a very cozy relation
relationship with the FDA now recently I
did an interview with an influencer on
Tik Tok and Instagram amazing basketball
player he's only 22 years old and I
wanted to interview him because I wanted
to see if I could change his diet and
increase his performance so come to find
out he eats at fast food place like
McDonald's eats pancakes with syrup for
breakfast so he eats a lot of junk food
and so I asked him I said do you have
any health problems he goes well I'm a
little bit tired oh yeah and I don't
sleep at night I go well we're going to
change that so I recommended what he
should do and then he says he has high
cholesterol his doctor wanted to put him
on statin drugs to lower his cholesterol
he's 22 years old what 22 years old yeah
the doctor made this slight Omission
what he was eating right why don't we
change the diet but I think a lot of
younger people because they're not
overweight think that they can get away
with eating junk food but it causes a
lot of other issues if a 22-year-old was
put on statin drugs first of all they're
going to have a lot of damage with their
muscle
okay not to mention energy and
eventually you know your cognitive
function and even testosterone too
because the raw material from
testosterone is cholesterol and what
they're doing is they're blocking it
with this drug right here what's really
happening we're omitting this huge cause
big food is responsible but it's been
normalized it's been hidden you are an
ATM for big food and big Pharma I am
considered a quack because I'm recom
recommending something like keto which
basically is getting people on Lower
amounts of sugar and starches and Seed
oils and you know they're going to put
doubt in people's mind where oh keto
might work initially for weight loss but
we don't know the long-term effects that
is such a disinformation campaign but
keto is the way to go the junk food
industry they do not like keto okay so
this is why you hear some bad things
about keto and then sometimes I'll get
that well Dr Burg's not a real doctor
right a doctor that prescribes you know
scientific medication that does the
proper diagnosis does this proper
treatment standard of care and puts
people on medication I don't want to do
this I never wanted to do this so they
can call me a quack whatever I'm going
to keep telling people to get off these
three ingredients right here and what's
going to happen is you're going to turn
around a lot of these symptoms right
here and eventually this thing right
here now that I told you what not to eat
the next question is what do I eat and
for that information you should watch
this video right here
