so today I want to introduce you to um
maybe A New Concept I don't know if you
ever heard of this before it's called
heart rate variability HRV HRV is like a
measurement of the variations between
the heart beats okay so if you think
about it when your heart beats you have
different distances between the
beats and you would think you would want
those all exactly the same but the more
vary the distances or timing between the
heartbeats the healthier the person is
the higher the HRV is and the more these
distances or timing are the same the
lower the HRV the less healthy the
person is and I think a good concept to
kind of wrap your wits around it is just
your ability to adapt to your
environment if you're good at adapting
to your environment you're going to
survive better if you run up a hill for
example and you can adapt to that you're
going to be very healthy but if you just
barely stand up and you pass out because
your body can't adapt to that you're not
going to going to be in good shape so
HRV heart rate variability is a
technology that's very researched it can
help a person understand um where they
are stress-- wise and their ability to
adapt to stress as well as their ability
to recover from stress and a lot of
people use this technology uh in
exercise to determine number one should
they work out hard today or should they
take a day off are they overtraining or
do they have enough potential recovery
to handle a really good workout like
there's a lot of Lifestyle things that
you can do food exercise activity sauna
treatments cold bath nutritional
supplements this technology allows you
to have feedback to see if what you're
doing is benefiting you or making you
better or not you basically use this
little device that you put your finger
in and it'll pick up information off
your heartbeat and put it into uh some
software which gives you these graphic
illustrations of what's going on with
your stress and recovery even your
biological age so in practice I would
use this on patients all the time I
depended on it it was a really great
tool to kind of look what's behind the
scenes to see what's happening and so I
recently reached out to the company
after probably 12 years of not using it
and they have come a very long way in
refining this technology to simplify it
to make it easy as a do it yourself and
so now this device and the software is
available to anyone that wants to get it
I'm going to put the link down
we're done with the video if you want to
check it out but the price is very
reasonable you can check up to six
people in your household there's no
monthly fees and you pretty much can
have your own science lab to figure
things out because you really can't take
things to the next level improve things
if you can't measure it so anything you
have to measure it whether it's a blood
pressure cuff or a pulse rate or
whatever if you can measure it then you
have this feedback tool to see if what
you're doing is working or not heart
rate variability measures
the autonomic nervous system right here
the autonomic nervous system is the
system that works on automatic that you
don't to think about it it's involuntary
so this includes blood pressure
breathing um digestion now of course you
can control your breathing but then if
you forget about it you'll still keep
breathing so there's an involuntary
component to this there's two branches
one is the sympathetics which is the
flight or fight and the second one is
the parasympathetics which is the rest
in digest we didn't name it sympathetic
and parasympathetic we named it stress
index which is your ability to adapt to
stress and then we named it recovery
index your ability to recover from
stress so the Simplicity of this is that
HRV is the tool to measure the autonomic
nervous system which controls a lot as
you can see right here every tissue in
the body is controlled by it and so this
is a window to look inside your body to
kind of see the state of where you are a
lot of people
are heavy on the stress or sympathetic
mode or sympathetic dominance and
they're low in the recovery or the
parasympathetic so this kind of explains
why they can't sleep this is why they're
stressed but I create a lot of videos to
understand this a lot more and how to
use this and then what to do to improve
these graphs and even if you don't get
this device I'm going to include the
training videos down below so you can
check them out because there's a lot of
great data that I put together I'm going
to give you one example let's say you go
to sleep at night and you have a hard
time going to sleep well the
parasympathetic nervous system the
recovery system is always active and
it's pushing your pulse rate down and if
that's weak okay and then you're also
heavy on the sympathetics the flat fight
then you're GNA have a hard time going
to sleep so you'll just lie there and
your body won't turn off so that
parasympathetic is the system that
pushes you into the deep Delta wave
nonre uh phas of sleep where you're
rejuvenating and you're recovering all
the body functions so you'll see when
you take the graph if you can sleep good
then you'll see that graph will
correlate if you don't sleep good that
graph will not look very good and then
the second half of the sleep is kind of
controlled more by the sympathetic
nervous system and this is why kind of
like the wavelength REM sleep is a very
active wave similar to when you're awake
but you're actually asleep so if you
have a problem with the sympathetic
nervous system you may find that you
might not get that last bit of sleep
that REM sleep so then if you're trying
to correct that improve that you're
going to be scanning down all the
potential things that could be stressing
you out and then you'll chip away at
that and then you'll retest back and
forth to see if it improves to really
see if that was the thing that was
causing most of this problem it's also
another great tool to help you um not
overtrain um I'll give you an example
when I train hard and I I Sprint up like
a mountain right and I'm just like
pushing myself and then I recheck my uh
my biological age the next day I'm like
80 years old so that kind of tells me
that I should probably take a day off
right and just rest and then I'll check
the next day and see when it comes down
and comes down to the point where I'm
safe to actually do that again whereas
before when I didn't have this uh
technology I would tend to push myself a
little bit harder than I should and
overtrain and wonder why I had more
inflammation and had other issues and
one really cool thing about this is
biological age right you're able to look
inside your body and see the age of your
your cardiovascular system in arteries
you're be able to determine how elastic
and how resilient they are you can also
measure the rate of Aging which is a
really cool graph too and there's a lot
of things that can improve this graph
and make it worse too like it'd be a
really great experiment to have you go
out drinking one night and then do a
before and after the graph you'll see
big changes there's also some training
on just breathing exercises that you can
dramatically improve your graph so I
just wanted to introduce you on this
technology heart rate variability and
exactly what it does and it measures
your autonomic nervous system and if
you'd like more information about this
or would even like to see the training
videos I put that down below check it
out
