hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about the first complication in diabetes
or I probably should have wrote this pre
diabetes or even pre-diabetes because
what happens at first is you have high
insulin which then pushes the blood
sugar down it's going to be normal for
like 10 years and then the sugar is
going to start to go up a little bit
that's pre-diabetes and then the sugar
will go up even more in the blood and
that's a full-blown diabetes so the
complications of diabetes really have to
do with this thing called glycation
which is the combining of the sugar with
the protein or the fat now you could
also get glycation from foods by
consuming foods with sugar and fat or
sugar and protein that are heated okay
ice cream for example is pasteurized so
there's a lot of sugar a lot of fat not
good donut would be deep fried
carbohydrate and you have a hot dog with
a bun a burger and bun the fries and by
the way when you consume the type of
sugar fructose it can increase glycation
by 10 times more than other sugars okay
so and then your own body will
glycoproteins as well with the high
sugar so it can happen from the foods
and also it can happen in the body now
when people take medication for diabetes
to lower blood sugar because diabetes is
a disease of high sugar the question is
where does that sugar go okay no one
really talks about it well it's being
hidden in being pushed in different
parts of the body it's very similar to
me in college we had a house of college
kids that live together and instead of
washing our dishes we would put them in
a big tray in the pantry and we'd all
line them up and would we wash the
dishes no we would wait til they're
completely overflowing right and then we
had this extra large garbage can and
we'd fill the whole thing up my wife
would kill me if I still had that habit
so what happens when you take medication
all that sugar is just crammed in the
different spaces until it starts rotting
the body from the inside out
that's why
even know people take medication for
diabetes they still get these problems
right here because they haven't solved
the problem of high sugar okay now if
you're new to this concept I put a link
down below for more information so you
can know what to eat alright thanks for
watching hey I appreciate your attention
and if you're enjoying these videos go
ahead and subscribe and I will
definitely keep you updated on future
events live events and webinars that
we're going to do very soon
