I want to talk about why fasting could
potentially greatly improve your vision
now one thing you can do if you really
want to figure something out and if
we're talking about what can improve
your vision you look at the opposite
thing what actually destroys your vision
okay and one thing that destroys the
vision is being a diabetic when you're
diabetic there's four main tissues that
are affected
one is the kidney when is the heart when
is the nervous system and then the eyes
so there's a condition in diabetes
called diabetic retinopathy which is
damage to the retina also there's a
higher risk of getting glaucoma when
you're diabetic which is inter ocular
pressure so the inside of the eye has a
lot of pressure and that pressure causes
a blockage on the little hole where the
fluid should drain so we don't get the
drainage and it backs up and then the
pressure destroys the nervous system
it's the number one cause of blindness
the retina is basically an extension of
your brain you have part of your brain
sticking out in your eye
that's collecting information and
pulling it in there so when you have a
blood sugar issue the excess sugar
destroys the tiny vascular system that
goes to the nerve and it basically
starves off the nervous system and you
can go blind then we have other
conditions of the eye like macular
degeneration another situation where
you're getting poor circulation in the
back part of the eye and it's involved
in a lot of different conditions and
even aging will cause degeneration of
the macula and then you have the
cataract which there's an opaque white
cloud on the lens of the eye and this is
also very common in diabetics and even
pre-diabetics or people who have insulin
resistance so if a high amount of sugar
in the blood destroys the eye and the
vision then doing the opposite in
reversing that is going to improve your
eyes in different aspects and this is
why fasting is so powerful because first
of all you're normalizing your blood
sugar you're running your by on ketones
but you're actually improving your blood
Sugar's so anything that improves the
blood sugars will help indirectly
improve the different
aspects of the eye and when you're doing
fasting you're also going to kick your
body into a toff adji etapa G is a
condition where your body is cleaning up
old damaged proteins whether it's
floaters in the eye or scar tissue in
the eye this will actually help recycle
damaged tissues and give you new tissues
and for someone to go on the top of G
you would have to at least do 18 hours
of fasting and I just want to quickly
tell you about my experience with my
vision recently I'd say about a month
ago I started needing these glasses and
right about that same time I went from
an 18 hour fast to a 21-hour fast just a
couple more hours and it was amazing
because I not only notice significant
changes in my focus and my memory but
also in my vision now there's not a
tremendous amount of research in the
area of improving your vision doing
fasting however if you do a search
online for this you'll find quite a few
people that have noticed improvements in
their vision by doing fasting so it's
worth a shot
and if you yourself have experienced
improvements in your vision go ahead and
comment below if you're consuming foods
high in lutein for example that would be
in like in the cruciferous vegetables
you can also help reduce the risk of
macular degeneration so it's really
important to consume nutrient-dense
foods the phytonutrients also protect
against the oxidation damage from the
high sugar now I do want to mention one
less thing that I almost forgot about
I'm gonna create a little space here to
tell you about it if you start doing
fasting okay and you feel that your
vision is getting worse that all that
means is that you're not adapted to
ketosis yet that's all that means
because it does take some time because
when you get into this you know the goal
is to burn the fat right and go away
from burning your sugar so we want to
make this transition in the process it
could take some time if you have
insulin resistance so it could take a
week two weeks three weeks four weeks if
you're doing sword Aikido or partial
Kido and you're not fully adapted you
may not see improvements in your vision
because your blood Sugar's might still
be up and down one of the big symptoms
of blurriness or loss of vision is
hypoglycemia low blood sugar and the way
to solve that is to switch over and
start burning fat as fuel and that way
you don't have to be dependent on the
ups and downs of the blood Sugar's
anymore because you're tapping in the
fat fuel but to do this you have to do
ketosis consistently and you want to
start fasting because both the
combination of fasting and low carb is
what will help your vision when I was in
my 20s I had bloodshot eyes and
underneath of my eyelids they were all
bloodshot they were dry I had a lot of
problems with my eyes little did I know
that was blood sugars I didn't know
about keto back then but I do know now
that having a blood sugar problem will
definitely dry your eyes out make you
dehydrated make the eyes very very
sensitive almost like there's sand in
the eyes and I had a lot of issues with
my vision but coming full circle it's
amazing how my eyes are so much better
than they were when I'm in my 20s I'm
thirty right now no I'm just kidding I'm
actually almost 55 so my eyes are much
much better simply because of the keto
and in a minute fasting alright thanks
for watching
