hey Dr Burg here in this video we're
going to talk about a product called raw
wheat grass juice powder so this is
different than weak grass powder in that
it's a juice powder which means that one
teaspoon of this stuff is equivalent to
13 shots of wheat grass juice or one
tray of wheat grass by 10 in by 20 in or
4 and 1 12 lbs of actual vegetables so
it's a super highly concentrated
nutrient-dense product very dark green
very aromatic um you could take a
teaspoon and mix it with water or put it
in your we in your uh kale Shake um the
unique thing about this is that where
it's produced this is produced by a
company called liquid dry which has um a
patent on a process called bioactive
dehydration which basically means
preserving the delicate nutrients by uh
dehydrating them with temperatures of
less than
106Â° so everything is preserved so when
you consume consume this it's like
taking actual weak grass juice but with
the convenience of taking in a powder um
I use this um for conditions that are a
bit chronic that need a spike in
nutrients um also uh liquid dry grows
this on the ancient sea beds so it has
all the trace minerals so the wheat
grass can pull these trace minerals into
the plant and now we have this super
concentrated Trace Trace Minal product
my actual regular Trace mineral product
that I have is mainly just for trace
minerals uh and then if you want the
combination of the nutrition and the
trace minerals I add this but sometimes
people want the trace minerals just to
support their hair nails skin uh then I
would recommend taking the trace
minerals directly but this has a
combination of both so if you really are
looking for uh something to substitute
for the deprived nutrients in your food
this is a great one to take so try it
out and then send me your success story
