hi guys I'm back with another video on
this question what food has the most
pesticide residue of all vegetables and
fruit well let's first talk about what
is the least amount of pesticide that
would be the avocado and if you realize
there's over thirty four thousand five
hundred pesticides in our foods and
those are all derived from about 600
different chemicals so let's go right
into the twelve foods that have the most
pesticides the number twelve we have the
potato okay number eleven celery then
the tomato pear cherry peach grape apple
nectarine kale interesting right spinach
and the number one food that has the
most pesticide residue strawberries and
I hate to break this to you but when you
try to wash the pesticide off the
strawberry it's already absorbed deeply
into that strawberry so it's not going
to help so if you're gonna consume
strawberries or a spinach or kale
definitely go organic of course you're
not going to do nectarines and death I'm
not going to do apples or grapes or
peaches or cherries or pears or potatoes
just make sure these are all organic so
that way you're not exposed to these
pesticides because of the accumulated
effect that creates the problem thanks
for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
