hello hi uh listen I wanted to create a
personal message and thank you so much
for filling out the survey I really
really appreciate it uh today I want to
share with you the results of the survey
just because you fill it out and you
should know so over 50,000 people filled
out this survey and you one of them and
uh the first uh question related to uh
what's your thoughts and consideration
about this this change that YouTube has
made partnering with medical
organizations like the world health
organizations which by the way is an
independent organization it's not really
a government organization anyway the
greatest answer to the first question is
that people majorly disagreed with this
decision okay and they thought it was a
really bad idea and they used a lot of
other words and adjectives that I won't
even talk about but they didn't like it
okay that's number one they don't like
medical choosing their health care they
want to choose their own health Journey
that was the most important thing to
them and then the next question that I
want to talk about is why is this
important and the answer overwhelmingly
was this so they can have an alternative
option okay and when they talked about
alternative they were talking about a
natural non-toxic option now anytime
someone is given an option they're given
two or more different things to choose
from right well let's go back to the
definition of misinformation because
that was the purpose of this new
partnership was to get rid of
misinformation and provide high quality
health information right to get rid of
not just misinformation but something
called medical misinformation which I
had to look that up and that has a
specialized definition so the definition
of medical misinformation is anything
that disagrees with medical or the World
Health Organization based on the survey
people wanted alternative options but
based in the definition of medical
misinformation that's no longer an
option so basically what they're doing
is taking away this other option they're
taking away all your options you're
giving you one thing because anything
else is classified and repositioned as
misinformation which is harmful and
dangerous so that's not even an option
so alternative natural
non-toxic is not an option given to you
it's brilliant to get rid of the
competition I mean just by using new
definitions and positioning it in a
certain way you go to a restaurant and
there's only one thing on the menu and
that's by the World Health Organization
that's all you get but I want to tell
you based on the survey that is not what
people want they want alternative
options that's why they're on YouTube
searching for Natural Things the next
point of the survey I asked what is
considered truthful trustworthy
information and the answer was a
reliable source someone that has
experience now that's actually very
interesting because I agree with that I
mean the more experience you have in
something the more expert you're going
to be but when you relate this to even
to the ketogenic diet if you search the
keto diet you're going to see Health
experts at the top right it might be a
different term but it say health
something and there like a series of
videos in that section and this is for
pretty much all Health topics right
they're going to have the medical
consensus and these videos are created
by people that don't have experience in
the topic especially with keto in fact
it's it's kind of negative right it it's
probably a person who did a a Google
search on keto and then did a video on
it they're ranking person like me that
has a lot of experience in practice
working with tens of thousands of people
if not more more with the ketogenic diet
I have over 900 videos and it's hard to
find any of those videos so that's just
another little side note to think about
if someone has experience in an area oh
my gosh that is so vitally important and
gaining insights and how something is
really working and very Unfortunately
they don't uh consider that point I
don't have any experience in prescribing
drugs so I'm not the expert in that so
leave that to the medical profession but
I do have a lot of experience in natural
type remedies nutrition keto but it
doesn't align with medical or the World
Health Organization another interesting
um phrase that I noticed in in reading
these Health policies uh is they mention
this term Health illiteracy and that's
one of the things they're using of why
they're implementing this policy because
that means AKA you're not smart enough
you don't have the health literacy to
make make up your own mind yeah I'm not
kidding which is another brilliant
tactic that they can use that makes it
sound a lot nicer than calling people
stupid but that's not what people want
people want to make up their own mind I
know as a personal fact that people are
smart and they can see through all these
things so I'm not concerned about that
what I am concerned about is the
filtering of these alternative view
points it's becoming harder and harder
to find correct information and just as
a side note um I did talk to YouTube on
the phone and um I was very nice and
they were very nice and I just basically
said you know I did a survey 50,000
people and overwhelmingly people did not
like this and they said well this is a
pilot we're just experimenting with it
and you know there there's always these
changes in the algorithms and your view
decrease could be from a seasonal change
Etc and I'm like no you can just see
that the suggested videos have just kind
of flatlined they said well thank you
this was so valuable we'll take this
information back to management and and
see what we can do well yeah we'll see
what happens with that so the question
is what can we do about it um I've been
researching uh a lot of different ways
to kind of very nicely fight back and do
something about it and I found this
organization that I really really agree
with and I really like and it's called
The Alliance for Natural Health okay and
they're in the US and they're also in
Europe and this organization is the
largest and they have achieved a lot of
wins in these different battles around
the world and I wanted to align with an
organization that can make a difference
and they really are backing this freedom
of speech in the health area and totally
agree that one of the most important
freedoms is the freedom to have access
to Alternative Natural Health Options
especially as that relates to creating
one's health and so I'm going to ask you
and I rarely do this to please donate
whatever you can to this organization
because we need resources and we need to
have various campaigns and do this in a
very effective way so anything you can
donate would be much appreciated and I
want to just thank you in advance for
doing that it's going to be invested in
very effective strategic campaigns to
make a difference so please donate I put
the link down below and I just want to
say I really appreciate you and your
willingness to
help
