hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about twitching
underneath the left eyelid now sometimes
it's on the right occasionally it's on
the arm sometimes on your nose sometimes
on your lip so what is behind this whole
twitching thing it's called tetany um
really it's a problem with a certain
mineral and there's a nerve that comes
out through here up underneath the
eyelid right there it's called the
facial nerve and then this deficiency
shows up at the end of that nerve and
it's really hypocalcemia which is
basically low calcium it's a Calcium
deficiency but my old question is why
why are you deficient in calcium this
doesn't make sense you know if you're
eating healthy which I'm sure you are
low let's let's look at the common
causes of low calcium number one it's
high phosphorus that's the opposite
mineral so phosphorus is usually in um a
lot of meats and things like that and it
also so that you'd have to eat a lot of
meat probably like be on the Atkins for
a long time to actually have that but
more likely it's more sodas it's like
sodas like Cokes and things like that or
Pepsi with all that phosphoric acid that
would do this right here it also number
two it could be a low parathyroid now
that's rare there's a the gland on on
your neck right around your thyroid is
called the parathyroid if there's a low
parathyroid that can create this problem
rare but it can happen uh low magnesium
could create this problem but the most
common cause is alkalosis that means
your body is to alkaline now let me
explain this because when I talk about
pH there's a whole bunch of confusions
it's like what PH are you talking about
I'm talking about the blood pH normally
when your blood um is too alkaline and
let me just explain normally a pH should
be alkaline in a very narrow range see
seven is neutral when you go higher it's
two alkaline when you go lower than
seven it's acid so the blood operates on
7.35 to
7.45 that's the narrow band of range
that it must be in so your body will do
everything to keep that range really
really tight so anything higher than
7.45 that's higher that's to alkaline is
is considered alkalosis so what happens
when your pH is two
alkin the calcium no longer becomes free
it binds with the protein in your blood
called albumin so basically it locks up
the calcium okay so you need an acidic
or not even an acidic you need the right
pH in your body or that calcium doesn't
move okay now it's true that the stomach
if your stomach is not acid enough too
you're not going to pull the calcium in
too that's why people with uh an
alkaline stomach they have calcium
issues and the way you would know if you
have an alkaline stomach as I've talked
about in the other videos is you have
heartburn gird acid reflex that means
you don't have enough acid okay so guess
take a while guess what we're going to
recommend for the uh remedy for an
alkalosis apple cider vinegar okay we
all come back to the apple cider vinegar
take a tablespoon of water drink that
boom the Twitches go right away um then
you start absorbing calcium because it's
already in your body typically you just
can't assimilate it uh if you don't like
Alid vinegar you can take them in
tablets as well I put a link below now
why um do you have an alkaline an overly
excessive alkaline blood that's the
question right what causes
alkalosis well a couple things uh taking
diuretics will do it um number two
vomiting will do it number three
diarrhea will do it um also High
cortisol from the adrenal so an
overactive adrenal which is
stress will cause your body and I'll
show you in this
book this is siba Frank net page
84 okay right
here the H+ you lose H+ that means you
lose acids in chemistry uh if you
remember taking chemistry um the H+ is
basically an acid so uh basically pH
means the the power of the hydrogen ion
or um basically how acid something is so
that's you lose this with a high level
of stress okay and then you can see your
body becomes two alkaline so it's
alkalosis right here okay so basically
stress makes you more alkalin not more
acid and this is a confusion a lot of
people have so that's why we the
opposite of vinegar works so good for
stress and calcium absorption that type
of thing now you could like I said I
mentioned the acids in the stomach too
but typically the twitching is a stress
situation I mean think about when people
under stress what do they start doing
they start twitching right that's
because they're dumping all this um
wonderful acid and then you start
getting a twitch now the question is why
is it in the left why do you get this
little left twitch right here I don't
know I have no idea uh sometimes it's on
the right side sometimes it's on on the
arm sometimes it's on your leg I have no
idea but the point is that you can use
this as a little red little red flag a
little indicator light to tell your tell
your body that you need more acid okay
so subscribe to my channel and I will
see you in the next video
