alright guys so today we're gonna answer
the question will eating fat make my
liver of fat okay I did have a question
from someone that wanted to know about
this they were concerned about this I'm
eating this ketogenic diet it's so high
in fat isn't that gonna cause a fatty
liver okay well let's just talk about
the number one cause of a fatty liver
would be alcohol okay that's number one
number two would be fructose high
fructose corn syrup all right and number
three would be high carb diets but let's
go to the research and see what that
says okay well I was only able to find
one study okay on this topic there's
actually not a lot of data out there on
this there's actually no studies that I
could find other than this one so let's
just go ahead and cover it and this is
titled the influence of dietary fat on
liver fat accumulation okay I'll put a
link down below so you can check it out
it's a little confusing so I'm gonna try
to kind of go through it since we
identified that protein and cholesterol
consumption were associated with
elevated risk whereas consumption of
carbohydrates was associated with a
decreased risk of hospitalization or
death related to cirrhosis or liver
cancer so they didn't really mention a
fatty liver they kind of stuck in the
cirrhosis and liver cancer so I don't
really know if they're talking about a
fatty liver or cirrhosis or cancer but
they did say that they identified
protein in cholesterol consumption okay
so we'll keep moving up says the strong
association between cholesterol intake
and cirrhosis or liver cancer I don't
know why they are not saying a fatty
liver is potentially our studies most
important finding now in rabbits and in
mice a high cholesterol diet has been
shown to induce a fatty liver
inflammation and fibrosis all right they
did bring that up a high cholesterol
diet will cause a fatty liver
inflammation and fibrosis in rabbits and
mice okay alright so I need to bring up
what these mice and rabbits ate okay
that's very very important the high
cholesterol high-fat diet really was a
high cholesterol and fat / - sucrose it
was high in malta dextrose
and it was high in dextrose itself which
is a synthetic sugar okay so anytime you
mix sugar with fat you're gonna create a
fatty liver so it wasn't just a purely
fat diet with low carb so the problem is
no there's no standard definition of
what a high fat diet is in these studies
that is a big problem
and then as far as the rabbit I couldn't
get the exact formula but what I did
find is they put the rabbit on peanut
oil corn oil coconut oil sucrose and
corn starch okay so we know that which
again it's like who's gonna consume that
and if they did they would probably get
a lot of liver problems okay we are not
aware of any other human studies linking
cholesterol intake to human liver
disease Wow this is the only one I guess
our finding that dietary cholesterol but
not serum cholesterol was associated
with cirrhosis or liver cancer could
have profound implications if confirmed
by other studies okay
now I just want to bring up one point
they're talking about dietary
cholesterol not serum cholesterol so in
other words they found that people with
high cholesterol in the blood did not
create these problems it was not
associated with these problems it was
only the increase in intake but we all
we already know what they're in taking
the mice Chow the rabbit food was
actually a high carb diet okay for
example it could suggest that drugs
blocking intestinal cholesterol
absorption could have a more beneficial
effect to the liver than drugs blocking
hepatic cholesterol synthesis like I
don't know why they're bringing up the
drug thing now and they're kind of
hinting that hey you know we can use
drugs to fix this problem
let's move on check this out and says we
are not aware of any studies
investigating the effects of
carbohydrate intake on the progression
of liver disease in humans well there
sure is a heck of a lot of studies out
there and I will put the links down
below showing that a high carb diet will
affect the liver and actually even cause
a fatty liver
but it goes on to say this contrary to
our findings in the recent study has
found that patients with non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease consumed two to
three times more fructose than the
controls which may be linked to the
development of the fatty liver etc etc
etc but it goes on to say our data did
not allow us to determine the specific
fructose intake so basically they said
they're not aware of any studies but
then they actually they said there are
studies but they didn't evaluate
fructose okay whatever
alright we did not find any association
between dietary intake of saturated
fatty acids or the mono saturated fatty
acids oleic acid and cirrhosis or liver
cancer so that's totally confusing
because I thought they said they did
find it but I guess what they're
differentiating is they found high
cholesterol diets might be apparently
different than high saturated fatty
diets this is really confusing because
on one part of it talks about a high
cholesterol diet and this says a diet
high in saturated fat so there must be
maybe two different diets that are using
I have a no idea so this is a very
confusing study and I really don't put a
lot of credibility in the study but to
really imply that consuming high amounts
of fat are gonna cause a fatty liver are
misleading simply because the ketogenic
diet is a low carb diet and this is the
most important thing you need to know if
you consume higher fats yet keep your
carbs low you are going to be protected
against getting if I deliver okay but if
you actually add the carbs in here that
is going to cause the problem because as
you increase insulin from the
carbohydrates okay what you're gonna do
is you're gonna force fat to go into the
fat cell to the point where it's
saturated and it's filled up there's no
more space there but then it's gonna
spill off into the Orient's and around
the organs as well and that's called
visceral fat and then with that you
start developing a fatty liver so when
you overwhelm the body with too much
carbohydrate that carbohydrate that it's
not burned up needs to get stored and if
there's no more spaces it will
go in the liver and that's really what's
behind a fatty liver and the reason I'm
saying that is because when you put a
person on a healthy keto plan you
improve a fatty liver okay why because
you lower the carbs you force the body
to use its own store of fat so just
think about what's happening when you do
ketosis you're mobilizing fat and 40% of
the fat is turning into ketones okay so
it's the process of burning fat so I
mean if you had a failure liver wouldn't
you want to burn up the fat and use this
stored fat as energy whether you consume
more fat or less fat is really dependent
on this carbohydrate amount all right
guys thanks for watching so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
