so someone had a question they wanted to
know is it possible to reverse the
damage from diabetes okay so in this
video I'm going to talk about how to do
that and yes it's totally possible to do
that so the first thing to know is
what's causing the damage okay so I'm
going to introduce you to a new term
that you may have not heard before and
the pronunciation is glycosylation okay
this is a condition where you're taking
sugar molecule and you're bonding it to
a protein molecule now when you combine
sugar to protein in a certain
environment you render that protein
unavailable to the body okay because it
creates a permanent bond but not only
that you make certain proteins
pathogenic okay let me explain now
you've heard about good cholesterol and
bad cholesterol right you have a
so-called good cholesterol is HDL and
the bad cholesterol is LDL now those are
not really cholesterol particles
what they are are cargo ships they're
transporters low-density lipoprotein or
kind of their proteins they have
cholesterol in them they also have
triglycerides
but the LDL itself is a lipoprotein so
it can carry the cholesterol through the
blood an LDL itself being the so called
bad cholesterol is not really bad unless
you expose it to a lot of sugar okay
because you're going to create this
effect where you're going to bond the
sugar to the protein and make it
pathogenic it's going to stick to your
arteries so there's one more new term I
want to give you called AG ease advanced
glycation end-products okay these are
proteins that are sticky and they clog
things up and they they block blood flow
to the nervous system in other parts of
the body but the ag's are the end
product of having this high sugar with
the combination of certain proteins now
hemoglobin is the protein that carries
oxygen through the blood now one of the
ways that doctors look at diabetes is
through this a1c test okay but what this
will show you is the amount of exposure
to this protein okay and it's on a scale
you want it low you don't want it high
but that's one of the ways that they
look at diabetes through this task a
see then you have neuropathies okay
these are situations where you have
nerve damage it usually shows up in the
peripheral nerves first and the bottom
of your toes are the fingertips they go
numb they have burning tingling what's
happening is these sticky protein sugar
molecules are blocking the blood vessels
to the nervous system killing off those
nerves and then we have problems inside
the artery walls and we have problems
with glucose saturating the lens of the
eye causing cataracts glucose creating
problems in the protein in the
circulation that goes to the retina
causing diabetic retinopathy which is
one a leading cause of blindness with
diabetes and also glaucoma and many
other different problems with the eye
your connective tissue because it's a
protein becomes affected for example you
have this facha
or this sheath of connective tissue
underneath the foot called the plantar
fascia and you can develop what's called
plantar fasciitis which basically that
fascia is contracting and it's causing a
lot of pain and you can even see this in
a diabetic where their arch starts going
higher and higher and higher because
that fashion is contracting then you
actually end up with a hammertoe and a
lot of feet problems not to mention
infections because the food for bacteria
is sugar so when you increase the sugar
it's a perfect environment for bacteria
to grow fungus to grow yeast to grow and
this is why diabetics have a lot of
infections also you see a higher
incidence of getting toenail fungus with
diabetics because of this sugar feeding
the fungus there's another condition
called gastroparesis what is that that's
a situation where your digestive system
is just really sluggish and you're not
processing food that quickly that has to
do with the damaged vagus nerve because
with diabetes the nervous system is one
of the big targets so you'll have
problems with the brain the nervous
system the kidney the vascular system
and the eye all right so now that you
have some data on how the tissues of the
body get damaged from diabetes the
question is how do you reverse it
well number one you have to lower the
sugar what is diabetes it's a condition
of high sugar okay so you must get the
sugar out of the diet you cannot reverse
diabetes unless you do that and that
would be a low carb diet okay and we're
talking healthy keto of course also the
other thing that will do it is doing
intermittent fasting those two combined
are very effective for stopping the
damage because that will also decrease
your blood sugar and force your body to
run on fat fuel okay so that's number
one the problem is that the damage
that's already in your body is
irreversible so we have to give it time
for those tissues to regenerate and
replace themselves okay and that could
take three to four months for a lot of
tissues but some can take a lot longer
especially if it's part of the nervous
system because the nerves only grow by
one millimeter per day okay that's not
very that's not very fast so it could
take several years to get those nerves
back however there are some things that
can speed up the process there's two
main nutrients that I'm going to
recommend that have been known to have
great success with this one is simple
vitamin b1 but in a form that is a
little different than the water-soluble
b1 you want the fat soluble B one it's
called benzo to me I'll put the word in
the spelling down below so you can
actually identify it and I would
recommend taking higher amounts of that
okay four capsules a day because it is
fat soluble it can go into the nervous
system into the fat layer around the
nerves called the myelin sheath a lot
better it actually absorbs into the
brain 25 times better than the regular
b1 so this is a really important one the
next remedy is called alpha lipoic acid
okay I would recommend taking 600
milligrams three times a day that's a
lot but that's what you're going to need
to start to speed up the reversal of
this damage but it all starts with
changing your diet you must get the
sugar
out of the diet go on a low-carb do in a
minute fasting alright thanks for
watching so if you're enjoying this
content go ahead and share it with
someone that could really benefit from
it
