so today we're going to talk about
vitamin D in calcium it's actually quite
interesting this symptoms of a vitamin D
deficiency are very similar to a calcium
deficiency so let's just kind of go
through vitamin D first if you're
deficient in vitamin D you can have
chronic low back pain you can be
actually at bone pain or pain anywhere
in the body but a lot of times it's in
the lower back in fact that's one of the
first symptoms if your calcium deficient
you can also have achy muscles and achy
joints as well next one is muscle
weakness that's that could be coming
from a vitamin D deficiency as well
muscle spasm okay in a calcium
deficiency you could have muscle cramps
in the cat's in the feet but not having
enough vitamin D can cause the calcium
deficiency because one of the functions
of vitamin D is to increase the
absorption of calcium by 20 times okay
in the small intestine okay nonspecific
pain so it could be like fibromyalgia or
some weird pain but it's hard to
identify that maybe migrates and changes
daytime drowsiness so let's say during
the day you're driving or you're just
doing work and you just want to take a
nap but you know you're not tired okay
it could be your vitamin D levels also
mood changes too
that happens in the winter because
you're not getting enough Sun high blood
pressure that's more of a long term
about amedy deficiency because without
vitamin D your arteries get stiff okay
and then low immunity so you can have a
respiratory infection now when you're
sick maybe your mother or your
grandmother told you to consume cod
liver oil or you might have heard that
before
cod liver oil is loaded with vitamin D
and vitamin A really good for the immune
system so as soon as you start getting
sick you should take that but vitamin D
it's intimately involved in immune
system and it actually even acts like a
hormone as well okay sweaty head so
let's say for example you have an infant
that just is sweating excessively in the
head or a small child give them some
vitamin D structural problems and kids
or even babies I'm not sure if you've
ever heard of a condition called rickets
the most common cause of rickets is a
vitamin D deficiency but you can also
develop it from not having enough
calcium
so in rickets you have soft bones so you
increase the risk of getting scoliosis
your knees become bowed or knock-kneed
you have a lot of structural problems in
the teeth all sorts of issues with that
okay now in calcium we have aches
tingling in the lips the mouth the feet
in the hands and this can also mimic a
b1 deficiency as well because you can
have peripheral neuropathy so you get
muscle cramps bruising okay you see that
in the lower part of the body in the
extremities like in your in your legs
fatigue which is similar to this right
here throat spasm so you have this
chronic cough or irritation in your your
vocal cords okay then you have tetany
which is a little twitch underneath the
eye or the arm or even any large muscle
can actually twitch because of low
calcium also one point about calcium is
that you need a certain pH for calcium
to be mobilized so if your stomach is
too alkaline not only are you going to
have acid reflux you're gonna have the
appearance of calcium deficiencies
because you can't mobilize calcium that
well you can't absorb calcium and other
minerals that well so if you don't have
the right pH in your stomach you're not
going to absorb minerals so sometimes
it's difficult to know do you need
vitamin D or you or do you need calcium
most people do not need extra calcium
and I don't recommend you take extra
calcium I recommend you get your calcium
from food unless you have osteopenia or
osteoporosis because a lot of times
people are just taking way too much of
this in a pill form and it's creating a
problem I would imagine most people have
too much calcium it's just not mobilized
enough but what they really need is
vitamin D to release this right here
through the body now yes you can get
your calcium from dairy like cheese and
things like that but you can also get it
from leafy greens like kale spinach well
the problem with spinach even though it
has calcium it has oxalates which
actually bind the calcium so you'd have
to either steam it or cook the spinach
then consume it to get the calcium but I
would recommend you get your calcium
from other greens I put a link down
below for more information about a good
sources of calcium now if you have a
problem with your kidney you won't be
able to absorb calcium that well I
already talked about not having enough
in the diet and also not having enough
stomach acid and you can also have a
parathyroid problem this usually occurs
if you have your thyroid removed because
the parathyroid glands there's four of
them that are attached to your thyroid
so many times when they take out the
thyroid they remove the parathyroid and
now you have a calcium issue there's
other reasons but they're rare EMF
electromagnetic frequency okay it's
coming from the cellphones and the Wi-Fi
when you're supposed to EMF it drives a
calcium inside and you have all sorts of
issues so again there's a lot of
different causes to problems with
calcium and when you have too much
intracellular calcium you also can at
the same time have a calcium deficiency
because the calcium is unavailable to
you it's locked up inside the cell where
it should not be and that's why even
doctors will give something called
calcium channel blockers to lower blood
pressure because there's too much
intracellular calcium
okay glucose so if you're consuming a
high carbohydrate diet you can have low
calcium from that a lot of people have
insulin resistance which actually then
could increase the insulin and also
create a problem with the calcium and
lastly you can it be dis deficient in
magnesium and again magnesium and
calcium work together without enough
magnesium it's going to be hard to
balance out the calcium and this comes
from leafy greens
how do you become deficient in vitamin D
well no Sun it's winter you don't
consume fats let's say you're in a
low-fat diet well guess what you get
your vitamin D from fats fatty fish
liver or egg yolks
but you can also get it from mushrooms
as well now one of the best sources of
vitamin D from a food base is cod liver
oil now if you actually are missing a
gallbladder or have a gallbladder
problem or a fatty liver or a problem
with the liver you won't be able to
absorb vitamin D as well because you
need the bile produced by the liver and
stored in the gallbladder
to be able to absorb and breakdown and
utilize this right here
so no gall bladder problem with liver
low vitamin D level so you have to take
more to create the same effect or take
it with purified bile salts and also by
the way I have a vitamin D supplement
and the reason why I created one is
because I wanted something that had
vitamin k2 in the right ratios vitamin
k2 works with vitamin d3 to transport
calcium in the right place but I
recently added another ingredient which
is called purified bile salts to
increase dramatically the absorption of
both d3 and k2 so I put a link down
below for more data on there so if you
don't get enough Sun you're gonna be low
in vitamin D low fat diet low vitamin D
stress high cortisol can block bottom
indeed gastric bypass vitamin D problem
a colon issue let's say you have
irritable bowel syndrome or some type of
scar tissue in your colon it's gonna be
hard to observe vitamin D if you've
taken too many sun blockers well you're
not going to get vitamin D so the
relationship between vitamin D and
calcium is interesting the symptoms
cross over you have to look at the big
picture most the time people just need
more of this and not this alright thanks
for watching so to prevent me from
running at a Content I have a new survey
I want to find out what you are
interested in so please fill it out the
links down below
