alright so I'm gonna show you how to
help a friend or a family member
lose weight now I'm not sure if you know
this or not but I do have a keto
coaching training program that you can
get certified and you can start to help
a lot of people but in this video I'm
going to show you how to help a friend
or a family member lose weight
especially if they're having a tough
time
okay now realize if someone can't lose
weight and they're trying that would be
a symptom of something else now the
first thing that I do is I don't just
tell them what to eat I want to first
find out what they don't know what they
have wrong I basically just want to find
out what I need to do - we educate them
and that's what this is
now there's usually six things that I
look for that are the most common areas
that people have confusions on or
they're doing it incorrectly so the
first thing I'm going to do is I'm going
to ask them for a food log and I'm gonna
make sure that it's a little more
detailed and I'm gonna be looking for
specific things but I might need to ask
more questions about it but number one
are they cutting calories because that
is a common thing that people do and
they don't realize that is false okay
you don't want to do that it's gonna
slow your metabolism now it is true you
want to reduce the frequency of meals
for sure but not start cutting down the
calories because it's gonna mess up the
metabolism it's going to keep them
hungry all the time they're not going to
be able to go from one meal to the next
and they're eventually going to have
potentially nutrient deficiencies next
item is the low fat right this is real
common what they're missing from this is
that the low fat protein is higher on
the insulin scale then fattier protein
and what does that mean it means that
the more a food triggers insulin the
less weight they're gonna lose so they
probably don't know the specific effects
from different foods on insulin and they
definitely don't know that fat has the
least effect on insulin so that's
another thing that a look at number
three I want to find it if they have
cravings if they're hungry all the time
and I'm gonna look basically it if
they're doing a high carb diet and right
there I know for a fact that they are
missing the most vital thing about
trying to lose weight and the most
important thing especially if you have a
stubborn slow metabolism and that is
this in the presence of too much insulin
you can't burn fat insulin is a fat
storing hormone and carbs raise it so if
their carbs are too high they're not
going to lose weight and by the way this
is the most important thing that you're
gonna educate them about number four and
I hear this a lot either they're doing
the treadmill they're doing the bike the
stationary bike for 45 minutes or
they're monitoring their steps on a
pedometer maybe they did 10,000 steps
right and they're drinking a lot of
water and they're just so frustrated
it's not working well I know they're
focusing on the stuff that just is not
going to make a difference in fact
exercise by itself only gives the person
roughly about 15% of the results okay
not much eighty-five percent is diet so
they're putting all this energy on this
but they're missing the important stuff
and this is why they're frustrated
because you can't they're not able to
differentiate or tell the difference
between the important or the trivial
okay number five they're weighing
themselves on a daily basis and keeps
showing up no weight loss no weight loss
centers getting frustrated and
frustrated for this I know that they're
doing things out of order and they
probably never heard the concept of get
healthy first then lose weight it's not
lose weight to get healthy it's get
healthy first then lose the weight and
then I have to educate them too on what
that means getting healthy I'm talking
about increasing your energy mainly I'm
talking about improving insulin
resistance if you don't know what that
means
watch the link down below it's a very
important subject but the first thing
that happens when you start to improve
insulin resistance is that you can go
longer without eating and be and you're
less hungry okay because you're burning
fat so when that starts happening guess
what that means it's working you're
getting healthy
and I know if they can stick with it
over time they will eventually lose
weight a lot of times if they don't know
that they will quit before it's really
making some a dent in their actual
weight loss itself unfortunately they
just needed to give it more time and
number six I want to find out the
frequency of meals a lot of people are
doing this to they're doing three meals
with like three snacks and between the
meals they're doing a little protein
bars and their their low-fat or even
their low-carb what they're missing is
this every time you eat you trigger
insulin okay so it's not just about
raising your carbs it's about the
frequency of eating and if they're
having a little snack guarantee with an
hour and a half they're gonna be hungry
again because it's gonna affect the
blood Sugar's you're gonna raise insulin
and the instance gonna push the blood
sugar down now you have low blood sugar
so they just are missing this day down
in a minute fasting how powerful this is
and how beneficial this is to improve
insulin resistance okay so then I would
once I evaluate all this then I'll just
go through and educate them on these
points and very simply now they have the
basics to be successful all right go
ahead and try this and let me know how
it works in the comment section below so
if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
