hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
I'm going to talk about probably the one
of the most important fluids in your
body it's probably one of the most
misunderstood and forgotten fluids and
you really need to understand it because
it's very very vital
it's called bile bile is made by the
liver cells okay and it's concentrated
in the gallbladder
so it's sit and it stores they're in a
concentrates okay so every time you eat
especially certain foods like fats it
contracts and it squeezes out into the
small intestine and it actually breaks
down
large particles of fat into small
particles of fat so now the pancreas can
release its enzymes specifically the one
that dissolves fat called lipase and it
acts on that fat even further to break
it down into small particles so then you
can start utilizing these fats to
replace body tissues nerve system the
brain cell skin things like that okay so
that's what bio does if you don't have a
gallbladder then you don't have
typically the amount of bile that you
need so you're going to have to
substitute it somehow now there are
certain situations when they take out
the gallbladder they don't know why this
is but basically there's a constant
draining now from the liver through the
duct into your small intestine so that
you might have too much bile and one of
the side effects of too much bile is
diarrhea okay because bile is a
lubricant and if you have that then they
don't know how to fix it okay so they
have drugs that are anti bile you have
to take or they have it you might have
anal leakage all sorts of issues so
anyway the point is that's probably rare
most people don't have enough bile or
the bile gets stuck in the gall butter
and it sits there and it doesn't release
that well they might have stones and
things like that which is caused by not
enough bile because by all helps keep
the stones 0 so there's no stones so
when you don't have bile then you get
this concentrated cholesterol stones all
right so that's some basics on the bile
but here's the here's kind of the
typical symptoms of bile would be
bloating
nauseous bloating on the right side
right shoulder pain neck stuff -
headaches it can even cause the whole
right arm to have a problem okay but
when you don't eat that's when the bile
is concentrated okay so you can so you
can basically ready to release it so you
can start digesting if you have enough
bile you're very satisfied after you eat
because you can actually start digesting
the fat and it goes right to the brain
the other purpose of bile is it helps to
detoxify the liver a lot of the toxins
that come to the liver come out through
the bile ducts so without a bile duct or
without the proper flow of bile through
the bile ducts your toxins are going to
back up and liver okay so you might get
yellow of the whites of the eye even the
skin might get to yellow you might feel
toxic so we need that gallbladder in
that bile to help toxins go through the
body okay
so also bio acts as a lubricant people
that are constipated are usually
deficient in bile so they need that to
lubricate the colon which is interesting
they're doing more fiber or laxatives
but they're not adding the bile bile
also is the thing that keeps the
cholesterol flowing through the liver
without bile the cholesterol will back
up and you could have high cholesterol
in the blood okay bile is the detergent
it's like it's very similar to like
dishwashing detergent because it breaks
down the grease the oil the fats
primarily for the fat soluble vitamins
so we have vitamin A so you can absorb
vitamin A for the eye seeing it in the
dark at night for your skin to prevent
acne to prevent sinus congestion vitamin
D for absorption probe your bones
make sure there's no calcium deposits
but the immune system it goes on and on
and on so vitamin k2 absorbing a vitamin
k2 to keep your bones and the soft
tissue calcium from the forming into the
different body organs preventing like
even high blood pressure also vitamin E
that's another fat soluble vitamin so
you need for the skin for the heart so
you can't pull in these fat soluble
vitamins if you don't have bile so
that's one thing and 95% of the bile is
recycled which means that if your colon
is damaged let's say leaky gut or maybe
you have some type of past history of a
lot of antibiotics or you have some type
of gastric bypass or colon damage the
problem is you're not going to have a
you're going to have a problem with
recycling bile so you're not going to
have enough or if you have a history of
vomiting or diarrhea you might lose the
bile so you don't have enough even
though it's recycled you just don't have
enough okay so yeah it takes a good
digestive system to recycle that bile
all right and it takes good microbes
next one is the effect on the thyroid
gland this is interesting a lot of
people don't know that you can have a
thyroid problem with with a bile problem
with a bile deficiency or even like a
gallbladder problem if it's congested or
even a fatty liver that you can't make
bile so that's another thing that's very
important but see bile is involved in
the conversion of the thyroid from t4 to
t3 the active form
so without bile you can't convert the
hormone so even though you're taking the
medication or you have thyroid hormones
they're not being converted they're not
being activated so you have symptoms of
thyroid slow thyroid but things might
even show normal on your test so the
conversion is very very important and
that's why if you have a hyper thyroid
too much thyroid hormone then you don't
want to be taking any bile supplements
why because that's going to cause you to
convert more and raise the thyroid for
nuts so the point is that there's a huge
connection to the endocrine system and
bile and there's a lot more things about
bile but I'm just covering the top
things so if you're diagnosed with a
thyroid problem it could be the
gallbladder as the primary and so here
you take the thyroid medication but it's
not going to work because you can't can
bird it makes sense okay so those are
some tips on the bile and I hope I
enlightened you on what bile does and
one of the products I have is called
gall bladder formula that will help you
support a healthy gall bladder and it
actually has bile salts in it as a lot
of other things too it has pancreatic
enzymes
it has pertain how to cord for the
stomach so it's a really effective
supplement that you would take one after
each meal and it would help you with
some of the support some of these
symptoms all right so if you want if you
want to check that out
I left a link below thanks for watching
I will see you in the next video
