if you notice that you're having a
difficult time breathing through your
sinuses okay or maybe you're
snoring this video is for you I was
doing some research on this topic and I
found some fascinating information about
the study involving random people and uh
their pillows and I'm talking about
microorganisms living in your pillow
apparently they tested like random
people like and they looked at the
average amount of micro
that are in a pillow and you might want
to be sitting down for this because it's
pretty shocking they found on average
several thousand spores of fungus now
what's a Spore a Spore is like a dormant
microorganism they found several
thousand
spores just in one gram of pillow and
there's anywhere between four to 16
different species of fungus especially
if your pillow is made from synthetic
material apparently they also eat the
dead skin from you as well as they
pulling off the nitrogen from some of
the waste I mean it's pretty disgusting
and this is a very frequent cause of
ritis like inflammation of the sinuses
and it can definitely worse in the
respiratory area and these spores get
activated with moisture like in your
sweat like in your drool going to bed
with your hair wet after you took a
shower and these spores can actually
grow roots into the fibers of your
pillow there's actually four things you
just need to identify number one is
there any type of colors on your pillow
because these funguses give off
different colors yellow brown purple
green white number two moisture is your
pillow wet apparently these microbes and
spores can be activated within 24 hours
are there odors like a musty odors
coming from the pillow and also so
lastly if there's a sudden change in
your mucous membranes like your
breathing is altered and you notice that
you're more stuffy now suspect a fungus
the very simple solution is to do this
look on the tag on the pillow to
identify the method of washing your
pillow can you shoot it right into the
wash or do you have to hand wash your
pillow well you want to wash your pillow
at least every two years and I'm being
very sarcastic you want to wash your
pillow every month and you want to make
sure when you wash your pillow that you
come completely dry it right 100% dry it
out so you don't have it moist because
then it's going to be a breeding gr as
far as the pillow cases I would
recommend washing those every week now I
would also recommend replacing your
pillow every single year I mean when I
was in practice I
remember some people having these
pillows for I'm talking decades okay
that's way too long anyway I wanted to
bring up this very very simple solution
to um a problem that could exist and
create a lot of issues for your quality
of sleep for your spouse's quality of
sleep and for your overall health now
since we're on the topic of sleep if you
want to know more about how to really
get a good night rest check out this
video right here
