now how do you get all your vitamins in
one meal is it possible I really want to
show you what makes up these meals and
why they're nutritionally dense before I
show you the actual meals all these
foods are animal based all these are
plant-based for the most part okay let's
start with protein if we look at
plant-based proteins they're low quality
proteins it's very difficult to get a
complete protein when you're just going
with plants it's very easy to get
complete proteins if you go with animal
products especially animals that eat
grass those animals also can be fed
grains but the grain-fed animals are not
as healthy and all I want to point out
is there's a difference between
grass-fed and grain-fed animal products
okay so for example pork poultry and
eggs are all grain based you can't just
raise a chicken just on grass they don't
survive or even a a pig so if you were
to ask me out of all the proteins what
would be the healthiest the most
nutritionally dense I would say beef or
lamb or even goat and it's fascinating
to me how they classified red meat they
kind of threw it in the bucket of
processed meat and they said oh yeah
that's not healthy that's junk food
causes cancer when it it doesn't at all
in fact it's just the opposite it's the
healthiest thing that you can consume
and personally when I was very very sick
and I started to turn things around it
started with eating buffalo burger for
breakfast that was the thing that just
gave gave my body what it needed and boy
did I feel better and this is why the
carnivore diet is very very successful
for so many people with gut inflammation
autoimmune diseases and other
sensitivities to plants so some of these
nutrients you can get them from either
side plant or animal okay what about
vitamin K1 well you can't really get it
from animal products okay it is mainly
from dark leafy green vegetables and
just by looking at this nutritional
profile it'll kind of tell you what you
should be eating more of vitamin K1
helps stop bleeding it helps you clot
and then we have vitamin A now a lot of
times you'll hear oh yeah carrots are
really high in vitamin A which by the
way is not the active form and the
conversion is not very high so retino
vitamin A is difficult to get from plant
Source but you can easily get it in a
little liver fish codiva oil egg yolks
then we get iron well there's two types
of iron there's uh one type that's not
very absorbable and use Able by the body
that's called non heem okay and then you
have the he base iron which is in liver
red meat other meats so if someone is
anemic they should not be getting their
iron from spinach uh things like that
they need to get it from like liver or
red meat all right then we get the B
vitamins you can get a great source of
all the B vitamins from red meat fish
eggs cheese liver you can also get B vit
vitamins from grains the problem with
grains is that when you're eating whole
grains whole grains have phytic acid
which actually block trace minerals plus
it has gluten the only protein that our
bodies can't digest and that can really
hurt our guts however sunflower seeds
have some B vitamins and so does
nutritional yeast but nutritional yeast
does not have B12 unless it's added okay
what about collagen now collagen is a
type of protein that makes up onethird
of all of our proteins and if you think
you're just going to eat a steak and get
enough collagen it has a small amount of
collagen believe it or not but if you
have short ribs where you have more
collagen to that or the skin on fish or
bone broth or organ Meats then you can
get collagen as someone gets older it's
very important to have enough collagen
too as we age it kind of breaks down
more and there is no collagen in Plants
okay what about D3 well some people will
say oh you should get your vitamin D3
from mushrooms right one third the
potency you would have to consume 5.6
pounds of mushrooms every single day to
just get 10,000 international units of
vitamin D3 and by the way if you had any
thought that 10,000 I of vitamin D3 is
toxic that's like basically getting 20
minutes of sun okay it's non-toxic you
can also do cive oil you'll get some but
not close to what I recommend as a
maintenance which is 10,000 use sardines
have some vitamin D3 okay what about
iodine well shellfish tons of iodine Cod
Dairy eggs have some iodine but also
seelp or even sea salt also has iodine
and then we get selenium which is also
important for the immune system
shellfish organ Meats red meat or Brazil
nuts so you're starting to probably see
a pattern okay then we have zinc so you
can see iodine selenium and zinc are
trace minerals mainly from the sea beef
has a good amount of zinc so do organ
Meats but guess what you can go to
pumpkin seeds and get your zinc from
seed all right now what about the
Omega-3s well fatty fish but also you
can get it from algae but actually
you're not getting this active form
you're getting the precursor which is
called ala but there is a way to get it
from algae the other point I want to
bring up about this these Omega fatty
acids so many people are high in the
omega-6 it competes with omega-3 we need
need a lot of Omega-3 then we have
magnesium a very important you can get
it from fish but Dairy but it's a little
on the low side but pumpkin seeds are
really good source of magnesium and zinc
but also greens because magnesium is at
the heart of the chlorophyll so you can
get it from any type of vegetable and
even chocolate then we get to potassium
we do get a little bit in fish and red
meat but you can get avocados and greens
and so these two minerals magnesium and
potassium which are really important are
are heavier over here than over here
then we have vitamin E you do get some
vitamin E from fish Dairy and eggs but
it's going to be higher in sunflower
seeds in Greens it's also in nuts as
well most nuts are roasted so you're
just going to destroy because vitamin E
is heat sensitive phytonutrients
phytonutrients are all the hundreds of
thousands of chemicals in our food
supply that help protect us and create
all these therapeutic amazing effects
onions garlic herbs things like that but
it's also in grass-fed meat okay I had
my cattle butchered and we tested and it
was loaded with phytonutrients okay then
we get vitamin C you can get some
vitamin C in organ Meats but the problem
is when you cook it it really goes way
way way way down so like in Raw Liver
you might get a 100 milligrams but when
you cook it it ends up with like two or
3 Mig you'd be much better off if you
had it from berries or especially
sauerkraut sauerkraut has the most vit C
it's like 700 Mig per cup but it has to
be raw so get it in the refrigerator
section or make it yourself or any green
vegetable has some vitamin C in it a
good amount usually now let's go to
examples of meals that give you a nice
combination of certain things to get a
good amount of nutrition okay so we have
some examples of meals and you know I
think it is impossible to get all of
your nutrients from one meal some days
you can have more some days you can have
less it doesn't have to be a certain
amount every single day but I want you
just to get the overall concept of what
you should be eating or including in
your meals let's start with the steak
and eggs and salad okay that would be
one meal that You' get a good supply of
protein and also the minerals and
phytonutrients right here burger cheese
sauerkraut you get your vitamin C right
here you get fiber for the gut you also
get vitamin K2 but you're getting
vitamin K2 right here high quality
protein I do this a lot then we got the
liver and onions and cauliflower okay
good combination you get cruciferous
right here you pretty much get almost
every nutrient from liver and some great
things from onions as well eggs and
avocado is a good combination and we
have sardines tomato tuna salad so you
have tuna on greens I like to throw
nutritional yeast down there it gives a
nice little nutty flavor and there's a
lot of B vitamins and trace minerals in
nutritional ye
salmon carrots brussel sprouts it's a
good one shellfish mashed cauliflower
short ribs can give you the collagen and
then cheese and tomato that's a good
combination I'm doing a lot of pork
rinds there's different flavors and
things like that I make sure I get the
one without the MSG and all that pork
rinds give you collagen of course get
the your vitamin D from the Sun if you
can and then for a dessert berries Greek
yogurt right you get your vitamin C
chocolate and kefir if you do chocolate
chocolate try to add some Dairy because
chocolate does have some oxalates and
the calcium and the dairy combine with
the oxalates and actually kind of
neutralize them themselves chocolate and
kefir chocolate sunflower and pumpkin
seeds right with cheese right I'm not
saying all mixed together but you could
do this as a little you know dessert but
I already mentioned the benefits of
sunflower seeds and pumpkin seeds right
pumpkin seeds have a lot of magnesium
and zinc so I hope this kind of gave you
some idea on some nutrient-dense foods
but I'm really curious if you have even
more ideas on this please comment down
below and I will see you in the next
video
