so today we're going to introduce you to
a new diagnosis and it's called bogus
diagnosis disorder we have the code
right here the main symptom is the urge
to make up and invent a mental illness
and I'm specifically talking about the
authors of the Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual for mental disorders
the dsm-5 and you may not know this but
they actually vote on certain diseases
okay
there's no blood test it's just all
subjective and sometimes you read this
in the newspaper there's this huge
epidemic of mental health problems right
spreading all the country know there's
an epidemic of prescription drugs one
out of six Americans take psychiatric
drugs and the question is is it working
are people getting healthier with their
mental health actually know things are
getting worse we're getting more
substance abuse we're getting higher
rates of suicide but I want to share
with you some very interesting
scientific diagnoses that are in this
book the first one is called borderline
personality disorder okay
this is a condition where you're feeling
more emotion more intensely for a longer
period of time like I don't know if you
ever had a chronic feeling of boredom I
mean I think that's pretty much normal
for everyone to experience certain times
in their life and that's not a mental
illness but they say that we don't know
the cause yet but we think it's genetic
there's some brain dysfunction or it's a
problem with the environment but until
we do research and really find the cause
take an antidepressant all right next
one separation anxiety disorder this
occurs when you have a relationship or a
marriage breakup okay
I mean yous need to get over it faster
or else you're gonna end up with this
disorder and when you read down the list
in this book it has a section on infants
and they stated that infants show
stranger anxiety stranger anxiety by
crying when someone unfamiliar
approaches I think that's a normal
response to a stranger isn't it I mean
that's the only way a child can
communicate is through crying and
apparently this condition starts when
you're 7 months old
I mean I'd like to know how they
determine that what tests have they used
to scientifically prove that so you can
take an indian person for that one and
then we have caffeine withdrawal
disorder first of all this is not a
mental disorder this is a physical
chemical imbalance okay all right here's
one premenstrual dysphoric disorder so
when you go through your menstrual cycle
you have a feeling of hopelessness or
you have bloating in your lower abdomen
okay this is hormonal this is not a
mental disorder and is treated with an
antidepressant it gets more hilarious
check this out
minor neurocognitive disorder this is a
situation is as you get older you have a
decline in cognitive function that's
beyond your normal age this is a
physical problem okay this is probably
the beginning of Alzheimer's because it
starts 25 years before you even have
symptoms so this is a physical condition
and they're gonna treat it with it -
panty depressant all right next one is
my favorite intermittent explosive
disorder no you don't explode but you
have a temper tantrum or you start
arguing verbal arguments and if you do
that for two times a week for three
months you're gonna get a diagnosis and
you're gonna get a treatment and then we
have a somatic symptom disorder this is
extreme focus on the physical symptom
mainly pain or fatigue I think I had
this disorder when I was in my 20s
because I was in pain and I was always
tired and I was constantly focused on
him this occurs when you have excessive
thoughts on your symptoms so what you
really should be doing is kind of
ignoring them and not looking like
you're in pain or you're tired now you
may be thinking I'm making this up but
the diagnostic manual is this thick it's
filled with things like this and that
leads to a lot of over medicated people
and a lot of people that have been
excessively over diagnosed if that's
even a word
so here we have a situation of a
somewhat of a normal behavior
that's labeled as an abnormal behavior
that's treated with the medication that
has side effects okay all of the psych
drugs carry a was called a black box
warning okay why do they have this
because they have severe severe side
effects that can create way worse
symptoms and the symptoms that you're
trying to treat nausea insomnia
impotence weight gain ejaculation
disorder abnormal bleeding seizures
visual problems increase risk of suicide
are you kidding birth defects heart
condition the FDA stated that they don't
recommend celexa if you have low blood
sugar or low magnesium who doesn't have
low magnesium and one of the last
symptoms if you scroll down all the side
effects is sudden death
I guess people aren't paying attention
to actually really hear what they're
saying but I'm sorry if a medication
causes sudden death I don't think I'm
gonna take it so anyway in summary
there's a lot you can do for someone's
mood for someone's cognitive state just
with diet that is something that is
completely and utterly ignored healthy
keto intermittent fasting B vitamins
specifically vitamin b1 vitamin D are
essential anyway put your comments below
and tell me what your thoughts are on
this topic so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
