I wanted to do this quick video to
differentiate between a cat scan and an
MRI so cat scan stands for computerized
tomography and MRI is magnetic resonance
imaging now the real big difference is
the cat scan uses x-ray radiation which
is ionized radiation and that is the big
problem with cat scans because one cat
scan would be equivalent to roughly
around 200 chest x-rays and the MRI uses
radio waves in magnets and they bounce
around different tissues and create this
a very detailed image an MRI is more
detailed than a cat scan MRI is good for
joints brain breasts evaluations blood
vessels discs organs great for torn
ligaments cat scans are good for bone
fractures tumors monitoring cancer over
time internal bleeding and it's also
faster than MRI the problem of cat scans
as many people have to get follow-up cat
scans so you're doubling tripling
quadrupling this much radiation and
that's a lot of potential damage to your
DNA so personally if I had a choice I
would go for an MRI if they recommended
a cat scan I would have to have a very
good reason to do that and I would also
try to get an ultrasound first and if I
absolutely had to get a cat scan I would
increase the amount of niacin to the
diet I would do some prolonged fasting
before and after the cat scan as well as
consume a good amount of cruciferous
vegetables just to counter some of the
damage at the DNA level alright guys
there you have it that would be the
differences between these two tests so
if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
