so I'm trying to get through a lot of
your questions in the comment section
and I wanted to answer this question
because it does come up quite often it's
a really quick video the question is can
fatty avocados spike your cholesterol
people are concerned about that after
all most of an avocado is fat so we
don't want to you know clog up our
arteries well actually there's no
cholesterol and avocados okay and even
if there was it wouldn't be a big deal
because most of the people that are
having bad effects with cholesterol are
consuming too many carbohydrates so it's
the high carbohydrate diet that
increases the cholesterol because the
spike of insulin insulin converts a
carbohydrate into cholesterol and
triglycerides that's really the problem
if you consume foods and high
cholesterol and you keep your carbs low
you're safe you're totally fine now it's
true when you go on a ketogenic diet and
you start doing in a minute fasting
you're mobilizing a lot of fat that's in
your body for fuel because you're in the
ketosis and your cholesterol will come
up temporarily but it's not a damaging
thing because that cholesterol is being
used to repair things also the
triglycerides coming out are being used
for energy if you want more
clarification watch the videos down
below on cholesterol that's a whole
separate topic the thing you get a watch
out for is the carbs but look at this
avocados have 12 grams of carbs
okay per cup but guess what ten of those
grams are from fiber you always want to
- the fiber from the total carb to give
you the net carb okay so we only have
two grams of carb that's pretty low so
you don't have to worry about it because
when you do a ketogenic diet you can
keep your carbs between 20 to 50 grams
per day
alright so know you don't have to worry
about avocados worsening your
cholesterol they probably will help your
cholesterol thanks for watching
so if you like this video go ahead and
share it with someone that you know that
can truly benefit from it
