hello Dr Burg here in this video we're
going to talk about peripheral
neuropathy now we're going to relate
this to diabetes there's other
conditions that you can have it as well
but what is it it's basically the
sensation of pain burning pain numbness
numbness in tingling or any combination
thereof on your hands or your feet okay
and so what happens in diabetes it's one
of the symptoms that you want to watch
out for when you start experiencing that
it's starting to advance a little bit
too deep in the body now the reason why
it's affecting the hands and the feet
first is simply because those nerves are
the longest so if you envision having
this tube of carrying oxygen and
nutrition uh the very end of that tube
is going to experience the deficiency
first right because it has to go all the
way over there same thing with the hands
and the feet now what causes this is the
high levels of sugar in the blood
causing microvascular injury the body
does not not like too much sugar it's
toxic so it creates very small arterial
or vascular injury to the nervous system
so the blood vessels that feed the
nerves get disrupted okay that's number
one number two glycated in products now
what is that that's just another
mechanism that you have this Protein
that's building up because of the high
sugar on the nerve stopping the flow of
nerve impulses okay number three vitamin
B12 deficiency or vitamin B1
deficiencies okay both of those vitamins
control the synthesis of myin around the
nerve myin is the kind of the fat
insulator of the nerve just like if you
had a wire you have this plastic or
rubber insulation myin is the fat
insulation around the nerve well if you
don't have the B12 or the B1 you're not
going to make the insulation so that's
going to go away so you're going to
start short circuiting that electrical
flow and start getting all sorts of
nerve issues okay so now what is the
solution well number one you got to fix
the the sugar problem which is an
insulin problem I'm going to put some
links down below and secondly you need
to start taking B12 and B1 I would get
those in a fat cable form in addition to
that you want to also consume um
nutritional yeast because diabetics or
people that are pre-diabetics tend to
always have deficiencies of these two V
vins and a lot of other ones so you need
a little bit more nutritional yeast you
can get it from any healthfood store all
right thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press this
little button down below okay thanks
