so this is Susan I just want to explain
a really interesting great success story
Susan had some law office like you said
just kind of tell us a little story
about when you were junior high school
and what happened okay I gained weight
during high school I started when I was
104
I was 152 when I graduated so I went
from being quite thin to really being a
little too heavy somewhere before
college I got a job that required me
long walking a long distance to and from
work and without realizing it I lost
about 15 pounds that summer maybe 20
pounds then in college the weight loss
continued I graduated from college at
104 again got married a year or two
after that over the course of my 25-year
marriage I went up to 298 pounds Wow now
you just kind of study this with Clara
dynamite yes and you did Finn Finn I did
I did go to weight loss specialist and
be on 15 for awhile which I think was
somewhat helpful to me but I I don't
know I didn't go back so I didn't keep
having been prescribed I did neutral
systems and I did other other programs
more or less and then when you were at
your peak how did people view you can
you feel that they look at you
differently I think my children were a
little embarrassed or maybe more than a
little they sometimes made comments
about so-and-so I thought you were
pregnant or things you're pregnant oh
yeah and I felt too Shrieve it a little
bit like a nonentity or as somebody who
maybe wasn't very bright or very smart
or very ambitious
since I was wait a lot it's amazing how
people look at people differently if
they're away and almost like you're
accused lower something like that or
they're lazy or if you just exercise
more any better the other point is them
there is a turning point I think it was
around Christmas time that you decided
that you have to turn things around tell
me a little bit about that I was well I
didn't like the fact that my weight was
never stable but it was a constant going
up that was pretty scary I have a son
and three daughters one day I looked up
when they were teenagers and said my
daughters are all looking a little
chubby what is going on oh my gosh Susan
what are you doing
you know you've been hiding your head in
the sand you have to do something about
this other than that it was a good point
in my life and I just decided to start
eating healthy and walking which I did
and after a few months I got this idea
that maybe I should try a trainer which
I did it's been fabulous I love my
trainer I love working out and I lost
over 18 months I lost about a hundred
and sixty pounds now she she has some
consistency and she enjoyed it
as compared and you didn't look at it
something that was very painful you look
forward to working out I did I'm very
lucky in that way I don't I didn't have
any preconceived notions that oh I'm
going to hate this and in fact I don't
hate it I like it a lot and I've always
in addition to the strength training
I've done a variety of cardio but my
main cardio is walking and it's the most
satisfying to me and I think the you
know as they say the cardio you are the
exercise you'll do is the best one
because your body type was more than a
dream about your type of midsection
right definitely
so the walking would be the best thing
and you walk just tell tell them how how
long you would walk her time and then
okay my what five or six times a week I
started off I think doing a mile or two
miles but then my standard walk became
six miles and that may or june after
having a healthier lifestyle for six
months and having lost about 100 pounds
i signed up for a 17 mile walk and I did
do that it was a 17 mile one day walk
and I did do that so about six months
after I started so you're walking off so
um six cents a week yes and you were
walking in two hours each time yes in
your spare time that's right that's
right and you were were you working the
time - uh I work for myself so yes I was
working and I did have four children oh
it's kind of squeezed it in there but
it's but it's pleasurable for me and
attention reducing and I made it a
priority definitely great you know your
your viewpoint and I'm really interested
in your attitude because it's so
positive you never really have any
doubts you didn't have any anything
you're just going to go for it and it's
just going to happen right it's a
cooking point that was my viewpoint
because I knew that I was lucky with a
basically healthy body I didn't think I
had any issues or physical things that
were really stopping me I knew that I
ate horribly and I knew that I didn't
really exercise so if I change some of
those things I had to have resolve see
then that's just the thing if you remove
any other barriers someone has like
stating that she didn't have that so you
seem to plug in the right type of
workout which is not intensity at first
and then you're not then you got into
intensity interval training yes does
that continue to work with the trainer
and then how do people look at you now
when people see you walking down the
street like tell me what they say well
we happen to move change neighborhoods a
little bit at the time that I started so
over the years I've run into a lot of
people who haven't seen me in a long
time and generally if I say hello to
them they have no idea who I am just
totally clueless and then sometimes from
the voice they'll say Susan and yeah and
they're just overwhelmed
extremely supportive thrilled impressed
it was certainly very motivating and
very gratifying it is to admit I've met
a really good friend recently who I
haven't seen in about 10 years
and she had no idea who I was no idea
and then you feel better
energy-wise - a little bit better oh I
do i I feel great
all the time I I know my body will do
whatever I ask it to do I never think
about it one way together that's exactly
the attitude that someone needs so she's
and she's actually 42 it she didn't get
before don't just I wish I was 42 I'm 54
I'm gonna be 55 into it incredible so
you can see that she's so alive and that
really helps out and then what would you
say if someone who is struggling in
their 50s to give them a little help I
would say you can do it you know don't
pay attention to the articles that say
you're postmenopausal you're middle-aged
it's harder blood than that that just
ignore them just ignore that yeah well
really just ignore it and do what you
know you should do I mean make your diet
healthier and do some exercise that you
enjoy great thank you so much and I just
want to just step up and just so we can
see you don't have a stomach anymore and
if you do you need to push that back a
little bit so you can see can you see
the waist so there's absolutely no waist
and you're not sucking in your stomach
but now that I like that matter now so
this is stuff this is fantastic so well
done thank you very much thank you very
much
you
