today we have an extremely important
topic that revolves around the most
important microbe in our body and today
I brought on one of the top experts Dr
William Davis so welcome doc thanks for
being on here thank you Dr ber thanks
for the invitation yeah so you wrote a
whole book uh primarily revolves around
this one microbe and I want to just Dive
Right In your book is called super gut
which is a fascinating read this microb
is called el rudai out of all the
thousands of microbes in our like what
makes this stand out as more important
than the other ones it's been around for
60 years it's not like it was discovered
last Tuesday but it was not recognized
just how powerful this micro was in fact
the first 40 Years of research around
this microbe centered mostly around what
it did for babies that's important but
it was shown to reduce for instance
regurgitation of breast milk or formula
reduced KCT you know that kind of fussy
restlessness and crying that that babies
get and that's about where it ended
maybe it abbreviated the diarrhea after
an antibiotic but it really didn't go
much farther than that until this group
in Boston MIT stumbled upon some unusual
effects because there had been some very
preliminary cell culture type evidence
so very preliminary stuff that showed
that ride might have anti-cancer effects
particularly in colon cancer so this
group very smart very excellent research
was exploring that question and they
started to see all these unexpected
effects that they they're like what is
going on here they saw that the animals
stayed young they didn't get fat and
lose their hair and stop M they played
with each other they groomed each other
they stayed slender with thick Rich fur
they saw that if they inflicted wounds
this is animals this sounds awful but
when they inflicted wounds healing time
was cut in half they showed that there
was a dramatic rise in testosterone and
elderly mice a marked increase in growth
hormone an amplification of the immune
response so much so as you recall as you
and I age the thymus gland right here
beneath the sternum shrinks starting at
age
15 and by age 70 it's almost gone it's
about 10% of its original volume and
capacity to produce tea cells that
protect us from viruses and bacteria and
that's why older people can succumb to
flu or pumac pneumonia but 18-year- olds
typically don't and that's
differentiates between it's not the
thyroid it's the thymus which is a
little lower it's on top of the heart
exactly it's the thymus gland the seat
of te- cell immunity of the immune
response well that's restored and it's
restored back to its original size in in
mice in mice wow no one's done that
human study yet so all these
extraordinary observations in in mice
and so I decided to get this microb and
play with it but it's bought it was
commercially available as tablets for
infants so the dosage for infants is
very small so I just simply reasoned how
do I increase it well you take a hundred
tablets of that product but it's a
sugary product so it's not very good um
so I just simply Amplified counts by
making it as a yogurt it's not yogurt of
course it looks and smells like yogurt
kind of but it's a way to amplify
bacterial counts in this case a
thousandfold that's when I saw
everything this usually doesn't happen
as you know if you see something in mice
it often doesn't translate to a human
experience but in this case uh
everything seen in mice everything every
last observation seen in mice I've been
seeing in
humans wow and as far as um what
percentage is this microb in the western
world I mean it's kind of absent right
in a great majority of the population
yes so Dr Gard reuter he's the German
microbiologist first first isolated it
in
1962 from the breast milk of a German
breastfeeding mother he said back then
it's easy to find it's every it's
ubiquitous it's in breast milk it's in
stool it's easy to find with his 40-year
academic career he made a number of
comments that he's finding increasingly
difficult to find such that by the 2000s
he could barely find it at all that's
been corroborated several times by
others we have a clinical study on
proposing where we do several hundred
people and see how many will corroborate
that and also correlate s to other
biomarkers because so crucial for
overall health and youthfulness but it's
it's presumptively because lactobacilus
rorai as well as other lactobacillus
species there's many of them of course
are uniquely susceptible to Common
antibiotics all it takes is a round of
penicillin or ampicilin or a MOX aylin
that you may have taken years and years
ago and you've wiped out all the rhide
thereby lost all its huge advantages wow
I think you mentioned I'm not sure if it
was in your book but it's like was it
96% of population doesn't really have
very many left or exactly right the best
estimates we have from recent uh
evidence is about 4% of people one in 25
people still have it and so that means
uh 24 out of 25 don't have it have
losses as you recall one of the great
effects of this microb you know most
microbes in the gastrointes microbiome
colonize the colon way way down 24t down
from the mouth and that's where they're
supposed to be but rorai is unique in
that it has the unique capacity to
colonize the small
intestine and that's where it takes up
residents and produce natural
antibiotics and these natural
antibiotics are effective in killing
fecal microbes which as you know is a
huge problem now this notion of small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth what we
say sibo sip po that is feal microbes
like ecoli Etc have colonized the small
intestine where they don't belong and
they're very destructive when they do
that well is the loss of Rai and maybe
some related species that have this
unique ability to colonize the small
intestin produce antibiotics of their
own and these are different than the
antibiotics you get from the hospital
from the doctor um these are these are
very selective antibiotics unlike the
stuff you get in a in in the hospital
where it's it tends to be broad spectrum
wipes that it's an atomic bomb for your
GI track and so is the loss of Rai part
of the reason why this has become an
epidemic that is because explains why
sibo has become an epidemic I I believe
it
is yeah because now we have no
protection against these other microbes
so it's a I guess it's called what's
called a keystone microb right which is
kind of a it does more than just one
thing it kind of helps the whole
ecosystem in that area right it kind of
helps balance everything yeah isn't that
wonderful it's fascinating had sibo and
I took an antibiotic like zyxin it just
kills a bunch of stuff but it doesn't
start the process of restoration so
exactly right you restore ruite maybe
some other microbes and it begins the
process microbes are kind of like people
we don't live in isolation we have
partners and families and friends and
neighbors and co-workers and communities
microbes are the same way so restoration
of ruite is that first step not just in
restoring ruite but in cultivating a
healthy community of microbes and then
now let's just Dive Right into one of
the huge effects that I'm very excited
about it causes the body to increase
that hormone oxytocin which is kind of a
hormone that people know about you know
you're bonding with your mother as a
baby but it does a little more than that
right oxytocin does a lot more now of
course as we age oxytocin goes down but
tell us a little bit about this oxytocin
what that does so it's a brain hormone
from the hypothalamus that is released
by when you restore Rai if we believe
the animal evidence is about three
threefold 300% or more we've tried to
corroborate that humans were having a
hard time with the acid so that's a work
in progress oxytocin traditionally
regarded as the hormone of love and
empathy it is that you get this surgeon
oxytocin you'll see this play out in
people who either get rotaride by some
means like a probiotic preparation or as
the yogurt to higher counts and people
will say you know I I I like my spouse
better I get with my family better their
foibles and quirks don't irritate me as
much I like my co-workers better my my
favorite I accept the opinions of other
people more readily I love that um but I
also call oxytocin the hormone of shape
and body composition it determines where
your muscle is and how much you have and
also determines where fat is located so
it has a huge effect on your shap shape
you know shape is a big thing people say
weight loss but I'd like to tell people
let's go a step further than weight loss
because you know the G Agonist world is
highlighted what a flawed area that is
you lose fat and by the way with the GP
Agonist you lose subcutaneous talk about
OIC right like OIC all those things
those are selective for fat beneath the
skin not the fat in your abdomen and
that's a problem because the most
problematic form of fat as you know is
the abdominal fat of course geop one
Agonist lead to loss of muscle huge
losses of muscle and we know we know
with excellent long-term evidence when
you lose muscle you die younger several
years typically as well as your last
years tend to be characterized by
Frailty Falls fractures dementia Etc so
the loss of muscle is critical yet the
FDA approved a class of drugs that
permits huge loss of muscle so
preserving muscle during any effort to
lose weight is absolutely critical so
you don't experience those awful effects
and including early mortality and
oxytocin determines how much muscle you
have you know personally so I'm in my
late 60s when I was in my early 60s when
I started doing these things
specifically rotari I gain 13 pounds of
muscle and my strength increased by 50%
over three weeks I'm know about you Dr
Burke I hate the gym I can't stand going
here
so I go once a week for 15 minutes get
the heck out of there yet I despite that
meager effort I gain 13 pounds and 50%
in I was doing lat pull Downs for
instance 10 repetitions at 130 pounds
over three weeks 15 minutes a week I was
doing 200 pounds wow so and that's been
borne out also by the animal
experimental data and what I see in real
life is this rest now here's a quirky
thing though those of us who had more
muscle in our youth tend to regain more
muscle so if you were a longdistance
runner had skinny you won't gain as much
say as somebody who was a wrestler or a
weightlift or a shot put through you
know that kind of a thing and when you
first told me that I was like is that
actually true so I have not changeed my
workout uh when I started this probably
was have been about six weeks maybe two
months ago I went from 185 to
1902 or 193 and uh not fat I'm
definitely gaining muscle which I am
like wow it's just as wild because it's
like I'm not adding more workouts or
anything so this is a game changer in
fact I even told my my parents my father
lost a lot of muscle mass so he's doing
it first of all his hair is coming back
he's gaining more weight and this is
like a game changer especially with age
related muscle loss but also it keeps
you independent you're more likely to be
able to bound upstairs get in and out of
your car with ease go for long walks
ride your bike and not succumb to being
to loss of Independence and end up in an
assisted living center so preserving
muscle is a huge advant and and in guys
of course there's a marked increase in
testosterone just from that and ladies
experience a preservation or increase in
bone density so it's part of the formula
for combating all the effects of Aging
yeah huge I want to go back to this
empathy word for because this I want
really I want people to understand what
that word means because I looked it up
and um got a little more data looked at
the derivation of it and uh it really
boils down to being able to the ability
to see someone's Viewpoint which is like
wow if someone could do that they're not
going to get in an argument with their
spouse because that's really the anatomy
of an argument like the person's
unwilling to see someone's Viewpoint
right even in social interactions if you
can't see the
Viewpoint you're just going to go back
and forth this is huge so what I just
want to tell you what happened to me
um I didn't really expect too much but I
would say a week after taking this and
we'll just call it maybe a cultured uh
probiotic not a not a yogurt because
it's a little bit different and we're
going to we'll talk about how to make it
in a second
but um I didn't really notice anything
except my wife says what is gotten into
you I said what do you mean she goes you
want to hug me like five times a day and
you want to snuggle and I'm like I know
it's weird I I don't know what's gotten
over me she goes keep eating that yogurt
right so I mean that's it's just really
interesting and I just just had another
response with one of my staff members
and she said I said because she's doing
the yogurt I said you feel any change
she goes she goes I don't know but other
people are nicer to
me I said are you sure it's other people
maybe it's just your Viewpoint of other
people she goes yeah it could be because
like everywhere she goes like she's just
like very interested in the other person
I mean that's like nowadays this is so
such an important thing I mean could you
imagine if more people had that ability
what's really bizarre about this is that
I think that having this full microbiome
creates a natural amount of oxytocin
this is not something new it's like
something we had at one time and I think
we had lost right so it's not something
that we're adding to the human race it's
just something that's lost along the way
from these antibiotics and other things
you know I think about that a lot Dr
Berg because uh I remind myself that we
live in a time of record social
isolation yes pandemic but even pre
pandemic record suicide likewise pre
pandemic there was a 35% increase in
suicide of course half of all marriages
end in divorce and the psychology
Community has been tabulating measuring
and tabulating measures of narcissistic
behavior since 1963 and the increase has
been dramatic so you know there's lots
of things at work here social media
other things we you and I don't have
much control your listeners don't have
control over that perhaps but we do have
have control over this microbe and
thereby the capacity to boost oxytocin
and I'm seeing exactly what you're
describing people like other people
better they get along better you know Dr
Paul Zach is a he calls himself a
neuroeconomist in count in LA and he did
something crazy he went to the jungles
of New Guinea and found a tribe who had
never seen Western people before so
painted two generations away from
cannibalism wow and he says the first
thing when cter when you enter their
Camp is the stink of unwashed humans
because there's no running water but
they were friendly and embracing and
they welcomed them what he wanted to do
was check the oxytocin blood levels
before and after this ritual dance they
do well he did and he showed no rise so
he never published the data but he
mentioned in a book about oxytosis so I
called him I said Paul I see you didn't
publish that would you share it with me
he very generously did and I compared
those levels this is a group of people
unexposed to antibiotics glyphosate
herbus all that stuff and I have data of
my own compared it it's hard to compare
but you kind of get a crude sense and it
was clear that primitive people have
much higher levels of oxytocin because
they still have rotor and they've been a
study for the presence of Rite they all
have it as do wild animals but we've
lost it wow and so we see lower levels
in humans modern
humans and I think it we get it from our
mother with breast milk um and how many
kids don't get breast milk anymore that
could be a big problem too right there's
that Mom got antibiotics at time of
delivery she probably got it many times
over her lifetime probably couldn't give
it to the child and the child gets
antibiotics at delivery and gets
antibiotics uh thousands of antibiotic
prescriptions for every thousand
children every year and so we've wiped
out Rite and other microbes because bags
are kind of stupid they're necessary but
it's like an adom bomb you know if we
drop a nuclear bomb on a population it
doesn't only pick the bad people it
picks out the children The Women College
professors the the Social Work It Kills
everybody yeah and I think the uh the
the myth is that people think oh if you
take anotic it all comes back for a
couple weeks yeah you're going to be
back to where you were a couple weeks
later right that is I don't think that's
true absolutely not it's quite clear now
the tough question is how much can we
restore that's that's a work in progress
that's why I think this idea of
restoring these what what you're saying
is Keystone microbes is so important as
compared to say an antibiotic you know
if antibiotics got us here how can
another round of antibiotics be part of
the solution and of course the use of
fermented foods like kimchi sauerkraut
veggies you ferment on your kitchen
counter like cucumbers another
spectacular way though the crazy thing
about that is those microbes INF
fermented foods are not the ones that
colonize the GI tract they somehow cross
feed they provide nutrients to
beneficial microbes and they bloom so
you get to bloom in all the beneficial
species particularly ones that produce
the fatty ass bate that yield such
effects as healing of the intestinal
lining reduction in blood sugar blood
pressure depression anxiety deeper sleep
a restoration of youthful childlike
dreams oh yeah flying showing up at the
school playing your underwear and not
knowing your lines how did you know I
had that
dream all that stuff comes back wow yeah
talk about vivid dreams that's one thing
that stands out and definitely my sleep
is much better um you know you have a
lot of people that have either um
rosacea or um a lot of skin issues and I
know that's gut rated and I know there's
some technical parts of that like
there's you know I guess byproducts of
bacteria dying which I don't want to get
too technical but just in a simple way
how do you explain what's happening
between your gut and your
skin lot of that wisdom is unfolding I I
break down skin rashes into two
categories the simple skin rashes that
is due to A disruption of the skin
microbiome acne would be a good example
of that but then the more complex
conditions like rosacea and psoriasis
tend to start in the gut so in other
words if I give somebody a drug
that blocks some pathway like like an
inflammatory marker all you do is block
the inflammatory Mark and get partial
response but that person still has sibo
and SEO and is thereby subject to
long-term consequences like colon cancer
uler of colitis diverticular disease
weight gain
obesity so the pharmaceutical model is
so deeply flawed but it's so deeply
ingrained into common practice this is
what they do in common practice they
give you a Blocker of some pathway that
all said it's not entirely clear what
the path is to restore a healthy
microbiome saying somebody with rosacea
but I'm seeing it happen that is uh do
these basic things what I love about the
microbiome things we're doing is that
we're getting away from the
pharmaceutical model which is if you
have pacak pneumonia kill it if you have
aaak abscess kill it right well there's
nothing specific for those pathogens so
let's instead the microbiome has a great
amount of wisdom built into it as you
know so if we restore those Keystone
microbes that help us they care take
care of it for you you just have to
provide the basic building blocks for
them to do that do you believe from your
experience like these people that have
these food allergies and sensitivities
they can improve that by restoring the
microbes in the gut yeah isn't that
wonderful I see it over and over and
over again people say I can't eat fod
Maps or legumes or nightshades or
histamin containing foods or fructose I
only can eat seven foods right or they
had IGG testing food intolerance testing
I can only eat I can't eat these 43
foods and I see all this go away and the
the science is evolving this is sibo
It's fecal microbes living in the small
intestine small intestines very
permeable by Design very thin mucus
barrier single leg
very thin intestinal lining and it's per
that's where we're supposed to absorb
all our nutrients and when but when
fecal microbes invade that small
intestine 24 feet trillions of microbes
that live and die rapidly it inflames
the intestinal wall and it makes it even
more permeable and lets all kinds of
stuff through including bacterial
breakdown products this process of small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth and
consumption of wheat the glid and
protein wheat is a lethal combination
that essentially guarantees you going to
get fat diabetic experience dementia and
have all kinds of other conditions the
neglect of this issue in conventional
care the haphazard administration of
antibiotics and the awful awful advice
to cut your cholesterol saturated fat
eat more healthy whole grains and
everything in
moderation is is a recipe for absolute
disaster that's what we're seeing course
playing out around it that's why you and
I have so much to do every day
it's incredible I mean if you just take
a look at a a
typical conventional GI doctor right you
go to the doctor and you have
bloating wow they're going to go through
their evaluation and you're going to end
up with a some medication that is just
going to manage it to somewhat but then
it gets worse I mean like could you
imagine if they just had some awareness
of what's happening in the the gut and
actually restore uh more of the root
cause I mean it just it's obvious to me
but I think it's just about getting more
aware out there it's honestly I don't
know how much we can change the medical
profession but we can actually educate
the person on the street so they can
make their own choices what you did is
you had this wild idea I'm G to I'm
going to turn this into a yogurt you
took it and you mixed it with a fiber
kind of just describe what you did to
grow this as I mentioned I got the
original microb and El m r but it was
present at such low count it was 100
million of two strains which sounds like
a
if it was money but in microbes it's
it's relatively trivial so I reasoned
how could I increase it without having
to take 100 tablets which would be
absurd so I simply fermented it of
course microbes don't have sex there's
no male and female microbes they just
double themselves well lactobacilus Rite
doubles every three hours or so at human
body temperature so I simply fermented
it for 36 hours uh 12 doublings I also
added Prebiotic fiber it's kind of like
adding calure to your garden you know
this on your farm if you add calure or
other fertilizer you get bigger tomatoes
and cucumbers so I did the same kind of
thing and we did quantify we Quantified
number of microbes in 12 hours 24 hours
36 hours 48 hours and by sheer dumb luck
I happen to pick the magic number the
best number which is 36 hours when you
go longer than 36 hours you start to get
more death of microbes dead microbes are
still beneficial but not as beneficial
as live microbes um and so you get this
big ramp up in counts we get somewhere
around 300 billion so we start with
Millions hundreds of millions now we get
hundreds of billions so we get a
thousandfold increase over the original
number we did this using something
called flow cytometry and we count the
microbes and so that was the key to I
believe now if we had done it as a
probiotic you know one of the
difficulties with probiotics I formulate
probiotics is they're very expensive if
you want to put a whole bunch into a
capsule say so in other words if you
want to put 300 billion lactus roer into
a capsule it cost consumers like three
or $400 a month it'd be ridiculous no
one wants to do that so you can buy the
capsules at lower counts at at
affordable cost you amplify the counts
through fermentation like the like the
yogurt by the way doesn't happy Dairy
can be coconut milk can be salsa can be
um
hummus wow yeah Pik Theo wow
and uh uh but Dairy is so forgiving so
available and so familiar to so many
people it's easy to do yeah so we do
that we get 300 billion counts per half
cup or 120 million liters serving and I
think that's why we saw such extravagant
effects in pushing back SEO because
we're coming at this with very high
counts sufficient to overcome the
trillions yeah of feal microbes of
sibo yeah you also shared with me
another idea which I think is brilliant
there's a certain microbe you can get
this probiotic right at Walmart the
drugstore and then you could take a
capsule of it there's a very specific
very well researched microbe in there
that you could I guess you mix it with
fruit juice for 72 hours you put it
outside right and then you maybe put
some top on it you don't want to tighten
it up because it'll explode but then
you're basically making your own soda
because the micro will eat a lot of the
sugar and uh that's a it's a brilliant
idea I mean like what a great drink it's
kind of like kombucha but it actually
has microbes in
it you know many of us miss juice it was
nice to have mango juice and cherry
juice and all the pomegranate juice but
they're so high in sugar that they're
awful for you well here's a way to have
the microbe consume the sugar and you
can consume it down to zero so the final
product is no longer sweet wow but it's
effervescent so this microbe is a so we
make wine and beer for for instance with
sacris sisia that's in here the micro
well it's cousin sacris Bard cousin oh
sorry this yeah okay this is a similar
cousin and it is a spectacular fermentor
if you put it into juice so what I do is
a capsule into juice any volume of juice
but you have to be careful the juice
can't contain potassium sorbate or
sodium Ben or other preservative and
then as you say cap it lightly because
you'll see it 24 hours it's bubbling
like a cauldron because it's producing
carbon dioxide and if you cap it too
tightly you'll literally have a mess in
your kitchen uh so we keep it light may
you can vent it you can even go to these
beer brewing stores and they have
venting caps for like $3 you can do that
too but you leave it on your kitchen
counter for at least 48 Hours test it we
have this wonderful sugar sensing device
in our mouth called a tongue we can
taste it and if it's sweet let it go
another 12 24 hours uh you want it not
sweet you and I don't want sugar your
listeners don't want sugars but you
drink this it's probably one of the most
important things people can do if you
need a course of antibiotic let's say
one of your listeners says well they're
going to put an implant in my mouth
they're going to use prophylactic
antibiotics or had I had a terrible skin
infection whatever and you have to have
an antibiotic well you can drink this
juice like a quarter half cup couple
three times a day and it's the most
important thing you can do at least
partially protect the Integrity of your
gast inest microbiome nothing is fully
protective against antibiotics but it's
the best we have if you haven't bought
that book super gut get that book right
now you also on your website you have a
really great ongoing program that people
can participate and you coach them and
things like that I'm going to put your
link down below so people could know
about that but I just wanted to have you
on just to really talk about this one
microbe that's so important and then and
I appreciate you coming on and then what
I want to do is roll right into kind of
a video of how a person could make this
microbe and uh I will so don't click off
yet you can just watch that and you can
make notes and I'm going to put your
stuff in the description but thank you
so much for coming on Doc I really
appreciate it oh my pleasure Dr Burke
always so this is very simple how we
make this we're going to take uh the
probiotic one capsule and then we will
open it
up and then we're going to take inulin
this is a
tablespoon take organic half and half
just to make a paste mix it up really
good don't put too much of that uh half
and half in there right off the bat just
about two tablespoons and then we can
pour the rest of this half and half in
there one quart I'm going to mix this up
really good I'm going to take a
container two containers We'll pour some
of this in
here even it out pretty good
okay we're putting this mixture into the
yogurt maker we have two of them right
very carefully okay now we have to add
water to
it so we got water right here so I'm
going to pour the
water like
so and I want that
level to be at the same level as
the mixture inside the containers so I'm
looking to see if it's the same mixture
and yes it is so we now have the water
at the level of a little bit more than I
wanted so that's fine okay here's the
next part and of course if you have a
different machine you're going to have
to just do the same type of thing on the
left we have temperature and time so we
can press this once okay and then we
want this at
99° Fen so we're going to bring this
down
okay and then press start on that and
then now what we're going to do we have
eight hours we're going to go up to 36
hours okay and then we press start again
and guess what we're done we're going to
put the top on it and then we're going
to wait for 36
hours and then after that's done we are
going to then put it in the refrigerator
for storage okay we're pulling out of
the refrigerator after 36 hours and
leaving in the refrigerator for a couple
hours to cool down and now we're going
to consume a half of a cup of this every
single day I like to have mine before
bed it's amazing it's Rich it's
delicious you can add uh berries to it
if you need to add a sweetener uh go
ahead but I think you'll find it quite
delicious a half a cup a day
