I want to share some interesting uh data
related to foods that you can eat to
strip off the fat from your liver fatty
liver disease is huge I mean if we're
just talking about a
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease we're
talking about
1.7 billion people on this planet and
then when you get into fatty liver
that's caused by alcohol that's another
huge percent and this is not counting
the people who drink alcohol that
develop a fatty liver so both
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and
alcoholic fatty liver disease um same
problem different causes okay now I'm
excited to share um a tool that helped
me find a lot of this information it's
called elicit dorg okay it's an
incredible uh Search tool it goes out
into I think over 200 million research
papers and it helps you find certain uh
pieces of information that are sometimes
hard to find when you're doing Google
searches okay I'll put a link down below
it's very very helpful and so today
we're going to talk about the foods that
you should be eating to help remove fat
from your liver well on the flip slide I
should also tell you what foods uh will
worsen the liver uh the big one is
fructose okay the thing that's unique
about fructose is that fructose is a
type of sugar that cannot be dealt with
by all of your cells in your body like
glucose uh only by your liver cells so
anytime you consume high fructose corn
syrup or any type of fructose from fruit
the liver is forced to deal with it and
if you overload the liver with too much
fructose you start developing a fatty
liver even now fructose is low on the
glycemic index and of course anything
that will increase insulin can
contribute to a fatty liver that would
be like sugar refined carbohydrates
there are also other things like
inflammation that can cause a fatty
liver and so we have this whole stage of
inflammation fatty liver scar tissue of
the liver therosis and then of course
you have insulin resistance in the liver
that can actually increase more insulin
and create more fatty liver and then of
course having the fatty liver itself can
create more inflammation which can
worsen the insulin resistance so it's a
it's a NeverEnding cycle but if you're
standing up and you look down at your
shoes and you can't see your shoes
because of your belly in the way you
definitely have a fatty liver but even
if you don't have a belly you could
still have a fatty liver that's called
skinny fat and before we get into it if
you have not seen my video on how to
remove
50% of the fat off your liver in two
weeks uh using the ketogenic diet and
intermitted fasting I will put that link
down below we want foods that also have
a good ratio of high omega-3 fatty acids
to to low Omega 6 fatty acids because
omega3 fats can help remove the fat off
the liver the other thing I want to
mention that's also very Contra inuitive
um short chain fatty acids they're fats
and they can help get rid of fat off
your liver because they can
significantly improve insulin resistance
and the way that your body can create
short chain fatty acids is by consuming
fiber that feed the microbes and then
the microbes make the short chain fatty
acids as a byproduct and I want to
mention this before we get into the
foods there's all sorts of
phytonutrients okay plant-based uh
compounds that dramatically lower
inflammation which can indirectly help
you uh reduce fat on your liver curcumin
okay from turmeric like Resveratrol
which also comes in grapes and then
sometimes people start eating the grapes
the problem is they have fructose so
that's going to counter that effect and
or they might start consuming wine
because that has Resveratrol the problem
is the alcohol in the wine creates liver
damage so it's not going to help you
then you have this very powerful
compound in green tea which is
egcg and even in many supplements or
spices like the phytonutrient in black
seed called
thymoquinone is a very powerful um
compound to help strip fat off your
liver and other things you can do like
fasting especially and exercise can help
decrease fat off your liver and even the
vitamin D from the Sun can help you
remove fat off the liver vitamin A and
vitamin E both help reduce fat on your
liver but as far as foods go let's go
ahead and cover that right now okay all
of the cruciferous vegetables
significantly help reduce fat on the
liver so we're talking about arugula
broccoli brussels sprouts cabbage radish
Swiss chard you have this high fiber
relatively low carb low sugar um food
with the fiber the other vegetable
that's very very potent for removing fat
from the liver is dandelion greens now
it's a bit thicker or the texture is a
little bit harder to chew it's not as
tender as salad but I grow Dand Greens
in my greenhouse and it's a really good
greens to add to your salad because of
its potent liver effects not just for a
fatty liver but for many other problems
with the liver and salmon okay wild
caught salmon why because of the high
amounts of Omega-3 omega-3 fats help
strip the fat off the liver but I did
find a study uh by using that tool
elicit that consuming farm raay salmon
um worsened the fat on the liver so
you'd want to do wild caught salmon and
then we have olive oil olive oil is a
certain fat that can help get rid of fat
in your liver plus olive oil is very
anti-inflammatory but it has some really
good potent phytonutrients just make
sure it's not the fake olive oil which
is so common nowadays so spend a little
bit more money on a quality olive oil
that that actually really will create
the effects that you want now probiotics
okay help get rid of fat on your liver
so that would include Probiotic foods
like fermented vegetables especially
sauerkraut kimchi and you can even use
kefir okay as a fermented food product
that can help you the next two
vegetables which I'm going to include
based on the research I found garlic and
onion okay both have very powerful
effects on getting rid of fat on your
liver so definitely start including more
garlic and onion in your meals and the
last one is not really a food but it's a
drink coffee believe it or not coffee
has the potential to help you strip fat
off of your liver of course I'm only
going to recommend doing one cup because
the excess caffeine can keep you up at
night but the caffeic acid and other uh
chemicals in coffee even caffeine helps
reduce fat on your liver and green tea
and black tea also can help you reduce
fat on your liver so I just wanted to
give you uh some practical things to do
if you have a fatty liver and I put that
very important video up of how to get
rid of 50% of your fat off the liver
within two weeks so check it out it's
right here
