what I'm about to tell you you are
probably going to reject it and click
off before you do that just hear me out
avoiding the sun may be just as
dangerous as smoking cigarettes now I
know you probably think I'm
exaggerating but just hear me out
there's an association between at least
17 different cancers and a vitamin D
insufficiency and autoimmune diseases
and cardiovascular disease vitamin D is
intimately involved in over
2,000 different genes our immune system
absolutely cannot work without vitamin D
and check this out it's virtually
impossible to get your required Vitamin
D from your diet you're going to get
between 5 to 10% and that's if you're
consuming fatty fish organ Meats egg
yolks which a lot of people don't even
do that 90 to 95% of vitamin D comes
from the Sun now check out these
statistics there are over 5,000 deaths
per year worldwide from too much sun but
look at how many people die from a lack
of sun
1,684 677 people every single year so
there's
329 times more
people that are negatively affected by
lack of Sun versus the actual exposure
to Sun this is based on a fascinating
book called embrace the Sun by Mark
Sorenson who looked at and evaluated
1,300 different studies on the topic so
they concluded that for every one person
who dies from sun exposure there's 329
people who die of a lack of sun exposure
I mean just think about the mainstream
recommendation for Sun by The American
Dermatology Association you must stay
out of the Sun and if you're out in the
sun use sun block because the sun is
dangerous even in the early
1900s they had sanitariums that you can
go to to bathe in the Sun as a cure for
TB and asthma and many different
illnesses well what about melanoma the
deadly form of skin cancer in
1935 one out of, 1500 people developed
melanoma in 2014
1 in 50 people develop melanoma and if
we compare these two time periods in the
past we got a lot more sun we were on
the farm
nowadays we're inside
75% of all melanomas are located in
areas where we don't expose our skin to
Sun it's a lack of sun that puts someone
at risk for melanoma and I'm not talking
about being out in the sun and cooking
yourself to the point where you're
burned you should never do that I'm
talking talking about a moderate amount
of Sun so you never burn but there's
something else the sun gives us for
protection against cancer let me show
you 70% of the sun is UV rays 39% is
visible spectrum of light and
54% of all the sun's rays are infrared
potent stimulus of melatonin and 90 to
95% of all the Melatonin is is produced
by this interaction between infrared and
your skin and it increases the
production of subcellular melatonin it's
the Melatonin it also enhances ATP so
there's two things that protect the
mitochondria vitamin D and melatonin and
both of them are triggered by the
exposure to Sun I do know that there's
going to be people that will disagree
because we've been so indoctrinated into
thinking that sun all of a sudden is
really bad for us but I hope you could
at least
take a different Viewpoint and just take
a look at the information I'm going to
put the references down below check it
out I think your next step should be to
start to get more sun exposure be
outside more often and on that note if
you have not seen my video on vitamin D
you might want to watch it I put it up
right
here
