hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about how to get any ketosis and
the confusions that come along with it
there's been some questions recently on
how do I know if I'm in ketosis and what
do I need to test etc usually when
people are testing whether they're in
ketosis or not they use either device
that measures your blood ketones or
urine ketones or even a breath analyzer
okay
blood is the most accurate okay urine
and breath is good when you first start
out it's not always a hundred percent
because these two tests measure ketones
in the breath and the urine which are
not being metabolized they're not being
broken down they're like being wasted so
when you first start out you're not as
efficient and you're not burning up all
these ketones so they're coming out
you're actually breathing out fat
particles in you're urinating fat which
is kind of cool if you're trying to lose
weight because you you're not actually
exercising off those calories your body
is just eliminating fat through the
lungs and through the kidney so when you
first start doing ketosis I actually
like the urine test strips because
they're very inexpensive and you can
basically test yourself all day long
with a very low cost these are a little
bit more expensive but this is more
accurate now what is ketosis ketosis is
a condition where your body is creating
ketones for fuel now realize ketones are
the byproduct of fat burning but really
ketones only represent 40% of that fat
the rest 60% is basically fatty acids so
it's a combination of ketones and fatty
acids with a very small percentage of
glucose so your body really doesn't need
very much glucose just a very tiny bit
but that tiny bit can be created by your
liver from the fat and the protein
you're eating you do not need to get
your glucose from dietary carbohydrates
so real quickly I want to bring up the
topic of exogenous ketones okay you'll
see these in supplements and you can buy
ketones and they'll claim that'll help
you get into ketosis etc you have to
realize that ketosis is a state that has
to be created by lowering your
carbohydrate so if you haven't created
State and what I mean is creating a
machine with enzymes that actually burn
fat and that has to be created over
several days to weeks okay so when you
bypass that system and take straight
ketones
you're not going to lose weight because
your body's stored fat is not being
tapped into you're basically taking
ketones as fuel so your body doesn't
have to use your own ketones or fat so
there's a really big confusion that
people have thinking that wow I can just
take you tailings and I don't have to do
the diet big mistake
the only two conditions where I would
recommend taking exogenous ketones are
number one if you're a long distance
runner and you're in some competition
you want some extra energy but even then
even then I don't always recommend it
you can actually easily get your ketones
from just cutting your carbs down the
other situation is let's say for example
you have Alzheimer's or Parkinson's and
you're very frail and you don't have a
lot of fat to burn alright so the key
thing that gets you into ketosis is
lowering your carbohydrates
why because carbohydrates elevate your
blood glucose okay there's this
teeter-totter relationship between
lowering your blood sugar or glucose and
increasing your ketones ketones are an
alternative fuel that your body actually
prefers to run on it's a much cleaner
fuel so as you lower your blood glucose
you raise the ketones okay now normally
your blood glucose should be 82 now as
you go lower you start creating a
condition where you it's called
hypoglycemia
okay let's say you have 70 or 60 or even
less 50 or even 40 now sometimes you
might think that's dangerous or a real
bad situation but but think about it as
you cut the dietary carbs and you lower
your blood sugar your body's going to be
running on ketones so the need to keep
sugar up even at 82 is unnecessary so if
your blood sugar goes lower and lower
the question need to ask is this how is
your hunger does your hunger disappeared
is your cravings gone is your energy
good
you have good cognitive function is your
mood good if you have these items this
means that you're doing it healthily and
your body's getting the benefit from the
ketones but if you don't let's say for
example your blood sugar goes low and
you're starving and you're craving for
carbs and you're fatigued and you're
irritable and your memory is bad then we
know this is more of an unhealthy
hypoglycemic reaction and you probably
did not develop the machine to make
ketones you probably have not done this
correctly so I put a link down below of
how to get into healthy keto correctly
so you can handle your hunger and
cravings and energy and cognitive
function and mood and really get into
some deep ketosis and just to emphasize
the real key thing for ketones is
getting your blood Sugar's down and
lowering your carbohydrates that's the
most important thing that you need to
focus on if your blood sugars are high
you're not going to be running on
ketones
okay because your body will always take
the glucose before the ketones all right
guys thanks for watching so if you're
enjoying this content go ahead and share
it with someone that could really
benefit from it
