so the question today is do you eat
based on what you're in the mood for now
if you're in Quito you're probably doing
it for health reasons or to lose weight
so this doesn't really apply but for
those of you that are not on keto what
determines the motivation of what you
eat if you wouldn't mind just type that
down in the comment section I want to
review all of them I'm just really
curious what you're gonna say but this
is a very dangerous question to ask your
body what it's in the mood for because
you're really asking what's going on
with your blood Sugar's and if the blood
sugars are low the answer you're gonna
get is going to be refined carbohydrates
or salty crunchy carbohydrates which are
usually refined carbohydrates so many
times there's not some sophisticated
answer either from this question
especially when you're snacking some
people eat just to raise their mood or
their or to increase their energy or
they might just eat because it's their
last weekend I went to see the movie
nineteen seventeen it's a great movie
and I was observing people buying
popcorn and came into theater and some
people had this huge container of
popcorn it was just gigantic with all
this you know healthy butter on it right
which is very very filled with trans
fats and things like that
and they were just downing all this
popcorn with all sorts of other
additional junk food as well not even
thinking twice so one of the things you
want to do if you go to a theater and
you're going to do something like that
get the smallest container or in your
house make sure you just don't have this
junk food available because if it's
there people just eat it they don't
really think anything else other than I
got to eat it cuz it's there and then
it's gone I won't eat it but there's
nothing sophisticated going on other
than that now another interesting thing
about salty crunchy foods is in the
Paleolithic times salt was very scarce
potassium in plant foods was more
abundant and an average person back then
consumed a lot more vegetation even
magnesium they estimated it was like 600
milligrams of magnesium and I think it
was like over 11,000 milligrams
of potassium from plants and root
vegetables and all sorts of things so
our bodies have developed like in the
kidney certain hormones to retain salt
but not necessarily to retain potassium
potassium is not really retained your
body will kind of go through it sodium
is retained and we also have a mechanism
to crave sodium foods we do not have a
mechanism to crave potassium vegetable
hosts and things like that and this gets
people into trouble because the last row
body what am I in the mood for Oh
something salty so they'll actually
they'll beef up on the salt okay the
sodium but not in the potassium and then
they start to alter this ratio of
potassium sodium and they start getting
fluid retention and because they're low
on potassium to start craving carbs even
more so this is another reason why if
you're eating start with your vegetables
first your big salad then you're salty
protein whatever you eat and the other
thing you want to do is you want to find
some healthy food within the keto family
of foods that have keto friendly that
gives you a lot of pleasure and you want
to focus on that for me it's more like
egg yolks bacon maybe fried mushrooms
with cheese on it like I can live on
that in the past growing up you know we
have this reward connected with food if
you clean your room I'll give you some
candy right or something like that or
guilt you know people are starving in
Ethiopia so you have to eat all of your
food on your plate or penalties if you
don't eat everything in your plate
you're gonna get a spanking or you can't
go outside you're gonna be grounded or
for a conference let's say for example
you're sick right and your grandmother
comes over and oh let's give it let's
give you some candy or a piece of cake
or something like that
so people start developing all these
weird things related to food and lastly
there's an interesting study that I was
reading on the amount of food that a
person eats is related to how many
people that you're socializing with so
if there's a huge group of people you'll
tend to eat way more food then with one
person you're eating with so to party a
social event all these people you end up
we're doing it you know let's say you're
starving and then you start eating and
you can have like mildly full and then
you're full
now you're full with you're satisfied
but you keep going and - you're stuffed
and then you're completely loaded so try
to be more mindful and conscious of what
you put in your body and lastly if
you're new to my channel definitely
check out these videos to get you
started to get you on the right path
thanks for watching
