so I want to show you a very simple test
that I think is pretty accurate in
determining if you have an allergy to a
certain thing or not now I'm primarily
talking about food allergies whether
it's an allergy to peanuts soy wheat
eggs dairy shellfish so to do this it's
very very
inexpensive
you don't even need anything you just
need to be able to check your pulse you
see your pulse goes up when you're
reacting to an allergy I mean if you
even think about an allergy reaction you
know we think sneezing stuffy nose a
skin reaction fatigue mucus in our lungs
blood pressure anxiety dizziness nausea
bloating or even a headache right but
you also have your pulse rate goes up
okay as part of the stress response and
so why can't someone just use the pulse
rate to determine if there's an
allergies especially if there's like
confusion on like what are you allergic
to really and this information is based
on Dr Arthur coca he's an MD and he
wrote a whole book on this called the
pulse test which I will put a link down
below now there's a certain way to check
your pulse and I'm going to put a link
down below just to give you a little
more details on that if you don't know
how to check your pulse but in a pulse
oximeter is a very inexpensive it might
be like nine dollars that you can buy
you put it right over your finger and
you can not only monitor your pulse rate
and record that you can also monitor
your oxygen levels too but this is what
you would do you would get maybe a
notebook and you start recording your
pulse rate so the first thing you're
going to do is uh when you wake up in
the morning
before you get out of bed check your
pulse rate right and you just log this
by day then what you simply do is check
your pulse rate before you eat and then
you check it 30 minutes after you eat
okay and then check it another 30
minutes after and then an additional 30
minutes after so you actually checked
your pulse rate before and then a total
of an hour and a half later with
intervals of 30 minutes and of course
you would do that with everything you
ate you know if you ate a snack or
multiple meals and then you just want to
record what your pulse rate is right
before you go to bed and so with that
information you want to also correlate
it with your eating and so we want to
make sure that we write down all the
things that you ate right next to this
pulse rate I mean this is very very
obvious stuff like okay your pulse rate
went up what did you eat just before
that okay could there be an allergy now
Dr Coco observed that usually you'll
have an allergy if there is a difference
between the low pulse rate
and the higher pulse rate above 16
points now you also mentioned that it
usually has to be above 84 as far as a
pulse rate and if you have a lower
reading than that chances are it's not
an allergy now it could be something
else it could be stress in your
digestive system of what you ate you're
not able to digest it or it's creating
some other stress maybe it's some junk
food that creates some stress but it's
not an allergy it's just something your
body doesn't tolerate so let's say for
example you record all this information
and then you look at the pulse rate on
this page like say I've had the pulse
rate on the right side and the left side
you have what you ate and it goes like
at 60 70
75 69 72 94.
okay and then it comes down to maybe uh
73 right okay 94. all right that's a big
clue okay what did you just eat right
before that and that tends to narrow
down uh a food allergy now we're just
narrowing it down because chances are
you just didn't eat one thing you ate
multiple things but now we know out of
that meal there's something in there
that you're allergic to and so now the
next step is to isolate the specific
Foods within that meal and so the next
day you're going to take one of those
Foods out of that meal and you're going
to just do a pulse test around that one
meal and let's say the pulse rate
doesn't increase then you just take
another food out of that meal the next
day and then you just keep doing that
until you narrow down
out of that meal what spikes your pulse
rate the most and then you identify the
allergy and then you can just avoid the
food for right now and you're gonna
probably find that your digestion is
going to be a lot better just from that
now what's happening is we're getting
this sympathetic nervous system reaction
to the food
um which is like the flutter fight which
is increasing the pulse rate because
it's increasing the autonomic nervous
system and it's probably uh creating a
lot of stress in the liver because liver
is trying to get rid of this allergy
right so we have that involvement so I
think this is a very good valid way of
just figuring out what you're allergic
to what you're not allergic to I
remember in practice now I didn't do
this test in practice but I would send
people
um to the doctor to get evaluated get
allergy test and I would find all sorts
of very unusual things they were
allergic to
and that led us to uh refining the diet
to avoid those things and it was so
simple but it created such a dramatic
effect on the person's uh health so if
you suspect an allergy this is a really
good test to do and it basically cost
you nothing especially if you just want
to check your pulse rate on your wrist
or your carotid artery and if you
haven't seen this other video on what to
do with an allergy once you identify it
I put that up right here check it out
