hi guys did you realize that it takes
fat to burn fat in this video we're
gonna talk about the five reasons that
you need fat to actually burn off your
fat okay number one it's the most
satisfying food when you do intermittent
fasting the whole goal of intermittent
fasting is to go long periods of time
without eating to drop your insulin down
to actually heal insulin resistance so
if you're doing this without fatty foods
it's going to be very very difficult in
fact you're gonna be hungry you're gonna
be starving
you're gonna be craving so you need a
really healthy fat to allow you to go
from one meal to the next number two it
supports your hormones the endocrine
system which is basically all the glands
and the hormones need fat as its raw
materials okay so if you go on a low-fat
diet you're gonna starve off your
endocrine system number three it has a
near zero effect on your blood Sugar's
now the fact that you're eating even in
general you are gonna trigger insulin a
little bit but the point is if we
compare fats with other types of macro
calories like proteins and carbohydrates
it doesn't even compare so it has a very
small effect on blood sugars and the big
point I'm trying to make is that
anything that triggers insulin is going
to stop your weight loss so anything
that keeps insulin low will help you
lose weight because insulin is the
switch which determines what fuel your
body is going to burn number form fats
provide fat soluble vitamins vitamin A D
E and K these nutrients are essential
for keeping your metabolism working and
number five low fat diets can actually
slow your metabolism so by adding fat
into the diet you can keep the body out
of the starvation or a survival mode
okay in summary you don't have to be
afraid of fat when you consume proteins
don't go for the lean or low fat
proteins consume protein in its whole
form which will always come with a
certain amount of fat all right
I'll talk to you later hey before you go
definitely sign up for my free keto
course I put a link down below it's on
messenger in facebook but it will give
you all the basics it's very quick it's
like three or four videos and it's free
check it out
