hey guys today we're gonna talk about
what happens if you get gas when you're
doing the keto plan okay or are the
people around you your spouse is getting
gas and it's gassing you out and you
need to handle this okay so let's let's
first discuss one of the problems and
that is if you have pre-existing
digestive problems with your colon the
little colon cells normally head should
have little villi their little roots
that are kind of an upside down plant we
have these roots that absorb the
nutrients passing through the intestines
and then absorb it right into the body
so many times you can have damage to
these little villi and the villa is gone
so you just have this really rough flat
surface in which case you don't absorb
nutrients like you did before so it
prevents the combination of certain
enzymes and food particles to break down
to absorb into the cell so we basically
get undigested food particles in the
intestines okay so that is a problem
because that food will sit there and it
will either rot or ferment but for most
of you watching you're probably doing
keto and you probably have seen some my
other videos and you're doing a lot of
vegetables so but there are certain
types of vegetables that are really more
difficult to digest in the presence of
an already damaged colon so for those of
you that have your two bowel syndrome
celiac diverticulitis any type of bowel
problems watch the video down below that
I just released so you can get the full
magnitude of what I'm talking about and
what vegetables to consume to get your
fibers that are easy to break down okay
but the point is that you have very
little digestion taking place the food
remains there and gets undigested and
then it ferments okay when it ferments
you're going to get all sorts of
problems with carbon dioxide gas
hydrogen gas and methane gas which has
that odor so we basically produce a lot
of bloating so bloating is gas okay so
normally you have the stomach which is
very very acidic which activates certain
enzymes
to break down protein okay and kill
microbes and help you absorb minerals
and then as it kind of goes right down
in the small intestine you have the help
from the pancreas that releases enzymes
and the gall bladder that releases bile
so all together you have all these
things happening to break down food so
it can be absorbed through a lot of
enzyme action but not bacterial action
the problem is you're going to get an
overgrowth of bacteria okay and that
bacteria can start invading the higher
part of the small intestine and even the
stomach and this is where you get people
that have the chronic halitosis or the
kind of a yeasty bad breath you know
that's what that is it's like an
overgrowth of the wrong bacteria not
just bacteria you have yeast you have
mold you have Candida all sorts of
overgrowth of microbes okay
and a lot of different gases and certain
toxins which then can create Auto
intoxication which can be reabsorbed in
certain parts of the digestive tract so
this is kind of what's happening and it
probably originates from initially
taking antibiotics which destroy some of
the microbes and then cause your body to
make more of the unfriendly and
definitely any acids because when you
lose the acidity of your stomach because
you have heartburn and you're taking
these any acids and you're losing that
pH then we get the overgrowth because
there's nothing there to kill the
microbes okay so again you shouldn't
have these microbes in the stomach or
the top part of the small intestine
and also junk foods and also as you age
you lose the stomach acids and this is
why it's so vital to have a very strong
acidic stomach between one and three
which is extremely acidic and this is
why I always recommend taking things
like betaine how to chloride or apple
cider vinegar or making sure even you
have enough sea salt because sodium
chlorides chloride helps build as a
precursor the hydrochloric acid so you
can keep the stomach really really
strong to prevent that overgrowth of
microbes coming up now even when
someone's pregnant the fetus that's
growing has basically no microbes in
their colon okay so when they're born
they don't have no microbes
and then suddenly have this massive rush
of microbes that is supposed to come
from the skin to contact also from what
the baby consumes like breast milk and
it's so vitally important for a baby to
be breastfed because the microbes
growing in the infant are really just
dependent on what that baby is being fed
so breast milk has colostrum which is
amazing for the immune system so if
you're doing some infant formula you're
not going to develop the the strains of
microbes that you need for the immune
system and just for digestion so I
highly recommend if you're a mother
considering breastfeeding you need to do
it for sure so if you're on keto chances
are it's not going to be the protein
causing the gas or the fats it's going
to be the carbohydrates or the
vegetables mainly okay so and so what
you're going to do is you're going to
adjust the type of vegetables and I put
a link down below of what types that you
need to switch to and you're gonna have
to adjust the quantity you're probably
not going to be able to consume the ten
cups a salad that I consume each day but
you want to start with a smaller amount
and gradually increase it over time with
the ideal situation of eventually having
a lot more okay you can consume
fermented vegetables and also some
steamed vegetables and I'm gonna highly
recommend that you actually make some
homemade yogurt now typically yogurt is
fermented within six to ten hours okay
and it's left with a good amount of
lactose which is milk sugar which is not
good on the ketogenic diet but there's a
really good recipe I'm gonna put a link
down below that you can create your own
homemade yogurt that takes 24 hours
under about 110 degrees that way the
microbes in that yogurt that ferment
that lactose will pretty much consumed
all of the lactose so at the end of this
process it'll be lactose free yet you'll
have all these amazing strains of
microbes in huge quantities and I'm
gonna recommend you consume some of that
and that's going to help build up or the
friendly bacteria in your gut
alright thanks for watching so I hope
you're coming to the keto Health Summit
coming up in October
so I want to quickly comment on what
we're gonna do that's different from
other conventions okay
the problem with these other conventions
is they give you information over a load
okay it's so much data that you're
basically swimming in a sea of
information we're going to do things
very differently we're only going to
cover the most important things that
make a huge difference now there are
three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory in concentration
that's going to blow you away
and number two I'm going to show you how
to increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism if you've
dyed it for a long time and everything
is kind of just really slow I'm going to
show you how to get complete control
over your metabolism so you can
literally turn up the dial as high as
you want and control as much weight as
you want to lose and these three things
are just a tiny bit of what you're going
to learn in the summit so click the link
below get signed up and I will see you
in October
