someone had a question about transdermal
magnesium oil would I recommend it I
have used it in the past there was a
time where I walked 20 miles and my legs
and my calf's were killing me and they
were sore so I got some of this and it
seemed to help temporarily but I want to
discuss this more in depth because most
people take it for joint pain muscle
ache leg cramps and fibromyalgia but
they're not looking at the deeper cause
now I can see if you worked out and you
had this overtraining
a situation and you needed it that makes
sense but if you're having this ongoing
and you're trying to get your magnesium
from the outside in you might want to
reevaluate I want to mention something
about fibromyalgia fibromyalgia is is
usually a systemic problem I used to do
seminars around town and I did a seminar
at the fibromyalgia support group years
ago and I basically dismantled the group
because I did my demonstration and one
thing I found about fibromyalgia and I
put a link down below for those of you
that have it it's nearly always
connected to the gallbladder the
gallbladder is either congested or
there's a problem the person's going to
have fibromyalgia symptoms in fact 99%
of the people at the support group and
even patients coming through my office
usually had it on the right side so if
you have fibromyalgia watch that video
and you'll see the connection between
the gallbladder and how it can cause a
lot of pain on your body now as far as
the absorption of magnesium through the
skin it usually comes through the sweat
glands and the hair follicles okay which
really only represents 1% of all your
skin that's where it kind of goes in and
the purpose of magnesium is to provide a
mineral for over 400 enzymes that are
involved with a lot of different
reactions one is to generate ATP in the
mitochondria which is the energy
currency another one is to repair DNA
and
RNA another one is for muscle relaxation
and nerve conductivity another one is a
synthesis or the production of muscle
protein so we need magnesium for a lot
of different things if you're low in
magnesium you could have a loss of
appetite arrhythmias because it's one of
the key electrolytes for the heart you
could be fatigued because of this right
here low ATP you could be feeling weak
tremor muscle cramps and high blood
pressure the foods that are high in
magnesium are all the leafy greens
because of its chlorophyll and it's
interesting about chlorophyll because
chlorophyll has a very similar chemistry
to your own blood but blood has iron as
its core mineral chlorophyll has
magnesium the foods that you'd want to
eat to get magnesium to be spinach chard
greens like in salad pumpkin seeds
sunflower seeds avocado almonds other
nuts but a lot of people just don't
consume enough leafy greens so they're
usually deficient in magnesium in fact
probably 60% of the population is
deficient or has subclinical
deficiencies of magnesium they have a
lot of muscle cramps they eventually get
heart issues now you need magnesium to
make vitamin D work okay so if you're
low in magnesium vitamin D doesn't seem
to be activated as well and vitamin D is
one of the main anti-inflammatory
vitamins it's not really even a vitamin
it's like a hormone it acts like
cortisol in the body which is an anti
inflammatory hormone so if you have
chronic joint pain muscle ache or even
probably minal jaw and it's not related
to call bladder you probably need more
more vitamin D to provide this
anti-inflammatory effect in addition to
that if you're new to my channel you
need to be doing intermittent fasting
this will definitely drop the
inflammation and you need to be doing
little carbs as in keto I put a link
down below for new people but if you've
been on my channel you've heard this a
million times so in summary I think
this is a really good remedy for people
that over train when they're working out
or you're walking long distances but if
you're having a chronic problem with any
of these symptoms right here you want to
look a little bit deeper thanks for
watching hey if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
