hi guys Hey listen I wanted to talk
about farm raised salmon I mean did you
realize that 60% of all fish in the US
is farm raised I mean it's just the the
stats are just going higher and higher
and higher and so
unfortunately uh it's in a lot of
restaurants and it's also you might not
necessarily notice it when you're buying
it so always read the label because
here's the problem there are seven times
more pcbs and dioxins those are
chemicals that create cancer in the
farmer raise salmon okay 30 times more
likely to get seed lice than wild caught
now you've probably like maybe your dog
gets lice well we're talking about you
can get lice from the sea as well uh
it's fed pellets fish pellets which is
GMO soy and corn the same thing they
feed the chickens and the cattle and GMO
canola and animal byproducts right so
you don't want to be eating something
that has that type of lowquality
you know I mean because there's residues
of glyphosate which is a herbicide not
good
antibiotics low Omega-3s they even even
use chemicals to make it look pink like
salmon yeah so it's really really really
important to read the labels make sure
it's wild caught and yes it's a little
more expensive but it's definitely worth
it all right thanks for watching
