today we're going to talk about how to
stop flatu now the average person
according to they uh farts between five
to 15 times a day with no odor now you
might be sitting down there saying I
fart more than that or I fart less than
that or I don't fart at all but this is
an average person so it's kind of like
saying the average person
consumes 145 pounds of sugar per year
Well I consume zero sugar in a year so
some people consume a tremendous amount
and some a small amount but we're
looking at the average but an average
person expels gas at a frequency between
5 to 15 a day now there's been times in
your life that you may have experienced
this more depending on what you eat for
example if you're in college and you eat
this thing called Hormel chili for
example um you may experience more flat
TNS I know for me I had a problem in my
late 20s when I was
trying to become a vegan for a few
months it didn't really work out but if
you have a problem now I'm going to show
you exactly what to do to resolve it now
since we're on the topic of farts I have
to bring up cow farts and burps okay
because if you do a search on
flatrent uh the first I don't know how
many pages will talk about how cows are
farting and burping and releasing about
160 to 320 liters of methane per day and
that's basically causing the global
warming etc etc but if you actually dig
into all the data and research you're
going to find some real interesting
things about that that counter uh that
theory and give you some of the data
that's missing and never included when
they're talking about this topic and I'm
going to put that research down below
but between 1990 and
2007 the global cattle and buffalo
population increased by a factor of
125 million extra cows and buffalo on
this planet and during that period of
time there was Zero increase in methane
but this data is always omitted when
they're talking about this topic so
again when you're trying to evaluate
information you really need to have all
the information to come up with the
right conclusion there are many other
things that are much bigger in
contributing to more methane than cows
all right so what causes flatu well we
have certain fiber that you eat certain
carbohydrates that you eat in the form
of sugar starches okay that are then
fermented so microbes are acting on
these fibers and sugars and they're
eating them that's their food and as a
byproduct hydrogen is released and then
methane is also released now this
process should occur in your large
intestine it should not occur in the
small intestine when it does you get
what's called sibo small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth and that can create
a lot of gas and a lot of problems and
one of the causes for sibo is a lack of
stomach acid in fact one of the big
causes of gas in general is a lack of
stomach acid as we get older we lose the
acidity in our stomach if we take
antibiotics we start losing the stomach
acid if we take ant acids we lose the
stomach acid there's a lot of things
that we're exposed to that can
contribute to less stomach acid now if
we don't have the right pH in our
stomach between like one and three which
is very very acidic food gets undigested
and uh if it's
undigested everything below the stomach
has a more difficult time breaking that
food down and that creates all sorts of
strain and stress on the enzyme
production from your pancreas from the
gall blood releasing bile uh from the
small intestine to do its work and then
you can start getting fermentation in
the small intestine and again that's
called sibo and this is where a person
can starts consuming fiber okay even
from vegetables and they really just
blow up like a balloon and they're
they're confused because they're saying
well I'm eating this good healthy food
why do I feel so bad they can have very
severe bloating and pain and very severe
gas simply because you have these
bacteria that are in the wrong place and
we're getting fermentation in the wrong
place so here's the solution to lack of
stomach acid ban hydrochloride the
chloride contributes and improves the
hydrocloric acid okay so this breaks
down and helps you build up your stomach
acid it works great um these come in
tablets um you can take take a couple
okay it might make a slight difference
but I always recommend take a little bit
more because sometimes you might need
six seven eight at a time to create the
effect that you want especially in the
beginning and over time you'll need less
and less and less because your body will
start just making more to the point
where you don't you won't need any any
uh help building your stomach acid and I
also recommend a couple um herbs that
are really good for digestion Ginger
really really good uh for not just
helping you with gas but to help release
bile to help release enzymes and also to
help with any type of spasms going on in
the small intestine or tightness so it
just allows you to relax more in that
area so you can digest uh any type of
mint is really good for digestion and
fenel now what about apple ceter vinegar
is that good well if you actually look
up some of the credible sites on Google
it'll tell you there's no research that
says that drinking upside of vinegar
will help you with digestion but my
opinion is I don't really care if
there's a study or not I know it works
I've done it myself I've given it to my
patients it works on a lot of people and
who's going to spend the money on the
research on apple cider vinegar unless
you own an appleid of vinegar company uh
no one's going to spend that money
instead most of the money in researching
digestive problems is going to be funded
by medication who can afford to spend
money on research on digestive problems
pharmaceutical companies Not Your
Average Joe that wants to do a study in
apple cider vinegar but there is some
research on acetic acid and slowing your
digestion down uh so the enzymes in your
small intestine can start acting on the
food and contribute to more complete
digestion and So the faster the food
goes through your digestive system uh
the less complete the digestion is going
to be I mean just think about if someone
has diarrhea right Fuko through you
undigested but if there's something that
can slow down the digestion like apple
cider vinegar and consuming enough fat
at the meal the rest of the digestive
juices can act on that food and really
break it down to the point where you
don't get these problems with gas and
extra methane and bloating and other
related symptoms so both pan H chloride
and alider vinegar are really good to
reduce flat T and hopefully get rid of
it completely all right now let's talk
about food intolerances like lactose
intolerance right this is not a true
allergy but you're just intolerant
because you don't have the enzymes to
break down this milk sugar so anything
Dairy can create a lot of gas a lot of
people have a problem with this now you
can take enzymes for that um or just
avoid Dairy then you have gluten a lot
of people have an allergy to gluten and
some people don't but they have an
intolerance for gluten and that can
create a lot of gas bloating pain
arthritis Etc so the good thing about
what I recommend is if you're unhealthy
keto you're not going to have to worry
about it because you're not going to be
consuming gluten or grains for that
matter but for any type of intolerances
you can always take more enzymes you can
also take probiotics to help fortify the
microbes so they can make more enzymes
uh I found a lot of people that have
food allergies if they take certain
probiotics they can actually she reduced
her food allergies okay then we have
what's called gas producing foods like
fruit is a big one right uh beans
legumes starches like potato rice uh
things like that grains sugars certain
cruciferous vegetables like brussels
sprouts okay
broccoli cabbage then you have like
onions and garlic these are very gas
producing for certain people other
people can consume them without a
problem but if you are on the ketogenic
plan you're not going to be doing fruit
you're not going to do beans you're not
going to do starches you're not going to
do sugar so you're going to be in good
shape now if you have a problem with
cruciferous vegetables there are other
vegetables that will not produce gas
like lettuce tomato zucchini olives and
avocado okay so just eat more of these
right here I will say when I recommend
the healthy version of the erogenic diet
I recommend that people consume a lot
more greens and salads and vegetables
however um for some people um they they
don't have the microbes to handle that
much fiber so you want to go slow and
you want to gradually go into it uh but
a good percentage of the people just
jump right in they have a really big
salad each day and there's no problem
but the benefit of the fiber to feed the
microbes as well as the potassium the
magnesium the vitamin C and all those
phalut nutrients can greatly help a
person and take their health to a whole
new level all right number four sugar
alcohols when someone starts the
ketogenic diet uh inevitably they're
going to be really into all these really
cool desserts you can now have and make
uh with these little keto cookies and
they have little bars and they're filled
with these ketofriendly fiber like corn
fiber and other fibers like dextrin that
are considered keto friendly that create
a lot lot of gas for people inulin might
create a lot of gas and it's in a lot of
different ketofriendly products inulin
is a type of fiber and then you have the
sugar alcohols like
arrol zotol manitol which for a lot of
people can produce a lot of gas so you
will quickly find out if you can
tolerate uh these sugar alcohols once
you start the ketogenic plan I think a
lot of people when they start keto they
go overboard and just consume a lot of
the stuff um I would just recommend
testing the waters do a little bit um I
use zotol non GMO um on a regular basis
in my coffee I'll just have one in my
coffee each day I'm good it creates no
problem whatsoever but I just wanted to
bring up sugar alcohols because that is
definitely one source of flatu number
five chewing gum especially if you have
your mouth open you can be swallowing a
lot of air eating with your mouth open
okay okay you can swallow a lot of air
and that could end up with some gas so
eat with your mouth closed and if you're
going to chew gum keep your mouth closed
all right number six carbonation right
now there's a lot of carbonated U
flavored water drinks out there that can
add more gas in the system and end up
with flatu now before you go there's a
very interesting video on apple cider
vinegar that
I've gotten over 14 million views you
have to check this out if you haven't
seen it before I put it right here
