hey guys today we're going to talk the
the underlying real reason why the
dietary fat and cholesterol heart
disease connection stuck okay so if
you're interested stick around and we'll
and you'll hear so back in the 50s and
60s there was kind of two viewpoints one
was that sugar causes coronary heart
disease or increase the risk in other
words fat and cholesterol causes heart
coronary heart disease okay you probably
saw my other videos about Ancel keys and
that whole thing but there's something a
little bit more interesting because
recently there was some leaked documents
between a dollop between the sugar
Research Foundation and scientist
there's 300 papers that were found that
dated between 1959 and 1971 okay
and to make a long story short okay I'm
gonna put this link down for this
document which is very fascinating
because I personally was very curious of
how this theory got so mainstream okay
well from the sugar Research Foundation
they paid for and hired a guy by the
name of Frederick Star which was a
nutritionist at the Harvard University
School of Public Health back then he was
like the expert in the relationship
between diet and heart disease and so
you know he got paid a million dollars
from General Mills Kellogg's and tobacco
and then in the years following there
was a total of like 29 million dollars
for his research team okay so basically
he was paid off for two reasons one is
to downplay or suppress the research
that the sugar Research Foundation
actually did and found a huge link
between consuming sucrose and causing an
increased risk of heart disease
basically was paid to omit that piece of
data and suppress that and emphasize the
fat and cholesterol theory and promoted
so the overall strategy was to protect
the market share by using science now in
1971 they did the same thing with dental
cavities
they pretty much politically just
suppress this connection between sugar
and dental cavities and focused on in an
intervention of filling cavities in
doing dental work so if you were curious
now the mystery is solved it's really
stemming from the sugar research
foundation okay I put a link down below
to check it out if you're interested
thanks for watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last Edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has a hundred and fifty six
images three hundred seventy eight pages
full glossary I talk about keto in a
minute fasting the body types in detail
I have a new stressed chapter I'm going
to show you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
