hey guys today I want to give you my
opinion on on Parkinson's and can it be
actually reversed
is it possible well let's just talk
about the three things that are involved
in Parkinson's which you have a
degenerative neurological disorder we
have a lot of oxidative stress okay a
lot of oxidation going on we have
mitochondrial damage so we're going to
have low ATP in the neurons so they're
not going to have the energy to work
correctly we also have damage with the
motor neurons and that's why you see
shuffling gait and stiffness and things
like that because and the posture goes
forward and you have inflammation the
first remedy I'm going to recommend is
simple vitamin b2 400 milligrams per day
why because vitamin b2 is a very
powerful antioxidant and it actually can
block oxidative stress there's actually
a lot of research done on b2 in
Parkinson's and I'll put some links down
below actually I was quite amazed of how
much research there was v2 can also
reduce inflammation it can restore
mitochondrial damage it has the
potential to protect glutathione which
is our body's own antioxidant it can
increase motor capacity because there's
problems within the motor neurons it can
also decrease glutamate toxicity which
creates a whole series of other issues I
don't necessarily want to get into that
but b2 is a necessity if someone has
Parkinson's number two you want to
reduce iron why because iron is involved
in some serious oxidation our bodies
have a hard time getting rid of iron and
many people have too much iron it is
very damaging to the brain creates all
sorts of issues that go way beyond just
Parkinson's there are two key leaders
which actually have the potential to
pull out iron one would be something
called EDTA you can get it as a natural
supplement I like this one you want to
take on an empty stomach it pulls out
other minerals too but you can put these
other minerals back in as an electrolyte
or a trace mineral without actually
adding too much iron so you can control
this a bit more and this other chemical
compound called phytate or phytic acid
which you can get as a ip6 it's called
and this actually is in the fiber the
bran of whole grains and it's in on the
brand of rice and so when you consume
that brand it actually blocks the
absorption of iron and zinc and other
minerals but I'm not going to recommend
consuming grain but if you actually take
find it as a supplement you can also
help to reduce iron as a natural key
later and then put back in the minerals
that you want now the other thing is you
want to avoid red meat simply because it
has too much iron and if there's any
excess iron that's creating this
corrosive inflammatory condition we want
to avoid red meat in shellfish and
especially any type of iron supplements
okay some of the top supplements out
there are basically loaded with this
ferrous oxide the the wrong type of iron
and in very large quantities so you want
to read the back here the label of your
supplement and make sure it doesn't have
iron okay
very important so by reducing iron
you'll actually reduce the oxidative
stress next thing which is probably the
most important thing is fasting okay if
you don't know anything about that I put
a link down below you want to start
doing intermittent fasting because that
is going to drop inflammation and put
your brain in repair mode you'll start
to grow new parts of the brain
it's called neurogenesis and there's a
lot of other positive benefits with
fasting and then of course we have our
healthy version of the keto diet which
is very important because we want to
reduce the sugar which is also the other
powerful oxidative stress factor that we
want to bring that down as close to zero
as possible and really eliminate this
issue right here there's a couple other
things that I'm going to recommend as
well that would be if benfotiamine
okay it's a fat soluble B vitamin which
will actually penetrate the brain 25
times more than a regular B 1 and B 1 is
very important in repairing the myelin
that surrounds the brain and the nervous
system and it has a lot of other
benefits
to repair mitochondrial damage all right
guys there you have it these are the
things that are really vital in helping
you reverse the symptoms of Parkinson's
thanks for watching so if you're
enjoying this content go ahead and share
it with someone that could really
benefit from it
