welcome everyone we're here with another
fascinating interview with Joel sutin
and uh if you haven't read his books uh
you need to they're
awesome there's a situation that uh we
want to talk about right
now so welcome Joel um can you tell us a
little bit about the situation that's
happening uh with small farmers right
now in the relationship to selling
food yeah thank you Dr Eric and thank
you for having me on it's a real
pleasure and an honor to be with you you
know when you walk into a Walmart or a
supermarket it's easy to assume that
well good grief you know the Cornucopia
is here I can have anything I want and
the fact is that all the food in a
supermarket is
carefully um U sanctioned if you will or
licensed by a Labyrinth of
government
regulations not just food regulations
but zoning regulations and and all sorts
of things uh that
that make it very difficult for
especially small
farmers uh to come in I I I remember one
uh one time I had a bunch of vice
presidents from I think it was Sam's
Club either Sam's Club or Costco the
nine nine vice presidents were on a kind
of a a nature tour around the East Coast
they'd come from from uh Arkansas where
their headquarters is and we were one we
were one of their stops they were gonna
spend the day out on the Chesapeake Bay
and things and and uh I gave him a farm
tour we're we're having lunch in the in
the sales building there and and uh they
asked me well they were totally
impressed they got it they they got you
know ecological farming they got
earthworms I mean they you know they it
all
resonated uh Animal Welfare those SS of
things and uh I they asked mewell how do
we get your stuff into you know a Costco
or a Walmart or whatever and um I said
well the first thing you have to do is
allow a truck smaller than a tractor
trailer to back up to your loading
dock Dr Eric end of
discussion and that was it wow they
could not they could not even go
anywhere so that's not government
regulations that's just that's just you
know the system the system
is
um it is is
conceived and continues to
evolve to protect the powerful interests
that are there and I'm not going to
suggest it's a conspiracy I'm not even
sure that a lot of these people know
know the impact of their policies like
not letting a a one-ton truck back up to
the dock um I I I mean I could I could
tell by these folks expression they the
thought never occurred to them oh well a
small farmer would have trouble coming
in a tractor trailer I don't think it
ever crossed their mind you know it's
it's a different world and so so you I
don't like to use the word conspiracy or
evil intent I think a lot of this stuff
just happens because people aren't
thinking about it and um and and it just
is what it is but the the fact is that
there are many things if you start
thinking about huh wonder wonder what
it' be like to
have a truly artisanal craft cheese for
example uh made by a local farmer with
unpasturized
milk uh what would it be like to have a
a
homemade uh pepperoni balone
Sherie uh made by an artisanal pork
producer that the pigs ran outside ate
grass and acorns and uh and and you know
this this person uh made these real
specialty you know Polish sausage and
and
things but but that none none of that
exists um in fact in Virginia right now
in Virginia right now there is not if if
if as a small farmer if I want to make
and sell a hot dog I mean a good hot dog
not you know not scrapings off the floor
somewhere but a good um all meat hot dog
with no no fillers No Junk in it just
you know beef and pork and that's it
yeah there is not a place in
Virginia that c that can make a legal
hot dog that I can sell unbelievable
incredible for me to sell a hot dog I
have to
ship um you know boned boneless product
up to
Pennsylvania and pay a large facility
there to you know to make our hot dogs
and then ship them back to ourselves wow
wow and and and then of course that
makes the price of the food a little bit
higher so then then you get accused of
being an oh you're a food elitist look
at your prices well yeah when I have
to yeah yeah I just you know I want to
support a local farmer a small farmer
that's doing it right because that's the
type of food I want to eat but it's it's
becoming very difficult to get that food
and I can see why the all the
regulations and the support for the
bigger industry so it's making it harder
and harder um one of the things that
you're doing is you're having a
conference uh with a bunch of farmers
that are very creative right um can you
tell us a little bit about that solution
yeah so so uh the Rogue food conference
was started about four years ago and uh
John Moody and I kind of started it I'd
been wanting to do this for years but I
needed a I needed an an e a manager
sidekick I'm a Visionary okay I'm a
dreamer I'm out here in la la land uh
and I need a stage manager you know uh I
can conceive the theme and the story but
I you know I'm not the guy to actually
run the stage and uh so John Moody came
along he said yeah I I'll do that and so
we launched the first one in the spring
of 2020 literally one week before the
lockdown started and um and the theme is
circumvention not
compliance what happens Dr Eric is that
when when regulations become so
onerous that they
prohibit competition coming to the table
to the marketplace table there comes a
time
when it's it's actually more efficient
to figure out a a circumventive way you
know um an end run than it is to try to
run up through the Middle with and and
agree to comply with
everything and so so we start looking
around the country say where are the
people that have figured out how to do
this how to make an end run and lo and
behold there are a bunch of them I mean
wow not not myriads by any means but
there's enough to actually create a
nasset movement so this will be our what
seventh or eighth uh roog food
conference it's going to be here in
Virginia at at at we're going to be
hosting it at our farm and um and and
we'll be showcasing people and what
we've been doing is showcasing ideas and
people so let me give you a couple of
examples one is a lady in North Carolina
that has started a
501c3 food Church you join her church
you get the food and your your and her
um whatever her her protection is
freedom of religion wow it it it's my
it's my
religion that I'm to take care of my
body it actually doesn't belong to me it
belongs to God and it's not supposed to
have junk and so in order for it to not
get junk I in other words it's it's part
of the whole you know the whole
religious uh experience okay so that
that's one example and the state North
Carolina has tried to shut her down and
shut her down uh she's had as many as
six six food police cars food police
police yeah par parked outside her um
her Warehouse there and they can't touch
her she said you know you have no
jurisdiction here this is you know
freedom fre of religion and and so so
far she's she's winning that that
argument um there's a guy in uh in
Florida who uh has gone under the pet
food regulation so about about eight
nine years ago he was raided for selling
unlicensed dairy products so he was milk
and cows and selling ice cream and kefir
and yogurt and milk and butter uh
completely
unlicensed but his customers were
thrilled the stuff was unbelievably good
and they felt better and you know people
wanted it and so he was selling it well
he got he got bust as they say he got
busted and so as a result working with
the farm to Consumer Legal defense fund
which is a group of attorneys that kind
of like The Homeschool legal defense
Association they got the Florida uh
whatever Bure bureaucracy to craft pet
food licenses that you could license any
food for $25 and register it as as a pet
food I love it and so he he licenses
milk and kefir and yogurt $25 a piece as
a pet food and now sells food not fit
not for human
consumption Eric within within within
one year of that new you know kind of
new policy going into effect 12 raw
full-time raw milk dairies sprang up in
Florida
and I was down there about two years
later doing some some kind of Lo local
foodie uh foodie talks in Gainesville
Tallahassee Orlando some of the big
cities and it was interesting these
young you know Generation Z 30y old you
know Urban Foodies said hey we know
where the good stuff is the good stuff
is the pet food and and that had
completely permeated the local food
movement uh so you know that's that's
another one that's great the lady in uh
Minnesota that went under the fish bait
code so she she was taking cheese she
was taking cheese in actually she was in
Wisconsin taking cheese in the
Minneapolis Farmers Market and she got
busted for you know unlicensed cheese
and so she called the state said Is
there a law is there some rule about
fish bait there a lot of fishing up in
Wisconsin Minnesota all the Great Lakes
uh what what regulations they have well
not really any just U as long as it's
edible and so now she sells fish bait
Colby fish bait cheddar fishbait Swiss
and nobody touches her oh my gosh there
there's um there's there's the private
membership Association that's a real hot
item and at this conference we're
actually going to have a public debate
uh there are there are Defenders and
detractors of the private membership
Association which is assembly which is
essentially uh I I join a private
members it was developed in the 1960s in
the Deep South by country clubs to not
comply with the Civil Rights Act this is
this is not public uh and so this is a
private club and we can do whatever we
want and and of course these were
powerful you know powerful
interests definitely
Prejudiced and and
uh but they created a president of a
legal entity that is not a public thing
it's in other words one of the one of
the phrases that we hear is we got to
protect the public interest you know
food safety a public interest public
interest but what about what about the
private interest what about the interest
of the private
right what what if I don't
want the public to to to agree that the
what if I don't want public food or or
food that passes public mustard right uh
and and I want private food so that's a
big one here's another one this is one
that's just that's just come out through
our movement and I don't know that
anybody's really doing this but I think
it's got some legs for somebody that's
creative so with the internet now you
know you can take all sorts of courses
you can learn how to sew and cook and
fly an airplane and you know whatever um
make all sorts of things so there all
these courses well there are people now
where you can take for example a
Butchery course and you pay $200 or $300
and part of the the um the textbook the
whatever the tools of the course is you
get 100 pounds of meat or 50 pounds of
meat and so my customers just sign up
they pay for a course and part of the
course materials are free meat that is
so creative yeah so so the whole
principle here just to cut to the chase
where the government gets involved is in
Commerce that Freight in Commerce well
the courts have
determined um specific things of what
what does it mean when there's a sale
what does a what does incomer mean and
so a lot of this um uh you know
creativity is
surrounding a legal way to
transact a to transact a
trade that does not come under
the the purview of
Commerce because you know you can give
away all the stuff I've described you
can give it away you just can't sell it
in fact you can even buy it it's not
illegal to buy it it's only illegal to
sell it fascinating
fascinating so so that's what we're
doing and and it's gaining legs there
are people now that are that are
hybridizing and I'll take a piece of
this and a piece of that and and putting
their own creativity and so every every
we're doing two of these a year the next
one's here the one in the fall is going
to be in Dallas Texas I think the next
one's going to be in Florida uh we just
did one in the Pacific Northwest up in
Battleground Washington and um so we're
moving it around the country
and every time we have more and more
people that are being successful at
thwarting the bureaucracy that keeps you
know small producers from being able to
access the market so if you wanted to
let's say for example sell pot pies from
your
farm would you run into a couple
barriers oh man uh we we tried this
actually about U about four years ago we
we had a summer Chef who who so in the
summer when we have our
stewards we have a summer Chef who cooks
for us so our whole Farm crew there's
about 25 to 27 of us can all eat you
know as a as a family um together
communally and and it's a night
wonderful way to end the
day and so um so she wanted to stay the
problem is it's only five months it's
May one to September 30
and well what am I going to do the rest
of the seven months and she said I know
what we'll do let's let's make pot pies
and this gal this young lady was a a
graduate of The Culinary Institute of
America at Hy Park New York she she I
mean she she actually had a a credential
she was diploma and so so I have always
wanted to make pot pies chicken pot pie
beef pot pie I love pot pie you know and
all the permutation shepherd's pie uh
you know all all those kinds of things
pot pie
um and and our customers are always
asking for that you know uh we'd love to
get pot pies so let's make some so she
started down this
pathway and um of course the first thing
the first thing she they told her she
needed was a commercial
kitchen well we have a a pretty nice
commercial kitchen here at the farm it's
not licensed the problem was it has to
have a licensed bath
room now this thing is only 100 yards
from our
house if she wants to go to the bathroom
she can run to our house and use the
bathroom but no a commercial kitchen has
to have an attached bathroom I said well
can it be a composting toilet no it has
to be waterbased porcelain you know the
whole nine yards well what if I'm happy
with a no no no no no it doesn't matter
and so suddenly a little trial
balloon suddenly costs
$40,000 of of licensed lagoons and you
know bathroom
facilities just to try a pot pie so I I
got to asking them I said now wait a
minute food trucks I could go to
Charlottesville and there's a couple
food trucks over there at the UVA campus
selling meat pies they sell them all the
time in Australia out of food trucks
food truck is making meat pies they
don't have a bathroom the inspector said
no and that's a loophole we'd like to
close and we're trying to figure out how
to do it I said wait a minute are you
telling me that if I put this kitchen we
have right here if I put it on a Chassy
on a chassis with
wheels then I wouldn't need a bathroom
he said absolutely that's exactly
correct but then the problem is then the
problem is you can't sell them off site
so if it's a food Tri truck you can't
make food in there and sell it on
offsite you can only sell it from the
food
truck so so so we went around and around
I I could go into more detail but you
you get you get the picture here uh this
all just to sell a a meat pie you
know I think what's happening is the the
vilification of the the foods that have
the lowest margins um like meat products
things like that especially I mean if
you take I looked
up how much it costs to buy some corn
the dent corn it's about it's it's
$298 per metric
ton you can you can actually create over
6,000 boxes of corn flakes from that
which comes out to roughly about uh a
7,000 per margin on corn but for these
other products that you have to grow oh
my gosh it's like um I mean like
incredibly hard so the barriers to entry
so I am all about supporting the person
who's doing it right small farmers what
about is there something somewhere a
person can go
to um maybe find uh a network or a a
kind of a a place where they could find
a to find a place to get food locally is
there already like maybe a database or
something you have on your site or
somewhere that someone could find like
that we take everyone and consolidate
them into one place so we could find out
where we could support these uh these
small
farmers yeah well I mean there there are
there are shopping sites I mean um uh I
don't know if I
have one right
here uh I don't I can't put my hands on
but anyway uh Weston A price foundation
Weston A price foundation has the smart
smart shoppers guide that's a wonderful
one uh they call it the shop the shop
her round the world you know instead of
the shop her round the shop her around
the world um they have that and um you
know there are some others but the main
thing is you you you just you just start
sleuthing I mean this is an entire the
local food scene is a is a kind of a
subculture yeah it's a it's a subculture
kind of a tribal subculture just like um
any other tribal subculture and you know
you're not GNA find it if you're just
perched on your couch watching Netflix
and the NFL football game with a with a
a paps Blue Ribbon beer in your hand
ain't gonna happen okay you know the the
the most frustrating thing in the whole
you know authentic Integrity food
movement
as you
know it's really hard to get people to
change their routine diet is one of the
most whatever fundamental routines we
have you know I like this kind of food I
like this kind of food and and so if
you're going to change uh it's gonna
it's going to take a real Act of the
will an act of
conviction uh to you know to make a
change and so you have to decide I'm
going to participate I'm going to you
know I'm going to um make a change and
so that doesn't happen you know Fair
fairies don't don't drop all that into
your lap so you have to sleuth it out
and every area has its you know has its
good Farmers I mean farmers markets a
good place to to start um uh you know
talk talk to friends um you know go see
if there's if there's some um like a
boottique
a boutique Market in your area selling
local stuff go in and uh buy from them
see who's doing it and then look them up
see where they are see how far they are
and and you can start patronizing them
it's really quite a close fraternity I
mean if somebody ask
me like we you know we don't grow all of
our own food uh we get our we get our
apples we we get about 10 bushels of
apples a year from an organic Orchard up
about an hour and a half away from us
Front Royal and um we get we get those
apples in and spend a couple days you
know um making applesauce Teresa cans I
don't know what 80 90 quarts and that's
our that's our year supply of applesauce
you know if somebody ask me where do I
get apples I'll tell them you know uh go
there and get them and so there's
there's an entire uh
Network you know under the radar it's
not at Walmart it's not at Costco it's
not at you know uh B Piggly Wiggly or or
you know any of the any of the regular
outfits uh you're going to have to go
you know under the under the um the
Orthodoxy and and find it out but it's
it's very it's very much there and trust
me it's worth the hunt yeah it's worth
the hunt yeah even like I think you're
probably are you familiar with carnivore
snacks that company uhhuh so they they
recently kind of the they shut them down
I think they got reopened uh but uh they
shut them down
because of their their their dehydrating
process they took these little shavings
of uh carnivore meat and they' just put
salt and meat on it and they said oh
yeah you can't do that so they just shut
them down but they kind of re reopened
they had to change this and that but um
I I think uh they'll probably be
contacting you or even coming to this
event because I think this is really
awesome what you're doing because you're
you're
organizing uh creative people to gather
together share these Creative Solutions
that there's always a solution so more
people can do it I think that's
brilliant and there's so many and I know
in Virginia I'm in Virginia there's so
many uh homesteaders and people getting
into this I think that uh um I'm going
to definitely put the date and the the
location the site down in the
description but I think when is it going
to be next next
month uh it's it's actually yes next
month but we're but we're very close to
next month now right it's it's um it's
May May 18th I think is I'm right on
that may uh yeah May 18th um so it's
April 26 today so it's GNA be May May
18th yeah May 18th it's coming up is is
so it's coming up and of course you know
on that day we'll have two we'll have a
wonderful Uh Wood wood fir fired um
sausage and egg breakfast for folks on
the morning for breakfast and then we'll
have a wonderful probably chicken
barbecue for lunch um directly from our
farm and uh I mean it's worth coming
just for the food but but the fellowship
listen you know it's um especially for
for farmers and for you know non-farmers
looking for this kind of food if you're
a city person uh
sometimes you'll have a friend that
would like to do this and they're
stuck and and you need to be the
Catalyst say hey I went to this thing
and there's there's there's Solutions
here you don't have to spend a half a
million dollars building this
infrastructure let's think about a
creative way here to you know to to to
Market so that we don't have to you know
go through all that because there are
there are thousands of wannabe
entrepreneurs out here in the food space
ready to to you know to serve our
neighbors but but we're prud we're
prohibited from doing so because of
these extremely high and onerous uh
license barriers yeah that's I'm I'm
going to try to make it myself because I
think the uhu the the key to our health
is this this food this real food and so
that's just kind of what I want to keep
supporting simply because you go to the
grocery store it's even hard to find
food um nowadays so you have to really
hunt and pick to find real good food but
uh this is a this is great um I'm going
to put your um information down below
for those of you watching definitely if
you can come and if you can't come I
think there's also you're going to keep
you're going to put it on digital format
too you have a digital version of that
as well right it will it'll be out I
mean it's not it's not a it's not going
to be streamed but it'll be Ed edited
and it'll be out you know later on later
on yeah and if I'm you know make one
shame Shameless selfish plug yeah if if
you have somebody listening and they're
they're okay you know what I need to do
this I need to make this happen in my
life I need to quit buying you know
Tyson chicken or or organic chicken
that's really just in a in a factory
confinement house I want chickens that
actually get bugs run around into fresh
air and sunshine and actually eat GRE
Green Grass and aren't just you know
able to look out and see green grass um
um we we ship Nationwide and um and as
far as I know uh what we can tell what
we do is legal but you know I wrote a
book everything everything I want to do
is
illegal right and and so so
um and we're pretty high-profile so we
we try to stay within but but we push
you know we we push the limits um I mean
it could be that you know that we're
supposed to get a permit to have this
Gathering well we've never ask for a
permit and we just you know go on and do
it don't ask don't tell it's easier to
ask forgiveness than permission and so
we just go on and and so um so you know
even if if if you're a
non-farmer uh it would do you well to
come and a see what Farmers go through
trying to get good food to you and B
learn some of the things that if you if
you want to encourage your local farmer
who's struggling in this space uh you
know you could have some options and say
you know here's here's a group because
when you as you know when you don't when
you don't um cotton we'll say cotton to
the
Orthodoxy it's
lonely it's lonely and and uh so we need
the camaraderie and the fellowship and
the encouragement that comes from
finding other needs that haven't
bowed absolutely absolutely this is our
our food at stake so um
very important so I'll put the
information down below hopefully
everyone could make or not everyone of
course those who are interested come by
and uh thank you uh Joel for being on
here and supporting this and putting
this on I think this is an awesome High
purpose
activity great thank you thank you for
giving me the platform and uh I look
forward to our next Rendevous awesome
