hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about bacon and how to read label
because I get a lot of questions on what
kind of bacon do I consume and what do I
look for when I'm reading the label okay
well the first thing is when you should
do is go to the farmers market because
they always are going to have a higher
quality but if you can't get there I'll
show you a couple other things to look
for first of all when it says
all-natural that means absolutely
nothing
okay so ignore that because that's just
a joke all natural verses like what is
it not natural
artificial pork okay next one raised
without antibiotics okay this is funny
because they're trying to differentiate
their brand from other brands that have
antibiotics but that's not true because
it's not allowed to give pigs
antibiotics anymore so they're all
without antibiotics okay this one's
important no nitrates you don't want to
consume bacon with nitrates alright this
can we potentially to cancer so we want
to avoid that when it says never fed
animal by-products now first of all
you're probably thinking like what do
you mean animal by-products what's that
yeah that's actually waste products from
other animal like chicken crap and cow
waste okay yes they do add that into
some of the feeds so this would be an
important thing to have on the label
because you don't want to consume animal
products that have been fed waste of
other animals okay next one all budget
area now that sounds really healthy like
your the pigs are getting vegetables
right no they're actually getting GMO
corn and soy okay that's what they're
being fed so what you really want to see
way more important than this is if it's
organic because if it's organic the feed
even if it's grains must be certified
organic okay
now you might say well aren't pigs fed
grass well they are different than cows
they don't have four stomachs like a cow
they have like one stomach like us and
like chickens they require more energy
dense foods
so you're not gonna find a pig farm that
actually feeds pigs just grass they do
feed them grains okay the key thing is
to make sure those grains are non-gmo
okay
again the farmers market that's the way
to go but if it says it's organic
according to the USDA it's fed non-gmo
actually they have to let the pigs out
of the barn throughout the year they
have to be raised on maybe some grass
that they consume that's non GMO and all
the other things that they eat must be
certified organic all right so then
you're gonna probably see celery powder
that's actually totally a good thing and
a lot of times bacon you'll see it'll
have sugar try to get bacon without
sugar okay that's the ideal situation if
you can't find any look at the grams of
sugar on the back of the label and make
sure it's less than one gram
preferably zero so if they're using
sugar it's such a small small small
amount it's actually like zero it's if
it's anything's below a gram it's zero
it's considered zero all right there you
have it that's how you read the label
when you buy your bacon
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
