today we're going to discuss what would
happen if you actually ate the
plant-based Meats for about two weeks
what's interesting is that plant-based
meats are positioned as clean Meats
right environmental friendly why in the
world would anyone want to eat fake meat
in the first place well because we all
know that uh regular meat causes cancer
that's right I want to do a little Deep
dive on the science of that first of all
the studies relied exclusively on food
questionnaires and observational studies
out of the 800 uh articles that they
looked at they only focused on 17 in
other words they left out 783 of these
articles but what was very interesting
about this topic there was a new group
that did an update evaluation on all the
research regarding the relationship
between red me and cancer and they came
up with a slightly different conclusion
so this is by the annual of internal
medicine and they were about to post
several studies showing the evidence
linking red meat consumption to
cardiovascular disease and cancer is too
weak to recommend that we eat less of it
I mean this is based in five systematic
reviews um on the most comprehensive
review of evidence that's out there and
four were randomized control studies on
red meat and health and the fifth showed
the health value of red meat so the new
guidelines basically says that we don't
need to change our meat habits no
significant link to meat consumption
heart disease diabetes cancer in dozens
of randomized control trials but then it
gets interesting because the editor-in
chief Christine Lane MD before it was
published gets 2,000 emails in her inbox
within 30 minutes shutting down her
email okay uh from the same message from
this organization called the true health
initiative but this is an organization
that really supports veganism
plant-based type things I mean what I
thought was interesting was using Bots
to overwhelm someone's email to create
this illusion that there's a lot of
people that are fighting this thing and
David Katz compared the article to
information
terrorism that can blow to smithin the
life's work of careful scientists I mean
let's compare that to the world being
flat right and then scientists finding
out it's round things do change in
medicine and we can read through the
lines uh this has a and there's some
serious forces behind this because 3
weeks after the release the Physicians
committee for responsible medicine asked
the district attorney of Philadelphia to
investigate for potential reckless
endangerment resulting from the release
of the publication and that same group
before it was published filed a petition
to the
FTC to correct the statements regarding
the consumption of meat being released
so you could see there was a lot of push
back to have this factual study this new
release and saying that Meek is okay so
the next thing I want to shift to
is
plant-based Meats okay I just want to
read the ingredients to Morning Star
water wheat gluten soy protein
concentrate vegetable oils it's the seed
oils corn canola or sunflower soy flour
soy protein isolates
maltodextrin potato starch sugar more
soybeans now you also have Beyond Burger
which is actually has seed oils like
canola oil potato starch maltodextrin
modified food starch and then the
impossible Burger has dextrose modified
food starch and another ingredient
called soy leg hemoglobin which is
genetically modified so in other words
there are a lot of uh shall we say Ultra
process ingredients AKA junk food
ingredients in these products all of
those ingredients are seeds and so
you're going to take these
seeds and extremely process them which
means alter them to a state that no
longer resembles the Original Seed I
mean let's just take the corn for
example they don't use sweet corn it's
Dent corn Dent corn is not edible this
is how they make your corn chips your
tortillas as well as the corn syrup and
then they take the same ingredients okay
and they feed it to the animals okay
that you eat I mean what you should
really call this stuff is
ultrapress seed meat okay because that's
really what it is and don't believe the
hype where they talk about you know
plant-based meat is identical to real
meat okay it's not there's been an
interesting metabolomic study which is a
highlevel deep dive looking at all of
the different compounds in both things
showing that
171 of the compounds were different than
the total of 190 and so the plant-based
versus the actual meat is very very
different it's not the same at all so
the next time you're at the store just
go ahead and grab some of these products
to start reading the label I think
you're going to be
shocked now the most important thing for
you to know now is the true benefit of
real meat and for that information check
out this video right
here
