so we're gonna talk about the absolute
best remedy or antidote for Tylenol
poisoning
another name for Tylenol or the generic
version of Tylenol is acetaminophen and
there's such a thing as acetaminophen
induced liver injury especially if you
take large amounts of it either by
accident or on purpose over 70,000
people are hospitalized from taking too
much of this and over 300 people a year
die of Tylenol poisoning so what this
Thailand I'll do to the body well it
destroys the liver cells and one of the
best antioxidants for the liver that
helps protect against damage is
glutathione but the remedy or antidote
you need to take which is widely
accepted by the medical field is NAC and
that stands for n-acetylcysteine NAC is
a precursor or a building block for
glutathione and I would also recommend
taking glutamine with that which is not
a necessity but I sent something that
can actually help bolster the
glutathione but glutathione is the most
powerful antioxidant for the liver your
body actually makes it and it protects
the liver cells against free radical
damage and poisons and so it decreases
the side-effects from things that are
poisonous to the liver now as far as the
amounts that you would take if you have
a large exposure to Tylenol would be a
hundred and forty milligrams per
kilogram of your own body weight so if
you weighed 150 pounds that would be 68
kilograms you would need to take nine
thousand five hundred and twenty
milligrams okay
now normally NAC comes at about a
thousand milligrams so you would take
nine pills right off the bat so you want
to cut this in half so you'd want to
take like five thousand milligrams which
is five pills every four hours 17 times
now this protocol is mainly for people
that had a tremendous amount of Tylenol
like it's a very toxic dosage so if you
don't take that much and for some reason
you need to take tylenol because you
have serious my
and you've tried everything else yet
you're not taking this massive toxic
dosage I would recommend something like
maybe 1 to 2 thousand milligrams every
four hours for a 24-hour period after
you get the headache this can actually
help minimize encounter some of the
destructive nature of this chemical I
just want to mention Reye's syndrome
now try syndrome mainly affects children
not adults and it's not from Tylenol
it's from aspirin okay in other things
as well like viruses but if you know of
anyone that actually has this disorder I
put a link down below because this is
very important you would want to give
that child a lot of b1 like 750
milligrams which is way over the RDAs
but this has been known to help counter
allow the effects alright guys thanks
for watching I will see you in the next
video so if you want more knowledge on
how to create a healthy body subscribe
now and get daily notifications
