hey guys today we're going to talk about
keto and blood pressure probably should
add in there iff intermittent fasting as
well now typically people had this idea
that high blood pressure is caused by
consuming too much sodium or salt right
because a lot of times all their
processed foods are really high in
sodium and yes that's going to increase
more volume of fluid because salt
retains water and therefore increasing
your blood pressure okay but people can
then keep you put on a diuretic pull the
fluid out and then lower their blood
pressure so one point I want to bring up
is the relationship between sodium and
the opposing mineral potassium they both
work together okay and we need four
times as much potassium as we do sodium
so what does that mean it means that if
you want to lower sodium you want to
increase your potassium okay because
that's automatically gonna give you the
ratios that you need rather than try to
lower your sodium okay yes you can do
sea salt which I recommend but you would
be much better off increasing your
potassium and one of the reasons is
because potassium automatically will
help you lower blood pressure or
normalize blood pressure and most people
do not consume enough potassium rich
foods and I'm not talking about bananas
I'm talking about leafy greens the
average person consumes 1.6 cups of
vegetable per day we need at least 7
cups to hopefully maybe even 10 if you
could actually do that and that would
actually give you a lot closer amounts
for your potassium and you'll find your
blood pressure come down and I'm gonna
put a link down below that shows an
incredible paper on the relationship
between increasing your potassium and
lowering blood pressure alright let's
talk about scenario two let's say the
artery is calcified well that is going
to increase the blood pressure because
you have Harding of the arteries you
have plaquing a great test to determine
that would be a coronary artery
calcification skin very important to be
able to detect if you have any
calcification going on there now there
is an interesting nutrient called
vitamin k2 that works with d3 that helps
decalcify the arteries it helps remove
excess calcium from either the joints or
the arteries and puts it in the place
where it should be in the bone and this
actually comes from fatty foods
grass-fed meats or dairy which is very
interesting now you can also get it from
NATO which is a fermented soybean but I
find it interesting that the actual
vitamin in fatty foods has the remedy to
decalcify or protect the arteries from
accumulating too much calcium and a lot
of people are on a medication that
blocks calcium to prevent this it's
called a calcium channel blocker and the
last scenario which is probably the most
common is a situation where you have
high insulin if your insulin is too high
your arteries are going to become stiff
okay and your blood pressure will go up
this is associated with insulin
resistance because when you have too
much insulin that means you're consuming
too many carbs or eating too frequently
it's going to eventually create a
situation where your your insulin is
going to be resisted in the receptor and
that feedback loop is going to cause
your body to make a lot more insulin
than you should of course no one ever
tests the insulin a fasting insulin test
or even a an insulin test that would be
measuring how much insulin spike after
you eat post a meal and say two or three
or four hours now that test would be
incredible but it's really done the
point is that when you have high insulin
you're gonna have high blood pressure
okay and so the solution would be to
decrease your carbohydrates okay another
interesting point would be when people
are on medication for high blood
pressure they're usually a medication to
lower cholesterol okay they're on a
statin and one of the risk factors for
statins is diabetes and insulin
resistance and elevated insulin so it
worsens diabetes because it adds more
insulin diabetes type 2 is a situation
you have too much insulin and too much
blood sugar but the side effect from
statins basically worsens this situation
right here okay keeping the blood
pressure going so you have to keep
maintaining this condition never fixing
it fully but just managing it now the
diuretics that you're taking over here
here have a side effect too and that
would also be increased risk for insulin
resistance and diabetes and higher
levels of insulin here we go right here
feeding the Machine right here right and
then to put the icing on the cake which
I don't want to talk about cake is that
you're gonna retain sodium when your
insulin is high and your blood sugars
are high because you're doing so many
carbohydrates so I believe this
situation especially if you're not
consuming a lot of sodium is being
directly caused by this situation so
this is causing this which is probably
creating an imbalance with your
potassium - and by the way increasing
your potassium will actually help lower
your insulin and improve insulin
resistance a calcified artery usually
comes after a chain reaction from damage
from high sugar because the calcium and
the cholesterol that's making the plaque
usually is triggered by a situation of
damage in the artery wall usually coming
from high sugar and high levels of
insulin so again this is causing this so
if you were to lower your carbs you're
instantly gonna lose a lot of fluid and
if you lower your potassium you will not
only help with this situation but you'll
also help with the root cause as well
all right and thank you so much for
watching
I'll see you in the next video so I want
to know about what you think about this
video so please comment below and tell
me what you think
