is consuming yogurt the best way to get
your probiotics well the answer is no
it's not unfortunately the bacterian
yogurt gets killed at the stomach level
not to mention there's limited strains
of microbes in yogurt I mean sometimes
there's two sometimes there's three if
you're lucky you might have five or six
and the way that they rate these
microbes is by unit called
cfu and that stands for colony forming
units so yogurt usually has about I
don't know
3.6 cfus but here's the problem most
yogurt out there is pasteurized and
these microbes do not survive heat so
basically you're consuming dead bacteria
not to mention the extra lactose which
so many people have lactose intolerance
so they have digestive issues from that
not to mention casine allergies it's the
protein and milk many people are
sensitive to that as well and we won't
even talk about the added amount of
sugar that they put in yogurt now I am
speaking generally there are certain
yogurts out there that are way better
than others uh like the Bulgarian yogurt
right that's an awesome product but the
conventional yogurts are not going to
give you the probiotics that you really
need now what about kefir okay well
Kefir is very different than yogurt the
way they make kefir is with a kefir
grain which are different strains of
microorganisms which includes friendly
yeast but the word Kefir is a Turkish
word that means feel good after a meal
and this is probably why people like
consuming probiotics because it just
makes their stomach feel better and what
goes on with your digestive system has a
huge influence on what's going on up
here you're going to feel better in your
head if things are better in your
stomach now kefir compared to yogurt has
like nine times the C Fus it has like 27
billion cfus as compared to like 3.6
billion for yogur and the lactose the
milk sugar is almost not existent
because the lactic acid bacteria eat up
uh this lactose milk sugar and so if you
are lactose intolerant you'll have much
less of a problem and so you have more
friendly bacteria and you have a lot of
different diversity you have many
different uh types of strains that are
very beneficial to your gut so Kefir is
a much better option but obviously make
sure you just get the plain one not the
one with added sugar and I would make
sure that it's organic and from cows
that are grass-fed or even sheep or
goats that are grass-fed but Kefir is a
really good one to get your
probiotics now what about sauerkraut
well sauerkraut is not a fermentated
dairy product you're
fermenting cabbage and even though per
serving size sauerkraut only has like
three billion cfus the juice from the
sauerkraut per tablespoon has like 10
billion cfus and if you're going to
consume sauerkraut you usually have more
than one tablespoon and so you're can
have a lot more friendly bacteria when
you have sauerkraut make sure when you
get sauerkraut that it's not pasteurized
okay because the heat kills the microbes
but sauerkraut also has the probiotic it
has the fiber that feeds your microbes
that help with other ways like blood
sugars it's loaded with vitamin K1
vitamin K2 which is very unique because
vitamin K2 helps transport calcium um
out of the wrong places in your body so
it gets it out of the soft tissue and it
puts it back in the bone it also has a
lot of potassium and even some really
cool phytonutrients like lutein and
zanthin which are really good for your
eyes and another unique thing about
sauerkraut is the vitamin U okay now you
might say well I've never heard of
vitamin U well vitamin U is good for
everything digestion all sorts of
digestive problems from diverticulitis
to irritable bowel syndrome to bloating
to ulcers anything inflammation in your
gut vitamin U can help and that leads me
to the next cabbage fermentation product
kimchi now kimchi is a Powerhouse when
you're talking about superfoods um it's
fermented cabbage with red chili
sometimes they put radish in there which
is a superfood radishes are fascinating
because they have very potent
anti-cancer effects they're really good
for extracting deep mucus inside your
body fantastic for the liver and they
are a cerous now kimchi also has garlic
which is by itself one of the best
things for viral infections and and so
many other health benefits then you have
ginger okay which is another superfood
good for your
digestion and sea salt now there's many
other things they'll put in kimchi but
um it's a superfood it's also really
good for sinus infections I've done a
video on it I will put that link down
below uh one serving size like one cup
will give you about five billion cfus
but the juice from kimchi probably is
equivalent if not more to the sauerkraut
juice now kimchi has some very unique
microorganisms that are different from
other fermented products
uh especially in the area of lactic acid
bacteria and so they can create
different effects kimchi is super high
in vitamin C just like sauerkraut super
high in K1 vitamin K2 as well as
potassium and B vitamins now relating to
pickles okay I want to just mention
something about pickles there's two
different ways they make pickles one is
through vinegar which actually is is
pretty good but the lacto fermented
pickles are much better because they're
going to give you the probotics that
that are going to help you just make
sure they're unpasturized they're not um
cooked and you have to keep them in the
refrigerator or root seller to preserve
them now if you haven't seen my video on
kimchi I think you should watch it it's
pretty interesting check it out I put it
right here
