so we're gonna talk about the 20 things
that keep you deficient in minerals okay
and some trace minerals first of all the
soils the soils just don't have the
minerals the farmers don't put these
minerals back in especially the trace
minerals which are minerals needed in
smaller amounts like selenium iodine
zinc very important number to anti acids
they block certain minerals especially
calcium and by the way if you're taking
any acids for heartburn or GERD you have
number three which is low stomach acids
low stomach acid will cause the opening
of the valve on top of the stomach to
allow the acid to go through you need a
real strong acidic stomach to prevent
the regurgitation of that acid but low
stomach acids will block the absorption
of magnesium zinc calcium iron and a lot
of other minerals too so you need a real
acidic stomach to pull these minerals in
the way that you know you have low
stomach acid is if you have gas and an
inability to digest meat okay
and before chorus sound like like a
medication prednisone of steroids that
will deplete your potassium Reserve
that's an adrenal hormone made
synthetically medications will deplete
your minerals there's a lot of
medications that will deplete different
minerals but like I'll give an example
diuretics for example will deplete your
potassium levels number six birth
control pills
will deplete you a magnesium and zinc
coffee in excess will deplete calcium
magnesium potassium and sodium
basically all the electrolytes number
eight soda soda has a lot of phosphorous
and that depletes the calcium in the
body as well as the potassium now sugar
depletes potassium magnesium chromium
and zinc
number 10 high levels of insulin will
block not just minerals but vitamins
specifically potassium and magnesium and
chromium number 11 if the thyroid is in
a hyper mode you'll be deficient of
calcium magnesium and selenium number 12
stress which activates your own natural
cortisone will deplete calcium
and potassium and B vitamins like b1 b5
number 13 grains grains have something
called phytic acid which prevents the
absorption of minerals okay and then if
you consume refined grains as bread or
pasta in a state of flour you're gonna
lose the B vitamins and potassium and
calcium and that's why they sometimes
enriched grains with certain synthetic
vitamins but they don't enrich it with
the minerals number 14 ox let's as in
calcium oxalate stones in the kidney
well what happens it locks up the
calcium in the body and so you become
calcium deficient believe it or not if
you have a tendency to get a kidney
stone it's not a bad idea to consume
calcium because you're going to become
deficient and it'll go through the
digestive system it won't go directly to
the kidney and bind to the oxalate so it
actually will help you number 15 not
consuming enough vegetables well what
food gives you all the minerals you got
it
large quantities of vegetables number 16
not consuming enough sea vegetables like
seaweed or sea kelp or even sea food
because that's where you get your iodine
so if you're not consuming those foods
and you're not consuming food that's
grown close to the ocean you could
become iodine deficient just from that
being pregnant it can create major
deficiency because the demand for
nutrients is so high and the problem
with a lot of women that are pregnant
they're consuming the wrong type of
vitamins synthetic prenatals with the
minerals that are like rocks they're not
going to absorb them you want to do
plant base you want to go high quality
of nutrients when you're pregnant
number 18 being a vegan you really have
to know what you're doing when you
become a vegan or a vegetarian because
there's certain nutrients that are very
difficult to get one is iron okay
19 having mercury exposure can deplete
you of magnesium and calcium amalgam
fillings number 20
led okay if you're exposed to lead you
will be calcium deficient so now you
know all the potential ways that you
could become deficient and mineral
thanks for watching
if you haven't already subscribed press
the button below and I will keep you in
the know hey that rhymes
