magnesium comes in many different forms
like nine different forms glycinate
citrate today we're going to talk about
magnesium 38 this is a very specific
type of magnesium where this threonate
molecule transports magnesium across the
bloodb brain barrier specifically to the
hippocampus which is involved in memory
learning Focus concentration everything
cognitive as well as the cereal cortex
which is involved a lot of higher level
processing of the brain and the main
reason why someone would use this type
of magnesium versus other types is they
want to improve something about the
brain because all these other forms
don't necessarily penetrate the bloodb
brain barrier so let's talk about some
of the benefits magnesium is generally
uh involved in making ATP which is the
energy currency of the body and so since
uh the brain uses 20% of all of your ATP
and it only comp is 2% of the actual
weight it's kind of an ATP hog and so if
there's a magnesium deficiency and you
can't make enough ATP you're going to
get brain fog you can have confusion you
can have all sorts of problems with your
neurons and also a very specific problem
with the neurotransmitter called Gaba
which is an inhibitory neurotransmitter
that calms things down it buffers
anxiety right it keeps you nice and
relaxed and if you're deficient in
magnesium and you don't have enough Gaba
you're going to be a little bit on edge
you might have a bit of uh anxiousness
worry things like that and this is why
magnesium 3 and8 is really good for that
brain chatter that excessive worrying
especially at night when you're trying
to sleep now if you add that to a
natural form of B1 boy I think you'll
have an awesome combination to help you
with that specific issue and if we think
about another function of magnesium it's
a electrolyte right electrolytes help
with not just your muscles but your
nerves like the pacemaker of your heart
for example needs these electrolytes
well isn't your brain neurological the
answer is yes so when you're defici in
magnesium you can start developing
problems with your neurology and two
specific problems are related to that
number one
neuroinflammation as well as neurod
degeneration and this is why people with
Parkinson's and Alzheimer's and even Ms
are nearly always deficient in magnesium
and one uh key point about Ms don't
forget vitamin D in other words
magnesium is a requirement for vitamin d
and vitamin D is also a requirement for
magnesium to work in the body and those
two are so essential in anything
autoimmune including Ms or virtually any
inflammation at all it's a calcium
regulator it's a calcium antagonist and
so people that have hypercalcemia too
much calcium in the blood near they
always has a problem with the brain okay
there's all these these issues if you
just look up hypercalcemia in the side
effects you're going to see confusion
you're going to see memory loss you're
going to see depression anxiety problems
with the cognitive function so it's very
dangerous to have calcium build up in
the brain well one reason is you don't
have enough magnesium in the brain to
regulate that calcium so magnesium keeps
the calcium from being stuck in the
cells in the brain not to mention in
other parts of the body too like the
kidneys like the joints just like
vitamin K2 also helps regulate and keeps
that calcium from building up in the
arteries and the joints a couple other
interesting benefits of magnesium uh it
helps maintain and support the blood
brain barrier you see you have this
barrier in the brain right that protects
the brain against certain things like
infections toxicity you also have a
barrier in your gut as well to protect
things from going deeper inside so just
like you can have a leaky gut you can
also have a leaky bloodb brain barrier
and magnesium can help support that and
help prevent that from happening
magnesium helps to prevent oxidative
stress so it can act as an antioxidant
magnesium helps support this thing
called bdnf brain derived neurotrophic
Factor you can look at that as like
Miracle growth for the brain it helps
the brain neurons to grow and develop
because as we get older and as we eat
the wrong Foods our brain actually
atrophies and gets smaller so anything
that supports this BD and NF is a good
thing and magnesium is one of them
fasting is another exercise is another
one now just as a side note okay since
we're on the topic of magnesium 38 it's
also good for something called
androgenic alopecia that is hair loss
that comes in patches that has developed
from high levels of androgens especially
if someone has something called cystic
ovarian syndrome so there are a few
other benefits that go beyond just
supporting the brain that this product
can help you with and so the point of
this video is this there are different
types or different forms of magnesium
for different conditions definitely if
you have any type of brain issues
magnesium 38 uh for a lot of other types
of issues cramping fatigue heart stuff I
would use magnesium glycinate you can
also use magnesium citrate that does
work as well especially like preventing
kidney St
now because of the censoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other side
