the health benefits of certain mushrooms
are quite mind-blowing so today I'm
going to take some of the confusions
that people have uh about mushrooms and
just make it really really simple so if
you have a very specific health problem
you'll know exactly what to take now I'm
going to primarily focus on four
different types of mushrooms okay but
they're in the family of fungus okay or
fungi and fungi is very interesting
because there is more related DNA wise
to a fungus than there is to plants in
other words like plants uh have
photosynthesis so they actually breathe
in CO2 and they make oxygen well
mushrooms which is a type of fungus
don't do that they breathe in oxygen and
release CO2 very similar to humans they
actually share 50% of their DNA which
basically means they have certain
blueprints that make certain chemicals
that we use for the benefit of our own
health fungi is the largest and oldest
organism on planet Earth in fact in just
one handful of soil from the forest you
have literally 26 miles of a certain
type of fungi called melium so there is
a tremendous amount of fungus working in
the soil with the roots of plants
exchanging different nutrients to make
sure that plant has the nutrients that
it needs and getting certain sugars from
the plants as their food and so really
it's the fungus that mobilize the
minerals in the soil and so without this
fungus the plant really has a hard time
getting nutrition fungus is also
responsible for breaking things down
like organic matter trees wood leaves
Etc so they are the great recyclers but
today we're going to talk about four key
mushrooms that you need to know about
and I want to make it really really
simple for you the first one is the ray
mushroom okay this mushroom could be
thought of as a natural Xanax now of
course I'm not promoting medication but
this is the natural version without the
side effects and what does that
medication do it's purported to help you
with anxiety and helping you calm down
therefore it's also good for sleep if
you want to increase your tolerance of
stress if you want to counter stress and
cortisol this mushroom might be a good
one to add to your diet the next one is
lion's mane okay because it looks like a
lion's man this one could be considered
like a natural Aderall but without the
side effects um what is that drug well
it's used uh for people with cognitive
problems attention deficit issues and a
lot of college students take it to
increase their uh their learning
abilities um because it kind of uh
speeds up the central nervous system to
a certain degree of course it has a lot
of side effects but lion m is
specifically good for cognitive function
improving Focus
concentration memory a lot of people
take it as a coffee replacement in the
morning but it has some really
interesting uh benefits in repairing and
regenerating nerve tissue and myin
sheath around the nerve it has something
called the neurotrophic factor which
just helps support nerve growth in
general specifically in the area of the
brain called a hippocampus which is
involved with cognitive function
function to a certain degree this
mushroom also has been known to increase
something called um bdnf brain derived
neurotrophic Factor that's kind of like
Miracle Grow but for your brain so it
helps the nerves grow so when you think
about Lion's man think cognitive
improvements and anything related to a
breakdown in your brain like
neurodegenerative conditions like
Alzheimer's
Parkinson's dementia then we have the
shitake mushroom mushroom is good for
blood pressure it's really beneficial
for your gut microbiome a good portion
of our immune system is in the gut and
chiaki mushroom can actually increase
the killer te- cells which are
responsible for killing viruses and the
last one which I think is the most
interesting is the turkey tail mushroom
this one has been researched the most
when you think of turkey tail you want
to think of anti-cancer properties but
as far as turkey tail goes I would
recommend anyone who has cancer to start
taking it immediately it has um a
non-specific immune modulating action
which basically strengthen the immune
system overall so if someone is on chemo
or radiation uh turkey tail is great to
take against cancer the white blood
cells actually eat certain compounds in
this mushroom like beta glucans and
consume it carry it into the lymphatic
system to help cause the cancer cell to
commit suicide that's called apoptosis a
normal cell would basically kill itself
as a kind of a greater good for the body
but a cancer cell um basically lives
forever now turkey tail also reduces
inflammation in your gut which is also
related to your immune system as well
because if you think about cancer cancer
tends to spread into areas of
inflammation all right so Rishi is good
as a natural Xanax for calming down the
flatter fight mechanism or cortisol then
we have Lion's man which is everything
to do with cognitive function helping
you concentrate helping you focus then
we have shitake which is three things
cholesterol blood pressure and your
immune system and then we have turkey
tail which it has a potent anti-cancer
effect all right so I hope I gave you
some clarity on uh what these mushrooms
are good for and so the next time you
have a certain problem you'll know
exactly what mushroom to take or eat
since I mentioned
Cancer and a good remedy for that if you
have not seen this video on cancer it
would be very very smart to watch it and
I put that video up right here
