hi guys dr. Burke here I want to talk
about vitamin b5 pantothenic acid okay
this is a real interesting vitamin in
that a lot of people are deficient
despite it being in a lot of your foods
so I'm going to talk about that but
first let's talk about what it does in
the body it allows carbohydrates
proteins and fats to be converted to
energy and that's why one of the top
symptoms of the efficiency would be
fatigue or adrenal fatigue and get tired
so vitamin d5 is a precursor to stress
hormones primarily cortisol and
adrenaline and so you need b5 for your
adrenals and that's why one of the
things that I have done is I put several
versions of vitamin b5 in a lot of my
adrenal formulas because it's good for
recovery it's good for adrenal strength
it's good for energy and it's kind of
like a coenzyme to help you build more
of those hormones without it you just
can't build those hormone so it's
involved in metabolism it also gets rid
of lactic acid accumulation after a
workout you ever get real sore and it
takes a long time so b5 will help you
recover from a workout it also increases
oxygen utilization so if you're working
out and you're running out of gas faster
and you took some b5 you probably would
be able to go longer because it
increases oxygen in the body but here's
the main point your intestines must
convert enacted b5 to active but and b5
so if you have destruction cilia or any
type of leaky gut or any types of damage
in your gut and you have digestive
problems that could be the reason why
you can't absorb b5 and so that means
you have to take a lot more to create
the effects that you want and one of the
big effects is getting rid of acne a lot
of people have to take mega doses
dosages of vitamin b5 to get rid of
their acne and that's why because the
colon is not absorbing it but the
symptoms would be irritability fatigue
these are all adrenal symptoms to bother
like depression and saamiya acne they're
all adrenal symptoms so that's
interesting
foods that are high in b5 it's in almost
every food but it's high in mushrooms
shiitake mushrooms actual liver
grass-fed lover avocado cauliflower eggs
a lot of other foods but these are the
top ones so if you have issues with this
you know you might want to look at
improving your intestinal tract and I
like to add fermented foods over a
period of time and lactic acid from
kombucha tea to improve the absorption
and then you'll start to recover from
this efficiency thanks for watching
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
