ashwag gandha is a GameChanger it's
considered Next Level it's the ultimate
adaptogen on steroids ashwagandha helps
you adapt to stress now when we talk
about stress we're talking about the
adrenal glands in relationship to the
hormone called cortisol what's unique
about ashanda it's a cortisol modulator
now what the heck does a modulator mean
it means that if you're producing too
much cortisol or not enough cortisol it
can bring you to a normal level so many
people when they go through through
chronic stress The receptors for
cortisol become downgraded or blunted to
the point where they're pumping out all
this cortisol but it's not creating the
effect that they want ashwagandha allows
that connection to work better and it
helps to regulate the amount of cortisol
so there's not too much or too little
I'm going to get into why ashwagandha is
the best adap gen compared to all others
as well as some practical things to help
you know how to take it when to take it
what to take it with Etc ashwag gandha
has been around for a very long time
used by many different cultures and the
question is what's in ashwaganda that's
doing all this magic this compound is
very similar in structure to a steroid
hormone when the plant goes through
stress this compound is triggered and it
grows in a certain amount so it
basically helps the plant survive we can
extract that compound that's in that
plant and use it for our own benefit
generally speaking it helps to prevent
the high spikes of cortisol it
definitely helps sleep it helps you have
endurance with exercise it's a powerful
anti-inflammatory it can help you build
up testosterone it protects our brain
against stress it helps other hormones
including the thyroid hormone and it
even has anti-cancer properties now I
want to go through and compare ashwag
an's effect to other adapted gens so you
know the differences and how ashwana can
compete with other similar plants let's
start with comparing it to Gin sing
Siberian genene sing is actually a great
great thing for mood and physical
endurance but it doesn't compare to
ashwag ganda's balancing of other
hormones if we take another gin sing
Panic Gins sing that's also good for
endurance with exercise and it also has
cognitive benefits as well ashwag gandha
is way better at dealing with stress
related anxiety especially if the person
has chronic stress or chronic
stimulation of cortisol ashwag has the
benefits for libido endurance and
cognitive effects but it has much better
effects on chronic cortisol and stress
issues now let's talk about riola riola
is good for stamina giving you energy
but riola doesn't necessarily reduce
stress or anxiety again when you think
about ashwag think about something to
counter long-term chronic stress what
about holy basil that one's really good
to help calm your body helps you sleep
if we compare holy basil to ashwag
ashwagandha has many more effects
especially in balancing out these other
hormones and also ashwag ganda's effect
post exercise in muscle repair holy
basil doesn't have those effects but
ashwag does what about matcha root this
root is good for energy it's good for
sexual function like libido if we
compare it to ashwagandha ashwagandha
also has those similar effects and gives
you more stress reducing effects as well
as hormone balancing effects and helping
you sleep if we take grey mushroom for
example which is a very great adaptogen
and it's good for cognitive function
immune function as well as giving you a
calming effect Rishi musroom does not
have the effect on cortisol if we kind
of summarize ashanda what it does it has
a comprehensive cortisol regulation
effect very specifically helping people
with chronic cortisol stimulation with a
very specific function on the word
chronic longterm stress as well as
things that come along with that like
anxiety so if you've had a period in
your life where you've been through a
lot of anxiety Ashan is going to be the
thing you're going to want to take with
a lot of additional benefits it can help
enhance testosterone like I mentioned
before and it can also help your thyroid
in a big way if you have hypothyroidism
ashwag can help that condition and even
if you have a low thyroid condition
that's not autoimmune related and I also
want to emphasize when you lure cortisol
you're at the same time going to be
helping the person get into a deep Delta
wave sleep so an overall restful sleep
is going to be another benefit I've
personally taking these other adaptogens
which are really good for certain things
especially like stimulating your body
giving your body more energy so many
people are burnt out to the fact that
you don't want to stimulate their
adrenals you don't want to keep giving
them things to stimulate the body
especially 5-hour Energy drinks but
ashwagandha based on what I have
observed with so many people they're in
the category of a lot of long-term
stress a lack of sleep and a lot of high
levels of cortisol this adaptogen
ashwagandha will bring that cortisol
down or elevate it depending on what's
going in your body and allow the body to
finally recover through a deep sleep
through hormone Rejuvenation to help
increase the hormones that are
suppressed with stress especially
testosterone and start to give the
person more endurance especially when
they exercise this is another reason why
a lot of athletes take ashwagandha
because it just gives them more
endurance it allows them to recover
better after exercise when you take it
you might not feel a lot of like hyper
energy you're just going to have this
sense of well-being calm feeling as well
as have the energy to exercise and go
longer ashwagandha is one of my favorite
recommendations for more of a wider
range effect on anything related to
Chronic cortisol stimulation of course
that also relates to anxiety excessive
worry or sleep problems now let's talk
about some practical ways of taking asog
I recommend taking it in the evening
since it's going to help you sleep
actually it might be good to take it at
your last meal like supper because
because a lot of the phytonutrients in
ashwaganda are fat salable which means
they absorb better with food and
sometimes when people take on an empty
stomach they might feel like nauseous or
have some type of stomach issue then cut
down the dosage and then take a little
bit at a time and gradually increase it
and the other question is should you
take it long term or on a cycle I would
take it for a period of six weeks and
then I would get off of it for two weeks
and then get on it for 6 weeks and do
that type of cycle it'll give your body
a chance to adjust to it as well as
tojust to not be on it to give your body
a chance to work on its own and of
course if you're pregnant or you're
lactating you might not want to take it
at that period of time all right thanks
for watching and I will see you in the
next video
