[Music]
hey guys
hi thank you so we decided to um do what
well uh right now there's big craze
called mug cakes have you heard of mug
cakes not mud cakes mug mug coffee mug
mug and it's a really cool concept that
you have a a small number of ingredients
and you mix it in a mug and you pop it
in the microwave and then you have a
sort of a single serving cake or brownie
that's a very cool Theory but it does
rely on a microwave and how do we feel
about the microwave not not so good not
so good plus I'll be honest I tested the
recipes in the microwave and in the oven
and you saw the difference what did you
think oh my gosh incredible the oven
will make it look so much betteru it
tastes better in the microwave was sort
of like a dense it's kind of a rubber
cake like a hockey puck yeah pretty bad
cake but you know people do it people
love it so I said okay if we're not
going to do it in the microwave we'll do
it in the oven it's quick it's about 10
or 15 minutes depending on your
oven but I realized that the mug was way
too much food way too much cake these
are bite-size morsels yeah these are
made in little cupcake p uh pans they're
like what do we call them cake bites
cake bites yeah what are they cake bites
cake bites say that three times fast
cake bites cake bites cake bites so um
yeah so we decided to make them in a
small and I when I say we I mean me um
decided to make them in a a small
cupcake pan and they came out great so
now and ask me when you eat these at the
meal they're little bite-sized morsels
just take one right after the meal let's
see if it's any
good this
one is um a blueberry muffin and it's
great yeah they're really good no sugar
no flour yeah the thing I really like
about this recipe cuz I was thinking
okay we're not going to make them in the
microwave what you know why not just
make a cake or whatever what I love
about this mug cake concept is all the
recipes are just for a small amount so
literally one mug recipe makes eight
little cake bites so if you just need a
little something after a meal you just
feel like you need that little treat
that little nummy num put some butter on
it well you could but I think it's kind
of sweet for that but you could do it
you could put some butter on
it um so there you go and then you don't
have an entire cake or 27 cupcakes
sitting staring you in the face every
well let's show them how super simple it
is to make super simple check this out
mhm
[Music]
oh
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the Subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
