so you're still craving sweets on the
ketogenic diet well here are the
possibilities number one you are still
in a transition phase from sugar burning
to fat burning it takes sometimes 3 days
up to two weeks sometimes up to a month
or more because your body is building
new enzymes new Machinery to actually
burn fat and in that situation if you've
never been burning fat your whole life
you've been living on sugar like I was
um then that means that it's going to
take some time all right so give it more
time number two you need more potassium
potassium is the key mineral to decrease
the need for insulin it also helps you
store glucose in the liver and the
muscles so it really cuts down the sugar
Cravings okay so you can either get that
from vegetables or as a supplement okay
number three if you crave chocolate you
need magnesium so just get it as a
supplement or have some chocolate but
make sure that it's not right before and
make sure it's sugar- free all right if
you crave the bread or the pasta that
could mean that you need more B vitamins
so nutritional yeast I like to put that
in almond butter uh or it could be just
a habit that you just see this
incredible dessert and you just are so
used to eating it maybe you might not
crave it you just want it because it
gives you pleasure so there's a
difference between uh craving have to
have it versus oh I would really enjoy
that if I ate that right right now okay
so you have to distinguish this could be
a habit because you've been doing it for
a long time the last one is liver
dysfunction if the liver is either fatty
or it has therosis scar tissue um it's
going to affect the blood sugars because
you don't have the capacity to hold the
stored sugar between meals you don't
have the capacity to make the igf number
one that's the insulin like growth
factor number one which is a hormone
that helps regulate sugar between the
meals and it also helps you mobilize fat
you might need to build up that liver so
you want to support the liver with
certain nutrition I think um I'm going
to put a link down below and the
nutrients that you need to support the
liver are the same nutrients that
support insulin dysfunction okay so go
ahead and uh put some attention on that
if you need to and put your comments
below
