so I want to talk about the nervous
system it's part of a communication
system in the body and there's two main
communication systems we have the
nervous system and then over here we
have the hormone system and the
difference is that the communications
travel through the nerves with the
nervous system and their electrical
impulses and then the endocrine system
uses hormones as its communication
particles and they travel through the
blood okay so let's first talk about the
two main parts parts of the nervous
system we're just going to stick with
nervous system now not endocrine system
we have the peripheral nervous system
which is
outside the central nervous system so we
have a central nervous system which is
the brain and the spinal cord and then
we have everything outside those are the
two main systems so central nervous
system controls and coordinates every
single body function and and um it does
it through
pre-program um like like almost like
genetic blueprints that have messages
that that send signals to keep the body
in a survival mode um so everything
works and then the peripheral nervous
system has two parts one is the
somatic which somatic means body um in
Latin but the somatic nervous
system controls all the muscles okay so
skeletal muscles and smooth muscles so
that's what that system is and then we
have another part of the peripheral
nervous system called the autonomic
nervous system this is what I want to
spend a little bit more time on
autonomic is is a term a Greek term for
independent because it's almost like
this can work independent of this over
here it has its
own kind of microchips or mini brains uh
because it can run uh from those things
called ganglia you remember the ganglia
studying about that those are like mini
little ner centers that are down your
spinal column and you have plexuses of
nerves which are like ganglia in the
abdomen too like the solar plexus and
all these different um wiring sort of
speak um it's really simple when you
think about it there's there's a lot of
wires that come out of the brain and
they either go to the muscles or they go
to the autonomic nervous system which
controls and coordinates
glands and
organs
and the sympathetic nervous system is
kind of like the on switch so it
activates
things and then you have the
parasympathetic means it's kind of like
an off switch and the parasympathetic
controls more
rest and
digestion and the sympathetic is more
the flight or fight
um I guess a couple little background
pieces of information would be to
describe it like let's say for example
you're going to run upstairs and if you
did not have your body adapting to that
sudden shift and change in gravity
running up the blood wouldn't get up to
your brain because when you run it fast
all the blood's going to go down to your
feet and you will pass out so in order
for the body to adapt to that change in
elevation and stress the sympathetic
nervous system kicks in there pumps
adrenaline and pushes the blood up to
the brain and it does it on a gradient
so if the person has weak sympathetics
they won't be able to react towards
stress they won't be able to prepare the
body for a stressful State and that's
what the sympathetic nervous system does
so the sympathetic nervous system is um
if you can Envision being chased by a
tiger you would have to increase blood
flow to the muscles uh you're going to
have to increase brain acuteness and
awareness you're going to have to um uh
release dump a lot of sugars for the
muscles to use this fuel because you're
not going to have time to burn fat so
all those reactions of adapting the body
to either uh running away or fighting
would be the sympathetic nervous system
now the
opposing system would be the
parasympathetic so once you run up to
the the top of the the stairs your blood
pressure has to return and come down so
this is the recovery
system the parasympathetic kicks in when
you're at rest and when you're sleeping
so that's when everything actually so it
works hard at calming you down the
parasympathetic is where you burn all
the fat when you're sleeping right it's
a calming rest and then that's when you
digest when you are in a sympathetic
mode the the uh the parasympathetic kind
of shuts down and to that degree um it
affects it kind of blocks your
reproductive system because when you're
chased by a tiger you don't need to have
a baby or something you don't have to
get pregnant um but when you're actually
being chased by a tiger you also um
don't need to digest so in other words
when you kick in the sympathetic
digestion shuts off reproductive shuts
off sleeping shuts off but when you're
in parasympathetic
everything is chilled out you're
recovering your body is adapting to
things so the whole goal of this system
is to maintain something called
homeostasis now what is homeostasis that
is the a body's ability to adapt
to some type of
environmental situation or change or
stress so the inside of your body is
adapting to the outside to maintain
equilibrium okay to a constant level so
in the body there's all
these certain conditions that our body
kind of stays in equilibrium like let's
say temperature temperature is
98.6 the pH of your blood is
7.34 or 7.3 34 one of the two um the pH
of your urine should be
6.0 uh the blood pressure should be 120
over 80 the pulse rate should be 72
these are all equilibrium things that
your body is trying to maintain your
blood glucose should be 100 exactly well
the automic nervous system keeps all
these adapting so if you actually go
outside and you actually get cold your
body heats up if you're um if you run
upstairs your blood pressure will adapt
and then the parasympathetic will keep
bringing it down to that equilibrium so
we get all these body functions that the
autonomic nervous system controls um and
it controls it not necessarily in an on
switch or an off switch but more like a
dimmer switch so there's slow gradient
approaches to this system and this
system so let's say you're going uh for
a mile jog well this thing might be
kicked in but you have this one at the
same time so they're kind of like two
dimmer switches that kind of on a
gradient this will increase and this
will increase depending on the level of
effort or change that occurs so let if
you see your child your baby underneath
a car it's going to be 100% sympathetic
you're going to lift that car off the
baby but if you just see like a little
roach that you want to kill we might
have like 10% sympathetic and mostly
parasympathetic so really it's not onoff
switch is kind of like a gradient
approach and then there's an inter
system right here
which is the digestive system so that's
the other the third autonomic nervous
system uh section enic which is
digestion and this has just as many
neurons and nerve nerves nerve endings
as you would have in your spinal column
and so this system is amazing because it
um it can work on its own and it
controls like a mesh around the colon to
actually allow it to pump it's called
peristalsis or helping it become mobile
along the 30 31 ft of intestine so this
is what that
system
um actually does so that's pretty much
the basics of the different systems and
then in the next video I'm going to show
you how we measure the autonomic nervous
system
