so hi Alan this dr. Berg it's a pleasure
to meet you finally I've seen you before
and after and I wanted to personally
talk to you so thanks for doing this
interview pleasure to be here
yeah hey listen I wanted to first just
find a little bit about your history
where you came from as far as with your
health of your body and let's just start
there can you give me a little history
of that sure as a kid I was actually
pretty skinny as a junkie I was pretty
frail actually and even through high
school I was I probably was 140 pounds
when I graduated it was after high
school say between the ages of 18 and 20
or says I started putting on weight and
my dad was actually the one who kind of
came to me and said it's time to putting
on a little bit of weight and get a
little bit of a belly I'd like for you
to go get some blood work done because
it's been you know since you were a kid
and she had anything done and it's age
of 20 I was kind of diagnosed with high
cholesterol and high triglycerides and a
lot of us her editor my dad had it had
all this as well and that kind of
started a chain of events for the next
20 years of me fighting high cholesterol
high triglycerides metabolic syndrome
and finally led to severe insulin
resistance and good old type-2 diabetes
Wow now at the time did your father or
did he get you tested and find yes you
have a genetic cholesterol problem at
the time now it was just a basic lipid
test is the best I can remember in
awhile since then did they find that you
actually do have a genetic problem got
it so so yeah I'm definitely interested
in to see what you've done about that so
so fast-forward here you are struggling
with this thing you get diabetes
and did you also gain weight at the same
time by the time I got married at the
age of 22 I was 200 pounds and from
there 20 years later I ballooned up to
240 on a 5/8 frame is pretty heavy yeah
Wow so who you are in the situation and
probably right you know kind of
concerning because you got the whole
genetic thing got your
other and your got diabetes so so at
that point what were you doing there
what did you try attempt well over the
years I went to doctors and I always had
blood work done and my cholesterol and
triglycerides were always elevated and I
was always still on medication I was
never really told here's the root of
your problem as to why you have this but
here's what's elevated take some
medications and I spent many years
taking statins taking metformin taking
blood pressure medications and I never
seem to really get better it was just
ban dating ban dating the problem really
oh I could imagine did you have any side
effects from statins the statins about
crippled me I had us and the biggest
thing I had was muffled fatigue and fix
you're picking up a garden hood and
trying to spray a garden hose I had such
limited strength in my hands the muscle
fatigue was so bad I didn't squeeze
garden hose and my back and hips and
legs it was like like I was a 70 year
old guy I didn't have my wife sitting me
up in bed some mornings it was so bad in
the static Wow and you're like what 40
something years old I'm 43 now this was
probably really got out of statin
probably in my 30s early thirties okay
that's crazy so here you're a 30 years
old your body is like going down that's
that's pretty wild like personally when
I was 28 I hit my lowest health of my
whole life I also had arthritis in my
hands back chronic fatigue couldn't
sleep so I can I can relate to that and
I'm like what the heck I could imagine
what I'm going to get 35 I'm going to be
probably yeah that's over as ridiculous
yeah so okay so then what did you did
you stumble on something that turned
things around sorta yes around 2012 or
so I experimented with Atkins a couple
times and I don't think I really knew
what I was doing I would just kind of
did it and I was semi successful in it I
did lose some weight the first time I
lost around 20 pounds and I never stuck
with it and put it all back on plus them
and the second time I did Atkins
leave was 2013-14 ish and I lost about
30 to 35 pounds once again I never stuck
with it part of the reason is I didn't
know then what I know now but I wasn't
managing insulin I was starving all the
time and eventually just gave up and got
all the way back on and there I went to
over 240 pounds crazy so then you're
going along and then then what did you
do up to that at 2016 early 2016 I was
in the worst health and shaking my life
I I would just I hurt all over all my
joints hurt
I had no stamina severe fatigue I felt
like garbage all the time it just didn't
feel good really heavy
couldn't button side 40 pants and my
wife was in the spring of 2016 I said
I'm going to go low carb again no low
carb works I've had moderate success
with it a couple of times but I'm going
to make a lifestyle change I set my mind
that I was going to do low carb and
stick with it it turned out her spring
break in March of 16 we were out to
dinner with some friends and ironic it
was an old friend from high school
I heard just small talk and yeah I'm
going to do Atkins again he's like man
don't do at him do this thing called
spare genic by it I'm like kita what I
didn't know what he was talking about
and he's like listen it's high fat
moderate protein low carb I'm like but
what about my cholesterol my
triglycerides my you know the same
question that everybody has when I come
to it he's like don't worry about it
it's not going to clog your arteries
it's not going to make you fat that
doesn't make you fat research it a
little bit and give it a try so yeah
March 21st of 2016 at over 240 pounds
with size 40 I started started kita Wow
and the way you started moulting off now
at that time did you actually introduce
to intermittent fasting or not I didn't
then I was about a good month or so
maybe two months there's probably a
month or so in
the heated I started intermittent
fasting a friend of mine that I met we
wanted the key to Facebook groups kind
of took me under his wing and help me
with my macros and he said you know with
your blood work and your your medical
situation you need to get the
intermittent fasting as soon as you can
he said start with 12 hours 12 hours of
easy eat dinner don't have a snack and
go to bed and get up and that's your 12
hours start with 12 and then 1 to 16 and
then go from there so since the day I
started the intermittent fasting I have
pretty much stuck with it every day and
now 16 months later that it just comes
natural I go 16 to 18 to 20 hours 20
hours usually and you're not hungry
you're not craving now what how much
weight have you lost
right now I went from the last time I
had lead when I officially started I was
240 I could have been higher at some
point and I dropped as low as 155 so 85
pounds 155 was actually a little bit too
thin for me so right now I'm about 162 I
put a little bit back on it muscle how
tall are you 5 8 and a half okay
that's incredible so how do you feel
energy-wise cognitive function it's
incredible I literally live on six hours
sleep I just don't need any more than
that I'm up by 4 to 4:30 every morning
I'm at the gym by 5:30 in the morning I
workout for 90 minutes I come home and
then just do my thing the rest of the
day and then I'm just up and out of and
go on a 100 miles an hour
so end of the day and then tell me about
your diabetes situation what's what's up
with that I actually just had blood work
done when I started with my new diet
around the same time I started keto I
started with a new doctor who is Pro
keto and I had been on keto for two
weeks when I started with him and in
that two weeks I had already dropped 20
pounds which was probably water weight
and I had blood work done then and
everything we expected to be elevated
was elevated
now this doctor he does the
comprehensive lipid panel with the
particle test and everything well guess
where all my LDL particles were type a
sticky ones
they were all the small small particle
oh they were okay though I had blood
work done when I started I had blood
work done at six months and it's six
months my cholesterol had absolutely
skyrocketed my overall was over 350 and
thank goodness that he is a pro keto
doctor because he told me don't worry
about it
stick with kiddo everything's going to
be fine any other doctor that I had been
to for years prior would have slapped me
on a staff and said you know cut all his
fat you're eating well at the nine-month
mark I think it was everything had come
back down my triglycerides were exactly
a hundred at that point at one point in
my life in my my I would say when I was
around thirty I try glycerides for over
a thousand at one point she's incredible
so nine months in dito my triglycerides
were a hundred my overall cholesterol
was 350 but the particle that bit should
all my LDL particles were in the big
fluffy range good so let me just make a
point on people watching this that don't
know what you what you're talking about
this when you when you measure LDL which
is to consider the bad cholesterol and a
traditional test they don't
differentiate the type a Type B type A
is actually totally fine it doesn't it's
not involved in the artery repair type B
a small dense sticky it involved in the
reaction to inflammatory response and
whatever so we want a more advanced test
which you got it which told it shifted
eventually to Type A which is totally
fine so even though it's high it's
totally okay probably because you know
two things one is your your burning as
you burn your fat cell some of that's
cholesterol it's going to come out have
to come out and your body is dismantling
it but having a genetic tendency you
don't have the enzyme correctly to
dismantle cholesterol like other people
so there's always that little bit of a
problem but you just prove that you know
you can actually you can manage it
without by basically cutting out all the
eating healthy interesting the pre keto
I was on metformin twice a day I was on
I believe it was crest or and I was on a
blood-pressure pill twice a day
and now the only thing I take his
official oil in magnesium I have my
latest blood work I just had this done
like like two weeks ago if I can tell
you the numbers real quick
my total cholesterol now is 241 my LDL
is 151 my HDL is 70 and triglycerides
are 55 ticket row glycerides are one of
the best indicators and you're totally
fine you're running on ketones
big I had the particle test the particle
test done with this as well and the
whole thing is in the large what the
category so it's perfect that is so
incredible one question on that your
father is he's still around
yeah yeah lost in too hard to be 11
years ago
okay how about said you have any
brothers or sisters
I have a sister and she has no health
issues okay I got it all now just tell
me what what do you eat when you eat a
meal and when's the first time you eat
well I get up it I usually get up
between 4:00 and 4:30 a.m. and I'm a
coffee and I usually do if I'm going to
the gym I do coffee with MVP oil a
splash of cream and that's my whole new
calories until I get back to the house
around 7:30 I do messing around here and
I usually don't eat until 10:30 or 11:00
and I don't really call it breakfast I
just call it my first meal just happened
that I like eggs so it's usually eggs
and I raised my own chickens and I raise
my own ducks for eggs so I have a
endless supply love it free-range eggs
so it's usually my first meal is usually
three eggs cooked in whatever fat I use
decide to use for the day whether it be
olive oil or butter or bacon grease or
the good old coconut oil that everybody
set we know in the news now
and I usually do a whole avocado and
then whatever meat like today I had two
pieces of sausage an entire avocado and
three eggs cooked in coconut oil and I
won't eat again until we our family
schedule allows us to eat dinner pretty
early is my plan has a lot of ice stuff
after school so we eat then are using
three and four so I eat basically
between 10:00 and 4:00 that's it I'm
done I love it and you don't crave no
and you can go without feeling weak no
weakness at all while I'm going to eat
my electrolyte this I'm good that is
awesome man that's good that's such a
conflicting piece of data for a lot of
people because they're just thinking way
over here they're never going to get
there and you just like flip the whole
thing people like that know you in your
past are they like what the heck are you
doing I'd be curious so they look at you
like funny I you know I had customers
where I go to their house and do
services and some of my customers that
didn't see me for six months or a year
during my weight loss journey first of
all didn't recognize me or thought it
was somebody that I had hired to come in
my place they just at first glance
didn't realize it was me greatly wow
that is amazing yeah I saw you before
and after I'm like I got to interview
this guy this is like incredible
incredible so this so will you well this
is a stupid question but do you think
you ever go back to your normal now of
course now there's no way the way I feel
so good now I'm just so much I've
learned in the last 16 months of doing
this there's no way I'd go back to the
standard American diet no way no way at
all I mean my blood work shows it and I
just the weight loss and the way I feel
and I'm able to eat this certain way and
gain muscle on putting on you know I'm
putting on crazy amounts of muscle while
doing it the whole river bit you can't
gain muscle on keto is bogus because I'm
living proof of it
yeah just for people watching when in a
minute fasting especially if you the way
he's doing it you could
Spyke growth form by 2,000% adding with
the exercise that you're doing you could
spike it by another 450 percent so it's
your your spiking growth hormone you're
actually its anti-aging its preserving
your muscle so and you're followed a
unit for T 3 4 degree yeah it's
incredible and my wife started she she
started calling me starting to lose
weight that okay maybe this is not a
gimmick and she started a month after I
did and she's lost the last time she
mentioned that she had lost over 80
herself Wow
that we've lost almost 170 collectively
that is incredible this is incredible so
yeah I went from the size 40 by 40 that
were tight and I'm in a size 28 change
now so your waist of 28 yep that's
incredible you did really good so anyway
L I want to I really appreciate this
interview a lot of people are going to
like especially ones that are on
cholesterol medication are going to
start researching this I hope they do
absolutely I'm like I'm anti statin I
mean just what I do what I went through
with the pain and the muscle fatigue and
what I know about it now that it doesn't
really do anything for you there's no no
scenario where I would take a statin
ever again it's a billion-dollar
business and the actual results are so
small and it cuts down all your
production of cholesterol which you need
for your hormones in this map so man I'm
so glad you actually stumbled on the
whole keto thing because that turned
everything happen and then when did you
when did you see my videos did you see
that in the mix summer of goodness
somewhere it's been at least over a year
I was just you know I'd do my due
diligence and research things and it's
like every time I would Google something
this guy named dr. burns video would
come up and literally I mean it's just
you were all over the place and you know
I've got you setting out every time in
doing this coach did I get him to get an
alert and the thing I like about your
videos is they're short and sweet and to
the point and you're easy to understand
for
the common man out there and I've shared
your videos along with the keto groups
that I'm in numerous times at least a
hundred times I've shared your videos so
we love them oh thanks yeah but I wanted
to take this complex so-called complex
and just try to make it as simple as
possible you know what hold out of that
that's the goal because you know
especially medicine they have to
complicate things and say oh it's too
complex or so you'd understand so now
that's not true right so awesome well
thank you so much Elle and I appreciate
your success story so we'll do a follow
up maybe in several months from now just
to see how you're doing it is done okay
thanks I'll appreciate it order to be
with you all right thanks
