hi this is Dr Eric Berg and in this
short video I'm going to talk about
calcium myths misconceptions and
interesting facts this is part of my new
CD of the month um program and I'm just
going to give you a little taste of
what's in there we're going to talk
about calcium the information I'm going
to share with you right now is going to
shock you so first thing I want to tell
you is what makes bone does calcium make
bone actually it does not make bone bone
is made from water minerals like calcium
compounds never individual calcium in
other words most calcium that people
consume is some calcium carbonate that
would be Limestone you'd be better off
chewing the Rocks outside because when
you consume Rock which is in most
supplements calcium carbonate which you
want to avoid um you're not going to
build bone it's not going to go into the
body it's not going to build bone it's
going to probably plug up your k kidneys
or go right through you okay so um you
want to consume calcium from Plants
leafy greens Now cal bone is also made
from collagen protein um if you want to
destroy your bone just go ahead and
consume cooked collagen which is in
cooked meat I'm not against meat but I
am against over um eating all this
cooked meat because that basically
cooked animal protein will deteriorate
your bones so the next question people
always ask me is well I'm protecting my
bones cuz I'm drinking all this milk
does milk build bones no it doesn't
build bones it rots bones in other words
if you take a calf a baby calf and feed
it pasteurized milk it'll die within 60
days so what you want to do is you want
to consume fermented milk products
unless you have an allergy that would be
the uh plain Organic Raw um yogurt or um
raw milk cheese or kefir things that
have bacteria so when the even if it's
pasteurized if you take pasturized milk
and make cheese out of it or yogurt
you're still you're making that um
product more making the calcium more
available because the new enzymes and
the bacteria in it will help you absorb
calcium so even if we took this calcium
carbonate it converts it to an avalable
calcium now the other thing is when you
take raw milk which by the way does
build bone but you can't find it um what
happens is that if you spill it in your
carpet it will not smell because there's
enzymes there's bacteria in there
acidophilus but if you take pasteurized
milk and spill it it will rot so again
if you think you're getting um this
great product when you're buying milk
and building your bones don't hold your
breath and it's also very mucus
producing the next thing I want to cover
is vitamin D now some of you are already
taking vitamin D if you're taking
vitamin D make sure it's natural it' be
vitamin
D3 but you can get uh Vitamin D from the
Sun 20 minutes of sun a day will give
you plenty of vitamin D unless your
adrenals are all messed up because the
adrenal gland if overactive will block
vitamin D in the body which is
interesting now what is V vitamin D do
vitamin D um if you have a deficiency
will cause pain in your bones
specifically in the back so back pain
many times can be a vitamin D deficiency
vitamin D is necessary for the
absorption of calcium into the bone and
into the blood but not into some other
tissues vitamin f is the opposing
reciprocal vitamin to vitamin D they
work in teeter totter so if you have a
lot of vitamin D it automatically
depletes vitamin F which we're going to
get to in a second so let's just take a
look at what really happens here calcium
is mobilized and transported through
vitamins the vitamin D takes the calcium
from the skin and the muscles and the
tissue and drives it into the blood and
the bone vitamin F on the other hand
takes the calcium from the bone and the
blood and pushes it into the tissue okay
so that's what you need to know now what
is this thing called vitamin F I never
heard of it before did people are have a
confusion like where does this come from
well as you know the first vitamin ever
discovered was vitamin A and then the
second one vitamin B third was vitamin C
and then D and then e and then F and you
even have vitamin G and H and it goes
all up to
K so here's vitamin F vitamin F allows
calcium to be transported in the tissues
so really one of the big purposes of
vitamin f is a calcium
transporter all right
calcium on the other hand is a one of
the most important purposes of calcium
is to protect you against viruses that's
right so when you get a herpes simplex
uh simplex virus or a canker sore um
that means you have a Calcium deficiency
but it could mean you have a vitamin F
deficiency that can't transport the
calcium into the tissue now uh many
people um get viruses coming out of
remission when they're stressed why
because the adrenals deplete calcium
from the
urine okay so adrenal stress will
deplete calcium from the UR urine and
the viruses come out of remission so
vitamin f is an immune
protector viruses stay in remission if
there's enough vitamin F and calcium and
this includes all viruses mono the flow
etc
etc don't worry this is going to get get
worse the papiloma virus now now I don't
know if you know what this is but a lot
of women have the HPV virus that that's
linked to cervical um cancer cancer of
the cervix what's very interesting about
the papiloma virus is that these case
outbreaks generally occur in late summer
hm interesting why does that happen late
summer well what happened during the
summer months you get all the Sun what
does the Sun do depletes vitamin F
interesting and then the virus comes out
of
remission polio Dr
Sabin check this out this is what he
says why does par uh paralytic polio
with only rare exceptions remain
practically dormant during more than
2third of each year appear only in
occasional persons and then seem to
explode during the late summer and Early
Autumn why could this be now you say
that virus is virus polio virus is
contagious and it's all these kids in
school they're coughing the polio
outbreak occurred in the summer months
when kids are outside playing with their
shirts off getting all this sun eating a
lot of ice cream and by the way sugar
depletes certain nutrients that can
especially calcium interesting eh so
what happens you need a balance of
calcium and vitamin F and vitamin D I'm
not saying vitamin D is bad I'm not
saying vitamin f is bad I'm not saying
that if you took this this would cure
your cancer that's my disclaimer my
point is I want to educate you that both
of these vitamins work in sync and
viruses come out of remission when
you're deficient in certain
nutrients now for the full complete
understanding of calcium and vitamin F
and vitamin D um if you want more
information about the CD of the month or
on sources of vitamin F you can call my
office at 703 354
7336 and um II Aruna can actually
explain and tell you a little bit about
this new program that I come out came
out with which will allow you to receive
uh a CD of the month every month on
different Health topics I want to thank
you um hope you enjoy this tip and I'll
see you real soon
