so now in this maneuver we're going to
be doing it on a table or your bed and
you have a pillow right here because
this device is going to go right there
so her head will be supported by the
pillow so let's go ahead and um go back
down here and then
just put this thing right there okay and
lay your head down so we're just going
to make sure the head is touching so she
can just position it
right at the top of her neck so what's
happening is
that she has the head not completely
supported by massage device but she it's
caught by the pillow and she's getting
most of the pressure up underneath the
neck so it's very comfortable some
people like more pressure and they don't
even need the pillow so they would just
remove the pillow and just put the head
there but it's a lot of pressure there
so you would want just to put a pillow
right here so it can support that is
that comfortable mhm okay so that's how
she would do the neck thing and this is
what I like doing right before bed and
I'll hold this thing for two three four
minutes and man I am out cold my wife is
like you just go right to sleep you know
so so um are you feeling more relaxed
every time I do the demo you look so
relaxed I am relaxed okay good so it
works um that's why she always
volunteers for the
demonstration um okay so that would that
would be how you would do kind of a
lying down with that massage tool
