hey guys it's dr. Berg here in this
video we're going to talk about what's
behind dry eyes so many people have it
and they don't really know what it is
and they take these drops I used to have
really bad dry eyes in fact I remember
driving across the country and I was
towing my car in the back because I was
moving and basically I'm driving on them
drinking all this coffee eating the
wrong foods in my eyes start to get
really dry to the point where I would
close them and get sticky and I couldn't
even see so I pulled off to the road and
I got a hotel and I'm like okay good I
can relax right so I have my eyes closed
I wake up in the morning and I open my
eye and I rip my cornea
would you believe that and so here I am
on a Saturday walking blinded like
trying to find an eye doctor on the
Saturday morning so I found one and he
was he was busy until Monday I had to
get home so I basically walked in the
back and I said no no excuse me no you
have to help me I need to get moving and
I have everything packed up so gave me
some medication to get to the next the
next state when I was going but the
point was if I only known back then this
simple remedy it would have been solved
so dry eyes is a vitamin A deficiency
okay now it's not just a matter of
taking a supplement
I don't even recommend taking a vitamin
A supplement it's so easy to get it from
the food vitamin A is a fat soluble
vitamin okay here's some foods that
vitamin A come in like you have cod
liver oil okay butter yeah egg yolk
those are really high in vitamin A now I
also recommend you get your vitamin A
from vegetables but just realize it's
not a true vitamin A it's a pre vitamin
A that then converts to an active form
so kale would be really good leafy
greens would be really good okay so that
all gives you parsley be good so we want
to add that into the mix but some people
are consuming these products but it's
still not working
why because they don't have the
strength of the gallbladder and this is
probably more common than the diet when
the gallbladder becomes sluggish and you
don't produce enough bile bi le you
can't break down the fat soluble
nutrients from the food so you never get
the vitamin A so the vision at night is
a problem dry skin sinus issue sleep
apnea and dry eyes but button skin
problems too so vitamin A is absorbed
with bile and so if you don't have
enough and your gall bladder sluggish
because your diets been bad then that's
probably why you're deficient in vitamin
A okay
so what do you do about it well you can
start eating better and consistently
over a period of time you can also take
some bile salts I have something in a
gall bladder formula you put a link down
there to take and you take one after a
meal and what will happen it will give
you the bile that you're missing to put
back to start absorbing the fat size of
vitamins okay but you're going to have
to also correct your diet you just can't
live off a pill right so those are the
two main reason why you have dry eye is
either your vitamin E is not coming from
the diet or you're not absorbing the
vitamin A because your gall bladder
liver of messed up okay so I hope you
enjoy this tip and I will see you in the
next video
