okay so at another question will
intermittent fasting slow my metabolism
because when I was consuming three meals
1,800 calories then I switched down to
two meals 1500 calories and now I'm at
1,000 calories for one meal wouldn't
this be considered a low calorie diet a
thousand calories well this is what
you're missing when you're doing
low-carb as in Quito you're also going
to be tapping into your body fat okay so
you're gonna add more calories of fat
from your own bodies Reserve whereas
doing a high carb diet you're not able
to tap into your own body's fat and
you're stuck with exactly a thousand
calories from the diet and that is going
to slow the metabolism down so no
intermittent fasting if you combine keto
will not slow the metabolism down does
that make sense I hope so
hey you know what I just want to say
something
only thirty percent of the people that
watching this video actually make it
this far and you did so I really
appreciate you thank you so much
