hey guys in this video I'm going to talk
about a compound EDTA this is a very
powerful key later and chelation means
to like it comes from the word claw
which combines or binds with toxic
metals so it's really good to detoxify
mercury lead iron aluminum calcium and
other minerals so people take it to get
rid of the calcium plaquing in the
arteries also to get rid of kidney
stones you want to take it on an empty
stomach because if you take it with food
it'll bind with the minerals in the food
right we don't want to do that
it's a powerful antioxidant because if
you have these metals like iron or lead
or mercury in your body
they're very oxidative and they kind of
really create a lot of free radical
damage supports the cardiovascular
system and it's a great detox so a lot
of people take it to just increase your
their blood flow whether it's a venous
insufficiency or an artery problem
something like in a minute claudication
which is a problem where you were to
have like pain in your legs upon
exertion improves vision increases blood
flow to the brain general circulation
when I take it I find I don't need naps
okay it's quite interesting like I
always like to take a nap a day and I
don't need any nap because it just gives
you a lot of energy okay so you also
want to just drink a little bit more
water when you do this and take trace
minerals and other minerals to
compensate for any loss of minerals that
occur when you take it but the cool
thing is you're taking out the bad ones
and you can just replace with the good
ones alright thanks for watching so
we've been getting a lot of success
stories but I don't have your success
story yet so click the link down below
and upload you before and after I want
to actually hear about your success
story I want to see your
before-and-afters and every week we do
featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
