so I had another question someone want
to know why is keto bad okay so we're
gonna talk about that so what is Kido
Kido is basically fat burning so I asked
this person is fat burning bad well I
guess if you're completely skin and
bones and you have absolutely no fat on
your body of course maybe it would be
bad for that person but fat burning I
don't think it's that bad is it I mean
it's probably good for you
keto is bad if you own a junk food
company because we're recommending not
to consume to refine carbohydrates and
the junk foods but I do want to
differentiate sheetal from healthy keto
okay because just because someone does
keto doesn't mean it's a hundred percent
healthy now the health comes in when
you're lowering your carbs in your lower
your insulin that's very very healthy
and it's gonna help your health we want
to make sure that the ingredients that
you do on a ketogenic plan are super
healthy number one to provide the
nutrients and also to avoid the bad
things because keto by itself is a low
carb diet moderate protein higher fat to
get into ketosis you just need to lower
your carbs but generally speaking when
you do a ketogenic plan what's not
talked about is the quality of the fats
you could basically use hydrogenated
oils you can use GMO fats and oils you
can use process grain-fed animal
products okay so what we want to do is
we want to do a healthy version of keto
to make it even better but the fact that
you are lowering your carbs is a huge
change in the right direction you are
going to improve your health just from
that alone okay so now let's talk about
ketoacidosis this is a condition which
is dangerous it's very rare and if a
situation where you're running out of
insulin and you're burning fat to such a
degree where your pH becomes so acidic
in the blood that it becomes dangerous
this is only going to happen in certain
circumstances in certain situations
where you're diabetic type one and
you're not controlling your blood sugars
you're just ignoring them or if you have
a very severe infection an injury
surgery
or a much more serious illness if you're
generally healthy and you're doing a
healthy version of ketosis you are not
going to have this happen to you you're
going to get into ketosis but your pH is
not gonna come anywhere near the danger
zone and I put a link down below to help
you understand this condition a little
bit more and I highly suggest that you
watch it alright in summary is keto bad
well no it's not bad fat burning is a
good thing alright see you next video
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
