hello hey listen I had another question
from someone that wanted to know why
they weren't losing weight in the lower
half of their body and they're on keto
and they're doing it in a fasting and
it's working but the lower part of the
body the legs the thighs the butt
not much happening okay let's just talk
about that well when you're doing keto
and intermittent fasting you're
basically targeting insulin you're
lowering insulin you're fixing insulin
resistance which primarily has to do
with all the fat in the belly so you
should be seeing some weight in your
midsection and if you're not just
continue to do it and it's going to
happen
but there's going to be a point where
you plateau with your weight because the
density of the muscle to fat ratio is
going to change in other words you're
going to get more muscle and you're
gonna get less fat so you just want to
continue to do that over time and muscle
weighs more so those scales gonna stop
but you'll start to shrink but typically
what's gonna happen you're gonna lose
from the top going down but keto and
intermittent fasting is only gonna take
you so far you're gonna have to add
exercise into this formula why because
an average person in the 40s 50s and 60s
is dealing with a high fat to low muscle
ratio the composition of muscle is very
very fatty okay so to be able to handle
that you're gonna have to do some type
of exercise program that really targets
the muscles and the lower extremities
the glutes the thighs the hamstrings and
not just jogging in the treadmill but
actually doing all sorts of things
plyometrics hopping slamball with
squatting leg exercises all those things
so basically you're on a muscle building
plan over time so then the question
comes how long does it take to see
results well it could take a while
because it's very gradual and if you're
looking at yourself everyday you might
not see a lot of change so that's why I
highly recommend you measure yourself
measure your hips measure your thighs
and start really looking at the inches
because if you look at your body it's so
gradual you might get discouraged but
overall you're s
nation needs to be a lot longer than
what you think in other words it could
take two or even three years to get to
your goal it's not going to happen in
months especially if you have an
exercise for many years okay so I'm just
pointing it out because if you don't
know that going into this you might get
frustrated and stop and go back to the
carbs but what you really want to do is
just stay with it and realize that what
you're dealing with is a much greater
problem of atrophied muscles then maybe
you thought all right hang in there keep
doing it it's going to happen
hey guys I wanted to personally invite
you to a new Facebook group that I just
started called dr. Berg's Quito and in a
minute fasting lab okay
so I created this so we can share our
successful actions what worked what
didn't work the results so I put a link
down below so go ahead and sign up and
I'll see you inside
