so I'm reading this fascinating book by
Professor Harold Foster what really
causes AIDS and I thought it was
fascinating because it involves
nutrition let me explain when you have
this virus HIV which stands for human
immunodeficiency virus over time if the
immune system is weak
that can shift to AIDS
which stands for acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome now age is a
condition where you basically don't have
an immune system anymore because that
virus targets a key player within the
immune system it's like the quarterback
of the entire team I mean if you're
playing football and you don't have a
good quarterback you can't ever win you
can't even do a play the quarterback is
kind of an essential key player in this
whole thing well as far as your immune
system
the T helper cell is called CD4
is that quarterback without that key
player the T helper cell
your immune system cannot coordinate
with the other players and launch the
attacks the defense systems it can't
provide for any protection and so this T
helper cell is such a vital
essential player involved in your immune
system and without it you'll have all
sorts of pathogenic secondary infections
tumors cancer that can result from not
having that key player and on top of
that the virus can then keep reproducing
reproducing reproducing and just forever
a lot of different viruses have very
clever strategies for their survival
which is pretty bizarre because a virus
technically is not alive it's some
genetic material wrapped in a Sac that
can only live off the host's Energy and
Metabolism and Machinery so it's a big
mystery whether it's alive or not but
the point is that HIV can encode for
glutathione it has the exact same gene
that you have when you make glutathione
and so glutathione is the key
antioxidant for all of your cells it's
like the most important antioxidant but
it's also intimately involved with your
immune system and so this is what this
virus does it starts making glutathione
and in the process it depletes your
selenium
uh and three other amino acids and these
are all building blocks to make
glutathione so it depletes the
precursors leaving you high and dry
now this is really important to know
because if you can just Supply these
three amino acids and selenium you can
hopefully build up your glutathione and
prevent the transition from the HIV
virus to the full-blown AIDS syndrome
and so the other amino acids that get
depleted which are precursors are
cysteine glutamine and tryptophan so
Professor Harold Foster uses this
protocol in Africa for AIDS patients and
apparently it's very very successful now
there are several other viruses that
also use the same mechanism that you
should be aware of hepatitis at C
hepatitis B
and the virus Coxsackie so this protocol
would probably help those individuals
with those viruses as well I mean even
the code discoverer of HIV he said this
AIDS is characterized as this
persistent oxidative stress and balance
as well as the glutathione deficiency
now glutathione has everything to do
with getting rid of free radical damage
and lowering this oxidative stress in
the body and so then the person just
really has no chance of fighting off
these secondary infections in tumors
because it just overwhelms the body
there's no more defenses when this virus
sucks up your selenium that then creates
a major deficiency of this tea helper
cell and then a lowered T helper cell
will directly decrease selenium and then
the decrease selenium decreases the T
helper cell so it it's a never-ending
downward spiral so this is the protocol
that I would take if I had AIDS okay in
addition to doing other things number
one I would take 400 micrograms of
selenium which is double what the high
end should be I would also take the
three amino acids cysteine
glutamine and tryptophan so those are
the four natural remedies that this
professor recommends but I would add one
more thing I would add something called
NAC NAC can double glutathione so I
would add that just to put the icing on
the cake but for those out there that
have HIV I think it's important to have
this as a as a deeper understanding of
something that you could try I mean you
have nothing to lose and unfortunately
when you're searching for remedies it's
very difficult to find natural remedies
that literally have no toxicity but you
know selenium does a lot more than just
act as a precursor for glutathione it's
involved in the conversion of the
inactive thyroid hormone to the active
thyroid hormone it also helps prevent
cancer but I have a lot more to say
about selenium in this video right here
check it out
