today I'm going to talk about a
condition called Amy trophic lateral
sclerosis ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease
and the reason I'm going to talk about
this is that I had a guy who came and
wheelchair to my summits this weekend
and some of you that are watching were
there and it was really good to meet you
and those that weren't here hope to meet
you next year but this gentleman who
came to the summit was in remission for
an entire year and he was just doing two
of the things that I'm gonna recommend a
ketogenic diet and in a minute fasting
so I told him I was gonna do a more
complete video to give him some
additional information now when you look
up this condition on the internet there
are site after site they pretty much
talk about the prognosis it's a rapidly
progressive neurodegenerative condition
talk about you're gonna die in three to
five years talk about the symptoms
muscle wasting difficulty speech
respiratory failure atrophy of the
muscles but they don't really get into
what to do about this condition so if
you look at all the details of this
condition and the fact that 30,000
people your get it well that's that's
nice to know but we want to know how do
we improve this condition and this is
what I'm gonna recommend so some of the
data I'm going to tell you is based on
my studies so if you happen to have a
gerbil or hamster and they have this
condition definitely put them on this
but I think this data also applies to
humans is this information going to cure
you I have no idea is it going to
prevent the problem I don't know I don't
even know if it's going to improve
things however I do know there's a lot
of information related to these
nutrients in the support of the nervous
system so the first thing I want to
recommend is 20,000 I use of vitamin D
I'm going to put the links down below
exactly what vitamin D is it's probably
the most important thing that you can
take because if you are deficient the
progressive decline of your health is
about four times as fast and you will
not live as long so vitamin D is crucial
vitamin D is not really a vitamin it's a
steroid it acts very similar to cortisol
and by the way cortisol or prednisone
which is a synthetic
version is one of the main treatments
for these autoimmune conditions the next
thing I would recommend is ketones get
on the healthy version of the ketogenic
diet I put a link down below
why because ketones support the nervous
system and they protect their nervous
system very important I would also
recommend taking MCT oil to raise your
ketones for sure just start off by
taking about a half a teaspoon don't
take too much because it can create some
digestive issues next scene and very
very important is intermittent fasting
and this is good for any type of
autoimmune condition because it lowers
inflammation and there is an
inflammatory state in the nerve cells
also when you're doing them in fasting
you get a major improvement in your
immune system especially the stem cells
especially if you do periodic prolonged
fasting next thing is zinc very
important in the immune system mostly
Barre deficient also zinc will help
protect against respiratory failure but
when you take zinc it can throw off your
copper so I recommend you get a product
that has both zinc and copper together
read the back the label whatever the
directions say to take go ahead and
follow that b12 is also important
because it supports the myelin around
the nerve
next thing is vitamin E make sure you
get a natural version a food complex
vitamin E is a very powerful antioxidant
when you have this autoimmune condition
you're getting a lot of oxidation a lot
of free radicals and that creates a lot
of collateral destruction from the
inflammation so this can help mitigate
that alright last thing is DHA this is a
type of omega-3 fatty acid DHA makes up
the structural part of the brain in the
nervous system so here you are having a
progressive neurodegenerative condition
well why not take the raw material
necessary to out feed that last thing I
would recommend is to get a really good
water purifier so you're not drinking
tap water because who knows what's in
the water
and the chemicals that you're exposed to
you want to do organic you want to do
very very healthy nutrient-dense foods
and you want to minimize any exposure to
chemicals alright thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
