okay so in this video the next thing
we're going to talk about is hormones so
there are two sets of hormones that you
need to know about uh you have down here
the fat burning hormones there's six of
them and then you
have the three
hormones that make fat they're much
bigger and they're much more powerful so
if you're trying to lose weight and
you're trying to stimulate these
hormones they're not working or let's
say you're getting older and you don't
have as many of these
hormones then you really only have one
choice is to get rid of these hormones
or lower them so the most important
thing we're going to do is talk about
just this one right here uh the stress
hormone called cortisol cortisol is the
stress hormone so we'll talk about that
but what you should know is that if if
this hormone is in the body in any
amount greater than normal it will
cancel all these out it won't let these
work at all so even if you're exercising
dieting and eating good and all this
stuff it won't work because this is too
high okay so that's the relationship
between the fat making hormones and the
fat burning hormones
