hey guys today we're going to talk about
the thymus gland in relationship to
stress now what is this thymus gland
well it's part of the immune system and
you have a lot of different immune
glands you have the spleen you have
certain immune cells in your bone marrow
there's part of the immune system in
your all your lymph nodes around the
body in your liver so the thymus being
an immune clan has these cells called
thymus sites which make T cells and T
cells are white blood cells and they
help protect you against certain foreign
invaders and the thymus gland is like a
training camp for T cells so what's
happening is especially early on when
the thymus is very very large when
you're a baby your thymus is very very
large okay as you get older it shrinks
to the point where you're you get really
old and it's barely there but when your
baby as your body becomes exposed to the
environment it's constantly adapting
itself to protect against foreign
invaders so if there's any weakness
within the thymus gland you're gonna be
predisposed to getting viruses and
bacterial infections because you can't
fight them off as well also it increases
your risk for cancer because the immune
system is very very important in not
just fighting off cancer but disease in
general so the thymus gland is also
involved in getting rid of the T cells
that are attacking itself in autoimmune
conditions so they're constantly trying
to get rid of this self attack now when
you have an allergy you have a hyper
sensitive immune system when you have an
autoimmune disease you have a
hypersensitive immune response and on
the flip side there are other conditions
which are hypo sensitive or immune
deficient which just the opposite it's
not a hyper reaction it's a hypo like
the immune system is just not able to
respond like in an HIV for example but
the biggest tip that I can give you
related to the thymus gland is this
cortisol which is a stress hormone
lowers the thymus
okay so I'm going to show you in this
book right here Frank knitters
encyclopedia of endocrinology on page
eighty-four it talks about the
biological actions of cortisol cortisol
suppresses that thymus gland and this is
why for example in allergies or
autoimmune they give a person prednisone
or a type of cortisone shot because
it'll get rid of that inflammatory
response because of the fact that
cortisol decreases this hypersensitivity
so there always seems to be right after
a stress event a susceptibility to
pulling in this infection so if you have
a room of people that are exposed to a
certain virus some people will get the
infection and other people won't and I
really believe it has to do with
cortisol and stress those people that
have lost their tolerance to stress or
are more overly stressed tend to pull in
that virus way more than those people
who are not affected by stress in fact
over the last twenty nine years of
practice the people that I talked to not
just getting sick but developing
autoimmune conditions when you interview
them they always happens after some a
stress event whether it's a loss of a
loved one or a traumatic experience and
boom they start developing this immune
condition which is interesting so the
reason I'm telling you this is that if
you have chronic infections for example
if you have some type of autoimmune
condition this is where you need to
focus right here eliminating this stress
as much as possible yes you need to
increase your vitamin C and your zinc
and your foods but don't forget about
addressing this very important factor of
stress because I believe unless this is
dealt with no amount of nutrition is
going to really make an impact alright
thanks for watching
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
