hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're gonna talk about keto and
intermittent fasting maintenance okay
sometimes people have this idea that
it's a diet that you're going to lose
the weight and then go back to your
regular normal foods no no I would not
look at this as a diet it's a very
healthy way of living to provide all the
nutrients and also in a minute fasting
is that a very natural thing for our
bodies our bodies were not designed to
consume six meals a day or even three
meals a day on the evolutionary track we
maybe we ate once or twice a day and it
wasn't a pattern of that we just ate
when we actually got the food so our
bodies are really designed to do that
and also run off fat fuel the whole goal
of doing this is to switch your
metabolism to actually run off fat
versus all the sugar stuff I mean take a
look at the long-term effects of run
your body on sugar it's not good
so keto intermittent fasting is gonna
provide all your nutrients so it's not
an unhealthy thing to do alright so when
you hit your ideal weight in your mind
you might associate that with okay now
I'm healthy right because I don't have
any extra weight not necessarily true
true health is high levels of energy
great focus concentration low stress
okay no memory problems no you're not on
any medications okay you're physically
fit you have endurance good heart good
digestion all that good sleep good
energy so that's what your ideal health
should be and so the goal is to use
these as tools to achieve this high
level of health so you have what's
called a health reserve so if you go off
the program you have so much health
reserve you can afford to go off the
program occasionally that's really what
you want to do so as far as reasons for
going off the program a lot of people
want to enjoy the pleasure of food right
but the point is you can eat almost any
pleasure food if you tweak the recipes
and that includes the breads and cookies
and cakes and all that we have a ton of
recipes in fact I'm gonna put a link
down below so really you want to shift
your viewpoint to eating
live versus living to eat okay
there's really no difference between a
maintenance on Aikido and Emin fasting
versus what you've been doing in the
past they're the same program this is
just going to give you more flexibility
to go off when you need to because you
have this huge level of health that you
can tap into alright thanks for watching
hey guys I wanted to personally invite
you to a new Facebook group that I just
started called dr. Berg's keto and in a
minute fasting lab okay
so I created this so we can share our
successful actions what worked what
didn't work your results so I put a link
down below so go ahead and sign up and
I'll see you inside
