so I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know what is the
best remedy for low progesterone so
let's just first talk about what
progesterone does it's involved in the
second part of a menstrual cycle okay it
enhances the survival of the fetus when
someone's pregnant okay
menopause during menopause we get this
altered estrogen and progesterone ratios
we get a moderate drop of estrogen but
we get a severe drop of progesterone
okay leaving the person estrogen
dominant here are some symptoms painful
breasts but I've gotten really good
success recommending seek help because
of the higher amounts of iodine helps to
lower estrogen okay so I really think
this symptom is an estrogen dominant
problem not necessarily a progesterone
deficiency but anyway I just wanted to
include it there another symptom of low
progesterone would be anxiety and then
sleep problems headaches PMS weight gain
infertility and fluid retention okay and
a lot of women take wild yam for low
progesterone but the problem is wild yam
is really a phytoestrogen okay it's it's
not something that necessarily brings up
progesterone a much better solution if
you were to combine chase tree with
something called dim which is a
concentrated cruciferous blend okay all
right that's what I would recommend and
thanks for watching
so I hope you're coming to the keto
Health Summit coming up in October so I
want to quickly comment on what we're
gonna do that's different from other
conventions okay the problem with these
other conventions is they give you
information over a load okay it's so
much data that you're basically swimming
in a sea of information we're going to
do things very differently we're only
going to cover the most important things
that make a huge difference now there
are three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find at any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory
I'm gonna be showing you something very
cool to dramatically increase your
memory in concentration that's going to
blow you away and number two I'm going
to show you how to increase your stress
tolerance so you are completely calm all
the time alright and number three and
most importantly if you have a slow
metabolism
if you've died it for a long time and
everything is kind of just really slow
I'm going to show you how to get
complete control over your metabolism so
you can literally turn up the dial as
high as you want and control as much
weight as you want to lose and these
three things are just a tiny bit of what
you're going to learn in the summit so
click the link below get signed up and I
will see you in October
