so I wanted to do this quick video to
answer another question related to
someone being dairy-free and they want
to know where am I gonna get my calcium
because I don't do dairy so let's just
kind of give you the list sardines with
the bones okay that will give you a lot
more calcium than the regular skinless
boneless of sardines fish has calcium
seafood has calcium chia seed almonds
seeds in general good amount of calcium
and definitely leafy greens especially
the dandelion greens collard greens kale
parsley broccoli and spinach so I just
want to point out that certain greens
have higher levels of oxalates and this
could lock up your calcium okay because
it's kind of an anti calcium nutrient
it's in parsley it's in spinach it's in
beet tops it's also in certain legumes
especially peanuts okay so what I would
do if I were you is if you're going to
consume spinach for example a steam it
or saute it same thing with parsley or
even beet tops and it is true that if we
compare dairy to vegetable source dairy
is good you're going to absorb more
calcium however if you're consuming the
amount of greens and I recommend in
healthy ketosis which I'm sure you are
you have nothing to worry about you're
gonna definitely get enough calcium just
make sure that you always avoid calcium
carbonate okay because calcium carbonate
is very difficult to absorb it's
limestone and it takes like 12 different
chemical reactions to break down and a
lot of people don't even break it down
it actually just kind of goes right
through them so if you're going to
consume a calcium supplement make sure
it's like a citrate form or calcium or a
tape and make sure you don't do too much
it's much better if you get your calcium
from foods because most people have an
accumulation of calcium over time versus
a deficiency all right there you have it
we'll see you later
so to prevent me from running out of
content I have a new survey I want to
find out what you are interested in so
please fill it out the links down below
