so today we're gonna talk about what are
the causes of low blood pressure now
someone's goal might be to achieve low
blood pressure but there's a point where
becomes too low and you feel dizzy and
you don't quite feel right so we're
gonna discuss the different reasons for
that
number one postural hypotension this is
a condition where you stay end up too
fast and you feel dizzy and you have to
sit down a lot of people have
experienced this especially if you're
let's say you just stopped working out
after you went for a jog and it was
really hot outside so you're slightly
dehydrated and let's say you didn't
sleep that well and let's say the night
before you went out drinking and you're
a little hungover well you're probably
gonna have this right here now what's
happening is a part of the nervous
system called the autonomic nervous
system is not adapting for this
positional change when you stand up and
you lose oxygen so some people can even
faint now there's a very severe version
of that called pots which I did a video
on and I put a link down below and this
is really low vitamin b1 and so I
recommend the person taking higher
amounts of b1 and that can greatly
improve this and it also supports the
heart as well because if your heart is
weak that can actually cause low blood
pressure and I put that down here and it
just so happens and vitamin b1 is
essential for keeping the heart working
correctly if you're low and b1 you can
even actually cause the heart to work
harder and develop something called
cardiomegaly which is enlarged heart
but adrenal fatigue can definitely cause
postural hypotension and even be behind
pots because the adrenal is the stress
gland and it adapts to all forms of
stress including just a mild stress of
standing up alright so now let's go to
the next one dehydration now I want to
differentiate dehydration from low salt
they're not exactly the same thing
however they can cross over now some
people can be dehydrated without having
a deficiency of salt because dehydration
is really just they're missing fluid
okay so it could happen when you
exercise too much in heat but then again
you're also going to lose salt but
depending on how much salt you have in
your reserve
it could be more or less or let's say
you had vomiting or diarrhea or
diuretics that can put you in a state of
dehydration which you just need to drink
more fluid and not having enough fluid
can actually cause low blood pressure
then we have a situation which is low
salt and because we have low salt we're
not able to hold the fluid in the body
and you're peeing it out so salt helps
you retain hopefully the right amount of
fluid and so this could come from
actually taking way too much potassium
and not enough sodium it could also come
from starting the ketogenic diet and
you're losing all this fluid yet you're
not putting back in the electrolytes in
the fluid also exercising and just
sweating out a lot of things
electrolytes because when you sweat
you're gonna sweat out more sodium and
then potassium but you are going to
sweat out both of those electrolytes all
right the next one is Addison's this is
a real severe adrenal condition it's
autoimmune where the adrenal glands are
just not working anymore and you're
getting a massive sodium deficiency
because the adrenals specifically
aldosterone is needed to retain salt and
so in these cases you need to be taking
salt like all day long and part of this
is related to anemia too so if you're
anemic you can have low blood pressure
that could be loan iron it could be low
b12 it could be other things as well
then number seven
postprandial that means after you eat
the blood pressure drops now remember
when I talked about the autonomic
nervous system well in this situation
the autonomic nervous system helps to
control blood flow whether it's to your
digestive system or to the extremities
when you're working out so if you have a
weakness within the autonomic nervous
system and you eat and all the blood is
shunted to your digestive system and
away from your brain you're gonna feel
kind of dizzy when you eat and that just
means you have a weakness within the
autonomic nervous system if you have
that situation I put a link down below
for more information on what to do about
it and then number 9 we already reviewed
this anemia
now one last thing about this postural
hypotension there's a very simple test
that's not related to low blood pressure
per se but it's related to adrenal
issues okay and the autonomic nervous
system so what you do is you take your
blood pressure sitting down okay it
should be 120 or 80 and then you take
your blood pressure when you're standing
okay
and you're looking at primarily with
this test the top number it normally
should go up to adapt for gravity stress
right well if your adrenals are weak
it'll drop down if it drops down to six
to ten points then there's definitely an
issue with the adrenal gland because the
adrenal gland is not adapting to that
stress and then you can actually further
investigate what could be behind that
alright thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
