today I want to talk about the
difference between hormone therapy and
glandular therapy right another name for
glandular therapy is
organotherapy using organ extracts from
animals whether it's a sheep pig or cow
and this therapy was used in in even
hospitals in the late 1800s early 1900s
I think up to like in the in the 30s it
was used but then we started isolating
the hormones in the gland tissue and
then making them synthetic and that's
what we have now you can get growth
hormone you can get thyroxine which is
T4 in the form of Synthroid you can get
estradiol testosterone insulin cortisol
adrenaline and so this is what our
treatment for the endocrine system has
become you know when someone has a
hormonal imbalance or hormonal
deficiency I always want to ask a
question why why are your hormones
deficient in the first place there are a
lot of complications and side effects
that occur when you start to do hormonal
therapy if we talk about the endocrine
system and look at it from a very
simplistic Viewpoint you have the gland
you have the hormone and you have the
connection or receptor where it goes
right and so what you're looking at is a
very rudiment communication Network the
gland is kind of like the thing that
makes the hormone
hormone is the communication this
hormone communication travels through
the blood and it gets received by a
receptor on the other end and so it's
the receptor that activates certain
functions through genes and certain
proteins and when that activation occurs
there's also something else that's very
very important in this communication
mechanism and it's the feedback loop
that's connected with this communication
in other words it's a control mechanism
that's controlled by the receptor
something is sent back to that gland to
turn it off if we're dealing with a a
negative feedback loop it's very similar
to in your house you have a thermostat
that adjusts to certain temperature and
then it turns off at that temperature
the same exact thing happens with the
endocrine system and so when someone
does hormonal therapy and they're giving
you a hormone
um the question is how do you uh adjust
for this feedback loop how do you know
how much exactly to give the person and
when to give the person hormones are
created in Scent through a very complex
wave pattern a circadian rhythm and a
lot of these hormones especially the
anabolic ones that actually build things
up are produced and scent uh mostly in
the middle of the night when you're
sleeping right so when you take this
hormone and the day does that uh
complicate things and so we're trying to
mimic this very complex Machinery when
we actually take a hormone and
especially because the hormone we're
taking is usually not a natural hormone
that's a synthesized isolate of that
hormone and there are many side effects
which I'm going to go through the first
thing you need to know is when you take
these hormones as a hormone therapy you
actually inactivate the gland that
produces that hormone so you basically
put that gland sleep because you're
bypassing the whole mechanism and you
can cause atrophy of that gland
as in one of the side effects from
testosterone therapy right you actually
cause testicular atrophy or even when
you take synthroid T4 you actually cause
atrophy of that gland so now your body
is dependent on that external Supply you
should just be aware of that I'm not
telling you not to do it but you should
just know that going into this therapy
like let's take growth hormone are there
any complications uh yeah big time
carpal tunnel syndrome insulin
resistance type 2 diabetes edema
increase breast tissue increased risk of
cancer now what about when you're taking
thyroid hormones well
insomnia headache Tremor chest pain
increased pulse rate fatigue and heat
intolerance and then what about
estradiol like estrogen well there's a
lot of bad effects that occur from that
hormone one is breast cancer ovarian
cancer uterine cancer sir
stroke blood clots
gallstones but other than that you can
be perfectly fine now with testosterone
therapy it doesn't come without problems
too acne testicular atrophy aggression
deeper voice hoarseness mood swings
insomnia etc etc now what about instant
therapy is there any complications uh
yeah I think the majority of the
population right now is doing an
experiment with insulin therapy of
course it's through eating a lot of
refined carbs but when you actually take
insulin it doesn't come without side
effects number one you're going to get
weight gain mood issues low potassium
swelling heart problems heart failure
even and if someone takes too much they
can end up in a coma in fact that was
one of the therapies early on in the
1900s giving people insulin shock
therapy where they give them insulin put
them in a coma and they wake up greatly
overweight but apparently that was used
for all sorts of
mental problems but right now they don't
do that they use electric shock therapy
which is definitely a lot worse all
right what about the adrenal hormones
right is there any problems with taking
cortisol in the form of Prednisone which
is a synthetic type of cortisol well I'm
a perfect example that I had to take um
steroid shots every year for probably I
don't know 12 maybe 15 years because of
poison ivy now I'm resistant to it it
created a lot of problems for me it
created insomnia all sorts of adrenal
issues but the side effects from
cortisol are diabetes a very lowered
immune system cortisol resistance which
means now it doesn't really work just
the same thing with insulin you can get
insulin resistance too and now it
doesn't work anymore and so when you
have cortisol resistance or even insulin
resistance you get now a deficiency of
that hormone so if you don't have enough
cortisol okay you'll get a lot of
inflammatory conditions a lot of skin
problems this is why um one of the
common treatments for dermatitis and
skin problems is steroid creams but
other symptoms would be insomnia that
was me mood problems agitation and
anxiety so as you can see there's a lot
of side effects from this hormonal
therapy okay
a much better strategy which I would
recommend would be using clanular
therapy right using glandular extracts
now what would that do that's different
than hormonal therapy well you're
supporting the entire endocrine system
as a whole when you take a glandular
you're getting a lot of things in that
gland you're getting nutrition
I mean just take a look at glands as far
as out of all the foods that people eat
and you know people are focused on
eating muscle meat and things like that
but what about the rest of the animal
right we used to eat glands early on and
uh out of all the things that you can
eat your glands and organ meats are the
most nutrient dense
so number one we're going to support the
endocrine system with a super nutrient
dense
substance but you also have other things
you have growth factors you have
proteins certain amino acids peptides
which are chains of amino acids
cofactors minerals enzymes you have the
whole package especially if it's
freeze-dried granulars now I think the
big reason why we don't use glandulars
anymore is because apparently it's not
practical that's kind of expensive if
you can take a look at what it would
take to synthesize a hormone you can do
it at a much higher scale you can refine
it you can synthesize it but the
question is is it a better treatment
well you judge but there's a lot of
history on glandulars for example in
1891 there was a doctor named Dr George
Murray and he demonstrated that myxedema
in hypothyroid cases mixed edema is that
kind of that puffiness that you would
get that looks like that that it's not
really fat it's kind of a waste product
from metabolism well this doctor
demonstrated that by taking thyroid
extract from a sheep he can resolve that
problem other doctors were using
extracts of the parathyroid gland in
treating tetany or muscle problems after
someone had surgery now tetany is at
twitching the parathyroid regulates
calcium so somehow taking the
parathyroid gland helped that I know
when I was in practice I use whole
desiccated adrenal a lot so I would use
adrenal gland for all sorts of things
related to the adrenal and I would see
quite good results but of course you're
not going to probably see a lot of money
invested into doing double-blinded
placebo-controlled clinical trials on
glandulars because you can't really
patent them but you can still get like
Armor Thyroid okay that's using the
whole gland instead of just one hormone
people lose more weight on Armor than
just Synthroid one study it showed that
they lost an additional three pounds of
weight when they took armor versus
Synthroid the there was also additional
benefits of just feeling a much better
sense of well-being when taking armor
versus Synthroid when you take the whole
gland as a unit you're getting a very
complex it's like a whole food vitamin
versus some isolated vitamin but anyway
I wanted to introduce you to yet another
possibility if you're suffering with
certain type of endocrine problems there
are granulars that you could take that
potentially could help you and
unfortunately when you're trying to find
answers in other viewpoints other than
traditional medical care it's difficult
but sometimes you just have to
understand for example like growth
hormone what gland produces that that's
pituitary what other hormones are made
by the pituitary that you could support
so you're not necessarily taking a
specific hormone you can just take the
glandular extract to support the whole
thing you can even get like the
hypothalamus as an extract and since
we're on the topic that's not
necessarily A glandular tissue but
there's also other organs in tissues
that can benefit you for example like
liver there's probably no other
nutrient-dense organ than the liver with
iron and b12 and vitamin A but you also
have spleen that can help the immune
system and the thymus gland which is a
gland but that would be something to
take for the immune system and then you
even have something like the trachea
tissue right which is apparently really
good for joint issues or connective
tissue or cartilage I've seen some good
results myself now since we're on the
topic of the endocrine system I think
the next thing to watch would be my
video on what to eat to support your
endocrine system I put that right here
check it out
