so in this video we want to talk about
why does removing the gallbladder
potentially make you fat okay here's
several reasons one is that you need
plentiful bile to help you convert your
thyroid hormones the thyroid produces
tea for its converted through the liver
and the gallbladder to the active form
which is t3 so if we don't have enough
bile and that's what happens when you
remove the gallbladder you just have
this trickling effect because the
gallbladder is a sac that holds and
concentrates bile up to 20 X okay so we
don't have that concentrating effect we
just have drops come down not in a non
concentrating effect so we're gonna have
a bile deficiency so that can affect the
thyroid and make the thyroid be hypo and
slow down your metabolism okay another
factor is that without enough bile your
a1c can go up your blood sugars can go
up bile helps to make insulin sensitive
okay so it's insulin resistance is a
situation where the insulin is no longer
sensitive it's being resistive okay so
this is that connection and then the
higher amounts of insulin can make you
fat the microbiome the floor of the
friendly bacteria in your gut are highly
influenced by bile so if there's not
enough bile you're gonna have a less
amount of microbes in your gut and so
you can gain weight just from that alone
bile also acts as a lubricant
so without the lubricating effect you
can become constipated and hold a lot
more waste material thus increasing your
weight gain you could also feel bloated
all the time because by all helps with
bloating and that can give you a swollen
belly and create a lot of congestion in
that area and increase weight gain also
bile helps to keep the liver from
becoming fatty so if there's not enough
bile there your risk profile liver it
goes way up alright so now that you know
all the different effects from bile what
would you do I recommend you start
taking some bile you can get purified
bile salts and that can help you I'll
put a link down below for more from
but bile is very important if you don't
have a gallbladder thanks for watching
so I want to know about what you think
about this video so please comment below
and tell me what you think
