hey guys we're gonna answer the question
should your dog do in a minute fasting
or not okay well first of all dogs in
the wild do not consume five meals a day
they don't consume three meals a day
they might eat a meal and they might not
eat a meal to the next day or so so it's
very healthy for a dog to consume foods
infrequent all right so I'm gonna
recommend one the two meals per day and
not all the snacking between meals or
giving dogs all these treats I mean you
can have the dog chew a bone that's fine
but the problem too is when you're
training the dog and you're you're
constantly giving them certain types of
food it's it's raising insulin because
every time you eat you trigger insulin
regardless of what they consume so lots
of dogs nowadays are developing diabetes
inflammatory conditions and arthritic
conditions not necessarily just because
of the frequency of eating is what
they're eating most dog food is composed
of 46 percent to 74 percent carbohydrate
in the form of corn wheat and other
grains okay so the question is what
should you feed your dog I'm gonna show
you what I feed my dog here's a great
product it's called origin and origins
from Canada check this out
zero grains potatoes tapioca or plant
protein a dog was not designed to
consume that many grains it has grass
fed fish deboned chicken debone turkey
flounder whole eggs Atlantic mackerel
and that's wild caught chicken liver
turkey liver chicken heart I mean this
is exactly what dogs are designed to
consume but no grains it's a bit pricey
but it's extremely healthy for a dog
okay my dog loves it by the way so you
might want to find something like this
that this doesn't have the grains all
right thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know
hey that runs
