all right so I had a question what is
water fasting okay water fasting is very
simply fasting not eating and only
drinking water no coffee no tea no
vitamins no minerals no gum no salt
nothing except water okay now do I
recommend this no I recommend taking
vitamins and minerals and sea salt and
you can do some coffee and tea simply
because you may not have the reserve of
nutrients in your body to draw from and
when you're fasting you're not eating
and you're not getting nutrients you can
have an electrolyte balance you can
create an issue at the heart so unless
you know what you're doing and your
nutrition has been excellent for yours I
recommend taking vitamins and minerals
but this video I'm just answering a
question what is water fasting okay
now the type of water that you drink is
also very important I highly recommend
you don't do tap water okay so does the
chlorine that is a fluoride that has
drugs in there chemicals pesticides and
all sorts of other discussing things
either get a really good filter to pull
out the chemicals including the fluoride
or drink spring water that is bottled
now should you drink distilled not if
you're not taking minerals because
distilled water can deplete some of your
minerals and if you're new at this and
you go into this already deficient in
minerals and then you do distilled water
without minerals that can create a
severe deficiency now whether you do a
stripped water fast or the type of
fasting that I recommend with the
nutrients after three days you will not
have any hunger you will have a ton of
energy you're gonna have a lot of other
benefits but you're gonna be very
surprised like I'm not even hungry yet
I'm not eating that's because your body
is running off your fat fuel it's a very
interesting but weird thing because you
would think you'd be exhausted and
you're starving but now you'll have no
hunger which makes it very easy to do
but that being said I do recommend going
into fasting starting with in a minute
fasting and then slowly graduating so
your body can adapt to less frequent
meals
to the point where you can do periodic
prolonged fasting for two days three
days and even longer because the
benefits are over-the-top massive let's
go through the benefits one is you get
to express a gene called BDNF this is a
protein that gets activated and it
stands for brain derived neurotrophic
factor this protein which is also
stimulate by exercise causes your body
to produce more brain cells I mean if
you have memory problems cognitive
issues I mean wouldn't you want more
brain cells I mean this is amazing
especially if your focus isn't that
great your concentration sucks or you
you're starting to go in the room and
like what am i where did I go in there
for where my keys you want to increase
this right here number two antioxidant
pool you start to make more antioxidants
to start in the repair process because
your body makes antioxidants but it's
stimulated in a big way when you do
fasting next one you actually make more
monic Andreea these are the energy
factories that give you energy this is
why you get more energy when you do
fasting maybe not initially but after
you adapt your energy will just start
going up next thing is a toff adji etapa
g is a condition whereby your body is
recycling old damaged proteins and
cleaning up the microbes that it should
not be there so when you do fasting it
kicks on certain genes that then trigger
this chain reaction of taking all this
old damaged protein putting it into a
recycling mechanism with all these
enzymes and pushing out new proteins and
also using some of this for energy so
this is a real important recycling
mechanism to help in the repair cycle so
fasting is really important in repairing
tissue increasing longevity and fixing
old damaged proteins this is why your
skin looks better you look younger next
one you decrease insulin now of course
if your deke
using insulin you you're not bringing
insulin down to such a level that is
dangerous you're just normalizing the
excess okay because you're also fixing
insulin resistance which creates more
insulin so if you have pre-existing
blood sugar problems or you're diabetic
this is going to be very very very vital
but when you decrease insulin you
improve so many body problems it's not
funny because this is connected to fatty
liver it's connected to diabetes
metabolic syndrome high blood pressure
and the list goes on and on you also
recycle nutrients so the amount or
quantity of nutrients you need are much
less next thing is you increase the
resistance to stress this is one of the
reasons why they're also recommending
fasting to people on chemotherapy
because the fasting strengthens the cell
to external stresses your cells become
tough next thing decreases your risk of
getting tumors and polyps and even
cancer next thing is decreasing
inflammation inappropriate inflammation
autoimmune conditions allergies
arthritis big-time and lastly it will
cost your body to run on ketones okay
about 40 percent of you will be ketones
the rest will be mostly fatty acids and
then a little bit of glucose but that
can be made by your own body okay your
body can make it out of protein and fat
you don't need to consume any glucose
ketones are interesting because let's
say for example you're a diabetic and
your heart is damaged and you have heart
tissue that doesn't easily accept the
fuel glucose okay well ketones can
bypass that whole thing and feed the
heart tissue directly and your heart
thrives on ketones
same thing with the brain let's say you
have Alzheimer's Parkinson's or insulin
resistance and the cells in the brain
cannot readily absorb glucose well guess
what
ketones bypass that whole thing
get right in there and feed the brain
directly so it gets fuel immediately so
it can feed damaged tissues ketones are
the preferred fuel of the brain your
brain loves ketones okay if given the
choice between glucose and ketones it'll
take ketones ketones are a much cleaner
fuel without the excess waste that
glucose bring alright guys that's my
long answer to what is water fasting if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
