so this video is primarily for diabetics
especially type 2 but if you have a type
1 you can watch as well we're talking
about the diabetic brain there's some
interesting things that you need to know
number one the brain uses 20% of all the
energy generator in the body yet it only
makes up 2% of the tissues so it's an
energy hog so that's the first thing I'm
gonna come back there in a minute but
there's a thing called diabetes type 3
which is Alzheimer's so Alzheimer's in
reality is diabetes of your brain
because the effects of high blood sugar
cause atrophy of certain parts of the
brain this part called hippocampus in
the frontal lobe and there's also other
parts too like the temporal lobe and
that's going to cause a loss of memory a
loss of your brain GPS the ability to
locate yourself in space so you're
walking outside looking for your car I
can't quite find that but the problem is
Alzheimer starts way back over here like
20 to 30 years before you start
developing the major symptoms so it
starts small and it's brewing in the
oven and then it gets worse and worse
and worse now the other thing I want to
bring up is that when you destroy this
part of the brain you lose your memory
but there's a treatment called nasal
insulin delivery which you basically
blow insulin up to your sinuses it gets
right up to the brain and that has been
shown to enhance your memory right so
right there you can see that insulin is
involved insulin is involved with blood
sugars but insulin also has some other
purposes of the brain that go beyond
regulation of blood sugars as well but I
don't want to get sidetracked on that
right now another interesting point is a
healthy brain has four times as much
insulin and ten times as many insulin
receptors which means that when you have
diabetes obviously you have an insulin
deficiency as in insulin resistance okay
however they still haven't figured out
where this is is it in the blood-brain
barrier is it insert
the brain they don't there's a lot of
unknowns with this but all we know is
that we need the right amount of insulin
in the brain for it to work correctly
the other very interesting thing about
the brain is that it does not store
glycogen like your liver does and your
muscles do so it doesn't have a glycogen
reserve like ojen is this storage of
glucose okay so it doesn't store
glycogen it's dependent on glucose from
your blood now the glucose in your blood
could be coming from glycogen in other
parts of your body but the point is we
don't have this glycogen reserve like
the muscles do which the muscles can
grab glycogen really fast your brain
can't it's totally dependent on what's
happening with glucose okay let me take
it one step further
your fat breaks down into fatty acids
which can be used for fuel except the
brain the brain can't use fatty acids
and guess what 60% of that fat turns
into fatty acids the heart can use this
the muscles can use it but not the brain
thank goodness we have the 40% ketones
your brain can run on ketones in fact it
loves ketones better than glucose in
fact if you have glucose and ketones
together in your blood the brain will
always pick ketones first over glucose
so ketones can act as an antioxidant in
the brain has anti-inflammatory
properties it increases oxygen and
bypass some of the damaged neurons and
feed the brain directly so we have only
two fuel choices we have glucose and we
have ketones so obviously you want to
probably run on ketones right well the
problem is you'll never do it unless you
bring your carbs down below 50 grams and
the average person in America is
consuming almost 300 grams of carbs okay
that is the problem if we take a
diabetic a lot of times diabetics are
consuming even more that's why they have
diabetes diabetes is a disease
of high blood sugar so why would you
want to add more carbs to this this
problem so in order to run your body on
ketones and this is what I'm
recommending you want to get your carbs
down at least below 50 grams I put a
link down below of exactly how to do
that but I really wanted you to
understand why you should be writing
your body on ketones because the more
you're dependent on this glucose you're
constantly going to need food every 3
hours you're getting a snack your blood
sugars come up and down and up and down
and then you start losing more and more
insulin the brain then you start getting
clacking in the brain and atrophy other
than that you're going to be perfectly
fine alright thanks for watching so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications
