okay so I wanted to create this video in
diabetes and talk about the stats and
where it's trending worldwide it's
completely getting out of control
China for example a hundred and fifty
million people in China it's eleven
percent of the population has diabetes
right now 493 million are pre-diabetic
in America we have 300 roughly about 300
million people well they have of course
they have a billion people but still
it's 493 million people China has the
most diabetics of any country in the
world and then we get to India which has
69 million people being diabetic
that's 7.3 percent of their population
with 77 million pre-diabetic then we
have Saudi Arabia 3.8 million people in
the country by that's eighteen point
five percent of their entire population
are diabetics that's that's basically of
any country they take number one for the
most percentage of the population being
diabetics Mexico 13 million people have
diabetes that's 14 point 8 percent of
the entire population and diabetes in
Mexico is the leading cause of death
then we have the u.s. 30 million people
in the US have diabetes that's nine
point four percent of its population and
eighty four point 1 million are
pre-diabetic completely and utterly
unnecessary so there's four main tissues
that are affected when you have high
sugar okay the I so you have damage to
the retina the heart okay and the blood
vessels that kidney and then you also
have the nervous system the peripheral
nerves in your feet and your fingers as
well as the central nervous system in
your brain is affected you start
developing Alzheimer's Parkinson's and
even increase your risk for cancer so
let's go to the experts again the
American Diabetes Association to find
out what we can do
to prevent type 2 diabetes' says how can
i delay or prevent type 2 diabetes' like
i don't know why i want to delay it I
want to just actually prevent it alright
there's really only three things you
need to do which I'm glad they're
keeping it simple daily physical
exercise such as walking okay good
number two weight loss you just need to
lose weight all right number three
medication okay guys if you just focus
on those three things then you can
hopefully delay your diabetes what are
they missing in here the reduction of
carbohydrates it's not on here I don't
know why not well let's go to the link
on their site to the eating plan here it
is right here
this is what your plate should look like
you have the vegetables don't forget
your healthy oils like canola and
vegetable oil like corn and soy but
don't do the saturated fats okay plenty
of fruits okay and by the way you can
also use juice as a fruit substitute
okay that has actually probably more
sugar than anything else even like soda
but look at this right here guys whole
grains why would you even recommend
whole grains if you have diabetes first
of all they turn in this sugar okay and
it's gonna spike your blood sugar
secondly they're loaded with lectins I'm
going to do a separate video on this
which will increase inflammation and all
sorts of other additional problems that
relate to spiking your blood sugar and
causing insulin resistance but yeah like
1/4 of your plate should be whole grains
unbelievable and it says limit refined
grains it doesn't say eliminate it it
says limit your refined grains like
white rice and white bread choose fish
poultry beans and nuts limit red meat
and cheese avoid bacon cold cuts and
other processed meats alright guys there
you have it if you want to delay
diabetes go ahead and follow this plan
if you want to avoid it in the first
I click the link down below and learn
what food you need to eat alright I'll
see you next time
you're enjoying this content go ahead
and share it with someone that could
really benefit from it
