you know if you have rib pain or a
condition called
costocondritis which is rib pain and the
front part uh you have the sternum right
in the center and then to the left and
right of the sternum you have this
little piece of carage that articulates
or connects with the rib right and so if
you have pain in any part of this this
video is for you so what does
costocondritis mean Costo meaning rib
condro meaning cartilage and itis
meaning inflammation of the first
symptom of this condition is chest pain
so it can mimic a heart problem but it's
not a heart problem you go to the
hospital you get your heart tested comes
out negative so then they diagnose you
with uh costocondritis and they send you
home with a medication so the primary
treatment of this condition is some
medication and sometimes steroids uh
maybe sometimes an injection and of
course if you look this up on Wikipedia
it'll say unknown cause okay they don't
know well being in practice for 30 years
I'm going to tell you what what I found
to be the cause um there's actually two
primary causes and I'm going to talk
about number two first and that involves
an old injury to either a rib on the
front of your chest cavity or more
likely a injury in your back part of
your ribs or the spine through your
thoracic spine your midback I can't tell
you how many injuries I had to my
midback I mean in football practice
people uh you're knocking the wind out
of you slamming into your rib cage from
the back part uh two wrestling injuries
uh one time I was in college and there
was this uh guy who said he uh was a
karate teacher right he was going to
teach us karate so we got a group
together went to his house went into his
um garage and he basically used this as
a punching bag uh so we were to hold
this little bar on top of our heads and
he was GNA toughen us up so he would
then punch us okay uh in the rib cage
and so I was next I stood up there and I
was supposed to Exhale as he punched me
and as soon as he punched me he broke a
rib okay I felt it crack start pain I'm
like dude what are you doing like you
just broke my rib so that was the last
time I ever went back to that guy and
found out he knew nothing about karate
or any martial arts at all so in the
past I have broken several ribs and so
when they heal they take a long time
okay and and if there's some type of
broken rib or even damage to your
thoracic spine the scar tissue that
develops takes a long time so it's
delayed so sometimes this pain on the
front part of your rib cage can happen
months or years after you had injury in
the back part you have to realize the
whole rib cage is connected the back
part is heavily anchored to the spine
with a lot of scar tissue and there's a
lot less uh connected tissue on the
front front part so a problem in the
back part can easily create problems in
the front Okay I'm talking about pain in
the front part of your sternum and so if
you're so focused on the symptom up here
when the problem is back there then
you'll never correct it but this problem
in the rib cage can really affect your
breathing it can create uh air hunger
and breathing problems and I just did a
video on that and I'll put that link
down below it can also affect the
ability to expand your chest when you're
sleeping at night to Get Air and it can
uh greatly reduce your ability to sleep
and just get in a comfortable sleeping
state but a lot of problems with rib
cage happen really because of the spine
and the back part it can happen from the
front part too but usually from the back
part the thoracic spine now it can also
happen from unilateral Sports so whether
it's golfing or uh baseball or tennis or
any um sport that involves either a
right hand or a left hand activity
because you're repetitively doing the
same motion over and over again it can
actually twist the spine and throw off
the ribs and definitely affect your
thoracic spine not to mention all the
postural things people over their
computer hunching over and what that can
do to your spine I'm going to show you
some great things that you can do to
correct that problem another side note
on this rib cage issue if it's on the
right side okay lower right side suspect
gallbladder I have a lot of videos on
that but if your gallbladder is
congested not NE necessarily a gall
stone but just congested that can create
a backup of bile and cause pressure in
your into your uh liver and then can put
pressure on the rib cage and sometimes
even in the back part on your rhomboids
in the back part over here and
especially up here the number one cause
of
costocondritis is a vitamin D deficiency
let me explain vitamin D deficiency in
children it's called rickets and many
times a child will have structural
malformation from this vitamin D
deficiency like boded legs like kyphosis
which is Hunchback or lordosis which is
swayback or even scoliosis so vitamin D
has a lot to do with the formation of
your skeleton also if a child is
deficient in vitamin D they can have
structural deformations that happen with
their sternum and their related carage
that's connected to it in fact the
carage actually can grow more than it
should and create all sorts of
imbalances just from this vitamin D
deficiency problem then on the flip side
when you are older and you become
deficient with vitamin D you develop
osteomalacia which is softening of the
bones and you can also have problems
with the sternum and tenderness and bone
pain when you press into it as well as
the carage right next to it and it's not
uncommon to develop
costocondritis from a vitamin D
deficiency very simply you just need to
take more vitamin D especially if it's
in the winter and you can't get it from
the Sun I would recommend no less than
10,000 I use make sure you also take it
with the K2 and then the ratio would be
10,000 I use of vitamin D3 and then 100
micrograms of vitamin K2 and you want
the mk7 version of that if your
costocondritis is really coming from
this vitamin D deficiency within days
you should feel relief let me come back
to number one that I talked about a
thoracic spine or a midback problem
that's then causing this rib pain the
thoracic spine that's involved in this
usually there's U old scar tissue from
some injury of some sort and for me I
had a lot of scar tissue even in my 20s
because I the combination of a bad diet
and old injuries was not good with my
thoracic spine so I have a lot of scar
tissue in that area I have degeneration
I have arthritis Etc so I do what I'm
about to show you um to my thoracic
spine on a daily basis to keep it
stretched out I found that I can't get
an adjustment anymore because there's
too much arthritis and it hurts and it's
not the right thing to do because the
problem is not necessarily in the joints
of the spine it's actually in the
articulation between the spine and the
rib okay it's all the scar tissue around
that area which Chiropractic doesn't
seem to help with an adjustment but only
stretching will help that condition and
on top of everything else guess what is
in your midback okay your thoracic spine
the guts the heart the core of your
sympathetic nervous system okay that's
where it's located and so these
exercises that I'm going to show you um
are going to create a profound effect on
your stress and your ability to sleep
and feel relaxed when you do these
exercises you're going to feel like you
want to take a nap why because they're
relaxing the tension in your midback
that's associated with this activation
of the sympathetic mode so I do this
technique every night before I go to bed
and it involves this massage tool that I
developed you can see that there's
different widths right okay the wide
narrow and the medium okay and this is
designed from my my thumb you can see my
thumbs are huge right so when I would
work through people and work on the
thoracic spine I would do this manually
but I developed this for myself to do
this on my back now you're going to be
using if you use this the wide portion
right here now you can also um if you
don't have it this device you can just
have your partner or someone that you
know in the house do this to you and
start pressing on the rib head going
outward at each rib going up the spine
okay and really hitting those points
that are really stiff and filled with
scar tissue you can do that um this is
nice if you don't have anyone and I'm
going to show you how I lay on this and
I use this to
um relax and stretch the scar tissue
that has developed from my old injuries
in my thoracic spine okay we have this
device here you can see the width here
and I'm going to put this start lower on
my thoracic spine okay I'm just going to
lay on it right down here like so right
on this point with my
head the pillow right here so I'm just
going to lay on this for like I don't
know 30
seconds if I don't fall first fall
asleep I'm going to lift up and I'm
going to push it up a little bit higher
up lay down on it and both of those
little prongs are on the articulation
between my ribs and my spine so they hit
the points they're relaxing the muscles
they're opening up that scar tissue so I
can breathe better and I'll
slowly bring it up to the a higher point
in my thoracic spine so I'm laying down
right here and here and so I'll lay on
this and sometimes I'll literally fall
asleep because it's so relaxing so I do
that every single night before I sleep
okay we're back a couple more things I
want to mention there's H something
called the mobility stick which I just
discovered it's a great simple tool that
you can use to stretch and rotate your
midback as you can see uh that I'm
demonstrating right now there's all
sorts of different types of exercises
that you can use with this uh uh tool to
stretch and rotate your spine to put
symmetry back into the spine it's a
great thing to help stretch it and it
actually will open up your rib cage and
it will help you sleep now there's
another thing you can do uh with
extension type exercises as you can see
in this video this person is stretching
their thoracic spine all you need to do
is do this with a some type of H like a
bed or a bench and start stretching that
midback to create some motion into the
spine because the thing with scar tissue
or arthritis is uh the key thing is
motion you have to keep it moving you
have to keep stretching it because that
scar tissue is like crab grass and it
starts to tighten up and it starts to
affect the rib cage and you're breathing
now because of the sensoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe rbe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other side now since I did
mention this word stress if you have not
seen my acupressure technique for stress
you have to check it out I put it up
right
here
