so let's talk about the seven causes of
a metallic taste in your mouth what
could it be number one let's say you're
on chemotherapy that will do it because
of all the chemicals in your body
number two medications especially
antibiotics there's so many different
chemicals and medication and that's
usually the elephant in the room if
you're taking a lot of medications and
you have this metallic taste
chances are it's the medications routine
pregnancy and I'll tell you why in a
minute
alright number four synthetic vitamins
okay when you buy a vitamin from a
druggist or not a health food store but
a drugstore chances are they're going to
be synthetic like 90% of all vitamins
out there are made synthetically so you
have the synthetic version of a vitamin
and then you have the minerals which are
not coming from actual food they're
called elemental and when you take those
you could actually have a metallic taste
in your mouth I don't recommend
synthetic vitamins unless you're doing
some short-term cleanse or detox
for various purposes number five you
have too many heavy metals from certain
maybe fish at your consuming shark
swordfish Marlin and tuna are all high
in heavy metals like mercury cadmium
things like that now I know some of you
are going wait a second I consumed tuna
make sure you do the light tuna skipjack
okay not the albacore in the can okay
be better off doing the salmon in the
can but tuna has three times the mercury
as some of the other fish now there is
mercury and other fish even like salmon
but these other fish are high in
selenium and selenium is part of an
enzyme to help detoxify mercury and
other heavy metals so selenium is a very
vital mineral in keeping these heavy
metals at bay certain cookware that
you're using aluminum pans let's say for
example you're cooking in iron skillets
I would recommend reevaluate what you
cook in and make sure it doesn't have
something that is harmful tap water is
loaded with
a lot of chemicals not just chlorine and
fluoride but heavy metals as well as
other chemicals and even medications
okay so get a good filter to actually
get rid of that stuff
pesticides because you're not consuming
organic food you're just doing regular
food that has pesticides insecticides
and those are going to be loaded with
chemicals that actually can get in your
body and you can actually taste them
however the biggest reason for a
metallic taste in your mouth is a zinc
deficiency now if you're severely
deficient in zinc you're gonna lose all
your taste okay and smell but if you
have a marginal or subclinical
deficiency of zinc you can really alter
your taste to the point where you're
tasting a metallic taste and also
chemotherapy depletes your zinc certain
medications chelate or block the zinc
and pregnancy as well so a lot of times
if a woman is pregnant and she's not
eating the right foods she's going to be
deficient in certain things because the
demand from the fetus is pulling all
these nutrients out so it's very easy to
become deficient if she's not consuming
the right foods or she's consuming too
many carbohydrates or refined sugars
she needs to consume seafood very very
important now if you want more
information on how to get more zinc in
your body as far as the foods I put a
link down below thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
