so I recently had someone comment
they're losing their hair but they're
getting facial hair they're getting a
beard that is not a good situation if
you're female so chances are that person
has something called PCOS polycystic
ovarian syndrome okay here are some
symptoms irregular cycles or no cycle
acne or cystic acne which is more severe
a deeper voice hair loss if the hair
follicles are sensitive to androgens
facial hair okay
this condition is being caused by high
levels of androgens okay and if you look
this condition up you're always gonna
find that they say it's associated with
insulin resistance no is not it's being
caused by insulin resistance why because
high levels of insulin that's created
from insulin resistance converts to
androgens that's where the antigens are
coming from the high levels of insulin
that is being created by insulin
resistance so take a wild guess how do
you fix instant resistance you guessed
it healthy ketosis and in a minute
fasting it is so easy to improve this
condition if you know what's causing it
if you're new to keto in them and
fasting just do it and test it out for
yourself and you're doing it without
having to take on medication now think
about what is the main medication for
PCOS it's metformin
what does metformin do it targets
insulin resistance alright I put a link
down below of how to do healthy ketosis
and in a minute fasting hey you know
what I just want to say something only
30% of the people that watching this
video actually make it this far and you
did so I really appreciate you thank you
so much
