so I want to talk about pregnancy and
diabetes okay if you're pregnant and
you're a diabetic there's several things
you need to know in fact if you're
pregnant you're a pre-diabetic or you're
pregnant and you have insulin resistance
which is a lot more common in fact
probably I would say 65% of women who
are pregnant that are not diabetic
usually have insulin resistance this
video is for you first let me just
define insulin resistance this is a
condition where your body is not able to
absorb insulin which means that when
insulin is triggered by carbohydrates it
doesn't seem to work that well and then
what happens is your body has to make
more insulin than it needs and that
excess insulin creates a lot of problems
if you check the blood sugars your blood
sugars may be normal okay because of the
excess amount of insulin that's being
generated keeping your blood Sugar's
normal but your the big problem
underneath the surface you have high
amounts of insulin this is the test that
can be done to check that it's called
Homa - I are I would definitely get this
test before you get pregnant because you
want to know if you have insulin
resistance because it creates a lot of
problems so if you're a diabetic or
pre-diabetic or II have insulin
resistance and you become pregnant the
insulin resistance part gets worse why
because it's a survival mechanism the
fetus is going to demand more fuel and
so your body is as a protective
mechanism it's going to create instant
resistance on you so it's going to be
shunning to the baby the problem is that
if you have insulin resistance already
going into this things get worse and you
may become a diabetic and this is
probably the reason why women get
gestational diabetes during pregnancy
they already are going into this with
insulin resistance now if you're a
diabetic and you're pregnant
the diabetes tends to get worse because
of this fact right here now the problem
is the complications from you having
blood sugar issues whether it's in some
resistance pre-diabetes or diabetes
there's
complications for the baby one is that
they're more likely to become a diabetic
more likely become a stillbirth and just
being a diabetic you may find that
you're having a hard time being fertile
in the first place the baby might have a
stunted growth birth defects
preeclampsia that's a combination of
three things high blood pressure protein
in the urine and swelling in your hands
and feet eclampsia is basically when you
get seizures and a lot of other problems
like you're in a coma
you can even die from that so these are
three things that you need to be aware
of right here but that could be coming
from the blood sugar issue now the big
problem of having insulin resistance in
addition to being a diabetic or being a
pre-diabetic is that your ability to
absorb these nutrients is impaired
okay you can't absorb nutrients I'm
talking about vitamin C vitamin A
vitamin E magnesium potassium manganese
zinc chromium selenium folate b1 biotin
and these nutrients are essential to
prevent these complications so you have
a double-edged sword the insulin
resistance is creating the inability for
these vitamins to go in your body and
these deficiencies now are creating more
insulin resistance this is why if you're
thinking about getting pregnant or
you're already pregnant and you have
insulin resistance you better be taking
these vitamins or eating food high in
these nutrients vital vital vital to
prevent these complications in other
words the blood sugar issues the insulin
resistance the diabetes severely
depletes you of nutrients and you have
complications so if you're diabetic and
you take these nutrients these
complications really diminish alright
and the last question is how do you know
if you have insulin resistance well you
can get the test whole myir
or you can actually go by symptoms as
well
do you have belly fat do you have
frequent urination at night do you find
that when you eat you're not satisfied
after a meal you need a little sweet
after you eat or you're tired after you
eat lunch or you have low blood sugar
symptoms let's say you get Irabu and you
cannot go very long without a meal
before becoming lightheaded or highly
irritable I mean think about how many
women have these symptoms when they're
pregnant the best place to start is well
before you become pregnant but if you're
already pregnant I would recommend
getting on the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet it starts in a minute
fasting goes definitely do that before
you're pregnant but not while you're
pregnant okay
or you're breastfeeding you want to make
sure that we don't deprive you basically
foods that have these nutrients in them
all right thanks for watching if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
