so I recently had another question
related to someone having constipation
and she wanted to know should I consume
more fiber so let's just dive in and
talk about it
so fiber is one of those things that
they will tell you to consume to prevent
colon cancer right you've probably heard
that a million times it actually does
not prevent colon cancer and I'm going
to put some links down below you got to
check this out in fact nearly every
single recommendation that they will
tell you some day I'm gonna find out who
they is is not just completely false
it's the complete opposite in many cases
ok and a lot of studies they use
involving fiber is not from vegetable
fiber
it's from gar gum or some other fiber so
you need to know that now I am the guy
that recommends seven to ten cups of
vegetables or salad every single day but
not necessarily just for the fiber it's
for the nutrients it's for the final
nutrients you know minerals and vitamins
and things like that
yes the fiber will help because it feeds
the colon but if your digestive system
is compromised okay and you don't have
the capacity to digest this much
vegetable what's gonna happen is when
you add all these vegetables you're
gonna get gas and bloating and pain so
here are the conditions in which you
would not want to consume this much
salad or vegetables or fiber okay if you
had constipation if you had
diverticulitis if you have bloating
abdominal pain IBS food allergies SIBO
in which you have too much bacteria in
the small intestine when you should have
it in a large if you have hemorrhoids or
even rectal bleeding so being
constipated is very similar to the
traffic in Washington DC right around
4:30 or 5 o'clock in the afternoon on a
weekday
it is so congested bumper-to-bumper
you're not moving at all in fact I'm in
Virginia now coming here I was in the
traffic jam it took me forever to get
here so do we want to add more cars to
the congestion do we want to have more
fiber to a colon that's already impacted
it's illogical
we don't want to add more bulk to a
congested : what do we want to do we
want to do in term in fasting why the
time it takes for food to go through you
is roughly about 35 to 40 hours okay not
24 hours it's like longer than that it's
35 to 40 hours so if you start climbing
down the frequency of eating you'll give
your system a chance to process this
food and that would be the most
important thing that I would recommend
start doing and fasting immediately and
I have a link down below if you're new
to my channel I would also cut out fiber
including vegetables for a month now
there's a new trend nail called the
carnivore diet where a lot of people are
cutting out fiber and vegetables and
they're getting great improvements with
their digestion so I'm gonna do a
separate video in the carnivore diet the
reason why it works for a lot of people
is you're bringing the carbs down to
zero and most people have too much
insulin so right there you're going to
drop the inflammation in the body if you
have any digestive issues and then you
take away this fiber that's irritating
it so much you're gonna feel great okay
there is a correct way to do it I
personally don't do it I find I do much
better on a combination of vegetables
and animal products okay
and if you're only eating like muscle
meat you're not doing organ meats I
think that's a big mistake but there is
a way to do it if you wanted to go that
route to test it out to see if your body
responds to it but if your system is
working and you don't have these issues
my opinion is that the nutrients in the
vegetables aren't going to help you more
than they're gonna hurt you in fact I
haven't heard any studies of the long
term chronic problem with eating
vegetables okay it's just not going to
happen and also realize that fiber is
not digested by you your body can't
digest it okay it's your microbes so if
there's a micro problem either too many
microbes or not enough you're gonna have
a hard time with fiber because you're
gonna get excessive what's called
fermentation and you're going to develop
more methane gas okay hydrogen gas or
carbon dioxide or certain types of gases
because of the imbalance of microbes in
your gut now another interesting
when I was trying to be a vegan in my
20s I did not do well it tore up my
intestine
I always feel bloated I was feeling
depressed and then I switched over to
more meat and what was interesting back
then was here I was eating fatty
hamburger and buffalo burgers without
the bun or anything and my bowels would
just go I'm like there's there's no
fiber in there how could I actually go
well that was the stimulation of bile
when you increase your fat you stimulate
and release something called bile salts
from your your liver that's stored in
the gallbladder well by all faults are a
lubricant it's going to lubricate the
colon and help your digestion so if you
have digestive problems go real low on
the vegetables and maybe even cut them
out for a period of time but I do find
that when you add more vegetables or
fiber you make this worse and some of
you might respond to replacing your
fiber with fermented vegetables okay and
you'll do very well unless you have this
condition right here which is SIBO so
you just have to test it out and this is
basically a situation where you don't
want to add fiber and you don't want to
probiotics because you have too many
bacteria already in the small intestine
you can either get a test to figure this
out or you can just take probiotics and
see if it makes you feel better if it
makes you feel worse then we we might
have a situation right here alright guys
there you have it I'll see in the next
video if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
