hey guys dr. Berg here in this video
we're here with Justin and we are going
to show you how to do an evaluation so
so many people when they get an
evaluation they go to the practitioner
and they just they give them a list of
things to take for their symptoms so
what I want to do is I want to take all
this information crunch it and come up
with a root cause versus treat the
symptom Justin we talked before can you
tell me a little bit about your main
problem I think you said it's a almost
like a anxiety stomach where it's in
your abdomen can you tell me about that
correct I mean it's just a persistent
feeling kind of like a tight knot
sometimes it's really tight sometimes
it's kind of a throb it'll manifest
itself as shooting maybe through the
back sometimes it's angling sometimes it
comes up the chest into the shoulder
area a little bit and just a just as
uncomfortable anxious feeling got it
okay so does it come up to here does it
ever come up to this point this muscle
right through here rarely I do have an
issue with my neck because I have a
strain in my neck so it would be hard
for me to tell that was actually coming
from this area or whether it was just a
result of this small injury I have a
possibly large injury I have in my
engine Ram I have an injury in my neck
right here so you can right side where
the if you could feel you can actually
hear that yeah here's what happened to
your neck I don't know it was it's like
it almost like it was slipped on wrong
and then it just kind of got worse so it
really wasn't an injury was just like
sleeping wrong and then you start
hurting yeah and then sigh her but it's
been like that for a while but it's like
something in there hear it yeah I can
hear it crunching yeah okay good we'll
come back to that I always want to kind
of differentiate like when people say I
have an injury and then you find out it
wasn't really an injury just slept wrong
why would the neck still hurt from
sleeping long right this doesn't make
sense
next question does this sensation it's
like always there or does it come and go
it's it's always there but it will raise
and lower at certain times of the day
say I'm maybe in a higher pressure
situation it will exacerbate
that ya like stress or anxiety kind of
doubles up on it but it's always kind of
there like I can feel it in the morning
I can feel it at night before you go to
bed okay
so the next common question we want to
ask is when did this start I've probably
had it for the last I'd say three to
four months straight as a persistent
thing you know I've always had it on and
off but you know the persistent feeling
down there has been firming it quite
some time okay
now what about when it first originated
where you didn't have it no listen you
had it I would say I've always had it on
and off so that you're born no probably
since probably my mid-20s mid to late
20s it's been on and off but I've had
periods where it wasn't there and then
I've had periods where it's returned but
this is the longest I can remember
probably for the last three or four
months that it's been a persistent issue
got it hold our you know 37 37 so
starting your mid-20s
do you remember like not having any any
issue at all like in your early 20s yes
and no I mean there was a yeah we were
wild people then so you know there was
always something going on to detract
from that but but less in the early 20s
and maybe kind of ramping up and I went
on okay I'm trying to get to like an
exact point it started it's may be hard
to find that exact point okay so we have
that information I would nail it down to
the late 20s I would say you know
probably around 28 great that was the
year that I started going downhill to
myself okay so late 20 20 or actually 28
years old now the next thing we want to
find out of all the things that were
different were things that changed right
before that happened was there anything
that happened
food-wise stress wise that could have
triggered this well I was on and
actually when I was with my wife at that
point or with my then-girlfriend
I had a pretty hefty drinking habit back
in the day and when I started trying to
curtail that or change my habits and
that I think I sent myself into a bit of
a you know emotional and physical
upheaval it's in myself okay so there
was definitely a stress there was some
drinking stress back and forth that
whole thing which makes sense during
that time was you're eating like
perfectback man or is it slightly off oh
now I've never had my diet is probably
something that did the improvement even
today okay now the next question is I
want to get a related symptoms like you
having other body issues for example
fatigue sleep hitching burping
constipation do you have any other
symptoms no not right now
like I said I've been taking a SSRI
recently and I've been on and off of
them and then when I was off of them
before I was on tried lexapro first
which made me super tired then I went on
to paxil which seemed to have little to
no effect then I went off the fact so I
weaned myself off of that I can I was
off that for about two months and slept
fine which is the best sleep I've gotten
then a long time just the persistent
feeling down here really no other issues
okay maybe some occasional fatigue but
nothing like what I was experiencing on
the medication and you take these
medications for this problem right okay
because it kind of made you anxious okay
all right so a couple things I want to
just kind of educate people on number
one there's there's a there's almost
like a second brain in your gut and
there's three parts of the nervous
system the flight-or-fight
the recovery part which is called the
parasympathetic and then it's something
called it enteric which is all digestion
is all the nerve connections that go rub
to the brain so a lot of how you're
feeling up here your focus
mood is related to here so now I'm going
to ask his diets probably been bad for
many years but what about do you have a
history of antibiotics now okay good
do you have a history of any type of
constipation no often do you eliminate
per day by three times okay cool
sometimes I'll say this is a per day I
do once per month and I'm like okay
that's the problem
alright actually become more regular in
the last probably year or so okay and
then now comes the big question what do
you eat tend to eat for breakfast
breakfast
I've got sometimes a Costco Danish
sometimes I heat the bellavita biscuits
they know occasionally McDonald's but
nothing nothing good I was actually
there last night because we're going to
get some Pellegrino water and some other
things and I looked at this rack of
Danish juice it's like a month I was
like this huge just huge selection I'm
like wow there's actually a lot of
people buying those dangerous and they
sell a ton of people buying those
amazing I'm one of them amazing okay so
then for lunch what do you eat lunch I
usually try to eat something with some
chicken in it you know I work in a
restaurant so I have access to healthy
foods there so during lunch is probably
my best meal of the day so I'll try to
get some greens some chicken
occasionally some red meat rice and
beans it's usually the lunch thing good
then do you eat a snack or do you just
wait till dinner pays it depends because
the you know with my work schedule and I
have twins that are a year old so
whether I'm at work sometimes you know
because dinnertime is the busy time at a
restaurant and when you're with the
twins it's just if they're going to let
you eat or not so it gets pretty shaky
at night sometimes I don't even eat
dinner at all and I skip a lot of meals
and my efforts I've also noticed that my
appetite has decreased ever since this
became a persistent thing I dropped
about 15 pounds at my house
okay do you feel so you skip your dip
like binge at night for snack then when
you get home or occasionally yeah okay
and what do you normally snack on like
carrot celery or huh
no you know sometimes like even at night
I'll hit fast food on the way oh you too
sandwich at home like a ham sandwich
he's the good whole-grain bread but it's
usually chips or something like that
with that glass of milk okay
and then um do you crave anything no and
that's been kind of one of the biggest
factors of this and I wasn't sure if it
was the medication I was on but it seems
like the signal that's supposed to come
from here to the brain saying hey it's
time to eat doesn't really get there
right you know when I go to eat I'll eat
like when I'll eat like a horse when I
go to eat but I don't feel hungry right
that's one of the side effects because
it throws off this thing over here
you're trying to fix this and it gives
you another problem so how many actual
cups of vegetable do you eat per day
vegetable let's say about 2 - okay now
they are they canned okay now now we
keep reading it that's another good
thing about you know the babies he's
great so we usually keep a lot of fresh
fruit and vegetables in the house for
them so I'll snack on that as well okay
okay so now right now do you feel this
sensation is your sadena is it like a
tight knot like a deeper tight tightness
kind of more it's like here but it's
more in the back right now or it's
almost like a tingly burning and then
it's kind of a real light though
sort of sensation here kind of like a
throbbing sensation okay 10 being really
really severe zero being no problem how
would you rate it right now right now in
part that's probably like a three okay
all right so I'm going to do an
experiment I'm going to press on this
point right here you can kind of sit up
a little bit I'm just going to press
right here is that sore right in here
a little bit I'm not yet I feel like a
little sharp pain yeah so um how about
there here's
Yeah right you in there okay so now what
I want to know go ahead and rewrite the
pain on the right side give me a number
seven what is it uh now hmm I'd say it's
about it's funny it's like it's moves
like here a little bit okay but right
here right here it's less I'd say I'd
say move down one two like a two okay
all right so here's the thing this is
only like there's could be like three
things right here you have the gall
bladder right here you have the liver
and actually use two things right there
and you haven't also the kidney right
here so in my mind I'm taking kidney
stone possibly but I don't know maybe
that's not it gall bladder because gall
bladder we refer pain right up in here
and this will cause keep this really
tight because there's a nerve that
called phrenic nerve that goes right up
through here comes right into the back
too especially between the scapula right
through and here under do you ever have
anything right here
yeah no I mean I feel a lot of that
tingling to you know come up through
that area so that's liver and
gallbladder I mean when you talk about
the gallbladder if you can't have a
really sluggish gallbladder and a
healthy liver so there ones down they're
both down so I think with him I think
it's gallbladder and liver that's my the
most likely thing based on the history
and and even if you did a scope they
might not find golf stones but if they
did a functional test where we see the
release of bile it might be constricted
and that would create an internal
tension in full feeling and tightness
that will make him feel anxious because
this area right here is next to the
diaphragm which actually affects the
breathing so it's going to it might be
hard to breathe sometime and you might
just feel like I can't just relax in my
gut so it's going to prevent him
sleeping through the night and on top of
that they treat him for anxiety with the
drugs and they camouflage the whole
thing so we don't even like know what's
going on but the fact that he has pain
right here up to here
that's all gall bladder once and the
reason I press on the
opposite side is that's how you you
actually treat it with acupressure you
work you never press on the clock what
you do but if he has a problem here you
can press in the other side it'll start
draining the gallbladder so I just did
like about six seconds of pressing just
to see if it credited change ideally
what he should do on the couch or on the
bed and start doing massage all through
here till this completely drains okay
and then I'm going to put them on the
eating plan that will start to slowly
build up the liver and the gallbladder
all this will go away I do not think
you'll need those medications at all
after this because if you have no
sensation there's no anxiety no need to
take that but obviously based on the
history that's the most likely thing
that I would recommend does that make
sense yeah okay so so let's just get
some recommendations so for food what
food wise
are you hungry in the morning or not but
it did vary you know I can eat like if I
go to eat I can eat in the morning but a
lot of times you know I won't it'll be
kind of a we have the kids in the
morning and once you get the kids you're
at the door yeah it's not a lot of time
I have three kids I told understand that
it's like you handle him I'll handle
this one like it's impossible
so for breakfast I would I think the
best thing can you do eggs mmm I would
do eggs and cheese because it seems to
be somewhat healthy and some protein I
think that'll at least help you but
because if you don't eat for breakfast
and let's say you are hungry you don't
eat you just trip time in the evening
you may possibly snack on things that
you shouldn't be eating that's a
possibility
so we want that and then for lunch what
you really needed to do to fix the liver
is we need to severely increase the
vegetable in your diet so if you have
access to food do you guys have any like
big salads you could eat so I would eat
the salad first and I'm talking like a
big salad I consume about seven to ten
cups of vegetable every single day so we
need a big salad have your chicken have
your protein and your good dinner same
thing vegetable protein since that's but
we don't want to do any junk food that's
the best thing if you keep that in your
not
crave at night that doesn't look like
you're trying to lose weight so I think
you could probably do fruits too but I
would make sure with your in your house
that you don't have any junk in the
trunk or anything junky just really make
sure that it's almost impossible to go
for that junk because you have all good
food but I'll send you kind of like a
list of what that means but yet for the
liver you need the main thing you want
to add in addition to the protein is a
lot more vegetable and prized some
nutritional support for this and some
acupressure I think this will resolve it
probably very very quickly but the only
last thing I want to point out is that
it takes three years of healthy eating
to completely rejuvenate your liver so
when you do this for like several months
and it feels good like you have to
maintain it over at least three years
you have a brand new liver sound good
huh sounds great okay well thanks for
watching so that was an example of like
how you want to valuate and pull a
string and give recommendations I'll see
you the next video
