so I have a question how many actual
hours do you sit in a given day and
before you answer that I'm not just
talking about behind the computer but
what about like watching TV at night
what about when you eat at your table or
a restaurant what about when you're
driving what about when you're shopping
online I mean we spend a tremendous
amount of time sitting and today we want
to talk about sitting in relationship to
what it's actually doing to your Fitness
level see Fitness is not necessarily uh
equated to health
it's a different thing it's like a
subcategory it makes up one part of
Health you have what you eat you have
supplements you have sleep but you also
have exercise motion movement right you
can't get fit without motion and fitness
actually if you really look at it it's
an enhanced or increased capacity to
survive with your environment in other
words it's this extra thing that allows
you to get through life and buffer
stress more easily be more flexible
stronger look better feel better my
purpose for exercising is mainly
primarily how I feel I just like how I
feel and what it can do for stress and
also it has to do with how well you're
going to perform in sports or even just
getting off of a chair or just sitting
on the floor and then getting up some
people have a difficult time getting up
from sitting on the ground that would
equate to a poor Fitness how much
flexibility do you have how much
endurance do you have basically when you
look at it your Fitness level is your
ability to adapt to your environment if
you can't adapt uh you have problems if
you can adapt you can prevent a lot of
problems healthwise so if we look at the
flip side to that which I did a video on
this being sedentary there's a medical
term for this called hypokinetic
syndrome which means hypol low kinetic
motion syndrome or diseases and there's
a whole bunch of them having to do with
your lymphatic system because the
lymphatic system needs motion to push
things through it uh having to do with
your oxygen levels and your circulation
also the accumulation of stress motion
exercise helps flush out stress and
there's a whole bunch of diseases
connected to the stress accumulation as
well so I want to give you some
strategies to counter the amount of
hours that you sit I spent a lot of time
sitting unfortunately I'm behind a
computer at least eight hours a day and
I've been doing that for a very long
time so we have uh what sitting does to
your physical body because you're
holding your body fixed uh for long
periods of time not very healthy for
your lower back because just by sitting
you add another 30 to 40% of extra
stress on your lumbar discs you also the
way you sit either in a car or on your
couch or on your chair you reverse the
curve in your lower back and you can
start to affect your posture when you
hunch over and that can lead to sciatic
pain and back pain and I tell you just
one little alteration in your lower back
can affect your shoulders your neck
muscles everything's connected and then
you have what sitting does to your
glutamic Maximus your butt right it
creates atrophy and what it does to your
hamstrings it tightens your hamstrings
it tightens What's called the soas
muscle the muscle that connects the
upper part of your body to your lower
body it's part of your core so you have
those stresses and then you have the
stress of the computer screen that's
right in front of you with the LED blue
lights see blue light is very different
it's a very high energy frequency that
doesn't get filtered from our eyes and
there's a much greater increase uh risk
of damage to the macula the back part of
your retina of the eye accelerating uh
age related macular degeneration
increasing risk for cataracts and also
just poor uh Vision in fact that
probably was the reason why I need
glasses for various things now because
of the amount of hours I've spent in
front of this computer screen not to
mention just just fixating on a certain
distance which is not very good for your
eyes plus this blue light fatigues your
eye muscles decreases melatonin which
affects your sleep so we will talk about
how to counter all this but I just
wanted to bring you awareness of that
then you have something called EMF
electromagnetic fields did a whole video
on this what happens with EMF is you
have this invisible thing you can't see
it and it's a certain frequency of
energy that comes out of things like
this comes from your computer comes from
the power cables underneath your
computer that you plug things into and
it really comes from the battery backup
to your computer as well as in the
screen anything Electronics is going to
put out these emfs and I did a video on
this and I bought a device it's called a
trifield which allows you to measure how
much uh EMF that you're being exposed to
and so I was basically bathing myself in
front of this computer uh for just so
many years and I found a really big
Source was the power cable and the
battery backup so what I do now is I
take all that stuff and I push it as far
away as I can away from me uh so I can
limit the exposure because it can affect
uh electromagnetic fields in your body
especially with your heart I was even
starting to get um palpitations and
arrhythmias from that but mainly when
the uh magnetic fields were very high it
just basically kind of wears out your
heart you just you just feel tired so
you have this sedentary situation this
fixed body position you have what it
does to your back your shoulders your
neck you working on the mouse on your
right hand with the carpal tunnel
syndrome so what can we do okay number
one frequent breaks because it's not
necessarily how many hours you sit it's
how frequently you can break that
pattern up so I highly recommend that
you do that it's very very important to
take frequent breaks at least once an
hour there are certain apps uh one app
is called Stand up it's a free app that
reminds you but there's a lot of other
ones but stand up do stretches shoulders
back
neck I have many different ways of
stretching uh one recent thing is this
Mobility stick that I just got and I
have several of these different sizes
there's these great stretching exercises
that you can uh reverse this posture
that you're in all day long also when
I'm driving I have a lumbar support but
I actually made my own um out of just
this from the dollar store you have
these uh foam things right here and I
just cut them and I just put it right in
my lower back it saves my lower back
because think about if you're driving
and you're reversing this curve because
the seats and cars are the worst right
and they just reverse this curve you're
going to start having more pressure on
the discs you're going to start getting
back pain so you want to maintain that
curve and the problem is right now I
have a Jeep and I I love the Jeep but
I'm a bit too tall and you can't lower
the darn seat so I'm looking right at
the top of the window so I have to kind
of slouch down a little bit to see that
which affects my neck because really
when you're sitting you want to be able
to sit up nice and Tall right you want
to keep your posture keep the curve in
there and there's all sorts of
philosophies on how you should sit you
know don't cross your legs do this or
that I recommend that uh you get a very
uh comfortable chair and I have a
different type of chair that allow aot
more motion to my back because I don't
sit there fixed I'm I'm moving back and
forth this is the chair I have in this
office right here you can see
that it moves and I have different ones
so I can basically Rock I can move
around I can sit like this I can cross
my legs I can cross my legs the other
way I do all sorts of things so I think
there's no one set way you know
sometimes I slouch sometimes I sit up
tall it's important to keep moving as
you're sitting so you can actually
counter this fixated state and of course
I do a lot of stretches with the
acupressure device that I created too
which I I've done a lot of videos on
that so basically you want to take
breaks and you want to reverse the
posture maybe do extension type
exercises uh maybe do weights with the
arms be creative be strategic maybe you
get your workout uh with all these
breaks every hour let's say you do
squats right or you do push-ups or you
dance right you for 5 minutes that
throws off this fixed pattern that we
lock ourselves into I mean that's a
great way to do interval training you do
a maybe a a minute workout high
intensity and you rest for a period of
time and you do that a few times and
then you go back to work for another you
know 55 minutes and you do that several
hours of the day I mean you just kill
two birds with one stone you got your
workout and you got your work done I
think yoga is a really key type of
exercise that helps to reverse this
posture Pilates is another one that I
like and I also talked about having
Hobbies right to counter the stress try
to find a hobby that involves motion so
you're not just sitting doing something
but you also have the exercise component
as well I mean just think about like
when you were a kid um I don't know what
they do nowadays but when I was a kid
you had playtime right you got breaks
you didn't just sit there all day
playtime what are kids doing outside
Hopscotch they're doing they're swinging
they're climbing in bars they're running
but when you get a little older High
School College we no longer have
playtime we don't have that ability to
go on the playground and stretch our
bodies which is kind of weird not to
mention when we start working especially
if you're working in your house remotely
or you're going somewhere boy we don't
get a chance to take many breaks so
number one frequent breaks highly
recommended number two get some type of
low back support for your car and there
there are bigger lumbar supports that I
also use to stretch my lower back uh
mainly at night just to keep that curve
in there um I will put a link down below
of some ideas for that as well because
when you're doing some more active
stretching you're trying to put that
curve back in this doesn't do it this
only like maintains it you want
something a lot bigger which you can
just lay on there for like 20 30 minutes
to really get that curve in especially
if you have stica or lower back pain and
just as a side note a lot of low back
pain comes because you're low in vitamin
D don't forget about that well maybe you
can get that if you take a break and go
outside and get sun right that would be
another thing to do and I forgot about
just walking walking is so so important
to help counter this as well now with
your computer you can get things that
block this blue light you can get
glasses you can have a little thing that
goes over your computer screen which I
have and it blocks the blue light that's
coming off there that would be a smart
idea you'll find that your eyes get less
tired from that if you think about what
sun is it's a full spectrum of different
lights including
infrared uh blue light is just one
that's not good for your exposure to
your body so you should probably get
some type of lamp or a full spectrum
light that's next to your computer if
you're there all day just to get the
entire spectrum of light that you're
exposed to so that would be another uh
suggestion the other thing is the
quantity of exercise I think it's really
really important to start looking at how
much physical exercise if it's just
accumulation of steps or walking or
whatever is very very important to
counter the long period of sitting the
more you sit in one position the more
exercise you need to do to counter it
and not just counter it but build up
your Fitness so you have this extra
capacity to adapt to your environment it
really puts you in a much higher level
of Health than someone that's just
focusing on the diet right and and just
the sleep so I think the combination of
all these factors together will put you
in a state of health where you have this
extra Reserve that you can live longer
en counter all the things that come in
on us especially stress and not to
mention what it does to your deep
cellular mitochondria it actually helps
you build uh more mitochondria and to
help recycle old damaged mitochondria
most disease relates to mitochondria and
so out of all the things that contribute
to your health the most I think exercise
is right at the top of the list
but the cool thing is if you want to
strategically be more efficient just
take your breaks the short breaks every
hour and that could be your exercise
right so that way at the end of the day
you've already got your exercise all
right as far as this EMF what you want
to do um you can get a device to measure
how much EMF that's around your
environment or just right now maybe just
push all your computer stuff especially
underneath the desk as far away as
possible and this thing right here okay
if you're on the phone okay use the
speaker phone and let's say you're on a
call you get up and walk get some
exercise as you're talking the phone and
keep this away from your head do not do
this okay because you're you're just
your brain is being bathed in
electromagnetic fields your chair is
very important find a flexible chair
that you like that you can move around
and shift positions and do stretches and
motion while you're sitting there doing
what you do I mean if you think about
much time you spend on your chair per
day it's it's going to be worth it to
spend some extra money on that just like
your mattress should be a big investment
as well they even had things like a
treadmill desk I mean if you have a
treadmill there's a desk on top of the
treadmill so you can actually walk while
you're you know doing your work which is
pretty interesting you also have a
standing desks which you can rotate you
can there's little Motors that you can
stand and then bring it down and sit for
a while and kind of break it up so
anyway I just wanted to put this video
out there because um we all sit for way
too long and I wanted to give you some
creative ideas to counter that stress
now since we're talking about stress if
you have not seen my stress playlist I
have a lot of great data uh I think
you'll enjoy that I put that up right
here check it
out
