hey it's Dr Berger back and I'm going to
show you this book called CBA Collection
of medical illustrations volume four
endocrine system by Frank net uh in this
chapter I'm going to go into uh the
thyroid body type um one of the things
that uh the pro the characteristic of
thyroid would be lethargy tired despite
how many hours of sleep they get so they
have problems with um their hair loss
they have vertical ridges in the nail
they have problems with their tongue
indentations in the side their tongue
gets thicker they have dry skin they
have problems with um cold
feet um they're kind of depressed they
have problems for craving for
carbohydrates their voice can even
become deeper as well um they have a lot
of problems like if they curl their hair
they can't maintain the curl these are
all thyroid problems and when the
thyroid decreases in function over
400 uh intracellular enzymes are blocked
now what does that mean that means that
the enzymes that help you make protein
are blocked and that's why you have lots
of problems with protein that would be
hair nail skin loose skin wrinkles
puffiness um and and and eyes as well
you have floaters in the eyes so there's
a lot of different symptoms for thyroid
that um a lot of times the doctors wait
until you have a problem on the blood
test when in fact your thyroid has to be
pretty down Dage before it shows up from
my experience working with lots of
doctors because I train altern uh
doctors in Alternative Care I found that
um thyroid is pretty much a primary a
secondary problem coming from either
high levels of estrogen from a fibroid
or a cyst in the ovary or it could be
coming from an external estrogen from
the environment or it could be coming
from a bad liver because the thyroid
needs 80% of the liver to function so
that's pretty much a summary from the
thyroid and with the thyroid you want to
make sure that you have enough iodine in
the diet that would be calp and avoid
anything connected with estrogen and
that includes soy products
