[Music]
hey guys this is dr. Berg I have a
really interesting interview today with
Tiffany Roth and I heard about her from
several my clients and I just wanted to
interview you you're from California
right yeah yeah so it's interesting
she's an attorney but then she also she
taught classes in Mexico on unfitness
and now she does a lot of things online
and I just wanted to kind of pick your
brain because one thing I don't focus as
much on is exercise so I really wanted
to kind of find out from you especially
with females like what to do to improve
the workouts so would you mind ask you
some questions about that yeah so so I
guess you were when you were a kid you
were kind of chubby right I heard I
heard from the grapevine you weren't in
really good shape one of the things that
you know my family really didn't know
how to focus on healthy eating and
exercise so you know I was kind of
eating the foods that my mom was eating
and I wasn't getting the proper exercise
and my body had that result when we
raised as a child where was I raised
yeah in California okay I got it
so was it Elaine I think people assume
when you're in California that it's all
health foods but it's probably similar
to the Midwest where I was raised you
know it's probably the same meat and
potatoes but I don't know as a community
in general we've gotten a lot more
access to information about how to eat
healthy and how to exercise then existed
in the past I mean it serves something
that's been developing over time
especially with you know the internet we
can get the message out there a lot
quicker about how to be healthy or how
to use great workouts back then you know
like you just go on a diet and you need
great proof I remember my mom was doing
the pineapple diet we shade pineapple
for three days so I didn't find up over
three days you know and you lose weight
but it's not sustainable no I know
really the knowledge that we have in
this day and age allows us to make
better choices when it comes to food and
exercises that really wasn't available
back then it leads to to my mom no I
think I actually I actually practiced in
San Diego for a while next to the
charger stadium I was in when I
graduated I wanted to move where I
wanted to live so I moved to Washington
State because it's so beautiful but it
rained every day so I just couldn't take
it it was beautiful but it's just too
much rain so then I decided let's let's
move to San Diego so went there and I'm
like wow this is so beautiful this is
great but all my family because I met my
wife there and then all my family lived
on the East Coast so we and her family
so we moved to Virginia but it's a I
mean I think it's a it's a great place
to live on the west coast but so here's
so here's some questions I want to get
into now with your clients you work with
what's kind of like the top mistakes
that people are making when they're
working out like what are they always
doing wrong when they're doing it by
themselves okay well I'm gonna start
with one of the three things that I say
now one of the three things three of the
most important things that what I call
the three prongs of fitness and that's
constant and consistent commitment so
the first thing I want to tell anybody
who wants to get in shape is that you
have to be committed and you can't give
up and the reason why a lot of people
give up is because either it comes too
hard or maybe they get injured or
they're when they're doing the workout
they're not feeling the way they want to
feel so some of the tips that I would
like to provide will be on how to
breathe correctly how to workout so that
you're not getting engineer and how to
check your body alignment and the mirror
to make sure that you're getting the
results that you set out some cheat okay
so let's talk about breathing first
breathing so
is it an okay to just can't we just hold
our breath people are working out right
they're doing it and the harder it gets
the less they start degrees okay so I do
and like what I'm teaching class if it's
a cardio class I do an eight count and I
do the eight count it's really back sort
of check it's almost like a
call-and-response
I'll say eight and that's count down
with me eight seven sit but that way I
know that they are breathing because one
of the most important things that our
body needs for movement is addressed we
have to connect the breath with the
movement to get actually the power that
you need to continue so I do it when
you're doing here I'm partying back to
make sure that you do was call the talk
test you should be able to save one or
two or three words while you're doing
your cardio if you're not then your
breathing is off you just take it down a
little bit so you can say yeah I'm okay
let me interject right there so let's
say for example and I just want to know
your philosophy on this you put someone
through a workout and they do a certain
set right they're doing a certain set I
mean we're not talking about like
aerobics we're talking about like a set
of maybe some plyometrics or push-ups or
whatever right and then they're gonna
rest for a period of time do you have
any rule of thumb of how long a person
rest versus the time they're exercising
because I know there's a lot of
variation there okay if you are training
to build muscle then you need more rest
in between your sets because you want to
actually maximize your output per
exercise so I would tell like you know
some of my girls that really want to
build their leg muscles over what's
really hot it's like to build up your
butt right now if you're doing heavy
squats and be working out with heavier
weight then you would need like at least
45 to 145 seconds to one minute rest in
between sets to allow your muscles to
recover and you know be able to go back
and maximize the benefit out of the
exercise you don't want to exercise when
you're tired you know you want to
exercise when your body feels
and strong if you want to tone your body
then I shortened that rest I shortened
that rest because I like to focus on
muscle confusion and I'll do
back-to-back sets for example if you
just want to tone your legs then you
might do lunges
maybe you squat and then you do what I
called rocket squats and I'll put them
back-to-back boom boom boom to build
that muscle endurance when you build
your muscle endurance you actually have
more lean long muscles and they are able
to go for a longer period of time but
they don't deliver the maximum amount of
power as if you were trying to build
like a stronger heart muscle shape I
think that brings up a really important
point on you have the person with the
belly fat right women don't like belly
fat personally I don't like it and then
you have the fat in the lower part of
the legs right so here's what I found
you can actually flatten the stomach a
lot faster if you actually address the
diet ya a unique way and I'm gonna give
you a couple tips on that for a year
your views too if you want to share this
but let the lower extremity of the legs
you're not you're not going to get the
fat off the legs unless you use exercise
because a lot of these women especially
you probably work with menopausal women
they the ratio of fat muscle is like way
off like they lost so much muscle tone
and you haven't tried to do a squat and
they just like oh they just can't do it
so you have to build up that muscle and
that could take literally a few years of
workouts so as you lose the muscle as
you gain the muscle you may not lose
weight because it's heavier of course
but also there's going to be probably
weeks that you're gonna plateau and then
you're gonna have to just realize it's
gonna take some time because you're
actually you're healing the body so and
I don't know if you saw this on my
website but my whole philosophy is
getting healthy then lose weight versus
trying to lose weight to get healthy
it's a it's a simple thing but it's like
really powerful yeah I really am
intrigued by your whole philosophy and I
think that's really vital for people to
understand how your gut health and we
our nutritional intake is so important
in getting the results that you want and
I love how you focus on the different
body types that to me is wonderful
because if you have someone that really
like has like skinny let's take a care
that's about like doing the legs they
really just want to work that on their
bellies it would take a very very very
long time before they were able to work
that workout and get rid of all that by
just doing exercise about you have to
change your diet and your philosophy on
food is something that I really want to
align with because I think that it's
powerful and it creates awesome results
so like where are some of the tips that
you give like even to some of my
followers that could help them I get a
healthy gut and see better and quicker
results in the abdominal area well
there's one thing that's probably the
most important it's like the common
thread with pretty much 80% of all the
problems I'm talking like body problems
and weight problems you you ready for
this are you sitting down good it really
has to do with high levels of insulin
but but here's the thing
insulin is um has a lot of different
functions but insulin has two really
really important functions that people
need to realize number one it it's the
hormone that converts everything the fat
it's a fat making hormone number one
number two it prevents the loss of fat
so you if you're let's say you're eating
good and you're exercising six hours a
day whatever like I had one patient
who's working out six hours a day but
they weren't losing anything right or
they have a stuck metabolism it's like
totally frozen they can't get below that
setpoint it's it's high levels of
insulin but when you go to the doctor
they check the glucose they don't check
the insulin whoops if they did they
would find the insulin is going to be
too high and what people realize is like
what they don't realize is how to lower
insulin you can actually you can help
someone like like losing weight way more
by addressing that
then exercise exercise will like really
will help but if you actually address
the insulin you'll really really drop
down to weight a lot faster you get
leaner you get stronger really really
fast
so that's like the most important thing
you need to kind of focus on if you're
trying to get lean body mass if you're
trying to fix your metabolism is lower
insulin so then I'll out then either so
do you have any idea right now like what
you would do did lower insulin you have
any ideas I'm just asking before I tell
you okay reduce your sugar and intake
and your simple carbohydrate good yes
that's number one
so you want to reduce your carbs you
know the ones that turn this sugar
really fast so that would be all the
breads pasta cereal crackers biscuits
waffles pancakes muffins so does juice
those and then you have alcohol but then
you also have a lot of hidden carbs as
well like fruit I'm sorry I'm sorry so
because what happens you fruit is sorry
but fruit fruit what fruit will do is uh
it doesn't actually address the blood
sugars directly because it's fructose it
has a different pathway in a kid it
throws you off through the liver so it
will eventually affect the insulin but
not directly so people say oh yeah it
doesn't affect the butcher because yes
it does indirectly but so we have we
have that right but that's like half of
the answer so people on a low-carb diet
they might be successful somewhat but
they're not a hundred percent successful
because there's something else that's
equally as important do you want to know
about this okay it's has to do with
every time you eat anything new raise
insulin so it's the frequency of meals
the frequency of meals so I used to
promote and push in my old book oh yeah
you need to consume six meals a day
three meals with snacks right bad bad
advice that was very bad because every
time you meet you spike insulin even if
it's healthy
so with myself I was eating apples and
peanut butter as the afternoon snack and
then at night I would have nuts right
and I got up to like 211 pounds so then
I I went back to guidance physiology I'm
studying this I'm like what the heck I
missed this one point about the food
increases insulin so then I started
looking at okay let's do in a minute
fasting eating less frequently so we
went three meals no snacks and then two
meals a day and that's kind of where I'm
staying right now but you can drop
insulin so nicely and fix so many
problems by cutting out the snacks it's
it's the same thing about snacks really
like takes on the information that after
you can to spike your metabolism up you
can spike your metabolism up with
protein which will help your muscles
sort of be more sustainable and you will
keep your body pumping on its own tissue
okay so let me just bring up that one
point because here's another piece of
false day that where you're eating
protein to spike your metabolism okay so
really let's let's define with that that
thought would mean it's basically you
eating protein will stimulate a hormone
that can trigger your metabolism but if
your metabolism is slow you're just
gonna spike insulin so so this idea that
eating stimulates metabolism is false
data it actually slows in metabolism
because it increases insulin hmm tell me
so for example how would eat a piece of
chicken increase your insulin because
protein protein there's two types of
macro foods that stimulate insulin one
is carbs and the other one is protein
especially if it's lean protein so the
breathitt chicken breast everyone's like
Everett low fat protein low fat protein
yeah no no no because because really if
you want to keep insulin low you want to
go more fat that is the food that will
be neutral with insulin
why yeah because our bodies one of the
function is insulin actually helps you
build muscle so when you stimulate a
meno acid from protein your body will
increase insulin to try to put that to
muscle so you know we need protein for
sure and you want to keep eating protein
but you don't want to do excessive
amounts of protein like a lot of
bodybuilders and stuff they have tons of
protein because that's gonna make you
eventually you're gonna actually
stimulate some insulin you're gonna get
tired after you eat you're gonna want to
take a nap that's high insulin and then
what happens when the insulin goes high
if you develop insulin resistance and
then you have you urinate in the middle
of night more than once or once or more
that's you shouldn't do that you get
tired after you eat I know someone who
had that problem with frequent urination
and this is their really this is
actually this is something that's really
gonna help her probably a lot of women
out there that you know it's the insulin
that's interesting I've never heard of
that before
it's fascinating insulin you have vision
problems your vision starts going brain
fog uh-huh lack of focus yeah
irritability low tolerance to stress
this is all blood sugar problem so no
you're saying to me out of the day well
no just start it used to I have a little
mini course that I put everyone through
first it's a free little course online
at my website you you basically lose
like four videos get the basics to learn
how to do this but you start with two
three meals no snacks and the problem is
some people can't go from one meal to
the next because they're so hungry so
you add more fat to the meal okay and
then what happens is that oh well it
just buffers the insulin spike okay so
then it's more satisfying versus the low
fat protein so then what happens you do
that for a while until you start your
body starts adapting and and then it's
starting adapting to running burning um
fat so you're actually burning fat at
this point when you burn fat it's a much
cleaner fuel you have more energy you'll
have less
blood sugar issues then in the morning
when you wake up you're not going to be
hungry so then you start pushing your
breakfast further and further towards
the lunch until eventually you don't
have anymore breakfast that's how you do
it you do it gradually so it's
comfortable so you're recommending lunch
and dinner then a breakfast you're gonna
go against all what society saying about
the breakfast is the most healthy an
important meal of the day and you're
gonna say no to that hey listen I was
the guy who wrote the book on eating
breakfast I have videos on YouTube right
now but I promise to delete let's keep
pushing you guys need to have your
breakfast do you know why I told people
that because I had such a blood sugar
when I was a kid and also all through
teenage years into early in like when I
was 20 that what 20 is and then all of a
sudden I started going wow I started
eating protein for breakfast and I felt
so good that I said this is it this is
what everyone needs to do but the reason
I felt good is because I spiked insulin
because I had low blood sugar so I
raised the blood sugar I felt better but
I didn't think what's really underneath
it I didn't I was I was just kind of
like going off a feeling it's kind of
like hey I feel good when I drink
alcohol so alcohol is good for me I'm
like so the point is that you just
really understand what's happening if
you have a blood sugar which most people
have a blood sugar problem you don't
want to do the frequent meal thing it's
a real bad idea so there's a way to
adapt your body to running on fat fuel
which very few people know about and
they don't know how to do it correctly
but when you run your body on fat fuel
you like your metabolism is gonna be
like a machine you're gonna feel really
good your skin's gonna look good it's
anti-aging if there's so many benefits
to your joint stiffness I'm fifty to
like I feel like I'm 20 when I was in my
20s I felt like I was 50 actually kind
of bring this back around because what
you're saying is really informative and
I think it'll help a lot of my members
and actually I'm gonna look into this
whole thing because I I do advise my
clients to eat the frequent meals
healthy meals throughout
day so that they don't get hungry and go
been done foods that they shouldn't be
eating okay so I know I think it's
really good maybe they can you know try
your program to see how to transition
away from you know those insulin spikes
and it's something that might make them
feel better and a lot less sluggish but
I do have to point out that even if you
eat really well it's not gonna keep that
buck from sagging in the tummy from not
being told you kind of always mix it up
with the workout because what the
workout does is it works the muscle
itself and actually give to the vitality
and the energy that you need in order to
enjoy this healthy body that you have
internally right externally you can do
more stuff you have more agile you have
more energy and when you have more
muscle tone that increases your
metabolism as well right yeah it does it
you need exercise for sure and actually
exercise builds the muscle which then
will increase your your calories burned
okay you'll burn more calories right but
let me just talk about that for a second
because that's another confusion people
say I'm gonna build up my muscles so I
couldn't have a better metabolism I go
okay so you're gonna burn more calories
but what calories are you burning and
they'll go well all calories and like no
you're gonna either burn sugar calories
or fat calories do you want to burn fat
calories and not just the stored sugar
then you're gonna have to lower your
carbohydrates because if you're doing
the whole carbo thing and the fruit
thing you're burning up calories but
you're only burning up stored sugar
calories now let's check this out
so sugar calories I'm talking about
stored sugar as glycogen and the muscle
in the liver when you store glycogen
you're you hold a tremendous amount of
water because one glycogen compotes two
molecules of water so it's a it's a it's
like a it's like a sponge of water right
so when you cut the carbs down you're
gonna dump a lot of fluid out of the
system you'll lose weight water weight
and you're like wow I lost all this
weight right and then you eat the carbs
back and you gain the weight back
and then you do the exercise it so
exercise will dump the water because
you're burning up the glycogen you've
dumped this water and you start going up
and down up and down you're like why why
can't I actually just get all this
weight off well because you're running
you're buying
sugar so if you were to just convert
your body to fat-burning not only would
you dump the water you would lose fat
and then here's the here's the point
that I really wanted to tell you about
your into muscle physiology your into
building more lean muscle because that's
important but when you have high insulin
and high insulin resistance which makes
insulin at work you can no longer build
muscles that's why the diabetics are
flabby and they can't get toned even if
they work out because it takes healthy
insulin to work I'll absorb the protein
insulin controls protein so in other
words by doing this program I'm talking
about you can actually fix the muscle
help the absorption burn more fat get
rid of the fluid retention it's just an
overall really dynamic thing to do
amazing ok I have one question with all
the fruits and vegetables and the
nutrients in there the high fiber and
the minerals and the vitamins how do you
suggest that people get those same
nutrients like for example like from
their berries and like the via the
vitamin C and all of those things that
Nature has provided for us to actually
nurture our bodies on a micro level
great question I would give him from the
vegetables and I recommend consuming
about 7 to 10 cups of vegetables a day
because you need a lot of potassium and
like people like I actually went to the
restaurant a few I think about a month
ago and they they brought me the salad
it was a one cup of salad like mmm I
need a bowl so my salads are huge so
what you want to do is you want to start
get that get your nutrients from salad
or vegetables but if you're trying to do
this thing I'm talking about which I
don't even get into you I just kind of
scratch the surface you don't want to do
too much fruit I mean you can do a like
maybe one cup of berry a day berries a
day but you start adding more fruit and
then now so we add this sugar into it so
because the main problem of an average
person is too much insulin we
we want to heal the sugar a problem that
we have now if you've never actually
abused sugar and you don't have a weight
problem you could probably get away with
it but for most of us out there that
abuse sugar it's just an extra it's too
much sugar for our system to do fruit in
plus the the way they grow the fruits
nowadays and even the apples they spike
them they make them very very very sweet
high levels of sugar 1 1 apple nowadays
is 19 grams of actual sugar that's not
carbohydrates that's sugar so you're
like eating a candy bar Wow so yes
that's what the interesting because I
think that it's a good distinction to
point out that you need to sort of
almost detox your body from the sugar
dependency and the insulin spikes in
order to get some of the benefits of the
fat variants you say in other words you
want to sort of reduce that like
Michaels in storage so that your body's
been always going there for fuel but
instead to where your fat is story that
was that route saying yes you you know
think about it how much stored sugar you
have you have about a couple days worth
of stored sugar at 1,700 calories so you
have about 77,000 stored calories of fat
on a non fat person so it's a lot more
if you fat right so our bodies were
designed to run on fat fuel as a primary
fuel not sugar it's only in the last you
know a couple hundred years that we're
not a couple of years but basically it's
only recently that we've been focusing
on so much sugar metabolism and not fat
burning but when you start switching
over and converting your body to running
on fat fuel you will never go back
because your cognitive functions gonna
be better your memory your metabolism
your your whole mood will change your
emotional state will change you'll feel
better and so because the brain gets its
energy from either the the blood because
it doesn't can't store sugar so it gets
its sugar from the blood which if it's
too high or low it's gonna be a problem
but if you run your body on fat which is
called ketones that's what thus the
ketosis your mood your cognitive
function will like totally change and
you'll like I feel so good and then you
go back to your sugar thing and you're
like
I feel like crap right now so but you
have to prove it to yourself are
listening this and they're very
intrigued as I am how long does it take
if that's a question I always get with
fitness how long does it take before I'm
going to get results how long does it
take before I can see an actual
difference how long will it take before
they can actually feel a difference from
this these little adjustments that
you're suggesting well it depends on
what kind of problem you have like for
example if you have weight problems
you'll probably dump the fluid out and
you'll lose like five to ten pounds in
the first week or two so that you'll be
like wow that's dramatic but as far as
energy goes it could take anywhere
between three days to a week to up to
six weeks to fully adapt to fat-burning
and if the worst the blood sugar problem
you are the more diabetic you are the
more pre-diabetic you are the longer the
transition period is but I have a lot of
videos on how to make it smooth and easy
but you're going to notice some real
nice changes within three weeks but if
you do this I'm sorry three days but
they do this if you do this too fast and
you're not doing it correctly because
you didn't watch the videos all the way
through and maybe you don't know about
this or that and you're not eating
enough of this you're gonna go through a
period of like transition where you
might have like called a keto flu you
might feel kind of rundown or ketu
fatigued or like oh my gosh because you
didn't do it correctly so the way I
teach it it's a healthy version you do
it gradually and you shouldn't feel bad
you should feel really good exercise
because I know that a lot of my clients
when they're working out a lot of times
you may if you're making a big change
like in your diet might feel the more
sluggish but I find that when you
workout even if it's on my youtube
channel I have the 10 minute workout
that you can do just ten minutes a day
and I'll help you to improve your mood
and you'll be able to get through some
of those tough periods because you start
to burn up that extra insulin as well
during your workouts what you feel about
that I recommend every person start
exercising the own I mean right away you
don't have to slow you don't slow down
the only thing that I talk about
in my book is that you have the person
that's really out of shape in there
they're basically a adrenal dominant
they have a lot of adrenal issues like
they go up the stairs and they're out of
breath and they just let their body go
and they don't sleep
those people should kind of do walking
for a while low pulse rate stuff work up
to it because I'll give you an example I
had this lady okay this is when I first
began I put her through a whole workout
and spiked her pulse rate to 158 she
came back the next day her pulse rate
was 158 and I'm like oh my god so her
recovery was so poor that you don't want
to like push the person too fast you
want to kind of easily gradually go into
it so basically if you're not sleeping
for example you should go very light
because it's very dangerous to the heart
if you overdo it but I mean these are
all just minor points that cut common
sense about working out in the morning
yeah and I think most people can do that
very very comfortably but what happens
if you have a pre-existing low blood
sugar situation it's called hypoglycemia
and you work out and you tap out too
much glycogen too fast you can be dizzy
or tired in which case you either should
work out during your time you're eating
or just before until you can really
adapt correctly but I want to mention
one last piece of data because we're I
know people like I kind of like to keep
it to 30 minutes because that but I want
to add one little thing in here this is
something that kind of a brain strain
for people like because they're like oh
what's weight during the to work out
what kind of pre-workout snack do I eat
right I need that protein protein
protein protein that's like a common
knowledge right we need to eat or drink
something up some sugar water or
whatever we'll check this out if you
consume like let's say a little
juice or a little sugar or a protein bar
with sugar like most people do or what's
gonna happen you're gonna basically
knock yourself out of fat-burning for
about 48 hours yeah because it's gonna
take now another couple days before you
get back into ketosis so you don't you
don't want to do a sugary type of energy
drink when you're working out or a
Gatorade thing and then even protein
even the protein stuff you'd be much
better off waiting to the meal because
when you're fasting between meals you're
stimulating growth hormone growth
hormone is the main fat burning hormone
it actually preserves your muscles and
actually will in a female you can doing
in a minute faster you can spike growth
hormone by 13 hundred percent in a male
body by 2,000 percent by doing it a min
fasting so it's like the anti aging
activity on steroids it's a great thing
to do
you should start going you should start
at three meals a day okay keep it
whenever you eat slowly push your
breakfast to a lunch and I have a video
on this by the way and then what you do
over time is you slowly push your dinner
closer to your lunch till you get about
an ideal thing would be like four or
five hours of between your meals what
that will give you is a tremendous
amount of fasting to create some serious
improvement with the parts of the body
that you want to work on you support the
digestive system but there's a lot of
other things too that you can do that
for anti-aging it's like and just for
brain health just to focus better if you
go to dr. Berg comm under educational
tab it'll say the ketosis mini course
it's pretty coarse I have like probably
fifty thousand people who did the course
already but you basically it's like four
short videos just go to dr. Burt
education
and you can also just go to youtube and
type dr. Berg intermittent fasting
whatever topic and I'll pop up and you
can watch those videos and then also for
those people I one thing I noticed about
some of the people that that I know that
have done your program also some of the
videos that you have you have a lot of
great content on workout stuff and
fitness that I want to just just
recommend anyone who needs guidance or
at once to know how to do it correctly
and you can watch your videos on our
website which I'll put a link down below
you have also like an online program
that people can it's very affordable
that you basically go through a lot of
great techniques workouts and it's
almost like you're not it's like you
have a personal trainer but you know now
it's like you're actually have
everything like one-on-one in this
portal that you can go into so I'm gonna
recommend people check it out I'll put
your link down below and I think it's
pretty cool and also I think on your
YouTube channel you have a ton of work
out so you guys can check it out I'm
gonna take some of your advice and
because you know on the Tiffany box a
club you know I've really enjoyed doing
different workouts but I mean this this
has been so informative for me because
you know what you said about insulin is
absolutely like mind blowing I'm gonna
look into it
look into some of your food plans and
things like that maybe adapt some of
them for the Tiffany Rasta Club members
so they can get better results because I
think what you're saying is really
resonating with me and I think that'll
help a lot of people and combined with
the workout which it helps you mood and
the way that you look so win-win right
it's nice to see icing on the cake maybe
I shouldn't talk about cake right now
but you know that is great well thank
you so much for the video and we'll talk
soon and thanks for sharing thank you
I've really really learned a lot thanks
so much for sharing dr. Burke okay I'll
talk to you later
