so sometimes I get this question should
I go more vegan or should I be a
carnivore and I just want to talk about
that in this video
I personally believe you should be right
in the middle a combination of plants
and animal products so there are several
archaeologists who found some
interesting things at a site in northern
Israel that provided primary direct
evidence for what humans ate seven
hundred and eighty thousand years ago
and they found that they ate a
combination of plants and animals and of
course in other parts of the world you
know people ate differently they pretty
much ate what they can get whether it
was insects or milk from a cow or fat
from seals if they lived in other
environments so based on this article
they found that these humans consumed a
large range of plants thistle seed water
lilies acorns water chestnuts olives
even some fruit but the fruit back then
was very different than it is now it was
not nearly as sweet and it was seasonal
as well but on the other hand they found
that these humans also consumed elephant
brains and whole animals and insects as
well and the other point I want to bring
out is a lot of animals can make their
own vitamin C we cannot okay so we are
dependent on vitamin C from food so
vitamin C obviously comes from plants
just indicating yes we need plants in
our diet for sure the other point I want
to bring up is if we look at our
digestive tract we start with the
stomach okay if we compare our stomach
to a cow's stomach it's very different
the pH is very very different the pH in
a human stomach is between one and three
designed primarily for dense protein
okay whereas a cow's stomach and they
have four I have a pH of five point
seven to seven point three so it's close
to being either slightly acidic or
slightly basic socal stomach is just not
designed to digest dense protein it was
designed to ferment plant fiber okay now
we also happen to have a large colon
with
pH around five point five five to seven
which is designed to ferment plant fiber
as well so you can see the combination
of this stomach very acidic and the
large colon and you can see it was
designed to digest meat and ferment
fiber at the same time and the small
intestine was not designed to ferment
fiber it was to help you digest fats and
protein so it's obvious if you look at
the structure and function of our
digestive system that we need both
animal and plant type foods and then we
have b12 b12 mainly comes from animal
products indicating yes we need to
consume animal products and we also need
oh may go three fatty acids primarily
DHA and also EPA which come from fish
primarily now there is an omega-3 fatty
acid ala that does convert to DHA but
not very well
so based on this data and the necessity
of having DHA especially in our brain
and a nervous system we were not
designed to exclusively use this type of
omega-3 fatty acid which usually comes
from flax oil and things like walnuts
things like that so in summary at the
other day we want the consume foods to
satisfy our nutritional requirements and
that's why a balance of both animal
products and plant I think are a good
combination and if you want more
information check out the link down
below
