today we're going to talk about hair
loss and a very common factor that seems
to be at the bottom of just about every
different type of hair loss now as you
may know there's many different causes
of hair loss you have nutritional
factors that might be deficient you also
have testosterone forming into a very
powerful form of this Androgen called
DHT that can bind with the hair receptor
and inhibit the growth so you have that
and then you have another cause which
could be autoimmune where your hair root
uh cells are attacking itself preventing
the growth but I can't stress this
enough but the single most common factor
among all of these is stress now I'm
talking about several different types of
stress the most um damaging stress to
your hair is emotional loss okay like a
loss of a loved one a divorce can be
devastating to your adrenals so you have
that but you also have other types of
stress like sustain chronic stress for
some reason you have environmental
stresses you have stresses in the world
that are affecting you you have family
stresses relationship stresses you have
stress from overtraining while you're
exercising you have stress going through
pregnancy you have stress while you're
going through some viral infection you
can also be very stressed out if your
sleep is not good because the lack of
sleep can really put your body under
stress so there's many many different
types of stresses but what's interesting
about stress that affects your hair is
that it's nearly always delayed now
normally when you have a physical
problem of some sort um you're going to
identify the cause and the symptom
pretty quick because the underlying
cause uh usually happens just before you
get the symptom but the problem with
hair loss is there's usually a delay
between one two and even three months
before the time of stress and the time
you start noticing your hair is falling
out and this is why it's very difficult
to connect the dots so let's go through
this there's one type of hair loss
called telogen fluvium now this is a
type of hair loss that's definitely
triggered by some big stress and this
includes trauma going through a surgery
and many other different types of stress
even being on certain medications now
let's talk about the next one called
alopecia Arata now this is an autoimmune
condition right but the question is what
triggers autoimmune conditions well you
guessed it the same stresses that I'm
talking about in fact when I was in
practice every single person who came in
with any autoimmune disease always
developed it after a stress event but
again the problem with this condition is
there's this delay of one to three
months so it's really hard to connect
the dots and the problem with autoimmune
diseases is the way that they treat it
is with synthetic uh cortisol or glucal
cortico like prazone or other types of
steroids and there's so many side
effects and the treatment giving someone
cortisol gives a clue on what's really
happening because they're giving a
person this synthetic version of
cortisol cortisol is an
anti-inflammatory but when someone
experiences sustained stress over a
period of
time this can greatly suppress the
immune system and it can allow an
autoimmune condition to develop and then
when you get an autoimmune condition
they're using a synthetic version of
that cortisol that suppresses the immune
system to treat the condition because
obviously the cortisol that they have in
the body is just not working that well
in fact there's a high correlation
between people with autoimmune diseases
and a big problem with cortisol
dysfunction or cortisol resistance which
is kind of similar to insulin resistance
in which you have this massive amount of
cortisol but it's not working in the
body body so you don't have the benefit
of what it's supposed to do to the
immune system and you have a lot of
overreactions in the immune system like
allergies uh inflammatory conditions
things like that now another medication
they use for this alopecia Arata is
called I think it's pronounced ENT and
despite having this box warning of these
you know slight side effects like
malignancy serious infection increased
mortality and thrombosis leading to a
cardiac death other than that it's
pretty safe but again these medications
designed to suppress your immune system
come with a package let's cover another
hair loss condition called
androgenetic alopecia this is where you
have that testosterone turning into the
very powerful form of testosterone
called DHT which burns out the hair
follicules it just so happens that
stress can also worsen the situation and
create more of this conversion but I
will say that there is a genetic
component to this type of problem
because it involves pattered hair loss
both in women and men and like I've said
with a lot of other videos is that just
because you have a genetic uh propensity
to get a certain condition doesn't mean
you're going to get it there are
epigenetic factors things that are way
above genetics that you can do to
override this genetic problem and of
course reducing stress is a big big
factor now in a lot of videos I talk
about beneficial stress versus
non-beneficial stress that really has to
do with who's in charge or who's
controlling the stress for example if
you dip yourself into an ice bath uh you
are in control of that stress and it's
very very therapeutic another condition
is prolong fasting where you're in
control right but the stresses where
you're seeming to be out of control is
where we have problems so androgenetic
alopecia
uh can be greatly improved if you deal
with your stress now this condition is
also triggered by insulin resistance
okay so I just wanted to add that and of
course if we look at the stress factor
to this too you have stress increasing
cortisol cortisol is a gluc corticoid
which means it increases glucose and
this glucose can also be a trigger for a
worsening of your insulin resistance so
stress is a very common factor for this
type of condition now as far as a
nutritional deficiency
causation you have several nutrients
involved you have a deficiency of zinc
deficiency of vitamin D you also have a
deficient amount of B vitamins as well
as calcium and every single one of those
nutrients are affected by stress so
stress can also cause a deficiency of
those nutrients and an increased demand
of those nutrients so now as you can see
if you have hair loss you must address
stress to allow other things to work so
how do we do that let's go through a few
things number one you want to make sure
your sleep cycles are handled because if
you're going through stress but you're
not sleeping it's going to be very
difficult to overcome that stress one
thing that I'm doing right now that
seems to be working very very well and
I'll have to do more a video about it is
that the type of exercise that I'm doing
is very very intense but very low stress
on my adrenals okay involving a weight
rack and cables I'm using that right now
and I'm doing Low Reps High weight it's
from the concept that Mike metzer talks
about and I and I'll put a video down
below to help you understand what that's
all about but you're really doing high
amount of weight so you will not be able
to push past you know like 10 reps so
you're stacking a certain amount of
weight so you're doing between six to 10
reps okay to failure so you're just
destroying that muscle creating a lot of
damage requiring about week to two weeks
of rest but I'm only doing one to two
large muscles per workout so I might do
chest and triceps in one workout and
then I'll do back in biceps in another
workout and then the third workout I'll
do legs the next day but I won't touch
those muscles for another week but it
gives my body a chance to rest it
doesn't overtrain anything and it seems
to greatly improve my sleep next thing
I'm going to recommend is physical work
around your house outside if you can
that always helps sleep because it gets
your mind off the mental stress the
third point I want to bring up is that
stress is always a symptom of something
else so yes you need to deal with the
stress but you really need to isolate
what the stress is and do whatever you
can to fully resolve the cause of that
stress number four keto and intermittent
fasting will improve your adrenals they
will improve the sympathetic nervous
system the flatter fight mechanism and
that by itself can greatly reduce stress
and the last thing is B1 vitamin B1 make
sure it's natural because the synthetics
don't give you the same effect I've done
a lot of videos on B1 it's very very
powerful to help reduce stress and
improve your adrenals so I think these
five things will help you more than
anything for your hair loss now that you
have information to handle the stress
part I think it's very important to
understand what else to do about your
hair and I put that video up right here
check it out
