so the question today is will your blood
test actually reveal your vitamin
deficiencies a lot of times when you go
to the doctor they'll do a CBC which is
a complete blood count which they
measure that how many red blood cells
and white blood cells you have the
hemoglobin the iron and then you may get
something called the basic metabolic
panel which measures a lot of things all
basic organ systems a few nutrients it
might check iron b12 sodium chloride
calcium maybe potassium and in your mind
you're thinking well this is going to
evaluate all my nutritional deficiencies
not quite because what's happening in
the blood or the serum is not happening
inside the cell and if we take magnesium
for example 99% of all the magnesium in
your body is inside the cell it's called
intracellular and if we take potassium
it's 98% of potassium is inside the cell
that means only 2% of your potassium is
inside the blood so only 1% of magnesium
is in the blood which really does not
give the true picture and there's two
things I want to differentiate classical
nutritional deficiencies which would be
like severe vitamin C vitamin D vitamin
b3 or be one like scurvy or rickets or
pellagra or berry berry a lot of times
you don't see those anymore and so if
you don't see those severe nutritional
deficiencies you might think we're fine
we're getting all of our nutrients from
our diet but no we're not because there
are some clinical deficiencies and this
is where doctors do not put a lot of
attention they don't have a lot of
training and they definitely do not show
up on a blood test these two blood tests
right here subclinical nutritional
deficiencies will give you certain
symptoms of that deficiency but maybe
not all of them could relate to the
body's ability to repair or longevity or
even protecting your immune system
against you know autoimmune conditions
so let me give you a couple examples of
symptoms with subclinical vitamin
deficiencies so if your aid
efficient night-vision would be your
symptom or problems with the cornea okay
of the eye or your skin might be a
little bit thicker with D it's
definitely gonna be low back pain
inflammation that's a big one
sometimes even nose bleeds vitamin E
would be weak muscles poor recovery
after exercise your muscles do not
repair fast enough vitamin k1 bruising
easily vitamin b1 would be anxiety or
nervous tension be to crack corners in
your mouth
right through here or crack lips biotin
would be problems with your nails
it could be brittle nails the ridges in
the nails and hair loss and then vitamin
C would be bleeding gums and fatigue so
these are just a few examples and what
you're definitely not going to evaluate
when you do these two tests is a zinc
deficiency or selenium and a vitamin D
deficiency you have to ask for that
separately did you realize that over two
billion people on this planet are
deficient in zinc and over a billion
people are deficient in vitamin D yet
these two are not tested often enough
the problem with testing zinc especially
in the blood is that it goes up and down
through the day so depending on when you
test ink it could be off by 20% also
when you're doing fasting like they
always tell you to do fasting when you
before you get your blood test it will
spike zinc so you're gonna get a false
picture so it might show normal but then
if you eat something it goes down
inflammation when there's inflammation
in the body your zinc will be lower
alright dr. Burke so that's very
interesting but how do we test for
micronutrient deficiencies well I'm
gonna recommend a blood test that
evaluates these nutrients off of your
lymphocytes okay it's a very unique test
there's a company that specializes in
this it's called
giselle I have no affiliation I don't
get any kickbacks I'm not an affiliate I
put a link down below to check them out
but this is one company that I've
researched and I really like because it
gives you an in-depth viewpoint on all
these micronutrient deficiencies both
trace minerals minerals and vitamins and
antioxidants and there's other companies
as well that you can check out but just
realize when you do these basic blood
tests you're not really getting the
whole picture of what's happening with
your nutrients for these reasons thanks
for watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press the button below and I
will keep you in the know
hey that runs
