let's talk about the Dark Side of taking
testosterone disclaimer I'm not telling
you to stop taking your testosterone and
I'm not telling you that you shouldn't
take testosterone there are definitely
positive benefits from testosterone
increasing your libido increasing your
energy your state of well-being muscle
strength what about the negatives what
things should you be aware of we have
the hypothalamus in our brain that
communicates with the pituitary that
then sends signals down to the testicle
that makes testosterone once you have
enough
testosterone the testosterone kind of
signals back to turn off that pituitary
and hypothalamus so we don't keep having
more and more of these hormones when you
start taking testosterone you're
basically sending signals to these other
glands in your brain to tell it to turn
off and so your testical don't have to
make any more testosterone so they go
into a retirement now is that permanent
it really depends on a lot of factors
how long you've taken it your genetics
why would some men have these symptoms
yet not other men all right number one
it can worsen your sleep apnea number
two it can affect your mood you can get
moody cause acne create dizziness it can
also potentially cause a heart attack
decrease fertility not that most older
men want another child and also thicker
blood and I think the biggest side
effect is testicular atrophy it means
that the testicles now get smaller and
smaller and smaller it can cause a loss
of erections so when you take
testosterone for a long period of time
you can develop a problem in the
receptors for testosterone where it
doesn't work as well anymore if we take
a look at specifically age related
hypogonadism that means your testicles
are not functioning as well as they
should and you may uh say well it's just
old AG not with everyone there's younger
men that are getting this more and more
and more at the top of the list if you
have insulin resistance that can
definitely be a problem number two lower
amount of zinc okay zinc is involved
with hundreds of different enzymes in
fact sperm has a very high concentration
of zinc to help the survival of the
sperm connect with the egg another cause
would be the person is protein deficient
they are not consuming enough protein
this next one is interesting lowfat
diets why because cholesterol is the
precursor to make testosterone and
statins also can cause lowered amount of
testosterone why because Statin Blocks
Your production of cholesterol another
one would be high soy diet another one
is low vitamin A or low vitamin D
overtrain
probably because it increases cortisol
insomnia and then also liver issues an
inability to get rid of iron obesity
because your fat cells release the
aromatase to convert
testosterone to estrogen now that you
know that what do you do now to increase
your
testosterone weight training it will
really help you increase your
testosterone number two zinc I would
recommend both taking zinc and also
consuming foods high in zinc shellfish
red meat liver very important number
three vitamin D number four having
sufficient amount of fat in your diet
the butter the meats as long as you keep
your carbs low some of you out there
listening are like wow I can't have
saturated fats I cannot consume that
much cholesterol because either my
cholesterol is high or my doctor said
not to do it and you might be inou about
that you might be concerned because of
all the confusion out there and so if it
was so bad why does our bodies make it
DHEA might be a good supplement for you
to help substantiate or fortify your
adrenals so that your adrenals can get
some relief and make some more hormones
so you have some extra material for
making testosterone the other really
important thing is getting enough REM
sleep so the non-rem sleep is like deep
Delta wave sleep and then the higher
waves are the REM sleep it's the rapid
eye movement and if you're losing more
REM sleep you won't have the level of
testosterone so this is why sleep is
really important for your testosterone
as well we have videos on all sorts of
things to uh help you sleeps and I will
put a very specific recent video I did
Down Below in the description next one
is just losing weight in general why
because when you have less fat cells you
have have less Aroma taste that enzyme
that is converting your testosterone to
estrogen if you're just starting out
kind of a big person over time when you
lose weight uh you will have more and
more testosterone and so if you want to
know how to lose weight I'll put that
link down below as well and the next one
is kind of just optimizing your blood
sugars getting rid of this insulin
resistance and that's done with the
ketogenic diet as well as doing
intermittent fasting and the last one I
kind of already mentioned having
sufficient amount of protein to optimize
your level of testosterone that's what
we really want to do we want to just
bring it to a level where everything
works fine and if you do that maybe you
actually don't need to add testostrone
because it comes with a package thanks
for watching and I think the best video
to watch next is this one on cholesterol
very important it's about LDL and you
should know this data I put it up right
here check
out
