if you ever get tempted to buy a keto
apple cider vinegar gummy supplement you
need to watch this video because chances
are at the end of this video you won't
be buying that product it's very similar
formula comes under many different
brands like the keto Lux or the
bioscience BioLife vital pulse bio
health horback Justified Laboratories in
biofast and there's probably a hundred
more incredible claims you can have
instant fat burning accelerated fat
burning and you can even transform your
body I mean right in the title they'll
use shark tank but not as endorsed by
Shark Tank they just use shark and tank
in the sentence and then you assume that
it's endorsed by shark tank when it's
absolutely not endorsed so they'll mix
weight loss with Shark Tank they'll call
it weight shark loss tank or shark fat
tank loss this is called subliminal uh
messaging it's ridiculous okay now now
here's another thing that they'll put in
there that they kind of trick people
made in the USA well all that means is
that they're putting the ingredients
together in a bottle in the United
States um the ingredients usually come
from China okay because I sell
supplements I know this little loophole
that people use and they use it all the
time sometimes people even ask me oh Dr
B why do you sell supplements you
shouldn't sell supplements I said well
would you rather a marketer sell them
who really doesn't know about
supplements that doesn't care about the
ingredients that has a brand but not an
individual person behind that brand that
you can actually you know listen to
their philosophy they'll use terms like
gluten-free right well here you take out
the gluten which is the protein out of
wheat okay so you might not be allergic
to it you might not be sensitive but now
you took out that protein it's going to
be more carbohydrates less protein and
they'll even use terms like all natural
like that really means anything legally
it doesn't but the biggest problem with
these gummies okay is that per serving
size which usually is two come out to
about 3 to five gam of sugar now realize
one teaspoon of sugar is four gram so if
it's 5 gram of sugar preserving size
it's a little bit more than a teaspoon
of sugar I mean think about the whole
bottle right if we add up a 60 count
which is the usual uh number of these
gummies in one bottle you're talking
about in that tiny little bottle there
are 30 teaspoons of sugar this is not a
keto product this is a candy it should
be in the candy section but I think
people you know think because they look
so cute and they taste so sweet and
they're really uh the texture is very
chewy I mean they wouldn't sell them or
they wouldn't claim to be keto unless
they really were keto no they're not
keto just look at the ingredients and
then some of these products they don't
even have the ingredients
in the listing and Amazon you have to
dig and try to find it but anytime when
they list the ingredients the first
ingredient is probably the majority of
the product okay and usually the first
ingredient is either uh corn syrup or
sugar cane or some other type of sugar
okay and it's not just one sugar there's
like several sugars within the
ingredients if we just take glucose
syrup by itself that has a glycemic
index of 100 corn syrup has a glycemic
index of
115 okay that is like way way too high
this is not keto it's a scam it'll bump
you out of ketosis and you'll probably
feel bloated and you're definitely not
going to lose weight you might feel a
little bit tired after you take them
because that Spike and sugar the B
vitamins that they add are just really
really cheap and then on top of that the
apple cider vinegar one serving size
which is two gummies comes out to 500 mg
of apple cider vinegar well do you know
what an average serving size of apple
cider vinegar out of the bottle is 15
Gams of apple cider vinegar in other
words if we compare one actual serving
size of apple cider vinegar in a
tablespoon that would be equivalent to
the entire bottle of gummies okay so
when you're getting a serving size of
gummies you're just getting several
drops of alider vinegar it's not going
to do anything you'd be much better off
just buying alider vinegar putting it in
some water and by the way um I would
always recommend um the brand fairchilds
not Bragg because Bragg used to be good
but they started diluting their alet of
vinegar with water just watering it down
but they didn't bring the price down
right so if you just add water and
dilute it you make a lot more profit but
fair Childs has some really good
Integrity uh and they do not dilute
their uh alet of vinegar in fact uh it's
raw it's organic and um it's awesome but
anyway I wanted to do this video because
a lot of people ask me are those gummies
any good should I get some are they
going to help me and the answer is a big
fat no I wouldn't waste your money I
would instead buy some actual real apple
cider vinegar now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other side now
speaking about alider vinegar if you
have not seen my very popular alider
vinegar video that has tens of thousands
of views I put it up right here check it
out
