hey guys welcome back it's Dr Berg in
this video we're going to talk about a
very interesting hormone called growth
hormone okay now maybe you've heard
about growth hormone in um in different
animals where they inject the cow and
make them get bigger we're not talking
about that growth hormone or Sports
enhancement where they're using this
illegally to improve the performance
we're not talking about that we're
talking about your body's ability to
make growth hormone now in a child uh
growth hormone is is there to make you
grow but once you're an adult it's used
to uh in other purposes mainly to help
preserve proteins okay now the question
is what part of your body is protein
well you got hair nails skin collagen
tendon ligaments uh even bone you have a
lot of your body protein so um growth
hormone is the ultimate aging anti-aging
hormone because it preserves the skin
the tendons and it just keeps flexible
and and if you're losing protein if
you're becoming more rigid in the
arteries you get high blood pressure and
you your body falls apart so it's for
cell growth cell reproduction cell
regeneration after injury after stress
uh it also helps you retain
calcium it's it's influenced with
cognitive function people that are low
in growth hormone have memory loss but I
think the other thing is that it's
really um uh special in affecting f fat
burning okay so if you growth hormone is
the main hormone that helps you burn fat
so if you don't have enough growth
hormone uh you become fat okay so now
the question is how can we get more of
it uh unfortunately at age 50 I mean it
starts crashing uh probably about 45 to
50 you start getting lower levels of
growth hormone to the point where your
60 and 70 becomes very very low as a
child is very high so we want to
maintain as much of this growth hormone
as possible and there are things that
you can do to naturally improve it uh so
number one intermittent fasting okay
fasting and intermittent fasting will
increase growth hormone which also means
that you know you you have this concern
about losing muscle mass well if you if
you do intermittent fasting you're going
to enhance growth hormone and protect
your muscles from being lost okay number
two
hypoglycemia basically keeping your
blood sugars low because over here the
things that lower growth hormone is
sugar so every time you spike sugar or
insulin you decrease growth hormone so
if we want to keep the growth hormone
High we want to keep the sugar very very
low and out of the diet okay arginine is
an amino acid that will also increase
growth hormone arginine is the is really
uh prevalent in all types of animal
products animal meat products okay
animal proteins it's not really uh in
salad or nut nuts um okay vitamin B3
will increase growth hormone which is
very interesting uh that's niin and
lastly intense exercise that's that
high-intensity interval training um
would be very vital to enhance growth
hormone so if we combine all these I
mean you have ketosis in a minute
fasting uh interval training with really
uh keep the sugar out man you're going
to actually have some seriously high
growth hormone which you're going to
actually just slow down the aging
process now things that decrease growth
hormone would be insomnia not sleeping
sleep
deprivation okay consuming sugar and
hidden sugar stress in cortisol cortisol
will worsen growth hormone and then
endocrine disruptors that would be the
pesticides and herbicides insecticides
all those interfere with hormones okay
and also especially the growth hormones
so I just wanted to touch base on this
very vital hormone so go ahead and apply
this information and put your comments
below
