hey guys I'm back we're going to discuss
is diabetes really genetic okay now just
to summarize type 1 diabetes is called
insulin dependent because the cells that
make insulin are not working anymore
so the person needs insulin to survive
okay so that's really a condition where
you have an insufficient amount of
insulin okay
type 2 is non insulin-dependent diabetes
where you have a lot of insulin but you
have insulin resistance
the problem is with in this situation is
insulin is not working anymore because
you have instant resistance the
receptors are blocked so the body has to
force it to make more but it's
ineffective okay but both of these
conditions have high sugar because
you're not able to regulate the sugar
problem with really type 1 is that the
person is taking insulin and now they're
ending up with way too much insulin
because they really don't tell you what
to correctly eat to manage that better
okay now there are certain cultures that
have genetic predisposition to diabetes
okay now if you're from Africa you could
have a genetic predisposition or kind of
a susceptibility to getting diabetes and
metabolic syndrome which is high blood
pressure low good cholesterol high sugar
and belly fat which by the way all of
these are caused by high insulin because
the gene involved is a sugar regulating
gene this gene doesn't allow the person
to adapt to high levels of sugar so it
is as if the person is consuming a lot
of sugar when maybe they're only
consuming a moderate amount of sugar
this is a really easy problem to solve
put the person on a low carbohydrate
diet and watch what happens to blood
pressure cholesterol blood glucose
diabetes and belly fat so I put a link
down below for those of you that haven't
seen my other videos so you can get the
full scoop on how to do a low carb diet
in a real healthy way thanks for
watching hey guys a lot of you already
have my book some of you don't but this
new edition called a new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last edition
the seven principles of fat-burning it
has a hundred and fifty six images 378
pages full glossary I talked about Quito
in a minute fasting the body types in
detail I have a new stressed chapter I'm
going to show you exactly what to eat
any comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
