let's talk about how to get rid of
swollen legs ankles and feet would you
believe that I used to have pitting
edema right on my ankles I would
remember pressing into my lower ankle
and leaving a dent I mean I'm not that
old it was some years ago but even in
this picture you could see my face was
completely round anytime someone has a
round face what that means is they have
blood sugar issues but the point is I
had a lot of health problems and pitting
edema was definitely one of them now
swollen legs are called edema and you
know if you look this up it'll say that
it's a liver problem a kidney problem a
heart problem maybe you're consuming too
much sodium but that's not always the
case there's something else way more
common and I'm going to share that with
you today and this is totally easy to
fix um when you watch this video if you
just apply what I'm going to show you
you will fix this very fast without
taking like a blood thinner like some
type of diuretic to push the fluid out I
mean that comes with a package like side
effects when you have fluid retention
especially in your lower legs and ankles
this boils down to a problem with these
little tiny pumps that are not working
in your cells you have millions and
millions of these little tiny pumps that
push fluid in and out of the cell and
the specific pump that's not working in
this case is called the sodium potassium
pump there's some really interesting
things about this pump it uses like 30
to 40% of all the energy that is given
to that cell but if that pump goes bad
like in our our house in the basement
when the pump went bad we had about a
foot of water in our basement if the
pump goes bad in your body you're going
to have a lot of fluid that is not going
to be in the cells it's going to be
outside the cells and that's called
interstitial fluid retention so what's
really going on in your lower ankles is
you're getting a condition where your
sugar in the blood is too high and all
that sugar is connected to the protein
in the blood called hemoglobin so let's
say we have a protein bar right here
representing the protein and then we
have a marshmallow representing the
sugar what happens when this sugar
connects to the protein in your blood
this is called glycation so this is a
term that they use when you hear this
test called A1C the A1C test measures
how much sugar is stuck to your blood
protein and it gives you an average of
like 3 months because the red blood cell
survives about 3 months and so when this
sugar gets stuck to the blood protein
prot it doesn't come off it's stuck
there permanently until that blood cell
dies and so when you eat more sugar you
get more sugar stuck to this protein
more sugar stuck to the protein until
this protein can't work anymore and the
name for this is that the protein is
glycated but the main takeaway for this
is that when you eat sugar you destroy
the ability for the blood cell to carry
nutrition to the body to carry oxygen
and this glycated protein molecule now
plugs up your circulation then you get a
lack of blood flow and then you get this
pooling that goes on in your lower part
of your body and this is that swelling
because it also destroys the inside of
your arteries and it creates a leakiness
outside the cell the fluid that was
supposed to be inside your vessels can
now escape the other thing that this
does when you eat a lot of sugar is that
it actually creates a sodium retention
not to mention the other mineral called
potassium gets locked up in the sugar
and wherever the sodium goes the water
goes now over time this is going to
affect the nerves and the bottom of the
feet you're going to get numbness
tingling they call that periphal
neuropathy and so yes when you look at a
diabetic you see a lot of fluid in the
ankles and things but even people that
are not diabetic and maybe they're not
even pre-diabetic they're going towards
that area they also have fluid retention
and that's what I had there is a very
important vitamin to correct this but
there are two other things they minerals
that you need to also get from the diet
of course the obvious one is potassium
the problem with potassium is that it's
not easy to get from the diet because we
need so so much an average person needs
4700 milligrams now think about what
that means if you were to eat one banana
that's like 300 milligrams so how many
times does 300 go into 4700 let's take a
look you would have to consume 15.6
bananas
every day just to get your potassium but
the problem with that is that's going to
be hard and also that's a lot of sugar
so instead of doing that you might be
better off doing like avocados more
salad and even more fruit like berries
you can get a lot of potassium from that
now the other mineral magnesium is
behind something called ATP which is the
energy currency of the body and yes
you're going to get cramps if you have
uh magnesium problems but also you're
going to have a lack of energy so to get
magnes magesium you probably need to
consume more pumpkin seeds or sunflower
seeds as well as leafy greens but you
don't need 4700 like potassium you need
about 420 Mig of magnesium you can also
get both of these from a good
electrolyte powder but just make sure
that the electrolyte powder is high
quality it doesn't have the hidden
sugars all right so that will fix the
pump but the very reason why the pump
went bad is what we want to talk about
next and that is a deficiency
of vitamin B1 so I want to show you in
this little uh very simple chart here
I'm being very sarcastic it's a huge
biochemical chart you can see all this
chemistry stuff going on right here and
this stuff right here when you eat sugar
in the body it starts here and then it
has to be broken down into a smaller
sugar molecule called glucose and then
it has to enter the machine to be turned
into energy in order for it to go from
this step to this step this one little
enzyme requires vitamin B1 if you don't
have enough then you will not be able to
use that as energy and so the number one
cause of a B1 deficiency is consuming
too much carbohydrates in the refined
form for example if you eat all this
refined sugar without B1 now the body
has to pull from its reserves right we
have to pull it from different tissues
and organs and glands and eventually
you're going to be efficient and that B1
is also very important as an antioxidant
to protect the nerves this is why when
you run out of B1 you get uh what's
called peripheral neuropathy which is
tingling and numbness and burning on the
bottom of your feet the point is that B1
is so important in carbohydrate
metabolism and protecting you against a
lot of carbohydrates and when I say
protection I'm talking about the
protection against this
glycation this sugar connect ing to the
protein B1 keeps these apart so you
don't destroy your blood cells and you
have good circulation because you have
to realize as soon as that connects to
it it's permanent okay it's not coming
off so magnesium potassium and B1 is the
solution to swollen ankles but you also
have to get the sugar out of the diet
because as soon as you go back to eating
the refined carbohydrates guess what the
swelling comes back all right so now the
question is if I'm not going to eat
carbs what am I going to eat for that
information you need to watch this video
right here
