hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the two causes of tingling
and numbness in your hands and feet
number one it's a b1 deficiency okay and
that usually occurs from consuming a lot
of refined carbohydrates and sugars
usually when someone's a pre-diabetic or
the actual diabetic they're going to
have a b1 deficiency in which case you'd
want to consume the type of b1 that is
fat soluble because normally be want is
water-soluble and the reason for that is
you want to penetrate the fat layer
around the nervous system because that
all the nerves have this insulation
around them called myelin so this is the
form of b1 that you'd want to take it's
called benfotiamine
okay so you take that and if you have
very severe symptoms take more like you
would take 4 per day spread out if you
have mild symptoms you just take one per
day so that's b1 okay so another cause
of this this symptom would be a calcium
deficiency okay in which case you'd want
to take this form calcium aspartate and
hydrous okay why because this form of
calcium absorbs like 98% whereas other
forms of calcium only absorb between
five and twenty percent so this goes in
like a rocket ship it really helps you
but then the question is how do you know
if you have a b1 deficiency or a calcium
deficiency well let's take a look
b1 deficiencies you'll feel nervous
you'll have poor memory racing thoughts
increase heart rate you might even have
tenderness when you press into your calf
restless leg syndrome nightmares okay
and there's other ones as well a calcium
deficiency will create cramps in your
legs and even the back of the hand like
the hamstring area weak nails fatigue
spasm in your larynx okay so you might
have this chronic cough or this
tightness in the back of your throat a
lowered mood so you might be depressed
or have anxiety osteoporosis
twitches and black and blue spots okay
so basically just narrow down which one
you have and you can take this one or
this one to actually help yourself with
this so most likely it'll be a b1
deficiency in which case you definitely
need to change your diet do keto inman
and fasting but sometimes this doesn't
work because you're the calcium
deficiency alright thanks for watching
so I hope you're coming to the keto
Health Summit coming up in October so I
want to quickly comment on what we're
gonna do that's different from other
conventions okay the problem with these
other conventions is they give you
information over a load okay it's so
much data that you're basically swimming
in a sea of information we're going to
do things very differently we're only
going to cover the most important things
that make a huge difference now there
are three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory and concentration
that's going to blow you away and number
two I'm going to show you how to
increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism
if you've died it for a long time and
everything is kind of just really slow
I'm going to show you how to get
complete control over your metabolism so
you can literally turn up the dial as
high as you want and control as much
weight as you want to lose and these
three things are just a tiny bit of what
you're going to learn in the summit so
click the link below get signed up and I
will see you in October
