hi guys we're gonna talk about the
importance of this trace mineral called
selenium it's necessary for three main
things that occur in the body number one
it's necessary for a key enzyme called
glutathione peroxidase which basically
is one of the most important enzymes to
detoxify the liver and it protects your
cells against damage and stress so it's
very important in liver detox okay
number two it helps in the conversion of
t4 to t3 so if you have a hypothyroid
condition especially Hashimoto's I think
this is gonna help you you need to
really take more of this and you're
gonna pricey great improvements just
with that alone also the third thing
that selenium does and it does a lot of
things but it helps you detoxify mercury
so even though you consume fish that's
high in mercury there's a lot more
selenium in fish especially tuna and
even salmon that will help you just
overcompensate and get rid of that
mercury and people with liver disease
like a fatty liver or cirrhosis which is
scar tissue you'll see low levels of
selenium so apparently you need good
liver function to absorb the selenium
and also you need selenium to actually
repair the liver right okay so the
question is where you get felony 'm
Brazil nuts very very high in selenium
pork tuna oysters clams shrimp lamb beef
of course do grass-fed mushrooms seeds
and there's a lot of other foods as well
but Brazil nuts are very very high in
selenium now if if you're deficient you
may also notice your nail beds get white
okay and your muscles are weaker and
they're tighter and they're more painful
so these are just indications that you
also could be needing this and selenium
is very important in thyroid function
thanks for watching
