so today we're going to talk about the
real reason why a tapa G exists now what
is a tapa G a toughie G is a condition
of the body where were you taking things
that the body does not need anymore and
putting it through a recycler and
spitting out brand-new amino acids for
both fuel and to be used as raw material
to build tissue because a lot of the
body is made from amino acids protein
now that's really in simple terms what
it is now why did we create this system
well we created it for one reason to
cope with starvation or something about
starvation that is against our survival
okay we don't last long when we starve
ourselves but this system was created
over eons not just in our bodies but
other organisms as well to cope with
starvation or not eating so during
starvation as a survival mechanism my
body will basically take these damaged
proteins that we don't need anymore and
just turn those into fuel and turn them
into raw materials so we can not be
deficient of certain building blocks but
the other really cool thing about this
is that these damaged proteins are very
toxic to our body and it's behind
diabetes type 2 Alzheimer's Parkinson's
so it's very very beneficial for your
survival to get these out of the body
the other thing about etaf ajit is that
it will eliminate microbes and viruses
because here's the problem you can't
kill a virus but this is one way of
getting rid of some of these microbes
out of the body now what is a damage
protein okay let's just take the
misfolded protein first to understand
this I just have to explain a little bit
about DNA DNA is basically the
blueprints for making proteins okay so
if the DNA that has done copied to
something called the RNA so the RNA
which is a copy travels out of the
highly protected fortress
that's called a nucleus into the space
outside that still within a cell to a
protein Factory okay it's called a
ribosome so these blueprints now are
given to this little factory to make
proteins and it spits out this chain of
amino acids in a certain sequence okay
then that folds okay so it combines in a
certain pattern looks kind of strange
but that's what proteins look like and
then it's activated so a folded protein
is a 3d activated protein and I'm not
just talking about hair nails and skin
I'm talking about enzymes that help you
digest hormones proteins that help
detoxify they do many things in the body
so when that protein miss folds so it's
folded in the wrong way it doesn't work
anymore and it accumulates in the body
and it can turn into something called
amyloid plaque II and that's what's in
the cells that make insulin and diabetes
type 2 that's also in the brain and
Alzheimer's patients so the problem with
this is that it gets stuck in there and
it inhibits function okay I guess what
etapa G can get rid of this and by the
way you need zinc also to help degrade
this protein so this is one type of
protein then you have oxidized protein
when you combine something with too much
oxygen it can be altered in a certain
way kind of like iron if you expose it
to oxygen it turns into rust okay so if
you just envision this as this oxygen
can rust out your proteins and damage
them and then they don't work anymore
well guess what your body can actually
take these and recycle them then you
have mutated proteins which are altered
maybe by a chemical or radiation or
something like that and then guess what
that protein doesn't work it can be
recycled though then you have something
called glycated proteins when you
combine sugar with protein you alter it
and you make it very very unusable
sticky and it clocks things up one
example I always use would be barbecued
ribs so you're taking these ribs this
meat and then you're putting sugar or
sauce on it and then you're cooking it
so when you're consuming that you're
consuming this damaged protein that
doesn't work very well in the body so it
will clog things up and develop
something called advanced glycation
end-products I have a lot of videos on
this you I'll put some links down below
but this stuff builds up clocks things
up it can actually get into your eye
into the lens of the eye and cause
cataracts well guess what Toph Ajit
cleans all this stuff up but here's what
you need to know this system of etapa ji
is not really an on/off type mechanism
your body is always going through a
toffee gee well maybe not always if you
have high levels of sugar in the body
there's probably no etapa ji going on or
if you have this severe inflammatory
condition you probably don't have any
etapa ji going on but for most people to
have something going on if some type of
recycling going on especially if you're
doing keno or you're exercising but most
definitely when you're fasting so the
more fasting that you do you can create
these huge effects with the Toph Ajit so
it's all a matter about degrees how much
atop the gene are you in because people
will ask well how long do I have to fast
before I get into G well you're already
in a toughie G but I will say that when
you get to eighteen hours you're in some
pretty good etapa G and as you go to 20
hours it's more if you go a little
longer it's going to be more but there's
going to be a certain point where it
kind of plateaus and some studies you're
saying 24 hours and other studies just a
little bit more a little bit less so
they don't really know the reason is
because each part of your body has its
own etapa G for example there's an
entire vltava G which recycles
mitochondria that's the energy factor of
the cell there's other types of etapa G
in your bone or on your lung or in your
liver so it's not an exact thing and
it's very difficult to calculate however
if I were you I would just focus on
doing all three of these things and
trying to get to 18 hours or a little
longer and also as you exercise and
to morph it your efficiency with the
toffee G improves so you actually get
more toffee G than someone just starting
out so the benefits of a toffee G are
huge it's an anti-aging benefits plus
it's getting rid of things that are very
unhealthy for your body that can end up
in degenerative diseases and information
so you have the combination of getting
rid of this and an enhancing new body
tissue it's pretty cool alright thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
