hi guys I mean hi girls listen I want to
talk about the hidden dangers of pan
pounds pads and panty liners now here's
some interesting new information that
you may have not been aware of number
one it's not only just soy in corn
that's GML it's cotton seventy percent
of the cotton raised in the United
States is GML which means it has residue
of glyphosate which is herbicide now the
last thing you want to do is to become
exposed on your skin especially a tissue
that's very sensitive to estrogen and
chemicals anything to do with GMO so the
next time you buy tampons pads or panty
liners make sure it's organic that means
it's non-gmo bleach free or just get the
menstrual cup it's a plastic device that
is pretty safe and you can get that
online you can just do some research on
that because an average woman buys
between sixteen to twenty thousand
tampons in her lifetime so that's a lot
of exposure of chemicals so just make
sure you start reading labels make sure
it's organic so you can protect yourself
thanks for watching hi guys thanks so
much for watching
press this little button down here and
says subscribe and I will make sure that
I won't send more than five to ten
videos a day okay
now I'm just kidding it'll be 1 or 2
thanks
