hey guys I'm gonna do a short video on
three minerals that are really good if
you got PMS or cramping related to your
menstrual cycle okay calcium okay
especially if you have menstrual
cramping this is the best thing to take
in fact what you should do is you should
get a calcium magnesium together and and
actually increase that to the point
where your cramps go away improves PMS
because it actually happens to help
regulate estrogen and PMS is an estrogen
dominant situation I have other videos
and estrogen dominance but these three
remedies are really good for PMS so it
actually helps elevate your mood and
then of course magnesium is involved in
300 different enzymes so it has a lot of
functions especially with your muscles
for calming down the nervous system for
relaxing cramps and magnesium is
involved in the enzymes involved in
neurotransmitters like serotonin which
actually helps bring up your mood all
right then we have iodine
okay iodine is a trace mineral and
iodine helps balance and reduce
excessive estrogen especially if there's
other symptoms of estrogen dominance
like fibrocystic breast or cysts on the
ovaries iodine is the key for that and
you can get this from a high-quality sea
kelp as an extra thing b6 in vitamin D
are also good for this condition but
these are the three minerals that I
would recommend thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds weird well
I'll just remind you on a daily basis
how about that
