hey guys I'm back and we're going to
talk about the flight or fight mechanism
in vitamin b1 one of my favorite
vitamins let's just start with something
called the autonomic nervous system what
is that this is the system that adapts
the body in the body's organs to its
environment it works behind the scenes
and it's constantly making adjustments
so if your environment is stressful or
you're going to sleep or you're eating
or you're going out into the cold your
body's going to adapt to that
environment now there's two main
divisions of the autonomic nervous
system there's actually a third one I'm
not gonna get into it
you have the parasympathetic which is
rest and digest and this operates in
safe mode when everything is safe you're
calm you're relaxed but as soon as you
go through stress it kicks over here
into this other system which is the
sympathetic nervous system completely
different kind of the opposite functions
this prepares you for stress now the
autonomic nervous system goes throughout
the entire body in different connections
to the the nerves in the back the nerves
in the lower spine and even in the
brainstem so in the brainstem you have
basic functions of survival heart rate
breathing hunger satiety flight-or-fight
which is basically running away from a
tiger or fighting the tiger okay and
then reproduction so nowadays we're not
actually being chased by a tiger that
was long ago
however mentally we are being chased by
a tiger very similar reactions the only
problem is there's no tiger in the room
so if you're under stress for a long
time you start to become sympathetic
dominant and this affects your sleep the
quality of sleep you are no longer in
safe mode now one of the most common for
symptoms is anxiety nervousness can't
relax when it gets severe you can go
into panic mode panic attacks
that is definitely sympathetic dominant
nightmares so when these symptoms become
chronic
it's basically the failure of the
sympathetic nervous system to keep up
because normally what happens is that
you you kick in the stress mode and then
when the stress is done this system
kicks in to help you recover now what's
interesting about this system is this is
an active system you're something your
body that actively is trying to calm you
down like when you're sleeping for
example or let's say you exercise and
you get your pulse rate really high and
then you stop working out this system
kicks in there and works hard to push
down you can kind of look at it like a
like a wave a push down wave to push
down the heart right to calm the nervous
system down to help you get into deep
sleep okay but when you're sympathetic
dominant this can't happen anymore so
you don't repair you can't rejuvenate
now the autonomic nervous system needs a
lot of b1 vitamin b1 is not your regular
B vitamin it has it's probably one of
the most important vitamins for the
nervous system not just the general
nervous system but the central nervous
system the peripheral nervous system and
definitely the autonomic nervous system
now the deficiencies of vitamin b1 are
identical to failure of the autonomic
nervous system to functions so if you
have damage to your autonomic nervous
system those symptoms are exactly the
same as being deficient in vitamin b1
and one of the reasons for that is that
your nervous system needs so much b12
actually function so check out some of
the symptoms of b1 pots what is pots
that's a condition where you stand up
and you get really dizzy and you have to
sit down okay there's a lot of other
symptoms connected to that but that's
one big one depression of course you're
talking about anxiety tension nervous
tension in your body the feeling of
stress confusion difficulty
concentrating it's called a DD
hyperactivity you see that a lot in
children I'm disoriented you see that in
people that have Alzheimer's or
dimension irritability you see that with
your spouse right
unusual fatigue like there should be no
reason why you're tired yet you're tired
all the time
fibromyalgia
these are very common symptoms of the b1
deficiency there are a lot more but
these are very common so when you're
deficient in b1 you inhibit the body's
ability to adapt to its an environment
so you get weird symptoms - like let's
say for example you have cold feet in
warmer weather or you're getting hot
feet in colder weather okay or you sweat
when it's cold outside or you get on the
shower and you just start sweating for
no reason or you're working out or
exercising in a hot environment and
you're not sweating or you're tired
after you eat I mean that's weird
food is supposed to give you energy why
would you be tired after you consume
food or you you're dizzy when you stand
up so these are very common symptoms so
now the question is what would cause a
b1 deficiency all right
stress is a big one chronic stress is
going to deplete vitamin B in the
nervous system and you're gonna have
some of these symptoms right here so the
more stress that you go through the more
b1 your body requires all right number 2
refined sugars and refined carbohydrates
if you're consuming a lot of sugar or
refined carbs you need a ton of b1 the
problem is when you refined
carbohydrates you're consuming
carbohydrates void of b1 because when
you're consuming like natural sugar cane
and its whole form or grains in this
whole form there's actually a lot of b1
in there but when you refine them
there's no b1 so when you consume these
foods you deplete your b1 reserves and
you start getting these symptoms right
here too much coffee can deplete b1 too
much tea can deplete b1 chocolate can
deplete b1 drinking wine can deplete
bottom b1 so the reason I really wanted
to do this video is to show you the huge
connection between b1 and stress and
your diet and the autonomic nervous
system so if you're in a fly to fight
mode or have any of these symptoms
nutritional yeast is a really good
source of b1 now not against taking some
synthetic b1 if it's short term
and if you're also taking some natural
at the same time because anytime you
take large amounts of one vitamin it can
knock out the other other vitamins
nutritional yeast is a really good
source another good source is something
called been thought to mean been thought
to mean is a fat-soluble b1 it gets
absorbed into the brain and nervous
system by a factor of 25 times more than
the regular b1 which is water-soluble so
anyway thanks for watching and I will
see you in the next video hey if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
