now many many times people take vitamin
D without really seeing the results and
this video is going to discuss the two
situations why that occurs the first
situation is you have damage in your
digestive system you may have Crohn's
IBS irritable bowel syndrome celiac from
consuming gluten which you're sensitive
to small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
any damage that's in your digestive
system and you may have experienced a
lot of antibiotics or eating a lot of
junk food or drinking alcohol whatever
the cause because the receptors for
vitamin D are in your intestines and
that's where we absorb calcium for
example by a factor of twenty times more
and that's one of the big purposes of
vitamin D so you add vitamin D that goes
in the receptor so there's something
called the vitamin D receptor so if your
guts not allowing it to absorb the
vitamin D what do you do well very
simply you take gut friendly bynum
indeed that would include any one of
these like sublingual vitamin D topical
vitamin D we put on the skin and it
absorbs through the skin you can go to
the doctor and get it injected or this
son now the second reason why vitamin D
might not work is you have a problem
with the vitamin D receptor itself and
it becomes blocked for several reasons
so in other words if you have a problem
with this receptor the vitamin D will
not connect a hundred percent maybe 30
percent or 40 percent but not a hundred
percent and by the way thirty percent of
the population has a problem with the
vitamin D receptor and also forty
percent of people who are obese also
have a problem with the vitamin D
receptor now there's a very simple and
inexpensive test that you can get done
to see if you have this problem and it's
only twenty nine dollars and now I'll
put a link down below if you want to get
that test done and that test will
determine if you have a genetic problem
with the vitamin D receptor and the word
for that is called polymorphism I don't
want to get too much into that but just
so you know it's very common 310 people
have a problem with the vitamin d
receptor so what do you do in this
situation
well you
take more vitamin D so you may need to
take 40 50 or even 60 thousand I use D
for you to start seeing results now you
want to make sure that for every 10,000
IU's of vitamin D you also take a
hundred micrograms of k2 because they
both work together now there's a couple
other things you can take to enhance
vitamin D absorption I just mentioned
vitamin k2 but also omega-3 and that
would be DHA and EPA zinc would help
boron magnesium and intense exercise and
lastly I don't have any specific brands
related to this you're just gonna have
to do your own research on that and
thanks for watching and definitely check
out some of the other videos I have in
vitamin D vitamin D is the most
important fat soluble vitamin
