so the market tell me a little bit about
I talked to you before tell me a little
bit about what we talked about first I
found you on the internet when I was
desperate to lose weight I needed to
lose 20 50 and 70 pounds
I was 66 years old at the time and I
just searched how you escaped details
because I tried Weight Watchers South
Beach
moves or system you name it I've tried
you know know what counting calories no
look I found you thank you
I watched I'm sorry okay I've watched
you literally every day
I keep you running all day I'm doing
housework and you're talking that's
great
my life is just so different I can't
tell you I'm 67 years old I'm a
recovering cancer patient I like
everything against me dr. Burke
everything non-hodgkins lymphoma you
Swale know I still do I have Sjogren's
syndrome I know you know what that is
the dry eye and I have lung Rocio
obliterans which means the chemo fried
my lung so actually I can't bike I can't
my tenants always always you know okay
maybe this work wow that's fantastic
so you've lost how much how much weight
so far 72 pounds o H 42 - 42 pounds and
I stalled I say the same weight for a
month and I called you and I emailed you
and I told you my son was on it and he
has now lost 66 he's you know a man and
strong and he's got mustard but he
doesn't want me things which I don't
want
I caught an hour imagine you called me
called us one afternoon and you talk to
us an honest way when we wind up talking
to you is that you reached out we just
maybe but oh you know I told you to
reduce your stress got fog sleepwalk yes
yes and that helped you
yes that was the key and I started
taking bubble baths and being on the
patio with the birds and listening and I
stopped taking editing jobs and just
took more naps watch more movies went
visit friends more often and I and I
became just rested just you know I mean
only thing I did wrong during this whole
last year I think was I tried to buy a
bicycle and I got on they didn't read
about 20 feet and failing almost broke a
leg in an arm yeah not good so I was in
bed about five weeks I didn't go off the
Chito when I had to buy Crick I didn't
eat you know i stated in most of the
time up and down but I wasn't back to my
normal schedule because I couldn't walk
hardly I was lucky that I didn't really
hurt myself anyway that was the worst
thing I did but I gained three pounds
those five weeks but I didn't beat
myself up over it and I knew that I
could go back into you know the planning
and everything and the weight just came
right back off and then now I'm down 72
pounds but I want to say this one thing
I want I want people to know one size
does not fit all
what worked for me you you're going to
have to find out what works for you that
was the main thing I learned over the
years I have I owe this year I had
trouble with ground beef my son has
trouble with cheese so I don't eat that
much and I think that you you hit on the
now because the you know when I look at
because I had a little more space I
could see what's happening you
your cancer you had an autoimmune
disorder and that is the stress that's
the stress so other people it might be
something different but it's not about
the weight it's about your health and
removing the barriers I had one lady she
was plateaued she was vegetarian she was
plateaued so we found that we had to
lower her protein content and boom she
lost the weight so you know what you
want to do is take a person individual
weakest link
it could be digestion inflammation it
could be something else and we fix that
but the whole goal is to understand your
body and understand the mechanisms of
how it works so you can control it so
you're not at the effect of your body
like right now you're in control of your
body which is the cool thing and that's
why I think with you when your cravings
went away in here you weren't as hungry
you probably found other things to do
more meaningful right yes I didn't want
to say that once I thought Kido adapted
they call it totally getting off of
sugar Sugar's the evil monster in this
old story right once I got off of sugar
something snapped in my brain and I lost
the cravings that I had had for years
that helped me can being able to
tolerate dies I would just get I'm just
crepes so bad that I need apple or pear
I know I were Saints in the world I
could have been doing for my body I
thought it was healthy right so when you
were not snaps and you get that feeling
and you know people everybody knows
people their brain is not wired like
that no in one place man like oh wow
this is points like to live in the world
without a craving on you mind all the
time right obsessing your that's all
people think about is food food food
food food and it's a trap because here
the food is controlling you and you
don't even know it when you're in it and
then when you get a chance to step out
and say wow I can actually do what I
want to do and eat what I want and not
even it's okay
not to eat this is how other people live
you know just you know you wonder it's a
fat person you wonder what they told you
no hungry well now I tell people I'm
never hungry and they go you must be I
don't know exactly what to feed my body
ah no bacon and eggs or my rings that is
that's amazing that you've you know the
key is you rum you learned how to do it
you study you you didn't look for the
quick fix you gave it time patience you
hung in there and look what you got you
got your in size six and even that's
loose and you're healthier too so I just
want to say thank you Martha for
complying and participating and sharing
your wins and I'll post this as well and
one more thing I must tell you I say my
cancer doctor every six months and he's
been so loving and caring and he's tried
to help me lose weight so much you know
but he's never first it made it's never
belittle me because of my weight and the
first time I went in there six months
and I had lost about 50 pounds
actually this last time I went in I lost
60 I that Frankie he's just hot Ivan
he's bringing all the nurses in to see
me they just all sitting around like I'm
a rock star you know I mean to know you
know that people care about you and they
want you to do well and you know yeah
and I mean people can see from the
features that was agony it's just I just
can't I just have so much more energy
and just lovely miss you know then my
story of somebody out there you are just
awesome
I just I wouldn't have done it without
you others will you made my day and I
really appreciate that because my
purpose is to help other people help
themselves so I guess that was a success
that way now you know how to do it I
mean you just you make it so plain just
understand it and I like that you have
short you know cuz you have a long
seminars which I participated in a lot
of those I like the short ones where you
explain blue clothes she explained
insulin you explain the liver you know
I'm a teacher I'm gonna educate person
to three college degrees of it I do a
video a day now we did two really
amazing recipes yesterday so we'll be
sharing that and next week so stay tuned
and thank you so much Martha for doing
this video you're gonna have to get your
electrolytes back in you're welcome
