hey guys today we're gonna talk about
the five types of people who should not
be doing any man fasting now all of
these groups right here should be doing
healthy keto okay
now when I talk about fasting I'm
talking about at least like two meals a
day no snacks if you're doing three
meals a day even no snacks I'm not gonna
consider that in a minute fasting
because you're doing three meals okay I
mean you're avoiding snacks okay so you
could maybe call that in a minute
fasting but I'm not gonna classify that
as intimate fasting now if you're
pregnant I recommend you do three meals
a day and of course I wouldn't recommend
snacking and we want to make sure we
don't restrict the calories and make
sure it's nutrient-dense just because we
want to make sure that we don't deprive
that mother of any nutrients at all okay
same thing goes with nursing I don't
recommend intermittent fasting I would
recommend three meals no snacks because
the infant is taking a lot of nutrition
from the mother we don't want to deprive
the mother of any nutrients okay number
three thin people with neurodegeneration
and I'm talking about if you have
Alzheimer's or Parkinson's and you're
very very frail and thin
Biederman fasting that could be a
problem so I would recommend three meals
a day and bring the carbs down to 10
grams or a less of carbohydrate not 20
to 50 we're gonna bring the carbs down
and really force the body to run on
ketones the brain cells love ketones
okay and before babies okay now you're
breastfeeding your baby you're not gonna
do it like twice a day or you know
you're not gonna restrict it you're
gonna basically when that baby is hungry
you feed it okay
small children okay so I don't recommend
and been fasting but I also don't
recommend any type of sweets so we want
to do healthy keto and alternative type
sweet things because the child is
growing and they demand a bit more
nutrition than when we're older okay
number five if you have an eating
disorder anorexia or bulimia now I did
another video on this which I
recommended a version of it Amanda
fasting and I would explain this one
point
most people with eating disorders are
doing a tremendous amount of
carbohydrates okay so as soon as they do
keto that's going to be an instant
relief and especially doing a healthy
version of keto to satisfy any nutrient
deficiencies right there that's going to
bring up the mood and give this
individual a lot more control over their
body and how they view themselves so
that's going to help
and when those impulses diminish I think
it would be really important to go from
a three meal per day to maybe a two meal
today and the big reason I'm
recommending this especially for a
bulimics is that it's going to greatly
improve the overall mental state the
mood the support of the neurons in the
brain of course if someone's anorexic
you're not going to tell them to
restrict their food but you want to
start out with a healthy version of keto
three meals a day no snacks okay then
make a transition from there at the
state where the person has less of those
destructive impulses okay so the other
question that people have is like what
about if I'm hypoglycemic can I do in a
minute fasting well what's your
alternative six meals a day that's what
caused this problem in the first place
when you eat frequently you spike
insulin okay so you temporarily handle
the cravings in the hypoglycemia but you
end up with the problem about an hour
later okay so the ultimate solution is
in a minute fasting done in a nice
gradual way with a lot of healthy
nutrient-dense foods and healthy fats
what you're going to notice is your
cravings and hunger are going to go away
and your blood sugars are going to
stabilize it's the way to correct this
and what's really behind this is insulin
resistance
okay what about anxiety is that going to
be stressful to do in a minute fasting
again you do a gradual you start with
three meals add to go longer so you're
more satisfied
add the B vitamins and potassium to help
you with anxiety that alone will
probably get rid of that symptom and
then gradually go and Amanda fasting
because your stress will go down when
you join them in a fast
it actually supports the adrenal gland
it doesn't worsen it it's not an
emergency State what is an emergency
State for the body is this blood sugar
crash up and down but you're converting
your body over to a different fuel
source so it's not an emergency next one
sleep disorders well what's interesting
when you do in a minute fasting is that
it supports your brain they need for
sleep does go down I find a lot of
people don't need eight hours of sleep
anymore even myself I can get by on
maybe six hours of sleep and I am
totally fine for the rest of the day
also in a minute fasting and healthy
keto together are really good for sleep
apnea and you're gonna lose the weight
which is also going to help breathing in
your back of your throat chew so it's
not contraindicated all right now what
about this topic with women with
hormones you hear this sometimes where
oh you shouldn't do any min fasting
because it's going to mess with the
woman's hormones it's just the opposite
think about what happens with polycystic
ovarian syndrome when they have high
androgens you do intimate fasting you
drop insulin you drop antigens you
actually really help women with
polycystic ovarian syndrome then you
have all the other successes with women
that had infertility problems and then
they do keynote and if' and they become
a lot more fertile and they have a child
then you have women that had psycho
problems massive heavy periods and they
do this and that it levels off one of
the things I notice when I hear this
complaint with all my hormones are a
problem I'm doing in a minute fasting
well they're doing what's called the
five and two okay
which basically means five days out of
the week they pretty much eat whatever
they want and then they fast or they at
least reduce their calories to five to
six-hundred for two days okay to me that
is not a healthy thing to do by the time
you reduced your calories for those two
days and you go right back to your you
know regular eating or five days that's
gonna nullify really any results that
you have I recommend doing in a minute
fasting on a daily basis you do three
meals than the two meals it may be even
one meal per day but don't do this right
here five and two because I can see
that potentially throwing off your
hormones simply because you're pretty
much eating what you want for those five
days and you're not even fasting
correctly for this day you're reducing
your calories so it's kind of a
unhealthy version of fasting anyways
thanks for watching I'll see in the next
video
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
