let's talk about the 8 reasons why you
may experience a nosebleed now just
because you start bleeding from your
nose doesn't automatically mean that
it's cancer this is very very rare the
most common type of cancer that causes a
nosebleed would be the squamous cell
carcinoma let's go to the more common
things low vitamin k1 vitamin k1 has to
do with clotting stopping you from
bleeding where do you get vitamin k1
these things called vegetables okay
let's say you have no vegetables in your
diet you could be deficient in k1 number
2 liver damage in the liver you have all
these different clotting factors so if
there is damage like cirrhosis or maybe
a fatty liver you might not have the
function to help you with those clotting
factors low months of biome biome is
produced by the liver it's stored in the
gallbladder it helps you to break down
fats in your diet and help extract
the fat soluble vitamins and guess what
vitamin k1 is one of them so if you
don't have enough bile let's say you
don't have the gallbladder or you have
some type of problem where you don't
have enough bile that could be a cause
or if you're on the medication warfarin
which is coumadin this is a blood
thinner that is used to prevent clots a
lot of times if someone has atrial
fibrillation they are taking this to
thin the blood to prevent a stroke but
the function of this is to block vitamin
k1 it's the same chemical in a certain
rat poison which basically causes the
rat to bleed internally and die however
when you're taking this you're not
taking large amounts to create that same
effect okay number two sinus irritation
from either an allergy or some type of
virus or infection this is very very
common it's gonna create an irritation
on the mucous membranes and that can
create a little bleeding
number three high blood pressure if you
have high blood pressure and you have at
the same time some fragile capillaries
in your sinuses that can create a
nosebleed
now number four liver disease I already
talked about that but that controls the
clotting factors but if the liver is
damaged you're usually going to have low
platelets and platelets are those things
in your blood
that helps you clot so one cause of
lower amounts of platelets would be if
you had leukemia which is a cancer of
the blood or anemia or a decrease in
vitamin b12 or iron or ful late or you
have Epstein Barr virus or some other
virus that can cause low platelets as
well or let's say you're on chemotherapy
or you have liver cirrhosis those are
some things that can cause decrease
platelets number five over-the-counter
medications like aspirin and Tylenol
that will definitely thin your blood
number six
cocaine number seven sulfite base
preservatives they put sulfates and a
lot of different foods I put a link down
below on the video on sulfides but it's
in wine it's in dried fruit it's used as
a preservative and sulfites can irritate
the sinuses and create nosebleeds and
number eight lastly already mentioned
this but cancer but again this is very
very rare so if you have a nosebleed
kind of scan down to find out which one
of these is responsible for it thanks
for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
