this is a meal that is so dangerous so
toxic yet a lot of people are consuming
this meal and they have no idea how
dangerous it is as I go through these
toxicities let's see if you can guess
what this meal is first one is a
byproduct that occurs when you cook or
char or smoke something you're heating
with high temperatures you're creating
these chemical compounds called PH and
so when you char something or smoke
something which then has the potential
to alter or change or mutate your DNA
and trigger cancer the stomach and
especially of the colon that's chemical
number one number two when you combine
sugar with protein you create something
called aes now we have these sticky
proteins as in barbecue when you're
taking the sauce and the meat and
combining them putting them together i
mean have you ever read the ingredients
in barbecue sauce high fructose corn
syrup more sugar it's crazy what does
that do to your body well it creates
advanced aging of your tissues it puts
your body in a state of inflammation
diabetes Alzheimer's chronic disease
number three sodium nitrate see it in a
lot of processed meats especially bacon
they put it in ham they put in a lot of
different meats the problem is when you
heat it up and cook it it turns into a
carcinogen and that is something that
can trigger cancer you would see this in
sausages bacon processed meat and
something called cured brisket next
thing we're going to talk about is this
right
here roundup ready weed killer in your
food you're probably saying "Well wait a
second there's no wheat killer in my
food." Well there may be a residue from
GMO food anything soy corn canola cotton
seed oil not only that even things that
are not genetically modified like wheat
potentially could end up in your bread
in fact one report showed that they use
three times as much wheat killer
glyphosate on wheat than they do soy and
corn and so if you're consuming anything
with wheat like bread pasta cereal
crackers potentially you can have
residues of this glyphosate which is
also considered a carcinogen by the
World Health Organization and it's not
just in bread it's in cornbread i mean
if you looked at the ingredients of
cornbread you have high fructose corn
syrup in there uh cornmeal and probably
some wheat gluten and beet sugar and
there can also be residues on your
tortilla chips because those are corn
chips and what do they fry the corn
chips in there's soy oil or corn oil
both of them are GMO on top of that they
put a lot of this high fructose corn
syrup in this barbecue sauce glyphosate
is linked to cancer and also it disrupts
the microbiome because one of the
patents they got on glyphosate has an
effect of an antibiotic in your gut
which is also not healthy this next
ingredient is a byproduct of caramel
coloring especially in barbecue sauces
in sodas this is a carcinogenic
byproduct it's
4mei and especially even when they
marinate the meat you could also have
this ingredient in there as well number
six aluminum the problem with aluminum
is it can leech out and go into the
brain and it can increase your risk for
Alzheimer's and neurodeenerative
diseases how could you potentially get
aluminum toxicity well sometimes when
you're smoking meat you put it in
aluminum okay and then you put it under
heat so it's cooking or even when you
take the meat off the grill you put it
in aluminum to store it in the fridge
there's aluminum cans in certain colas
now we have this acidic cola acting on
the aluminum and they also put all sorts
of aluminum chemicals that end up in
your bread as well don't worry it gets a
little bit worse there's one more
chemical I want to talk about and that
is potassium bromate this is usually in
your barbecue sauce it's in flour
products to make the bread fluffier but
it's been banned in 60 countries but of
course it's not banned in the US now
that you know the seven toxic compounds
can you take a wild guess what meal I'm
going to describe well it's going to be
a meal made up with barbecued meat or
any other type of barbecued meat with
the sauce that's been on the grill
usually in tin foil with the nitrates
etc and maybe it's meat that's been
wrapped with a bun or an added piece of
bread or some cornbread on the side
which is very common with your cola
drink usually in a can but the plastic
doesn't help either because of the
forever chemicals our brains are
accumulating plastic more than ever
nowadays and of course a lot of times
this meal is served on styrofoam plates
which can then due to the heat on the
plastic give you some additional plastic
compounds that you're consuming with the
meal now that you know that meal I know
some of you are going to comment "Oh
great Dr berg here's another thing I
can't eat." Well listen i do a lot of
videos on what you can eat and if you
want to know what you can eat that will
make you very healthy and that is not
toxic at all you might want to watch
this video right
