you know when I was in high school I was
lifting weights and I wanted to bulk up
so I went to the healis store and I
bought these muscle Gainer protein
powders right and I started consuming
them and man did I feel like crap and
now I know why because there's one
ingredient that is pretty dangerous and
they put this certain ingredient into
these products to enhance muscle growth
but you're going to find out it's not
going to do that personally I think it's
a very dangerous ingredient it can
increase acne bloating inflammation in
the gut mental irritability and anxiety
insomnia it's highly addictive because
it increases dopamine which is like the
reward uh neurotransmitter and it'll
actually produce more acid in your mouth
to promote cavities but the worst thing
it'll do it'll spike your blood sugar so
high way more than sugar and then create
a crash right after now if you do this
repetitively you're going to develop
belly fat high cholesterol
and you know a fatty liver other than
that I'm sure it's going to be fine and
this ingredient is usually the first
ingredient in the list on the label
which means it represents most of the
product and this ingredient is called
molto dextrin this is one of the worst
ingredients in most ultr processed food
products AKA junk food where they start
out with Dent corn what's Dent corn Dent
corn is a inedible you can't eat it okay
it's it's for feed and things like like
that they grind it up into powder and
then they add acids and alkaline
chemicals to it and then they'll heat it
up they'll put pressure into it and they
have to take the color out take the odor
out and then you end up with this powder
and what's wild about maltodextrin is
that it's a filler it's just some cheap
material to add bulk to a product so
they can make more money I mean there's
absolutely no benefit to taking this for
your body it's classified as a
carbohydrate but it acts like a sugar so
when you're reading the label you're
looking oh yeah it's low in sugar take a
look on the glycemic index which is the
index that shows you how much an
ingredient spikes your blood sugar table
sugar is about 65 glucose is 100
maltodextrin is between 105 and
185 on that scale so it creates way more
of a spike than even glucose and check
this out in one serving they're going to
put 253 G now in your mind you're going
well okay it's 253 G of carbs no it's
not it's 253 g of sugar which is
equivalent to 60 tpoon of sugar this is
just in one serving
1,2 calories of sugar actually it's
something that's even worse than sugar
you're going to put in your body to
supposedly bulk up your muscles I mean
preserving they're only going to give
you 50 grams of protein as whey protein
and 253 grams of carbohydrate of sugar
right it's not a good ratio I mean you
don't want to combine protein with that
much starch or or sugar because it
creates all sorts of issues in your body
so when you dump that much carbohydrate
into the energy Factory called the
mitochondria your demand for certain
vitamins are going to go super super
high like for B1 for example you're
gonna need a lot of B1 to allow your
body to metabolize that much pure sugar
of course they add some vitamins in
there but they only add
like4 milligrams of B1 that's not going
to even come in the ballpark of how much
you need so what happens is you end up
depleting your nutrients when you take
this much refined carbohydrate I mean
just think about what this starch really
is it's Ultra processed which means
they're extracting enzymes vitamins race
minerals when you consume that it takes
a lot of uh nutrient reserves that you
have in your body to be able to even
metabolize that so you end up depleting
things down the road when you can keep
consuming it and in the process you're
creating a lot of what's called
oxidation which is kind of like you're
rusting your body out from the inside
out and that's going to lead to
inflammation and you not knowing that
not even realizing you're getting that
much sugar you might think oh yeah it's
it's a great product it's cuz everyone
else is doing it it's become normalized
it doesn't even fit the definition of
the word food so it can't even be called
alter processed food because it it can't
sustain life you can't live on it so you
can imagine what's happening to the
pancreas too because every time you
consume that it's like a massive Spike
of blood sugars and that cell that makes
this this pumping out of this insulin
it's just going to be like whiplashed
every time you take it and you're going
to find that after you take it you're
going to feel kind of groggy blood
sugars kind of feel funky next morning
hard to get out of bed and you wake up
with low blood sugar because you ate
sugar the day before which will cause
you to want more of that to fulfill this
emptiness but then you keep doing this
over weeks and months and now what
happens is the body's going to start
developing something called insulin
resistance and now it's going to be
harder and harder to get energy into the
cells and it's going to be harder to
grow your muscles to grow muscles you
need exercise you need protein
nowhere have I ever observed that you
need high doses of refined sugar to grow
muscle yes it increases insulin and
insulin is an anabolic hormone but the
problem is when you start to stimulate
insulin over a period of time you
develop what's called insulin resistance
and that's what really creates a
deficiency of insulin because you
develop this resistance it's just part
of the body trying to protect itself
from getting that much sugar it'll start
blocking it because sugar is toxic so if
you haven't seen my full video on how to
grow muscle the healthy way I'm going to
put this video up right here check it
out
