one of the best if not the best natural
remedies for hemorrhoids is colonial
root let me first read something before
I get into the video so this paper I'm
going to show you was written in
1904 by a group of medical doctors
talking about the therapeutic use of
colon Sonia root apparently back then
this is kind of what they used you know
until they came up with um patents and
all of a sudden despite thousands of
years of the American Indians using them
Chinese medicine using various herbs now
all that has gone out the window and is
not real science it's all considered
folk medicine but I want to read this to
you check this out of all the internal
remedies for hemorrhoids it is without a
doubt the best and they're talking about
col andonia root we have frequently
prescribed it with success and we find
upon investigation that many if not all
writers upon the remedy to which we have
access the same value we do in
hemorrhoidal conditions it is indeed one
of the pronounced indications for the
remedy hemorrhoids frequently result
from a derangement of the portal
circulation and just as in FYI the
portal circulation is kind of like the
Venus circulation coming back to the
liver so when you think of colon Sony
root think of addressing the Venus
system and the liver we'll come back to
that in a bit halil says it has a
special action upon this circulation
hence its value in congestion of the
liver and its circulatory apparatus not
only is it of value in hemorrhoids but
also it relieves spasms of various
sphincters in the body and many vague
pelvic and abdominal symptoms due to
this condition so if I'm not mistaken
this remedy was named after a Quaker
named Peter cinon as in coinonia rote
and Peter was a friend of Benjamin
Franklin and actually helped Benjamin
Franklin in getting out some of his
tactical information about electricity
but if I'm not mistaken Peter cinon at
the time was using or researching
various herbs and their extracts for
various health problems so colon Sonia
root has a therapeutic benefit on Venus
congestion that is the stagnant flow of
this uh blood in the Venus system
especially in the portal vein which kind
of dumps back into the liver it's also
good for
laryngitis sore throat
bronchitis any type of mucus and many
digestive issues as well now of course
if you look up the cause of hemorrhoids
it'll say unknown cause but you see this
condition in over 50% of the population
at one time it's also a higher uh
incident in obese people people that
have belly fat women who are pregnant uh
people who have aites which is a
Advanced liver condition and people who
are constipated probably because they're
adding undue pressure which will kind of
blow out the Venus uh tissue but a lot
of these conditions that I just
mentioned cross over to a problem with
the liver and congestion in the liver
and uh especially Venus congestion
because that's what a hemorrhoid is it's
a a dilated vein and it just so happens
that colon Sonia root specifically
addresses that condition now will it
cure that condition
I have no idea but it's something to try
to see if it can at least help you uh
there's very minimal side effects and
it's been around for a very very long
time now because of the censoring and
the suppressing of the algorithms on
YouTube it's becoming more difficult to
find my content and there's a lot of
content that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I we will see
you on the other
side
