hi I'm back again we're gonna talk about
key to adaptation and nutritional yeast
okay nutritional yeast is a natural
product that provides a lot of B
vitamins in the transition from sugar
burning to fat burning when you're doing
ketosis it's you need some B vitamins to
avoid the keto flu and the keto fatigue
and there's two common questions that I
always get about nutrition ease so
number one will it give me a yeast
infection like Candida the answer is no
Candida is completely different strain
the nutritional yeast in fact when you
take nutritional yeast it's not evil
alive it's deactivated the other
question relates to is nutritional yeast
MSG as an auto lies yeast extract and
the answer is no completely different
things but just because it has the word
yeast in it doesn't make it identical
okay so it's completely different so you
not to worry about that but the benefit
of nutritional yeast is it provides the
natural source of B vitamins the other
thing that it provides is a great source
of amino acids which is interesting
which is protein and it also has quite a
few minerals and trace minerals which
are also needed in the transition
process but you want to make sure that
you get a non fortified nutritional
yeast like this is a fortified one
fortified with synthetic B vitamins we
don't want to do that because that comes
from petroleum and then there is brands
Cerie foods is one brand of a
nutritional yeast that's non fortified
sis is pretty good one of the challenges
though people have is how do i consume
this powder and do i just chew it do i
put in my teeth because it gets kind of
stuck in your teeth a little bit
I created a nutritional yeast tablet
that you can consume and the only thing
that I put in here because it's non
fortified I didn't put any synthetic
vitamins there are some products out
there that have the synthetics I put a
b12 but it's a natural form so all
you're getting is a tablet with
nutritional yeast non fortified and b12
so you just take this as well and that
would allow you to make the transition
from sugar burning to fat-burning I'll
put a link down below for more
information I hope that helped and put
your comments down below hi guys
and I created a pretty amazing
evaluation quiz down below that actually
analyzes your symptoms to find the cause
the root cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause so take the quiz
now and we'll send you a report
