after this presentation you will never
have sugar Addictions ever again on one
hand people have this idea that you know
sugar feeds your brain it gives you
energy sugar is natural if sugar is so
bad why is it in natural fruit but on
the flip side I think most people know
that we eat too much sugar and it's bad
for us an average person consumes 74
teaspoons of sugar a day there are over
2 different names of sugar and hidden
sugar that creeps into our food and you
literally have to have a science degree
or a chemistry degree to understand some
of these words but I wanted to ask this
addiction expert about what sugar does
to your brain what happens to the brain
when you eat a lot of sugar well you get
a surge of dopamine it's a
pleasure neurotransmitter and it feels
good but then those dopamine brain cells
they're not designed to just keep
pumping out that much
dopamine and they get depleted they just
they're exhausted so you eat the sugar
but like 20 minutes later you're
crashing okay and if you do that
repeatedly over time the dopamine uh
receptor it collapses it stops working
you know as a kid personally I ate so
much sugar I would be up in the
cupboards just eating straight sugar and
I would have all different types of
sugar from Candy to cookies to ice cream
and I was a sugar fiend and sugar did
make make me feel better it brought me
up and then the more I ate sugar the
more I wanted sugar and it kept going
until at 28 years old I finally broke
this habit so you start off eating sugar
you feel better emotionally and then you
don't feel better emotionally and then
you start craving sugar again and then
you eat sugar and this whole cycle keeps
going around and around I hear this
story frequently I got to the point
where I was going to get it I was eating
it but I didn't like it that's depending
see that's I need this substance to try
you know the dopamine receptors are worn
out but I'm going to keep trying to
stimulate them to feel good wow but
they're but they're collaps but they do
come back what you're doing is I guess
you're trying to bring up the emotions
that are basically tanked from eating
sugar so you're trying to fix effect you
just said that so well you said that so
well the your brain is trained you
believe because you've had this
experience if I eat sugar I'll feel
better but at some point when your
dopamine receptors are collapsed eating
sugar is not going to help and so eating
sugar triggers wanting to eat sugar
everywhere you go oh my gosh you have
sugar take a look at all the holidays
Halloween Valentine's Christmas Easter
and then you have birthdays work social
events and I will say presently I am
mentally rejected at every party that I
go to no one wants to talk to me because
I'm like the person that doesn't drink
any alcohol doesn't eat any junk food
doesn't eat any sugar won't take the
cookie I've been outcasted but I still
go and just kind of stand in the corner
and watch everyone eating sugar the good
news is you can reverse this very very
easily and even within 72 hours that's 3
days you can put yourself into a state
of burning fat it's called ketosis
whereas your physical body will not want
sugar I mean you can use pure willpower
saying I'm not going to do it but that
doesn't usually work you need to get rid
of the Cravings permanently and to do
that you have to switch your fuel source
you have to get your body burning fat
and so for 3 days you're just going to
have to cut out the carbs bring your
carbs below 30 grams per day now that's
one of the three things you should do
number two we need to do something about
your environment you're going to have to
talk to the other family members and get
their agreement to either hide this junk
or get it out of the house because you
can't keep it in front of you all the
time it's just too tempting and by the
way when you're experiencing any
negative emotion you're no longer in the
present so you're losing control to a
certain degree to a large degree if
you're really going emotionally downhill
and being in the present is very
important to kind of being the driver's
seat you're going to have to either
bring Alternatives or avoid some of
these events and then number three
instead of consuming sugar to bring you
up emotionally you do other things to
bring up your emotions that's really
what you're after in the first place
bringing yourself up emotionally either
from stress or discomfort or from just
boredom and these activities I'm going
to share with you right now increase not
just endorphins which actually kind of
make you feel better and it gives you a
sense of relief but also another hormone
called oxytocin now typically when
people think oxytocin they're thinking
where a woman is breastfeeding and that
she has a spike of oxytocin it counters
cortis Sal it is also considered like a
what's called a love hormone because it
increases when you're in love with
someone and also when you're bonding
with something some of the things I'm
going to share will also increase
dopamine without depleting the receptor
of dopamine number one exercise exercise
brings you up then we get into dancing
and music and laughter long walks in a
park in nature you have a lot of space
very therapeutic another interesting
thing about oxy toin is they found that
donating to something contributing to
something gives you a sense of
contribution helping another increases
oxytocin I mean in a way it could be
kind of selfish right you're donating
your time you're helping someone to
really for your own purposes well I
think it's a win-win situation another
thing that's very therapeutic I I've
talked about this extensively in other
videos instead of exercise physical work
it's more productive it also involves
taking your mind off something maybe a
little bit more than walking on a
treadmill ALS also any type of hobby
that involves physical activity is very
therapeutic doing these additional
things to bring you up will really put
you in the driver's seat of these
addictions if you fall off the wagon
okay I would look at it from a different
Viewpoint I wouldn't beat yourself up I
would look at that from the Viewpoint of
okay I just did an experiment to see
what would happen if I went off the
program wow that did not feel good
personally I had to fall off the wagon
many times before I learned from my own
mistakes you know 90 3% of
Americans have a over the age of 20 have
a diagnosis a diet related diagnosis so
this is now epidemic um my research says
that most people have this it's like a
Cravings disorder that they have it so
severely that they're sick from it but
they can't stop and also if you fall up
the wagon and eat something that you
probably shouldn't be eating add some
protein to it add some fat to it to
dilute the blood sugar Spike and
minimize the damage now since we talked
about diet if you want the details on
how to do it I put that video up right
here check it out
