so how do you get your vitamin D from
the Sun without getting skin cancer okay
I mean
I'm getting a lot of feedback from some
of these videos and a lot of people are
just afraid of the sun because it causes
cancer and wrinkles and photo aging and
it's terrible for your health so you
should stay out of the sun yet on the
flip side they want the vitamin D yet
they don't want to take Vitamin D
supplements now you have to realize that
we have evolved with exposure to the Sun
for a very very long time our bodies
have adapted to it our bodies have even
created natural filters to prevent this
radiation from the Sun specifically UV
radiation and then skin protection is a
pigment it's called melanin and so
melanin actually blocks the UV radiation
damage from your skin so depending on
the color of your skin whether you have
darker skin we have more melanin or less
melanin you can have lighter skin it
will then relate to how much filtering
of this UV you have or how much
ultraviolet radiation will pass through
your skin and create problems
now it is true that when you expose your
skin to Sun and you burn your skin okay
that can increase your risk of getting
skin cancer if you're chronically
exposed to ultraviolet radiation it can
diminish your vitamin A Levels it can
alter your DNA it can create a lot of
free radical damage but what's
interesting is if you get sun without
sunburn you can decrease your risk of
getting cancer so normally what happens
is you have this ultraviolet radiation
it's UVB okay specifically and it
actually hits your skin and then when it
hits your skin it interacts with
cholesterol another thing that people
associate being really bad because it
causes heart attacks in clogging of your
arteries and strokes Etc without that
cholesterol you cannot make vitamin D
okay you cannot make cell membranes
a good portion of the brain is
cholesterol
all of your sex hormones okay like
testosterone estrogen progesterone and
even cortisol are made from cholesterol
and without that you can't make those
hormones so think about how many side
effects you could have from that without
cholesterol you can't make bile that
helps you extract the fat soluble
vitamins with digestion and without
cholesterol you can't make the cellular
membranes and you definitely can't make
vitamin D so we need enough cholesterol
this is why like for example statin
drugs or being on a low-fat diet can
inhibit your production of vitamin D
that UV hits your skin converts the
cholesterol into Vitamin D which then
becomes activated through your kidney
and your liver and then when you have
the active form of Vitamin D it can
produce all the wonderful effects but of
course some people freak out if you even
mention taking vitamin D over 2 000 High
news I mean that's probably because as
the rdas are roughly like 600 IUS which
are completely a joke because those rdas
or vitamin D requirements were created
long ago when we didn't have all the new
information about What vitamin D does to
our immune system it's basically the
Bare Bones amount of vitamin D you would
need to prevent osteoporosis but they
didn't take in consideration for example
obesity metabolic syndrome your age
etc etc and just as a side note vitamin
D toxicity is extremely rare you would
have to take hundreds of thousands of
international units of vitamin D over
months to create a vitamin D toxicity
and the real big side effect is kidney
stones but if you drink two and a half
liters of fluid a day that's going to
protect you against the kidney stones 19
000 different genes in your body
require vitamin D vitamin D is necessary
for your immune system to prevent
autoimmune disease depression
viral infections especially the cytokine
storm every part of the immune system
has receptors for vitamin D and it just
so happens that 69 percent of the
population doesn't have enough vitamin D
now if you're somewhat of a healthy
person and you're young okay and you
don't have metabolic syndrome you're not
overweight let's say you're in your
bathing suit and you expose your skin to
about 30 minutes of sun okay Peak Sun
and you don't live in the Northern Area
you live kind of in the South
um if you're white you'll get about 50
000 IUS of vitamin D if you're tanned
you'll get about 20 000 I use and if you
have darker skin you'll get about 8 000
IUS but there are so many other
variables that can inhibit your vitamin
D absorption okay the time of the year
where you live as far as the latitude of
where the sun is in relationship to the
equator but getting back to the purpose
of this video how do you protect against
the sun without the negatives of the sun
okay
so here are some things that you can do
consume enough foods with vitamin C
because the more antioxidants you have
in your skin the more you're going to
protect against this damage from UV
radiation not just UVB but the other
types of ultraviolet radiation so
vitamin C is essential okay vitamin E is
really key and there are certain
vitamins that you don't want to let
yourself become deficient to help you
repair all the DNA damage that can occur
from various things especially UV
radiation in fact if you're deficient in
the following micronutrients that alone
can leave you very vulnerable to getting
DNA damage not only from the UV
radiation but from other things as well
so
folate okay folate very very important
you get that from things like leafy
greens uh the next nutrient would be
niacin okay you can get that from pretty
much any food and beef it's an animal
protein it's in vegetables it's in nuts
it's in a lot of different places
magnesium okay very very important for
protection and repair against DNA damage
uh you get magnesium from leafy greens
it's in the chlorophyll now also when
you do fasting you can increase your own
antioxidants and that will protect your
skin as well and also being on a low
carb diet very very important now
there's also a very good sunblock that
you can use if you're going to be out in
the sun a lot it's a do-it-yourself
homemade sunblocker you use coconut oil
a fourth of a cup okay olive oil a
fourth of a cup sesame seed oil a fourth
of a cup and zinc oxide the non-nano
version two tablespoons and by the way
sesame seed oil alone can block UV
radiation by 30 percent
coconut oil and olive oil can block it
by 20 and so you make this combination
with everything to mix it up and you
apply it to your skin it's so much
better than the commercial virgins
because of all the additional chemicals
they use now one last really important
Point okay
UV radiation is countered by infrared
radiation okay and they both come from
the same thing the Sun and so when
you're getting the sun you're also
getting infrared but you're probably
going to get a better ratio of more
infrared versus UV if you get
sun exposure earlier in the day and
later in the day versus the peak like
noon where the sun is at its peak and
you're going to get the most UV
radiation but a sunrise and the sunset
you're getting infrared it's going right
to your clothing it goes deep and it
penetrates in your body paints and it
makes melatonin
which is different than your melatonin
in your pineal gland it's subcellular
okay it's in other places and it's
stimulated by infrared which is quite
fascinating because you also make
melatonin with Darkness okay so by being
exposed to the sun you can make this
melatonin which is the most powerful
antioxidant that can protect you against
this harmful UV
so even though your risk for skin cancer
goes up by 2x by getting sunburned if
you get your sun exposure without the
burn you decrease the risk of getting
skin cancer and the next most important
video you should watch would be the one
on that very topic melatonin check it
out
