let's talk about a natural antibiotic
drink that you can make at home that is
really powerful non-toxic and you want
to take this at the first sign of a cold
or the flu but let's first step back for
a moment and just take a look at the big
picture couple very important things
about antibiotics number one they only
kill bacteria they do not kill viruses
so if you have a viral infection it's
not going to work the problem with that
is there is a big over uh prescrip ion
of antibiotics uh in especially in the
US but when you take an antibiotic that
you don't need over time it can start
building up this resistance so the
antibiotic kills uh a good portion of
the good microbes but the ones that
don't die become stronger they become
more resistant they start becoming
pathogenic so now the next time you take
an antibiotic it doesn't work anymore
and realize this too in your microbes if
you're only going to kill the antibiotic
off and you're not going to kill the
candida or the yeast or other microbes
that are in your
microbiome now we just threw things off
so in other words these bacteria were
there to keep other things in check like
the yeast and the candida this is why
one of the big side effects of an anotic
is an overgrowth of candida or Yeast
there are two types of antibiotics
there's antibiotics that are uh not as
strong they kind of slow down the growth
of microbial reproduction and those are
usually like penicillin or
tetracycline now other types of um
antibiotics like cypro or Levaquin those
are more powerful they have like a black
box warning on them because they create
side effects like they can rupture your
tendon
tendinitis yeah not not good and if you
ever have to take those antibiotics
always make sure you take three things
with them
magnesium also vitamin E and probiotics
but for any antibiotics that you take
from the doctor make sure you always
take a probiotic at the same time
antibiotics have been around for a very
very long time but they weren't
necessarily called antibiotics back then
they were just taken by some bit of
wisdom I mean even like a thousand years
ago they found in this Nubian mummy
significant amounts of tetrac cycling
where did that come from antibiotics
natur come from molds and other
microorganisms in the soil I mean even
like there's antibiotics in like the
mold and bread so I think there's a lot
of wisdom in the past as far as us
taking natural remedies for various
things so who knows how that culture got
that tetracycline but you know it's been
there for a thousand years now the other
important thing to know about
antibiotics is that after taking them it
could take weeks to years before you get
get back these original microbes I
believe 80% of your immune system is
your microbiome but what I'm going to
recommend in this video is to tap into
and borrow from herbs the natural
antibiotic chemicals that these plants
have you know developed over eons you
can actually use them like
anti-inflammatory effects antimicrobial
effects anti-diabetic effects
anti-cancer effects I mean even like
garlic for example has like 33 different
sulfur antibiotic chemicals now if you
compare that to like penicillin which
only has one you can see very quickly
that your microbiome it's going to be
easy for them to wipe out that one
antibiotic it's going to be more
difficult to wipe out the complex um
group of antibiotics in garlic in fact
it's not going to happen right now
they're actually testing and researching
using some of these natural antibiotics
that don't create this resistance to
microbes on bacteria that have
resistance to you know antibiotics so
we're borrowing these complex chemicals
that have virtually no side effects and
we're going to use them to our advantage
two quick points before I dive into the
actual recipe number one if you get a
fever don't try to automatically
suppress the fever because you're going
to increase the duration of the
infection a better solution would be to
dress up really warm bundle up and have
these blankets on you when you're in bed
after maybe you took a hot shower and
just start sweating to actually increase
the temperature to cook off these
microbes both bacteria and viruses the
second thing is stress okay stress
cortisol uh paralyzes the immune system
your white blood cells go down they
become suppressed so I've noticed this
in practice uh with virtually Almost
100% of the people coming in that had an
infection they always had a stress event
that occurred right before that made
them susceptible to getting the
infection so just realize that and do
what you can to keep that stress at a
minimum especially if you're getting run
down so this particular drink um should
be taken at the first sign of a cough
the first sign of a a you know you start
sneezing sucessfully or like a tickle in
your throat start this okay because you
can actually stop it in its tracks so
you don't have to go through like you
know 10 days of infection so the first
thing is garlic you're going to take
three cloves of garlic okay and you're
going to put those in the blender garlic
has like I said before 33 different
sulfur compounds that have
anti-microbial properties the cool thing
about garlic it's very antiviral then
we're going to use easia the cool thing
about eonia is that it works really good
to stop uh the start of an infection and
it's really good for strep and staff and
sore throat stuff and other pathogens as
well and you want to consume a good
amount of it so I'm going to recommend
in this 116 oun drink using 90 drops
okay now some people just like use 30
drops in some water every hour 90 is not
excessive so we're going to take these
90 drops put it into the blender and the
cool thing about ainia it'll kind of
numb your throat if you have a sore
throat the next thing is you're going to
throw a whole organic lemon in it okay
don't just use the juice don't use lemon
juice use the whole lemon what's in a
lemon vitamin C there's some other
things in the lemon too the lemon peel
you have all these essential oils that
have antimicrobial properties there's
antimicrobial properties in the seeds so
you're going to blend it all that and
you're going to consume it now we're
going to add one tablespoon of apple
cider vinegar I like the fairchilds I
don't like the brags because fairchild's
is more concentrated the brags adds
water to dilute it anyway you're going
to take this outside of vinegar you're
going to put a tablespoon in there and
the appleid vinegar is going to act as
an acid to stimulate something called
the fagocitosis which is the the immune
systems cleaning action of certain um
cells it's going to stimulate those get
those guys in action and start cleaning
uh you know mucus and other things
involved like especially pathogens then
we're going to add one tablespoon of raw
honey okay you can also use uh manuka
honey so with the raw honey you're going
to have all these enzymes you're going
to have these plant-based chemicals from
a wide range of flowers I mean if you
think about it raw honey was the first
antibiotic it has antibiotic properties
unless you heat it and pasteurize it uh
there's some really interesting things
in raw honey you have hydrogen peroxide
which can act as an antiseptic and the
pH of it is slightly lower so it's kind
of acidic then you're going to add 16 o
of water okay you're going to blend it
up for about about 45 seconds and you're
going to drink onethird of that okay and
then put the rest in the refrigerator
and then wait for several hours and then
do the next dosage right you're going to
take one3 three times in one day and
then after the second dosage you'll take
the last a little bit later in the
evening now what you should notice is a
diminishing of the symptoms you should
feel better you should sleep better um
you may want to do this a second day or
a third day and if you're in the middle
of infection I would recommend to do
this throughout the entire infection
because it'll actually speed up the
process of you recovering do not forget
to take 50,000 iuse of vitamin D3 of
kind of a quick boost to your immune
system because vitamin D3 is awesome for
the immune system every part of your
immune system needs vitamin D3 I would
also add some zinc in there uh maybe 100
to 150 milligrams to get your system all
geared up to fight off this thing a
little bit better and so just give
yourself time to all use to go through
this cycle and uh if you do these things
it'll be faster than if you didn't now
if you haven't seen my other really
popular video on the antibiotic drink I
put it up right here check it
out
