there are six main signs that you have
low testosterone men today have over 50%
less testosterone than they had several
decades ago and the question is why what
the heck is going on it's not even just
low testosterone it's low sperm count
it's low fertility we're going to get
into the causes of this and causes that
you probably have never heard before
then I'm going to get into the solutions
let's first start with all the different
signs number one is breast tissue man
boobs what the heck is going on with
extra breast tissue in men well it's an
increase in estrogen as you are
decreasing your testosterone it's
basically a feminization of a man
because the ratios of estrogen are just
way too much number two shrinking
testicles another name for this is
hypogonadism the testicles are getting
smaller and smaller and of course the
testosterone is also getting lower
shrinking muscles as well testosterone
is intimately involved with making
muscle and if you don't have enough it's
going to be very difficult to develop
muscle number three reduced semen
production now semen is not sperm seen
is an extra fluid that helps to deliver
sperm number four decreased body hair
specifically the beard the chest the
legs and even on top of your head the
skin becomes very shiny and soft without
hair number five andropause that's a
situation where a man is getting hot
flashes or night sweats when I was in
practice I would have men come in with
that symptom and one time I even had a
doctor who specializes in menopause come
in with his main symptom being hot
flashes and he didn't want to take the
medication that he gives women which is
hormone replacement therapy
unfortunately a lot of men go for Viagra
the problem is there's some slight minor
complications side effects like heart
attacks and even a side effect of
prolonged erection number six is is
excess belly fat because you have
insulin resistance testosterone does
have an influence over insulin it
worsens insulin resistance which means
your body has to compensate by
increasing more insulin the fat making
hormone and so now you're storing more
fat than you should and this ends up as
excess belly fat this is probably why a
lot of young males when they're 18 or 19
or 20 do not have belly fat because
they're at their Peak hormonally with
testosterone and other hormones that are
related to keeping your stomach flat
okay so those are all the signs of low
testosterone now let's get into some
interesting causes and I think a lot of
people know those causes and they
probably also know that junk food and
too much sugar will lower estrogen and
they probably also know that
carbohydrates and sugar also decrease
testosterone so I'm not going to cover
those I want to cover some other things
that I need to put on your radar so you
really understand the real big cause of
lowered testosterone presently is
endocrine disruptors what's an endocrine
disruptor anything in the environment
chemical wise that can mimic estrogen
pesticides insecticides herbicides
fungicides you also have Plastics
microplastics accumulate in your body
one of the biggest primary sources of
plastic that we're getting right now is
in our water supply I don't know if
you've heard about forever chemicals but
they accumulate in your body and they
just don't break down it takes like a
thousand years for these chemicals to
break down and you can test is in your
water supply and if you actually have
City Water you have them in your water
another big cause of lowered
testosterone a lack of sleep if you're
getting under 7 hours of sleep I'll
guarantee your testosterone is probably
pretty low because when you don't sleep
enough your cortisol goes up and
cortisol which is a stress hormone just
kills testosterone the next point I want
to bring up is just stress in general if
you're under chronic stress you're going
to have low testosterone another hidden
source of decreased testosterone is WiFi
and electromagnetic fields from things
like this especially if you're putting
these in your pocket keep this away from
your body put on speaker phone but don't
keep it close anywhere in your pockets
or even next touching your head next
cause is
phytoestrogens soy products soy milk soy
protein iets which is probably one of
the most common protein in protein
powders as well as those protein bars
that would be also in the vegetarian
Meats in practice I met a guy who was
consuming about a gallon of soy milk a
day he started developing breast tissue
and get this with lactation I am not
kidding the next cause of low tea is low
zinc zinc is so important for
testosterone in order for you to make
this steroid hormone
testosterone it's dependent on zinc for
the conversion
and what is it converting it's
converting
cholesterol to testosterone with the
help of zinc cholesterol is also needed
as a raw material so if you're on a a
cholesterol blocking drug AKA statins
that could be the reason why you have
low testosterone and then we get to the
last cause of low tea too much iron
what's interesting about iron is that
our body has no mechanism of getting rid
of iron and so what happens is this iron
accumulates in your organs and it starts
to rust out the organs if you're anemic
you don't have low iron you have
dysfunctional iron not only do you not
have enough iron to feed the red blood
cells that's why you're tired but you
also have an excess of iron inside the
cells because it's all locked up because
you're deficient in copper copper is
involved in certain enzymes to help
protect the cells from excess iron a
deficiency of copper is really at the
bottom of this problem with excess iron
now I'm going to get into the solutions
the last one is the most important one
number one zinc number one most
important Trace mineral to increasing
testosterone now the rdas for zinc are
between 8 and 11 milligrams that is just
not enough you're going to probably need
up to maybe 50 milligrams every single
day the problem is if you're going to be
taking zinc by itself without being in a
base of trace minerals you're going to
end up over time creating a copper
deficiency and then your iron's going to
go up and that can affect your
testosterone you can get a lot of zinc
in red meat oysters liver and shellfish
next nutrient that you need is more
magnesium magnesium is also another
helper mineral to help you convert
cholesterol into the steroid
testosterone and a lot of people take
the wrong magnesium you want to take the
Magnesium glycinate minimum 400
milligrams per day but probably a little
bit more maybe 600 or even 800
milligrams per day and then we get
vitamin D vitamin D directly helps you
increase testosterone the big point
about vitamin D is most people are
taking way too little vitamin D you're
going to need as a maintenance dosage at
least 10,000 IUS of vitamin D every
single day to help you increase
testosterone and to help you fix insulin
resistance fix certain things in your
liver vitamin D is going to be very very
important next thing exercise is going
to be vitally important you're going to
find if you do heavyweight training or
resistance exercise training or even
high-intensity interval training
paralleled with enough rest you're going
to find that's a potent stimulus of
testosterone next thing get a water
filter that helps you filter out forever
chemicals there's three that I know
about I will put those links down below
now the last most important solution and
you're going to like this one called L
rudai El rudai is a special microbe
that's only in about 4% of the
population 96% of the population doesn't
have it anymore because of past
antibiotics this El Rudi can be cultured
and made into kind of like a yogurt type
mixture which is in very very high
amounts per half of a cup it's like 300
billion and you would consume this every
single day there's an interesting study
on rats they fed these rats El rudai in
their water and the group that got El
rudai had significant increase in the
growth of their testicles even though
they were older mice they have not done
this study in humans but I've been
talking to a lot of people that are
taking this microb and they're noticing
a great increased spike in testosterone
because if you increase the size of the
testicle you will increase testosterone
but not only that it increases something
called oxytocin probably the most
powerful hormone to counter cortisol
you're going to sleep a lot better
you're going to have vivid dreams dreams
more erections during the night which is
an indication of higher testosterone and
so it does all of this plus there's been
reports that increasing stem cells for
muscle tissue especially as you age and
I think the next most important video
for you to watch is the one I did on
iron so I put that up right here check
it out
