hey everyone I'm excited to introduce a
special guest today it's actually a
famous doctor dr. Jeff Gerber who you
know I don't know if if you probably
have seen him he actually hosted and
created the low carb Denver it's like a
keto summit that's every year and it's
coming up in March so I wanted to bring
him on and talk about that because
actually I'm gonna be there I'm actually
gonna be there answering questions and
also I'm gonna be on his panel I won't
be one of the speakers for one of the
seminars because he's he has so many
speakers this year but it's an awesome
event I've been wanting to go but I'm
gonna go this year it's gonna gonna put
the details down below so you guys want
to definitely check this out and come
because um that will have a chance to
meet you and you can ask some questions
so welcome doc are you doing great Eric
it's a pleasure to be here thanks for
the invite and we're all so excited that
you're going to be joining us for no
carb Denver 2020 in March absolutely I
think um you know there's various
summits and Quito conventions around the
planet and I think we have two of the
largest summits and so it's really good
to Ally and get-get with you and and I
kind of Mike I'm curious how did you get
involved with the low carb ketogenic
diet and then this deciding to do a
summit like what tell me a little bit
about that yeah well firstly about the
the conferences and I know that you have
one as well and our conference started
in 2016 we we befriended dr. rod Taylor
he's an anesthetist as they called him
down in Melbourne Australia and we made
friends because of our love of skiing a
lot of the Aussies and the Kiwis come
out to Colorado to ski so we skied up in
Vail for a couple years and rod runs
conferences look hard Down Under
and also he's he was putting on
anesthesia at conferences and he kept
saying let's have a conference in
Colorado and
what are you crazy so we we started back
in 16 with our first conference up in
Vail and a hundred and fifty people and
it basically grew that we to the point
that we couldn't handle it in the
mountains and so we came down to Denver
and last year we had over 850 people and
it continues to grow and so one thing I
think is important for the audience to
understand is that these conferences
that the niches are slightly different
and perhaps who were trying to attract
so we started out as a medical nutrition
conference for healthcare professionals
offering educational credit and yeah I
can't help myself I'm a physician so I'm
a little bit partial to healthcare
professionals so we offer see Amy but
then what we realized is this unique
opportunity where we get a diverse
audience so not only healthcare
professionals but professionals from all
walks of life researchers scientists the
general public and so this is what our
niches has become and you know that was
the conferences were in 2016 era but my
interest in nutrition I think that was
the second part of your question how did
I get interested in that yeah well you
did you start up being you know
traditional doctor and then you decided
Wow well I mean I have no idea right so
essentially that that's correct how it
started so I've been doctoring now for
thirty years come from a family of
doctors also come from a family that was
always struggling with their weight and
and looking at nutrition way back in the
70s and actually I have to give credit
to my parents that you know my mother
she she did every latest greatest diet
that was out there and really influenced
myself over the years about an interest
in nutrition and then going into
to medicine and so family practice as
they call family medicine was my area of
focus back in medical school and aside
from my parents talking to us about
nutrition we just learned a standard
nutritional advice back in medical
school and only had a couple hours of
nutrition science that they were and you
know it was basically eat less exercise
more and watch your calories and being a
vegetarian or a vegan was actually
pretty maybe a pretty good approach and
I have to tell you back then I mean I
considered the fact that we're omnivores
and that I didn't understand this aspect
that you know why should we cut out you
know a real food animal based product so
but with that so standard standard
training and was doctoring for the first
ten years and somewhat frustrated
because we just tell people to eat less
and exercise more and didn't seem to
work and we kind of gave up and I'd say
it was 20 years ago that patients
started to come approach us with
different nutritional attempts and some
of those attempts were low-carb and I
even remember Suzanne Somers one of the
patient's identities yes he says numbers
approach and I've always been
open-minded in trying to think outside
the box and I said well you know we can
watch you but you're gonna eat all these
all this food that's high in saturated
fat and worried you're gonna drop dead
from a heart attack but lo and behold we
monitored the patient we saw actually
they lost weight they did great they
thrived their metabolic markers improved
and personally I lost 40 pounds with an
experiment myself and and I started to
read about the science in particular the
metabolic syndrome the work of dr. Jerry
Raven and that was just I open to me
because the metabolic syndrome real
just to find a root cause for metabolic
disease and what causes obesity diabetes
and heart disease and so from that point
forward 20 years ago I started
introducing low-carb keto nutritional to
my patients and it's just exploded ever
since and here we are today well that's
very interesting because um there's a
lot of people searching for keto
friendly MD as I go there and they're
they're not happy with what they're
getting and they try to find a doc
that's open to at least listen to them
and then they're either made fun of or
they're told that you're gonna die of a
heart attack
I'm just curious when you work with
people I can't imagine putting people on
this keto diet and then you're going to
see massive changes with blood pressure
cholesterol stuff like that so you're
probably working just getting people off
nets all day long it seems like I mean
yeah okay because it's traditionally
you're just a doc that's not a nakida
they tend to manage the symptom and they
keep coming back and it's illness a
medication and they get more medication
over time are you finding just getting
less medication over time with these
guys yeah so traditionally you can say
that the medical model is that of sick
care and you you know you're just
treating symptoms that's what you said
and you're you're treating the symptoms
of medication and you're not addressing
the root cause and so look we love our
health care professionals and you know
most of the the health care
professionals have spent a lot of years
training and they care about patients
just as much as I do but we didn't learn
about prevention and how to properly
prevent disease and so what we have done
is now we bridge the gap between modern
medicine which which saves lives very
important and the nutritional side of
things and we bring it together and what
we prevent disease we treat disease we
reverse disease
and patients understand that we are
their personal health coaches is how we
say it we like this aspect and they we
teach them the science they understand
the science they and and therefore they
understand how to approach it how to
change their diet they see the results
and we get patients off of medication
not completely but you know the the best
example is for diabetics we can get
people completely off of insulin through
the low carb approach an Aikido approach
which by the way should be the default
diet thankfully the American Diabetes
Association just in 2019 again came out
with an endorsement that a low carb diet
is an appropriate approach for diabetics
and you know there's always this
argument and it's challenge that we say
that we can the first diabetes we can
put it in remission and this isn't D
true because you can't do that with
medication you can only do it with diet
interesting interesting
yeah it's you know when you obviously if
you're something you're getting a lot of
medical professionals coming to the
summit are they um they're obviously
open but do you think as a profession as
a whole that we know the the hard thing
to overcome is the cholesterol the
saturated fat because you know that's
probably a big thing what do you feel is
a common omission or the thing that they
just are not taught and I well I think I
already know what it is but what what
are they not taught in medical school
that is missing is it the link between
high insulin and all these problems
there's a kind of a common thread to so
many conditions and I mean it's just
like there's something obviously
taught incorrectly well we know that's
where the fast but I'm just curious
about like the insulin aspect to it yeah
well but both important things to talk
about and it and I say this all the time
in medical school it was physiology 101
that carbohydrates drive insulin right
right it is that simple in fact I just
saw a post from Gary Feeny from Tasmania
Australia and the diabetic the Dietetic
Association there he quoted a little
line where they said that all the
protein and fat in the diet is what
drives diabetes okay I said that goes
against everything we learned in medical
school because carbohydrate is is the
single driving force for insulin which
ultimately drives diabetes so it simply
makes sense that if you want to address
insulin insulin resistance
hyperinsulinemia that you focus on the
carbohydrate content of food and the
problem is is just everything got
conflated because the heart
association's again they came in in the
1950s with an selkies and and again
wanting to to help each patients I you
know people it wasn't a conspiracy there
was a rise of hardening heart disease
after World War two I mean smoking had
something to do with it as well but so
the idea there was that there was this
connection between bad cholesterol and
air quotes LDL cholesterol and heart
disease and so then the focus just
literally shifted to doing everything
you can to lower LDL cholesterol in the
diet and the way to do that you can
lower LDL cholesterol by reducing
saturated fat and also since that since
was a cleric dense food if you eat less
fat or caloric dense food you're
reducing calories so it was like a
double whammy you cut back on your
saturated fat you're gonna supposedly
reduce your risk of heart disease and
you're also going to lose weight and
what we know today is that nutritional
advice if you if you watch what's been
going on for the past half century or
more is that obesity diabetes and heart
disease is on the rise the big three and
so the approach isn't working right
right yeah so unfortunately though this
conflated nutritional recommendations
and so and another way to think about
this that nothing connected at all and I
love to tell people what's the
nutritional advice when you go to your
doctor well if you go to the
cardiologist he's gonna tell you to
reduce saturated fat in the diet he's
gonna tell you to reduce the fat content
if you go to the nephrologist he's gonna
tell you he's worried about your kidneys
so he's going to tell you to reduce the
protein in the diet and then if you go
to the endocrinologist he's going to
tell you I'm worried about diabetes so
we're gonna reduce the carbohydrate in
the diet so you put that all together
and they're saying well if you never
ever eat you're going to be super super
healthy right now that that's not
intermittent fasting or skipping meals
they're just it doesn't make any sense
and so again the common theme are what
did it what it is in the diet that that
that drives insulin that that drives in
inflammation and drives metabolic
disease and so that that changes the
whole perspective and it all gels
together and the root cause again being
insulin metabolic disease eating a Whole
Foods diet that's lowering carbohydrate
and
lower in processing and a little more
protein a little more fat that seems to
make a lot of sense and there's some
common themes in there that we can
possibly all agree to yeah yeah it's
definitely uh that makes total sense
what about like when testing insulin
it's just something that an average
medical doctor doesn't test the fasting
insulin level for the Homa
i our tests they don't look at that they
focus on blood sugars and a1c and but I
guess they just haven't looked dug deep
enough into the insulin aspect yes so
actually my presentation coming up in
March I have a wonderful slide that
looks at the the timeline of the
development of type 2 diabetes and what
your you're pointing to there is that if
you don't do the right measure and you
don't know that there's a problem and so
the work of dr. Joseph Kraft he measured
insulin through the five-dollar insulin
assay and we do a short version of that
in our office where we measure to our
insulin after a glucose challenge but
what dr. Kraft showed is that patients
have hyperinsulinemia as he called it or
the earliest signs of diabetes and
prediabetes almost twenty years okay
25 years not five years that ended 20
years before you you have the diagnosis
of type 2 diabetes where you know and
you know it's like a Blind Pig can can
pick up a diabetic and you really
haven't helped the patient at that point
it's it's it's decades before that you
need to take action and and do the right
measures and so what we're trying to to
explain and for our healthcare
professionals and to understand is that
having an early level of suspicion were
for the for the metabolic syndrome for
these metabolic diseases and doing the
right measures can really help your
patients for those of you new to this
concept we're talking about insulin
insulin tends to go high way before your
blood Sugar's go high a long time so if
you actually measure that when you see
your doctor and you see you're gonna to
tie then you can actually have
prediction and do something about it
before you end up with the problem do
you find that a lot of doctors don't
even know about that has the Houma IR
test yes absolutely
okay we could go on for hours about this
Eric but I have two thoughts that I can
remember I have a perfect example of a
patient just this week and he he has to
lose probably 40 to 60 pounds and we
when we see patients initially we do an
evaluation and we do metabolic markers
and lo and behold he comes in and we
measure his lipid profile and the only
tip off when the lipid profile is he had
to hit a really low HDL like in the 20s
and his triglycerides were high in the
200 LDL isn't terrible his fasting
glucose was 95 his hemoglobin a1c was in
the normal range of was a 5.3 5.4 right
and so I said well interesting well you
know you have a bit of way to lose the
the triglyceride ratios is a little
tip-off that there might be some
metabolic issues or some pre-diabetes or
insulin resistance I said let's let's go
ahead and do because tolerance test so
we do the glucose tolerance test and his
his fasting glucose is okay is one hour
and his two hour were all normal
- our glucose under 140 is fine okay no
worries but I look back they actually
measured his his fasting insulin was was
high at 20 his c-peptide was high at
like 4 which is a pro insulin molecule
and as to our insulin was off-the-charts
at 200 so a normal to our insulin is
under 40 and so that that shows you
right there that most mother must
healthcare professionals and and the
doctors they say ok well your your
triglyceride HDL ratio is off but your
hemoglobin a1c is fine it's when you
measure the insulin sometimes fasting
can give you a tip-off but also after
the insulin challenge Wow so you haven't
eaten and you measure so many hours
later with insulin right so we give them
a 75 grams of glucose okay
they come in fasting and so what we do
is we do a fasting one hour two hour
Luco see in two hours we draw the
insulin and then that gives us the
answer right there now now the second
point I did remember it is I was
discussing a patient with an
endocrinologist the other day and and
again a great doctor brilliant doctor
but does everything by the textbook by
the book and is saying why are you
measuring insulin on these patients we
don't we don't you know the American
Diabetes Association doesn't recommend
it as a as a screen and so you know my
response is there guidelines and lucky
for us we have the freedom to do other
other things other testings other
approaches to our patient and this is
why we do the the insulin measurement
and most people do not know about the
work of dr. Kraft and they need to just
just as much as they need to know about
the work of dr. Ravin and the metabolic
syndrome mm-hmm Wow fascinating
so I don't know if you have your browser
up I wanted to just let people know
who's going to be speaking at your
summit but for those of you watching you
may want to consider coming I'm going to
put the link down below but let's see
who we have here
doctors Stefan's Fanny is coming let's
see who else dr. Sarah Hallberg sure
David Ludwig who actually isn't he the
doc who did the sugar on the sugar he's
an endocrinologist he said actually I'm
Harvard and he's worked on the new C
study with Gary Taubes and yeah
dr. Ludwick is is an excellent
researcher and scientist and you know we
don't want to scare people away with
these research right scientists being
there one thing I do like to point out
is that the speakers know that there's a
diverse audience and we we pick people
that are great at presenting information
in a very simple way so doc dr. Ludwig
last year he published a paper it was it
was from the new Siri search for
instance and this study used used EE
labeled water and he was actually
looking at energy balance and and it was
it was not in a clinical setting it was
you know it was it was in the research
setting and it was just a short-term
study and basically showed that there
was a an energy benefit for the
individuals that were on a low-carb diet
that he actually controlled for calories
and and he showed that those patients
actually lost more weight on the
low-carb arm seen seeming to defy the
laws of thermodynamics
right but that's the thing it doesn't
defy the law of thermodynamics if you
add up the the energy properly it's all
accounted for but in the end the
patient's lost weight and and this this
study for instance was contentious in
the claims that it was making but dr.
Ludwig does a great job of standing his
ground and also explaining the research
so yeah that's great but you got a whole
list of I'm just looking at these
doctors it's good let's say the date of
its going to be March where's the date
March March 12 to 15 okay good yeah
right here in Denver Colorado Colorado
are you gonna do it at the Gaylord again
or is it another yeah we keep moving it
around every year because it's a
conference rose we can't find we can't
establish ourselves so we this year it's
gonna be at the Sheraton downtown which
is just a couple blocks from the Capitol
okay and then we even have our date set
for 2021 which is at the the Hyatt
Regency which is a couple blocks away
nice good that you're planning in
advance
yeah now one of the speakers I'm really
excited is joining us is dr. Arthur
agates Tim yeah and so people might know
his name from the South Beach Diet so oh
yeah that's the man himself now what you
have to understand dr. agate Stan was
and is a pioneer in cardiovascular
prevention I didn't know that Wow yes
and so long before he became interested
in diet but probably the reason he did
become interested in diet was because
he's a cardiologist and when you get the
the calcium heart scans that's where
he's a pioneer the score is called
a J AJ a is for agates tin and J
Rhianna which wow I didn't know not so
so so he's the man and so as you know
myself and my my colleague Ivor Cummins
who we co-authored a book II rich lived
long were very much interested in
cardiovascular disease prevention and
finding the right tests and we think the
calcium score the heart calcium score is
a wonderful and proper method of
screening for heart disease because
you're actually looking at the disease
process itself rather yeah you're
looking at the disease process rather
than using a blood marker which just
loosely associated and so doctor agates
did again you know this is where he
pieing he was a pioneer and then he
became interested in nutrition and I
actually heard dr. agate-stone speak
here in Denver 10 years ago at the
cardiology office down the road Wow
yeah and and I said the South Beach diet
yeah that sounds pretty good not bad and
Ivor actually connected us with dr.
agate sting and of recent it turns out
dr. agaton has become and now
understands and as an advocate of low
carb and and intermittent fasting Wow
and and he just came out with a new book
the low carb it's it's the keto friendly
South Beach diet oh that's funny
it just came out and so as I say the
stars of a line yeah
and the you know I want there to be
I want people from different walks of
life and I want there to be some common
themes that we want people to understand
that their their science to back up the
nutritional advice that we're discussing
mmm-hmm
yeah yeah yeah there there there there's
science to back it up and so one of the
common themes
like to say is the low-carb
Mediterranean diet what whatever
the Mediterranean diet is it's so well
defined but it has to be healthy because
it's Mediterranean exactly but at the
end of the day eating whole foods foods
unprocessed foods a variety of animal
and plant based foods so these are
common themes I think dr. agates din and
and and our speakers all all understand
this so it's every year it's just a
wonderful conference we have some of the
regulars and then some of the new people
again like agates den William Yancey
another great researcher Robert Lustig
he he's just he's just phenomenal yeah
yeah
Belinda Linares I believe
endocrinologist talking about diabetes
who else is on the list
Sean Sean McKelvey is a pharmacist from
Canada Chris Kenobi is a the malla gist
Sarah Hyun is a nephrologist yeah Brian
Len skits is a primary care troll troll
I have to put troll in there I oh
there's trouble tro yeah gladion is
another primary care Lulu Chia Aronica
does research in Stanford
we have Michaela Peterson coming out and
it's just going to be a great event
oh yeah that's that's gonna be hot so
for those of you that don't know
anything about what we're talking about
check out the link down below and
definitely consider coming because it's
going to be pretty exciting there's just
so much data question are you gonna have
different rooms or it's all going to be
one room just one speaker after another
after another right no breakout rooms
just one room we tried that in the past
and so people you know they have this
decision to make it
and it's tough that way so yeah just
just fam room yeah it's it's a long
conference because it Strunz from 7:30
till 6 p.m. on Friday Saturday Sunday it
cuts off a little bit early and then we
have a wonderful reception on Thursday
night and again Eric what what's unique
and there's nothing like coming to a
conference and meeting the speakers in
person and realizing that you can come
up to them and introduce yourself and
ask them anything you want sharing in in
in the passion other other people
attending and there's nothing like it
and you know as we say our goal in the
conference is to educate and embrace
people to take charge of their health
and it's not a boring medical conference
it's it's just there's passion Wow
awesome well thank you so much for
taking the time I think this is going to
be an exciting conference and I hope to
see a lot of you that are watching there
this March but all right well thank you
so much doc thanks for having me you're
looking forward to seeing you there
absolutely
