hi guys it's me again in this video
we're gonna talk about a unique way of
using wheatgrass juice powder now a lot
of you are already taking wheatgrass
juice powder and some water and you're
drinking it down you're getting great
results but there's another way that you
can use this and it's done topically
externally on the body I mean it's
really good to support things internally
for skin damage but externally it is
awesome what you do is you would mix a
little bit of powder in some water into
a paste and you can apply it on cuts
burns hemorrhoids anal fissures skin
damage from the Sun or another source
surgical incisions that you have these
sutures that you're trying to heal you
can place it right down there put the
band-aid back on there and just let it
do its job damage from steroid creams
you know you put these steroids
externally on your body and they damage
the skin you can actually use wheatgrass
to help heal that so it's loaded with
vitamin A vitamin C vitamin E
phytonutrients chlorophyll but really
the the magic of wheatgrass is the
growth factors in the wheatgrass that go
beyond just the regular vitamins and you
know Tory about there's no gluten in
wheat grass juice at all the gluten is
only in an adult wheat plant it's not in
the sprouts so I just want to do this
short video to show you another
application of the power of wheatgrass
in supporting the body's normal healing
process thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press this
little button down below okay thanks
