hi guys I want to talk about melatonin
and the pineal gland okay a lot of
people are taking melatonin for sleep
and what's interesting is that yes it
does help sleep but there is some
drawbacks number one the pineal gland
inside the brain is an interesting gland
because it contains optical tissue like
eye tissue so it has receptors for light
there's a whole pathway where light
enters the eye and it goes through a
series of reactions that then end up in
the pineal gland right here so for
physicians watching output down below
the technical part of this so you can
kind of study this if you're interested
for everyone else you don't need to know
that all you need to know is that the
light turns off melatonin darkness
stimulates melatonin
it's an on/off switch okay and it's in a
feedback loop right here the problem is
that we're so exposed to fluorescent
lighting we don't go outside anymore so
it really throws off the circadian
rhythms the the rhythms of sleep because
we don't get the appropriate melatonin
that's one problem right there so the
pineal is very sensitive to optical
tissue so the pineal has optical tissue
and it does receive light now here's the
problem when you take melatonin as a
supplement you're taking a hormone and
it may work initially but what's going
to happen it's like a thermostat you're
going to give the pineal the hormones so
now it doesn't have to produce anymore
so anytime you take a hormone the gland
that makes it stops making it because it
doesn't need to anymore so you're
basically making the pineal gland go to
sleep that's the problem with long-term
melatonin I don't recommend taking
melatonin because it's a hormone and lot
of people don't know what they're taking
away too much so you don't want to
depend on that now the other problem
with the pineal is that it could become
calcified especially as we age and it
has a lot of receptors for calcium and
fluoride so when they do testing they
find that this thing is like filled with
fluoride and calcium
in calcium and fluoride actually makes
more soft tissue calcium it makes
spurring calcium deposits in the body if
you have too much fluoride and a
calcified pineal gland so a couple
things that you need to do for the
pineal number one you want to make sure
that you go for regular walks okay on a
routine basis you want to get out there
I know maybe some people go to the gym
and work out but it's really important
to go outside in the light and spend
some time every day that's going to be
important and number two when you go to
bed at night you know turn it to watch
TV until you fall asleep because the
light you want it completely dark to
start winding down and stimulating
melatonin naturally that's one thing
number two we want to avoid fluoride
okay in the water in the tap water we
want to avoid fluoride in the toothpaste
okay so you want to avoid that and get a
toothpaste without fluoride because it
can absorb and go into the pineal and
create problems for you the other thing
is you want to take vitamin k2 why
because vitamin k2 handles soft tissue
calcium so it actually improves the
calcification of the pineal make sure
you take it with d3 together I'll put
some links down below so that's my two
cents on melatonin so check it out and
give me your comments below hey you
probably already subscribed but if you
haven't press this little button down
below and I will keep you updated
