hi guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about seek help and
arsenic okay so the first question is
what is seek help well it's a sea
vegetable it contains not just a lot of
the trace minerals including iodine
which helps the thyroid decreases
estrogen but it also contains amino
acids contains a lot of the B vitamins
so it's a great nutrient-dense food now
it also has a naturally occurring
element arsenic so in nature arsenic is
in the soils so plants do absorb all
trace minerals but it's in an organic
form but the definition of organic in
this sense is different than certified
organic okay so I'm going to explain the
two different different definitions if
you're not familiar with that you have a
nature of inorganic which is like the
dirt the minerals in the dirt and then
when the plant absorbs the mineral into
the plant it converts it into an organic
form which is an easier digestible
easier on our body form okay so it's a
safer form than elemental or inorganic
minerals okay so it's very very still
okay to consume if it's an organic form
the amount of the EPA listed for toxic
effects would be over 15 micrograms the
sea kelp that I use hat is about 0.2 to
5 micrograms
it's not even on the radar it's so small
okay and it's an organic form it's
totally safe people been consuming seek
help for hundreds and hundreds of years
now it's really important when you get
seek help to get it in the location
where the ocean is not polluted so the
sea kelp that we get is from Iceland
it's probably the last place on the
planet that is still pristine and
unpolluted certified organic but if
you're concerned about having arsenic
there's very very very very small amount
so I hope that clarified that question
and put your comments down below hey you
probably already subscribed but if you
haven't
press this little button down below and
I will keep you updated
