today I'm going to share some very
important information about zinc and the
reason I'm talking about zinc is that
zinc is involved in so many different
things it's involved in 300 different
enzymes and over a thousand different
factors related to your DNA its
functions are very wide and helping
certain enzymes not just for digestion
but for a lot of other things and if you
can identify early signs of a zinc
deficiency sometimes they call it a
subclinical deficiency then you can
prevent Advanced problems related to
zinc and that could include a complete
loss of appetite and then you end up
having anorexia necrosis because the
tissue is not healing and so zinc
actually helps with wound healing and if
you're deficient in zinc you can develop
ulcers externally or internally on your
body even ulcers in your mouth and even
some elderly that have these ulcers
because they're in this bed and they're
unhealing ulcers or wounds they need
zinc big time another Advanced problem
with zinc is hypogonadism where your
testicles actually atrophy or Shrink so
you're obviously going to have low
testosterone that could be an advanced
zinc deficiency and I'm going to put all
this research Down Below in the
description another interesting Advanced
problem would be thymus atrophy the
thymus gland is on top of the heart and
that has a huge influence of making
certain T cells that are involved with
the immune system it's like a training
camp for your immune system and if you
have atrophy of the thymus gland could
you imagine what's going to happen to
your immune system you're not going to
have an immune system then we have the
adrenal hormone called cortisol your
cortisol can greatly go up if you're
deficient in zinc which could be the
reason why it affects the thymus the
immune system because when you have high
cortisol that can paralyze the immune
system in the white blood cell you also
have muscle loss because of the
involvement with zinc in fact one of the
best sources of zinc is in animal meat
because we need that zinc in our muscles
to create antioxidants to counter all
the oxidative damage that occurs
especially with exercise so if you could
identify early signs of a zinc
deficiency you can head off or prevent
bigger problems and I wanted to show you
one of my favorite books
it's called the technology of War by Sun
Tzu you probably heard of The Art of War
right but this book is a lot different
if you take a look at some of the um the
books on Art of War there's like 45
different versions
a lot of them are altered from the
original translation this book is an
exact duplication of the original text
that Sun Tzu wrote in Chinese in this
section he's talking about Supreme skill
is not 100 Victories in 100 Battles
Supreme skill is subduing the enemy's
operations and its forces without battle
and if we can relate this to this topic
on your body which I do all the time you
don't want to wait until you have an
advanced disease before you do something
about it if you understand the early
signs or the symptoms of something you
can easily prevent it because you have
the knowledge so that way understanding
your body's early signs for something is
extremely valuable and I have a lot of
videos on that so let's talk about the
most common early sign of a zinc
deficiency well first of all you have to
have the intelligence or understanding
of
where zinc tends to affect certain
organs more than others and it just so
happens that the organ that is most
affected by a zinc deficiency is the
pancreas okay now there's two parts of
the pancreas you have one that controls
your blood sugars which has to do with
insulin which zinc has a lot to do with
but also the other part is called the
exocrine part of the gland which has to
do with enzymes okay and so this is the
symptom are you ready for this foul
smelling stool that floats yeah that's
right you might have some cramping you
might have a little diarrhea you might
have abdominal pain you might even have
bloating okay but this is a very easy
thing to identify and yes it could come
from other things too it could come from
what you just ate but it can also come
from a zinc deficiency and just as a
side note I did another video about this
I think four years ago and there is
another common first symptom which is
shortness of breath upon exertion which
is another indicator which is good to
know because sometimes people think well
I'm just out of shape well it could be a
zinc deficiency so we need to look at
the diet are you eating enough zinc or
maybe it's coming from
what's called gut malabsorption maybe
you have inflammation your gut uh that's
a big cause of a zinc deficiency another
cause of a zinc deficiency is consuming
something with something called phytates
okay or phytic acid which is in grains
if you are a cereal eater if you eat a
lot of refined carbs you're going to get
phytic acid and that is going to
potentially create a zinc deficiency
there's millions of children that have a
zinc deficiency around the world that
are consuming a lot of cereal they don't
consume a lot of meats especially red
meat and then they end up with this
diarrhea which is very very dangerous
and out of all the foods that are the
highest in zinc it's oysters okay and
then you have crab other shellfish Meats
fish and then you might have some zinc
and cashews and peanuts but you want to
just look at the whole situation to see
could this situation be coming from my
diet is it coming from something that
I'm eating that's creating this
deficiency because also sugar or even
being a diabetic and credit deficiency
too much stress can create a deficiency
in zinc or let's say for example you
drink alcohol on a regular basis that
could create a zinc deficiency okay
having an infection can create the
deficiency of zinc so I think it's very
important to use principles like this to
be able to predict and to be able to
predict you have to have the right
information you have to have all of the
information to be able to understand the
consequences or the early signs of
something that can lead into something
bigger because typically what would you
do if you have a symptom like a
digestive issue you might go to the
doctor it gives you a pill
it masks the symptom
your symptom is better the problem is
still there and then it kind of goes
downhill from there and just to give you
a little more Intel or information on
zinc zinc is very much involved with
your sleep cycles if you have sleep
problems let's say you don't get enough
of the last part of your sleep zinc
could be something you might want to
take right before bed zinc is also a
heavily involved in a part of your brain
called the hippocampus which is kind of
like the relay part for memory and
learning and cognitive function zinc is
also like I said before involved with
insulin okay if you don't have enough
zinc it can put you at risk for becoming
a diabetic zinc is also involved in
making neurotransmitters like serotonin
and dopamine which can affect your mood
and zinc also makes up a very important
group of antioxidants involved with your
brain
your heart
and your muscles the three parts of your
body that use a lot of oxygen and if we
look a little bit deeper
zinc helps with this oxidative stress
that's involved with your mitochondria
the energy Factory of all these tissues
so I want you to start looking at these
symptoms a little bit differently
instead of just jumping and treating
them try to understand what your body is
telling you realize that a lot of these
problems could be related to a
nutritional deficiency that could be
related to your diet and use these
indicators or little red flags as
something that you can have advanced
knowledge or prediction to then prevent
something but unfortunately this idea of
prevention you can't really talk too
much about it because even like on the
bottles of different nutrients you'll
see there's a mandatory label says this
product is not intended to diagnose
treat cure or prevent any disease so
it's illegal to even prevent a disease
so what I try to do my videos is to give
you the knowledge of what you could end
up with so then that way you don't have
to end up with a situation you're
battling it which is a lot more work it
is so much easier to win the war by
doing something like this than going
into battle with a health condition now
if you haven't seen my recent video on
the the Dark Side of zinc I put it up
right here check it out
