so I had this question come up what is
my opinion on dry fasting so I decided
to create a short video just to give you
my opinion so what is dry fasting
compared to water fasting dry fasting is
fasting or not eating without any
liquids any water of any kind water
fasting is when you're fasting yet
you're drinking water and then there's
two types of dry fasting there's soft
dry and hard dry soft dry is when you're
allowed to use water when you're
brushing your teeth or taking a shower
hard dry is when you're not exposing any
part of your body to water at all so
that being said our bodies usually will
only last about three days without water
sometimes a little bit longer sometimes
a little bit shorter but your body will
last a lot longer if you're just
restricting food in that water because
you have a lot of reserve a fat reserve
to live off of now in Ramadan they are
doing a dry fast for one day between
sunrise and sunset and there's quite a
bit of research when people are doing a
dry fast during Ramadan but
unfortunately there's no research on
comparing a dry fast to a wet fast
side-by-side so I pretty much looked
everywhere and I could not find even one
research study but because there's no
research doesn't necessarily mean that
it's not a good thing or can't get
amazing results there's just not enough
data to tell you for sure if it works
better than a wet fast now in theory
when you're doing the dry fast you're
adding more stress to the body so
hypothetically you could potentially get
better results for a day but for most
people if you're thinking about doing a
dry fast and you want to try it out I
wouldn't go for more than a day then you
yourself can compare a day of doing a
dry fast and then maybe a few days later
do a day of doing water fasts and just
see what works better for you and that's
my long-winded answer to a very short
question I just don't have enough data
to form a solid opinion now if you're
new to my channel and you want more
information about how to do intermittent
fasting check out this video right here
hey I just want to say thank you so much
for your attention are you watching this
content I really appreciate it and I
would love your feedback as an unbiased
review I put a link down below so go
ahead and click it and tell me what you
think about this content
you
