I wanted to mention five weird things
that can trigger excessive sneezing so
the first question is what is a sneeze
well it's interesting you have these
little receptors and your sinuses that
are on a circuit that go deep into the
brainstem that trigger a reflex that
then goes to your diaphragm and your
lungs and your chest muscles which
create a synchronized breath in and then
an explosion of air out to clean out
your sinuses okay that's what this news
is and so the first one on the list is
birth control pills which is interesting
can cause sneezing the second one is
liver in gallbladder congestion so if
there's liver problems where gall
bladder problems a person could actually
start sneezing now birth control pills
do have the ability to damage the liver
and so that could be the link between
these two right here
now when some people look into the Sun
they start sneezing now there is a
photic sneeze reflex that's involved and
they don't really know exactly why
someone sneezes when they're looking
into the Sun it could be some
neurological crossover and the circuitry
or between the optic nerve and the
olfactory nerve which isn't back part of
the sinuses but I would imagine there's
more of our survival mechanism I'm not
sure exactly why but many people sneeze
at least initially when they go outside
but after the initial couple sneezes
they don't seem to keep sneezing okay so
we don't really know why that's number
three number four under active or
hypothyroid condition can cause
excessive sneezing and the number five
overeating probably because it triggers
the liver in gallbladder now have you
ever walked in the aisle of a grocery
store and just start sneezing especially
the aisle that has all the perfumes I
want to just mention that this is not
weird it's just very common there are
many chemicals in perfumes which are
very toxic got acetone benzaldehyde
which is a known
Kotik ethyl acetate phalates which are
endocrine disrupters parabens styrene
which is a human carcinogen methylene
chloride which is banned by the FDA for
a toxic substance but it's not enforced
by the FDA so what I would do if I were
you is I would look at some of your
perfumes if you have them in your house
and and just see if that ingredient is
in there then they put this other
chemical called cinnamaldehyde and a lot
of people are allergic to this right
here well first of all it's an
insecticide for mosquito larvae okay and
it's really good to inhibit corrosion
for steel but they for some reason they
put it in your perfumes pretty crazy so
the best thing is not to wear perfumes
and if you are I would use some
essential oils anyway there you have it
the five weird things that can cause
excessive sneezing
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
