hey guys I have a great interview today
it's basically a follow-up we've done a
couple different recordings over the
last few years and Steven is here hi
Steven how are you doing I'm doing good
how are you guys good
so the reason I wanted to bring you back
on is because you have an incredible
incredible story I'm just going to let
you kind of give everyone just a
thumbnail sketch of where you were and
how you actually came to where you are
right now as far as your weight and your
health and so why don't you just kind of
give us a brief summary of that back in
2015 I was weighing 600 10 pounds and I
basically wanted to lose weight I wanted
to retire here when I was like 14 age 50
here which I'm doing this year so I had
to find a solution to lose that weight
and I kind of got onto a Joe Rogan and I
found out about keto I loved September
first took me about a month of studying
following dr. Byrd Jimmy Moore some of
the originals back then in October 6th I
basically started on the day of my
birthday and by two years later I was
down 344 pounds and now it's been almost
four years and I'm down 367 pounds and
I've kept it off and now life's been
great so basically the big weight loss
is two years and then I've been
basically maintaining building muscle
and just kind of staying in that same
little category but having really good
improvements over the last two years
that's what I want to dive in like right
right now how much do you weigh I'm 242
ok I can't quite I can't seem to quite
get down anywhere like I'm pretty lean
for my size that's a weird one away but
I'm doing lot of muscle I'm going up so
I'm cut you know for the last two years
I've been in that 242 to 248 range I'm
just kind of staying in there but
clothing size has gone down stuff like
that so it's two different
transformation Wow
last year you came to our summit and I
was exciting
if we compare last year with now not
just weight but any other health
improvements that you noticed just from
the last year well what I've noticed in
the last year is like I told you I had
water retention in my lower legs and I
was having a skin issue where if I just
touched it was it was really weak and it
was damaged over this last year I've
been doing once a week I do a two days
fast and then every 45 days I'll do five
days five monistic that my skin is
actually getting stronger I'm not having
that issue I still have this skin issue
it hasn't gone back of you know I was so
big I was made Act but just overall like
health mental traveling like it's just
amazing like a do it
come live from the first year from
honester to this year I was just kind of
getting into I was really skinny for a
year now I've been almost two years and
just the whole quality of life like easy
to travel workout clothes the way people
look at you and because you're in a
whole new basic I'm like a normal person
now compared to where it used to be so
how yeah so those of you who are
watching and you really don't know much
about it
stephen is a is doing a combination of
keto ketogenic diet and in a minute
fasting together and I think you do one
mill a day yeah so basically now for two
years I've been doing one meal a day and
I do it above eight o'clock at night and
it's basically because just have like
two hamburgers and cheese and some
spices in one big salad and that's what
I eat every day and I do 45 minutes of
cardio pretty hard like I do the roller
that's my new thing I'm on the rower in
that the concept to ski and machines
below to my to ones I do and I do that
45 minutes then I do usually a good 45
minutes that's pretty heavy you like
eight so and I do that every I do that
five days a week and then I'll do cardio
maybe one day on the weekend and I only
have one plus at work all day and and
there's a lot of days where like I
travel quite a bit I'll just skip eating
for two days because you know if I'm
flying around many airports I just don't
even and Kimmy it's been going well and
I've been getting quite a bit of muscle
that's what everybody keeps trying to
tell me is like oh you're going to
catapult yourself like you
your muscle but I'm getting stronger I'm
getting more sighs and I'm very very
consistent on what I do with my eating
Wow and it's end of portion and I don't
know I've been having a really good
result so I don't you know it's kind of
interesting when Tom McLaury I want to
talk to him and he does Aikido I want to
you know kind of compare to him what he
thinks but I don't think you need all
that food to gain the muscle no in fact
there's a couple points I want to bring
up about that like the real reason why
keto and I F work so well from a
scientific basis but first I want to
talk about muscle protein print muscle
protein you know if you eat a hamburger
for example you're only gonna get maybe
thirty seven percent of that's going to
be actual protein the rest is like water
and fiber and collagen and stuff that
you're not digesting so we're getting
about 37% of it's going to be digestible
protein so and then what happens there's
a lot of those proteins amino acids are
going to be used for repair replacement
but honestly your body is not shedding
or getting rid of protein as fast as you
think so we're we constantly recycling
our our nutrients and our amino acids
and in other nutrients tubes and I
workout most days I'm working out fasted
so that's another thing that a lot of
people don't understand so I don't eat
before I work out so I've worked all day
now so I beats me to eight o'clock and I
saw and then I get up in the morning I
go to work I get home at five o'clock
and then I basically go into doing
cardio I going to do my workout and then
I'm actually feeling really good and if
I don't tell myself to go eat that a day
I probably don't have to and I still
have lots of energy I'm still doing like
you know abs at the end like I do I do
not lack for the energy and the strength
and I don't feel drained or anything and
then I basically then I basically go eat
then I relax and then I know it's
bedtime for me but that's why MIT day
works out for me I like eating later at
night because then everything is kind of
settled down and I'm ready for my next
day and then I
start over again okay I like the what
you're doing because the the part of the
nervous system called the
flight-or-fight works during the day at
night in the evening things are winding
down
it's called parasympathetic rest and
digest so you're actually your body
naturally is gonna do a little bit
better with digestion in the evening
then in the morning believe it or not so
then you actually eat you could you go
to bed and you recycle that long but the
point I was gonna bring up is that um
when you do in a minute fasting you
cause your body to start to run only on
ketones and fatty acids and when that
happens your body then starts to recycle
nutrients way more than if you're eating
frequently because it's it's kind of
like you're adding a little bit of a
so-called starvation stress which is not
really starvation but if you don't eat
it creates a little bit of stress enough
to cause your body to adapt to that and
start being very conservative with the
nutrients so you start recycling the
nutrients so that the amount of
nutrients you need so heck of a lot less
that's why you can get by with a little
smaller amount of food because your body
is running off your factor which is
designed in an average thin person has
close to that 70 to 80 thousand calories
of fat as reserve we will have like
1,700 stored calories of sugar so it's
not natural to run your body of sugar so
when you convert over to fat by reducing
your carbohydrates all these wonderful
things happen with the with the cells
with the mitochondria store get more
energy your cognitive function improved
your mood so no you're not going to lose
your muscle you're not going to wither
away but you know if you actually ate
probably six times a day and you try to
lose weight with calories you probably
would have a lot of muscle problem
because you would you'd still have the
insulin resistance I don't think you
when you wish when they originally
tested you did they ever find anything
like a pre-diabetic State well yeah I
was a little bit high when I was 610 I
was around 11 to 8 in there I was just
on the verge of pre
but as soon as I started Kido I went
back to the diabetes doctor and I had
dropped right down that was even a month
in and I was right down I thought she
below five and then with my blood sugars
and then after that I was I was cruising
along like and the thing about like me
is you probably understand I've been
pretty consistent and kid of the day I
started you know four years ago I've
never cheated everyone and but if I do
have like you or Christmas I'll have
like an extra meal I'll get some like
hard cheese and some bacon salami I will
have maybe three times a year I will
have maybe two meals but they're really
weird part about that is I don't feel so
good but I'm just trying to you know do
a little extra I actually do better on
the one meal a day and you know I just
went to Thailand for a month and I flew
it was like basically 30 hours flying I
went three days without eating and on
the plane they're just like shoving food
in your face and I would just give it to
the guy beside me hating one extra meal
but and I was fine I was calm you know I
was you know eight hour layover in the
airport getting sleep for like 50 hours
and ended up being and I was still great
like so once you get yourself in and you
stay on point with bannerman fasting I
think that has been like my biggest
secret cuz I told you that when I was
stalling out near the end of my keto and
I wasn't quite losing that weight it's
when I switched that one meal a day
that's when I shot down that that hard
last bit of weight that everybody talks
about
it was Manomet fasting and I started
that inmates been two years now two
years in a bed and I had never looked
back like like I swear by it I try and
convince a lot of people that is the way
to go but they all think I'm a little
crazy really like oh you're in the
stress of but I said you have to do that
you're for our you know but I'll tell
you the secret for mine and I've never
felt better I've never been more
satisfied I don't even think about food
like you know the only reason that I
only have four tonight is because I kind
of need a little bit I'm it's time that
you don't realize and keep on a steady
plan but it's an amazing thing if you
can just stick with it it's the
willpower and once you get into that
routine you know like I told you I've
been heavy my whole life I have never
felt better in my life you know at 48
years old I have never been in better
mental clarity I've never slept better
you know cardio everything and then I
get stumped down every day the
difference now is I get through my day
like I get stuff done I remember stuff
like just the whole way life functions
compared to I was before
and now it's pretty amazing so so um
those people are watching they're gonna
want to know you have you have actual
physical cravings and then you have the
mental pressures of this or social
pressures of people around you that
keeps trying to put food on you how do
you do well I know that I already know
the answer that you you you don't have
anymore cravings so that helps right
number one well I do a lot of social
situations and I get this all the time
and like I was just in Thailand for a
month and over in Thailand food is like
huge there everybody is attracted to PG
they try to do it I just tell them I
only once a day they think I'm crazy so
then you kind of explained to them and
they understand and then what they
really tried you to try and accommodate
you because over in Thailand they cook
with a lot of sugar so I tell him order
without sugar
give me some dark vegetables you know
and I was having pork with you know
broccoli mint so anywhere you go in a
social situation you can still do keto
you just got to ask some questions and
do it I do a lot of business meetings
where people go out for lunch what I I
just have a Diet Coke or I have a team
and I'm sitting there drinking it was
like well I feel bad that you're not
eating I'm like well no don't feel bad
I'm funny that you guys enjoy your meal
mmm you know and then a lot of times if
there's a really kind of cool dessert
that I like that I think I would like to
taste I actually buy for a friend of
mine I say here I'll buy you that you
didn't tell me how it looks you know
just for a joke because if the situation
comes where they're kind of pressuring
you I turn it around on them and I'll
buy them something I see you didn't tell
me how it is but you know so I kind of
played a game it doesn't bother me but I
hear that so much like so many people
does I've been doing your videos dr.
Berg they've reached out to me on
Facebook like I mean a lot how do I do
this or not I've tried to help quite a
bit of people out but it's the willpower
and they do good for a couple weeks and
they're like almost family since I have
to do this or my work and all my not to
eat then they drop off and then they
have one meal few meals and then they're
right back to where they are they cannot
consistently stick with it and it always
seems to come
well my friends at half-speed or my
parents happy or my family says they
have to eat and then they jump off and
then they're gone they don't give it
time to actually stick together a plan
and get there you don't have to you can
have a drink you can still be social
there is nothing in life where says the
UFT because somebody else is meeting and
I've been in tons of situations in that
situation I've never ate why did he want
today at night wow I'm in the same boat
you know like there's so many people
around me that are you gonna drinking or
eating and I'm just on the guy on the
side just looking at them their stomachs
busting out I can say no that a fatty
liver they just don't have the
understanding and then eventually they
come onboard because they watch my
videos and of course you know it's hard
to it's hard to you know like like I
have the intention one to help everyone
but they have to be ready to have to be
willing to be helped but you're right
it's such a strong thing culturally
we're just like it's all about food you
have to feed people it's a social thing
but yeah I'll just honestly get to the
point where I don't really care right
now
about a funding finding something if I
don't eat because it's my body I feel
like crap after so I'm like no I'm good
I'm feeling great and I'm not hungry and
whatever I'm you know I got a break
what's it you want it is it's really
weird people want to know how I went
from 610 pounds and I honestly didn't
know I did this when I was six ten and
then in two years I was watching some of
your success story that's how I kind of
got on this I weighed myself I never
really weighed myself that much when I
was losing the weight when I started I
just started losing the weight and
everyone asked me oh you must feel so
much better
well tell you the truth I started on
October 6th every day just got a little
bit easier so by the time I was done two
years later October 6 and I weighed
myself I was like oh god I'm down that
much I saw your success stories they're
down 60 pounds 80 pounds that's why I
reached out to you and said well I did
better in that in two years it never
really dawned on me because I just took
it a day at a time every day got just a
little bit easier too little
a little bit easier and before you
nobody should stick with it and you just
don't have that extra bit like I didn't
do anything different like I never hired
no doctors I never hired no products I
just ain't natural food it costs me
nothing just what I would eat normally
and in two years I lost it and now since
then I've been following your system
with intermittent fasting to me is a
miracle I just think it's the most
amazing thing I've been doing it for two
years non-stop and that is where if
people really want to have good health
and a good life and a live - they're
probably longer that is the secret but
it takes a little bit of dedication it
takes a little bit of work a little bit
understanding but you don't have to jump
into it right away to everybody you can
get down from you know we saw eight
hours - six hours to four hours two
hours and then if you can get down to
that one Ellen it's pretty amazing yeah
ya know so yeah let your body actually
tell you when to start to go more strict
and this this summit which is October
and I'm sorry August 31st and September
first we have Thomas LRO's coming when I
came up with you so he you can get some
information from him because he's really
into the workouts in the body building
that and then we have to cardiologists
who are keyed up friendly which is going
to be quite exciting because you would
think all cardiologists are pushing the
low-fat thing it's not true and then
even dr. Mercola is coming he knows a
lot about health I respect all the
things that he's doing and you know he
got in trouble because he's like you
know talking the truth about certain
things sensitive subjects and he got
attacked many times but I really respect
what he's doing this there's several
other people coming so it'll be exciting
for us to be there and you to be there
again last how'd you stand up last year
we'll definitely have to have you stand
up this year - just to have give a shout
out to everyone because there's a lot of
people who came last year coming again
so it's like a whole group of people
that are just developing friendships and
it's quite amazing
yeah anybody's there and they want to
come say hi to me come up to me ask me
some questions
there are a lot of them every chair on
Facebook I get probably five five to
seven a day I could imagine
all over the world and III don't mind
helping they don't you know some are
really good about it yeah you know it's
a tough you know like you said like
people if they want the help I'll give
it to them yeah but some people you can
tell they're just a little in-between
and they're not a hundred percent like a
lot of us who have mental - but ya know
it's been a good year I'm really looking
forward to the summit this year I'm
actually my goal kind of succeeded I'm
actually retiring at the end of October
over here and I'm moving over I'm moving
over to Thailand full-time so what Wow
yeah yeah so I'm gonna try and set up a
little maybe help more people there's a
lot of expats over there and a lot of us
and over there quite a bit so I might
see what I can do over there on my
retirement you know a little bit to see
if I can help
yeah I guess your you'll be able to live
a little bit better for the from via the
dollar or taking the Canadian currency
converted over it's probably a little
bit better I would love to come to it I
would love to come down here as ona but
your dollar just kills us right now so
it hurts me so you know I'm sorry about
that I'm trying to go over
yeah but Thailand you can you can get
some healthy food there I'm sure it's
like incredible healthy yeah
they got like fresh they got like get
this down the realtor my they're like a
fresh butcher
they have like fresh pork they have a
lot of pork their beefs with more money
cuz it comes from Australia but a lot of
pork chicken seafood great vegetables
they're a lot I'm gonna walk to a lot of
the darker green you don't want broccoli
they don't one thing that really bothers
me they don't have them they know on a
scale
nobody has finished or you have to grow
that yourself but they had a little bit
of spring mix but you just substituted
with broccoli and some of the other
vegetables but in there's great over
there no they got a great amount of food
but one thing ties you cook a lot with
is they dump the sugar on everyone in
addition like I mean just spoonful and
one thing I've noticed over there since
been going there for quite a few years
is the population there's so much fast
food there now and a lot of the Thai
people are starting to get a little bit
bigger they never used to be that big
you're starting to see it in the city is
where a lot of the fast food in the
villages not
much but in the city do you see a lot of
that dog food you know and you see it
over like in a lot of those countries
over there once you start getting in
that they're just difficult use do they
use msg and this is probably they do
some of the restaurants it's hard to
tell if they do because they don't
there's no log over there and yeah but
the big one over there it's Kentucky
Fried chicken's a really big it's been
there for years
McDonald's is everywhere and people know
that's a treat for them to go out there
sit is it going to a nice Thai family
restaurant we get actually some healthy
food people think it's cool and fun to
go to option we have crappy food you
know it's a different culture but it you
know I know in America if you go to a
Thai Thai restaurant you're gonna get so
much msg it's gonna taste incredible but
you're gonna fill up with fluid and then
you're gonna be hungry in one hour
because your blood Sugar's gonna come up
msg will increase insulin by 300% so
that's a pretty pretty potent stuff most
of the restaurants that we go over there
they're pretty wholesome like you get a
full plate of Thai food like sitting on
some that would cost us ten eleven bucks
it's a buckle over there a buck forty
bucks twenty you can go out with ten
people have twenty-five percent of food
you could have like say six beer big
bottle of mineral water you know over
there's thirty cents you can do all that
for about fifty five dollars and we went
out quite a few nights with ten people
with all that food and we've spent $55
KT which is like $30 American so the
incredible amount and like a Coke Zero
over there it can be here like a bottles
to 75 over there 20 cents - a big 1.5
liter of mineral water is 30 40 cents
over there so the food is really cheap
over there you know living expenses
you're really cheap over there so it's
your good place or anything what the
best part is you really want it's cool
it's a great place to retire then that's
awesome
Pam yeah we'll come back I'll fly back
every year and we'll go to the
conference and summit I gotta we're
gonna keep that up so yeah I tell you
what I mean last year wasn't weren't the
people just incredible I mean just
friendly gung-ho
into it I'm like who are you guys okay
yeah I know what the best thing is after
the summit we're on the hotel together
there we would get like 10 15 of us all
together we would sit there talk and you
know asking about like what's going on
and the best thing I met a couple of
people there that they actually it was
one of the ladies I brought her two
nephews who never even heard about quito
but just for support so she brought her
nephew there's a lot of people like that
or the boyfriend of the girlfriend would
come but the people are there for
support then they learn what we've done
and then it kind of builds up the
community
yeah well you you know what I still see
is like you know I talked to you about
the doctor my doctor still says to me
because if you've done amazing but I
just don't understand it we weren't
taught this way
whatever you done it doesn't make sense
to cardiology
everybody keeps coming is because they
know what I've done now but they even
know how long it's been off I got only
blood work done you're like it does not
make sense to us we were never taught
this way and I don't know what to say to
you we just keep doing what you're doing
because you're doing great and so my
doctors like can you give me some
pictures and tell me kind of what you're
doing in theirs so I gave him some
pictures so he's showing his client he's
actually on his own trying to do it and
there's actually a lady here in Calgary
she's a doctor two reached out to me and
she wants to start doing keto for her
patients here but they're also new but
they're doing like a a high-bred thing
in quito because they're still not a
hundred percent understanding how it
works the too scared to pull a hundred
percent of the glucose away but it's
starting to open up Wow everything and
everything I've been doing is I've been
sending my blood worked out Dave and
he's been taken I've been trying to do a
study so I begin my blood work sending
it down to him you know just to show
where we're sitting there so it you know
it's quite a nice community that we've
created here and the people that we met
you know and all the great work we're
doing it it's hard to convince people
though like I could you said you think
you if people want to learn I'll try and
teach them but when you try and teach
them they look at you then it's like
this doesn't make sense it doesn't make
sense I'm like well here's links to this
video so I send them to your they send
it to everybody's length I'm like
there's like well I think it's all fake
well I'm like well you can believe what
you want
I'm you know evidence you know there's
many people here that are evidence but
yeah I don't even I don't even get into
it anymore I just think given the
information that I don't walk away if
they want to come back to me and ask me
then I will that's kind of what my
theories been in the last year because
there's been so many people reaching out
to me and I don't actually tell them in
public I will wait until they ask me the
question or I'll kind of give them a
suggestion but I don't really want to go
on preached it because it's so hard with
people at Sun yeah it's a tough one they
want to learn I'm here but if they don't
you know time we don't have time in the
day some days for all that stuff I know
there's a you you know about my lab my
keto lab um yeah probably on the
membership there cuz yeah probably a lot
of you lots of questions so I have a
keto an intimate that's keto an if' lab
on Facebook if it's close group you you
have to apply and then we accept you in
there but I have so many people that are
don't even know what keto is and they
are just learning I don't know where
they're coming from and they're like
what's keto and so you got you can
imagine like I've almost 300,000 people
just swarm in and kind of let me explain
what keto is but I think um I think that
the things are changing this is not a
fad it's because it works and anything
that works as well it's going to
continue so the weird there's a huge
push I think it's at one point four
trillion dollars in the food industry
there's still carbohydrates so you have
a lot of money
that's aunt Aikido and they pretty much
own the news so you're gonna get a lot
of you know it's dangerous and shortens
your life span but the truth is that
because it works people will eventually
try it and they their work for them you
know it's like I get I mean I have so
many success stories on the site I have
I think close to 800 success stories 800
which is a lot we get like 10 a day and
so if someone scroll through and looks
at that they're gonna be like okay
there's must be something to this and we
try to keep it simple they try it works
your childhood friends so it's just it's
like a no brainer and the big thing of
Okita that people understand is you know
in the past I've tried like you know the
Jenny Craig the diet centers all those
places you know a lot of these doctors
where they give you the vitamin me
that stuff cost a lot of money I'll tell
you Kido the only thing you need is you
need your supplements right we talked
about you need some of your zinc your
potassium that's what you got to buy but
everything else is just food out of a
supermarket and it's so cheap like I try
to tell people you do not have to change
anything you do you want to stay with me
for a week I'll show you how to eat and
if you tell me one thing of that's bad
and you couldn't stick with it then
there's obviously something wrong with
you there is a few people that are so
addicted to bread and carbs they think
they are but I said this let me come
with me for a week he would I do you
don't even remember it right you don't
have to go and buy all this expensive
thing I have all this expensive advice
something you have to do is get
potassium magnesium tell me your
supplements we have because we know they
work for us and then maybe a little
electrolytes when you're fasting a long
time but everything else is natural food
you can handle them which is super cheap
you get pork is even cheaper you can
have pork it's even cheaper the
vegetables broccoli sheep you know
spinach kale it's all out there
eggs super cheap that's what you need
those are the staples of what you're
doing and that's all you really need to
do keto
you do not have to go spend all this
money you can reverse your health you
can improve your life you can have
whatever you want the future by just
sticking to some simple things it's a
pretty simple plan how much money you're
gonna save just I'm not eating snacks or
that you start doing intermittent
fasting you're you're you guys save at
the very minimum 400 a month up to 600
month just from cutting down different
things so you know it's you can't use
that as an excuse like oh it's too
expensive it's not no need pre-drinking
foods right quit drinking you gonna
drink water like you know mineral water
like what I do is I get a really big pot
and yeah let's order it can mineral
water that's why tell me
don't drink reverse osmosis if you can
find it I've been really trying to
educate on my friends do not have RO
water
terrible for you I try to commit their
way to mineral water that's what you got
to have so but at the end of the day
what I do for like our flavors I get a
really big pot like it's spaghetti pot i
cook a bunch of tea in there i add
organic lemon and since the TV
and I just have like four big jugs like
in jug I just have iced tea I make it
myself it's super cheap it tastes great
so at the end of the day you can have it
and I do have a diet coke right when I'm
out in the social situation people are
drinking when I'm at a bar all of their
diet coconut it doesn't bother you at
the end the day you know so you can
still have pretending you're drinking
something to like you know get everybody
off your back you just got to make sure
when you order you have to say three
times it's a diet coke is it's a bad
coke because people like to give you
sugar but at the end of the day you know
there's all these solutions you can have
a keto is basically if you're on a
really low income you could still do
keto because I'll tell you
pork roast beef I mean whatever it is
like hamburgers cheap eggs are cheap you
can get some spinach that is cheap if
you don't can't afford your organic and
just buy the regular you know but you
can still do you go buy broccoli or you
can have your own garden and make it on
broccoli make your own Cal make your own
spinach and it's free and that's
probably what cost me the most money is
buying the salads every day that's my
most expensive every month this is guys
if you can't afford the inexpensive
things they talked about then you need
to get another job okay still can't
afford it you need to find a job that
pays you at least to cook because we're
talking like at the very most $10 a day
very much and you do you what the
biggest thing okay so a lot of these
people were talking about that are type
2 diabetes they're on medication
I swear within a month I drop my
medication that I was on I was six
hundred pounds I dropped you know all my
medication which cost a lot of money so
if you just get on this and stay on keto
you will drop those expensive drugs that
you have so there you're saving money
right there I know your guys in health
care isn't that cheap you know and drugs
aren't that cheap so if you just can get
on Aikido within two months if we're
under your doctor's supervision you
should be able to drop off like your
blood Sugar's to be in control you
should get off statins you should get
off your blood your cholesterol medicine
the shuttle drop if you stay on it do it
right so you save money on your
medication you save money on your food
and then you can get into internet
fasting then you really start to say one
so there's no excuse from anybody and
you know I'm a busy guy you know we're
all busy we travel I travel a lot
and I you know I eat out but you can
when you're eating out you order a
hamburger with an avocado slight bacon
cheese and a Caesar salad a small one or
no croutons there you go you have eggs
we order a hamburger with an egg or the
block with butter on the side always
order your sauce on the side put it on
yourself it's so easy to go to a
supermarket grab stuff yeah I was in
Bangkok I couldn't talk Thai and I
couldn't really go to a restaurant so I
just went to a supermarket
I bought some Gouda cheese and so I mean
I bought a little salad kind of made a
little roll myself and I eat that at the
end of the day no matter where you are
you can find through that's on keto and
it's very simple to do and once you get
in there Matassa thing just don't eat
that if you can do you have to skip a
day and one hurts you it's actually
healthier for you and you've done the
automatic yeah it's awesome Thank You
Steven I appreciate your time I'm gonna
run and do some more videos at my studio
right now but I can't wait to see again
this year August 31st September 1st I'll
put a link down below for those of you
that don't know about my summon haven't
signed up yet you definitely want to
show up and come and you'll be able to
meet Steven in person and some of the
other speakers it's gonna be a great
time well thank you so much for your
time and I'll be talking to you real
soon
okay I'll talk to you later thank that
okay see
