hey guys I wanted to do a video
concerning the fat on a ketogenic plan
some people consider it dangerous
because I mean 70 percent looks pretty
scary right you don't want to clog your
arteries I mean look at this pie chart
most of its fat we got five percent
carbs we have five percent veggies and
then we have twenty percent protein so
it could be concerning unless you knew
this we're not talking about seventy
percent volume we're talking about
seventy percent calories okay that's a
lot different bat calories have more
than double the amount of calories per
gram so protein would be four calories
per gram
we got carbs four calories per gram but
fat is nine calories per gram so if in
reality the volume of fat is less than
half of what this looks like okay so let
me give you an example let's say you had
a 1200 calorie meal you did actually not
one meal but let's say a two meals right
well this is all the fat that you would
be eating seven ounce piece of salmon
one tablespoon of olive oil one half of
an avocado okay let's say that's one
meal one tablespoon of butter we got two
strips of bacon and one tablespoon of
olive oil I mean is that a lot of fat
now it's actually it seems pretty
reasonable okay here's another meal 1500
calories for two meals okay we have 2/3
ounce burgers we have a half of an
avocado we have 1 tablespoon of olive
oil that's for one meal
the next meal would be one cup of olives
one teaspoon of butter 3 ounces of brie
cheese and one egg okay this is not a
lot of fat so you don't have to be
concerned about the 70 percent we're not
talking volume we're talking about total
calories all right guys see in the next
video
yeah yeah please my seven ounces of
salmon one tablespoon of olive oil
mom I need some help
[Music]
well I think she has a full diaper mom
where is she Jordi there you are there
you go I've already done the diaper
changing done with that had the t-shirt
over to you
