so I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know how to
remove glyphosate from your body
is it possible huh could we do it
naturally and of course glyphosate is
the poison in GMO foods okay so there
are certain natural things that you can
take to remove it but the best thing to
do is just to start doing organic and
I'm talking about meats as well because
the animals eat the corn and the soy
which is totally GML so it creates the
problem dandelion greens you can get
this up usually at the health food store
or a grocery store
it's very fibrous but you can put a
little bit in your salad it will help
you can also get it as a supplement
Barbary burdock activated charcoal and
I'm not talking about the charcoal that
you would use when you're going on a
barbecue okay so you want activated
charcoal which doesn't have any
chemicals in it and bentonite clay you
would want to take both of these on an
empty stomach
and by the way activated charcoal in
general is really good for countering
poisons so if you happen to run into a
situation where someone's being poisoned
give them some activated charcoal real
fast to help neutralize that effect
okay humic and folic acid is a really
good one I really like this one right
here it can help remove glyphosate from
your system now you also see some data
out there that glyphosate is harmless on
our bodies it only affects plants and
weeds and microbes because it targets a
very specific pathway well guess what we
have microbes in her body like a lot of
microbes so our microbes are affected by
glyphosate and it blocks the microbes
ability to make amino acids proteins
like in neurotransmitters and it creates
all sorts of problems in our body
because we're constantly exchanging with
our microbes and we get certain
byproducts from them and if we shut down
those microbes it everything suffers our
immune system our ability to absorb
nutrients also glyphosate ki lates zinc
and other trace minerals and we need
zinc and other trace minerals for all
sorts of cofee
and our metabolism especially for our
immune system glyphosate also weakens
the adrenal system okay so not to
mention a whole series of other issues
setting up for risk for cancer and
tumors and the list goes on and on so
number one make sure you do organic
everything and these are a few other
things you can add to extract some of
this chemical from the body all right
thanks for watching so if you're
enjoying this content go ahead and share
it with someone that could really
benefit from it
