I wanted to create this little video to
first thank you so much for watching all
my YouTube videos I really appreciate
your wonderful comments your attention I
know that's valuable but now I'm going
to switch gears and I want to talk about
you and your success now recently I've
had just an overwhelming amount of
amazing success stories come in that I
want to show you these success stories
are not only mind-blowing and
life-changing but from the heart check
these out
in 2016 got off there gained a lot of
weight back it was dr. burbs videos that
I found that helped me get my life back
on track after gaining the weight back I
was diagnosed good morning with
pre-diabetes about six months ago and we
noticed that I experienced something
called the Don effect with my fasting
morning glucose and I started keto about
a month ago and I've already lost about
fourteen pounds and I'm off medication
for that early I used to be like the
zombie in the day whole day and even
ordered your supplement from Amazon
India at price rate but your goblet
formula has helped me a lot for
digesting the facts and it has even
helped my son as his bloating and all
issues so we keep on ordering it again
and again thanks a lot for saving your
life stress will never end but keto is
helping us to fight with stress
I was battling a very deadly disease and
I changed the way I ate following doctor
birth for over five years and
I'm totally fine I'm helping a lot of
other people dr. Berg and his shelf
poquito and intermittent fasting passing
version literally changed my life I lost
over 40 pounds in less than seven months
and on top of that I managed to finish
the Ironman which is the single hardest
sports event in the world lost 370
pounds
Aikido in two years I lost 346 I'm 28
year old at 220 pounds I've been doing
heat on intermittent fasting for over a
year and this actually fix my menstrual
cycle and I'm now pregnant I've been
with you for over a year okay and I've
lost I've lost all the weight that I
want to lose which came down to a
hundred ten pounds and I mean he was
changed my life I lost 120 pounds on the
keto diet and it's been incredible I'm
so happy I'm so much healthier my family
is better I have four children so I just
I feel like a million bucks now and I
can walk I've quit medicine which is
2017 and all the think is to go in the
first place then the guidance of the top
corporate who guide us to this success
thank you very much
first of all thank you so much I'm 76
years old in Aikido for a year
grandmas in fasting was four inches in
strategic places and 55 Wow
I'm 73 years old I have lost 62 pounds
eight months and three weeks wow that's
great Linda hi my name is Anita I am
doing keto since January 2019
I have lost total of 58 pounds my
starting weight was 190
currently hundred and thirty two my
height is five seven
I am almost 40 years old but I feel like
I'm 20 I'm 1 year and a half in a keto
diet
I already little 78 pounds and I get my
keto coat certificate and I'm very happy
because I can share this with more
people with my family and more people I
killed my fatty liver I don't have
anymore pretty awareness no cholesterol
no try glitters so I'm very healthy now
and sharing with other people what I
learned with from dr. Burke I started
this journey on January 14th of 2019
this year and
my husband made me this book because
he's very proud of me and I've lost ads
of this Friday a hundred and 7.7 pounds
no exercise no surgeries nothing I got
into it mostly because I recently got
diagnosed with ALS in January 2017 so I
was doing it more for health reasons
instead of weight losing weight
well welcome following you for about a
year now and we started the program for
my husband he is diabetic boy is working
out it's only been a week but it's
working out fabulously for him he has
not taken any of his short I'd be acting
insulin but she takes in the day and
then he takes a long-acting at night
haven't taken an T during the day I
really want pork or with Vegeta when my
husband was diagnosed with diabetes
in January whose blood sugar was 600 he
should have been passed by it was like
almost in a coma state
the doctor of course shouted with
insulin and gave them sentiment that
Foreman and I said no way so in three
weeks I had him down to 100 I'm calling
on behalf of my husband who's at work
today but he is about 70 pounds down in
weight loss he's type 2 diabetic your
information and health has changed our
life I've been diabetic and I stopped
taking my medications because I found
you and I found all your good stuff that
I've been doing I've been having real
success with numbers and everything I
really appreciate it dr. Berg being
straight into the point not drawing out
his videos so long but he's so so
educational in such a short amount of
time I can't tell you how thankful I am
that I felt found your YouTube videos
this is how I learned all about pedo I
value faithfully every video that you
have up I wax listening to many many
many many of your videos and they were
the perfect size for quick snippets of
information I loved every one of them I
got into your videos last summer and
lost about 30 40 pounds got back down
there like my college swimming weight Oh
feeling pretty good been going with it
from from then on I just wanted to let
you know that you have completely
changed my entire family's life they're
watching your videos and getting on keto
and doctor bird you played a huge part
in that the information I gained from
your videos and your site helped me
immensely and I could never appreciate
what your information has done for me
more than I do now and I can never give
you enough thanks for that info keep
watching dr. McDonald because I live I
really learned a lot there are many
videos most of them you know you can
watch them for free and please get the
knowledge you know get the knowledge and
then it's up to you trial individual
life but get the basics by dr. Burke
he's the best may have been watching
your reviews on YouTube since 2005 and
I'm benefiting till now
their content the content is very rich
in nutrition and medicine and I'm just
so thankful for your videos because this
but looking at finding this information
out from you help me become the woman
that I am today and keep don't watch
your dog these videos are helping thank
you so much
but your resources are the most
comprehensive and direct and easy to
understand for people I would like to
personally say thank you for your home
videos on the recipes because that's
what got me through I was dying thinking
oh no I'm not gonna be able have dessert
I'm not gonna be able to have sweets
anymore but the fat bombs are awesome
and we really appreciate all the recipes
that you guys did and we can't think I
can't thank you enough for that part of
it and just one thing into dr. Burke you
always feel like wow like even if you've
been reading like he just always points
to do you think everything that dr. Byrd
said that would happen happen to me
migraines went away stomach went flat
birthday thank you so much for changing
my life
um I think chronically sick for three
and a half years and my health was so
bad I stopped working two and a half
years ago and I found you four months
ago and you have helped me tremendously
so thank you oh great oh I absolutely
love dr. Berg and Karen Berg I loved
listening to their q and A's I thank him
from the bottom my heart and I thank God
for dr. Berg thank you very much for
everything you're doing and bringing
together all the information that we
need to hear that we're not hearing
otherwise so thank you thank you for all
that you do and
as I told Karen earlier today I'd love
to see her cooked more because a lot of
people want to see see some more recipe
she's doing what you're doing I love it
it's helped out a lot of people and
we're gonna reach more and more and
eventually this is going to be the
everything everybody talks about meeting
dr. Berg and Karen had been incredible
there's such great people it was it they
were so welcoming and kind and those
listened to us and and gave feedback I
mean it was awesome it was like he is
who he was who he is on duty came all
the way from India just to meet dr. Berg
and just to thank him personally for all
the you know education and the love and
information he has for us without him we
don't have all this information for free
right because most of the information
we'll have it for free
you
