hey guys Dr bur here in this video we're
going to talk about seizures and the
ketogenic diet okay doing keto is the
most effective thing you can do if you
have epilepsy all right uh why is that
because when you run your body on this
alternative fuel source which is ketones
versus glucose you severely reduce the
stress on the brain it's a more
efficient Fuel and to get in ketosis you
have to drop your carbohydrates down or
do fasting or I recommend do a
combination of both okay couple other
things it'll do it'll increase your
mitochondria which is your energy
factors of the brain specifically in a
structure in the brain called the
hippocampus so it supports hippocampus
ketones help this structure in the brain
which is involved in spatial memory like
uh your ability to locate yourself in
time and space like going in a room like
where did I go where where am I going
where did I where did I come from that
type of thing memory in general and has
a big role in pepsy okay so this
structure right here and keton support
that uh ketones slow neurod degeneration
so ketones are neuroprotective they
protect the neuron or the nerve cell but
seizures develop from excess glutamate
now what is that glutamate is an amino
acid and it's basically a
neurotransmitter uh 90% of the brain
uses this neurotransmitter to
communicate it's an excitatory uh
neurotransmitter
um and so what happens when you run your
body on glucose too much of it and too
much insulin you start developing too
much glutamate and that becomes toxic or
cytotoxic that's really what's creating
the the misfiring and the disruption of
the neurons in the brain that leads to
seizures now the other opposing uh
neurotransmitter is called Gaba that's
inhibitory ketones support Gaba
and they don't support glutamate so it
helps balance this thing out so you have
you you have the situation where it
instantly puts the brain in a situation
where you um just don't have this
condition anymore so um so it's improves
increases Gaba neuroprotective ketones
are
anti-seizure have anti-seizure effects
and if you have not done this and you
have seizures you definitely need to
research this look into intermittent
fasting look into how to do ketosis and
really understand what uh insulin
resistance is I I'll put a link down
below uh for some research you can check
out and some ways to do this and then
share the results thanks for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press this little button down
below okay thanks
