[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
okay it's my turn so uh today we're
going to have vanilla cream pudding
sounds
delicious it's vanilla pudding and it's
with Chia I love Chia I love the
consistency and it's healthy right it's
totally healthy Omega mainly three but
it has some six high in protein
nutrition and what is what does that do
for me it's going to uh really make you
healthy well women they need they need
the omega-3 fatty acids women women
especially why well hormonally it helps
them balance their
hormones how come uh just because okay
it's just you know underneath no basis a
if I told you I'd have to kill you I
don't want to kill you again oh I hate
those moments yeah anyway listen when
you you make pudding with Chia I found
something really fascinating in some
recipes the Chia um sits maybe you guys
know the answer to this and you can
enlighten me but the Chia will uh set up
firm with just a little bit of chia and
other recipes that I do it requires more
Chia for a thicker consistency I don't
really care I love Chia so if I have to
add a little bit more to get the
consistency I want I'm all good
basically she's saying it expands and
thickens in a thumbnail
sketch that wasn't what I was saying I
had to summarize what you saying it's
some Chia I find does a better job at
thickening than other Chia like a Chia
Pet
pet all right should we show them how to
make it no let's taste it first I did oh
how was it it's great it's really good I
didn't taste it yet you should try it
okay m
now I sweeten these Chia puddings with
um Stevia sweetener mhm um this one I
have a vanilla cream Stevia love
it it's pretty good it's really
good um I have a chocolate one that
you're going to see chocolate Stevia
it's great you can use plain and and you
know but I love it it's awesome it's
awesome awesome sauce awesome Chia sauce
we're rambling so we're g
to
we ouch when we mean we we mean her all
right let's show them how to make it
okay
[Music]
hey you probably already subscribed but
if you haven't press this little button
down below and I will keep you updated
