hey guys today we're gonna talk about
the longest fast you know I always get
people that are kind of freaked out when
I tell them that eating six meals a day
is bad you need to start going to the
three meals and two meals and even one
meal a day and like oh my gosh I can't
go that long without eating well take a
look at this guy is a 27 year old man
name is Angus Barbary he fasted for 382
days okay no food it's over a year
he went from 456 pounds to 180 pounds
incredible now when he did this fast it
was supervised and he did take vitamins
and electrolytes minerals and he didn't
even consume yeasts and I've been
recommending that nutritional yeast and
he did take potassium and sodium because
you do need large quantities potassium
to run your cells his bowel movements
were every 37 to 48 days okay of course
he wasn't eating so why would he have a
Battlement get very low blood sugars but
without symptoms why would you even need
high sugar in the blood if you're
running your body on fat fuel you don't
need high blood Sugar's so unless you're
having complications and problems having
low blood sugar is not a problem
in fact Angus felt really well on this
program however he did have high uric
acid uric acid believe it or not is a
very powerful antioxidant and the reason
why it's elevated during the fast is
your body's going through all sorts of
changes one is a toffee G which is the
recycling of old protein you're also
getting a boost in your antioxidant
network to help repair and clean up
microbes if you take enough potassium
that will counter the effect of uric
acid just because it will actually help
balance the pH because this is an acid
right so this can't really hurt you if
you buffer the pH with potassium citrate
for example which is alkaline you can
also put a little lemon in your water to
counter this as well and I'm gonna put a
link down below if you haven't seen the
interview with a guy that used my
program he was
600 pounds now he's 200 in 30 pounds
okay he didn't do it a year it took like
three years but he's just doing one meal
a day but with great success you can
actually learn about his success but the
point of me talking about this is just
to show you how long someone can
actually fast and actually do and be
very healthy if you have enough fat to
run your body on it's not a bad idea to
do periodic prolonged fasting of course
I'm not gonna recommend over a year
unless it's highly supervised but if
you're taking nutrients while you're
doing this you're fulfilling the purpose
of food which is basically providing
nourishment so just think about this the
next time you're trying to go for five
hours without eating there's people that
have done it for a lot longer thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
