let's talk about
inflammation most of the inflammation
that a person has actually is being
caused by their own immune system and we
really have just two basic uh phases of
inflammation you have the acute phase
and then you have the chronic phase
where you have this incomplete healing
inflammation is there to try to heal
something but if there's a constant
stimulus which I'm going to cover all of
them today you're not going to get to a
point where you can actually resolve it
so I want to cover all of the different
uh things that can occur and then I'm
going to cover all the things that you
should do to resolve it the number one
selling drug in the world is an
anti-inflammatory drug so a lot of
people have inflammation but most
autoimmune cases actually originate in
the gut I did a separate video on that
if you didn't see that I will put that
down below but let's start with number
one gluten okay that's in grains gluten
really tears your stomach up there's a
morphine like substance when you have
this immune reaction so in reality it
can numb the area so you don't feel feel
it while the damage goes on and I'm
talking about damage in the gut lining
to the point where you start getting
leaky gut and then we have particles of
protein from your food that can invade
through this immigration and bypass this
immigration Wall go right into the
lymphatic system and boom now we get
this immune reaction so gluten is behind
so many different issues okay and then
we also have food allergies like
intolerance to milk sugar but that's not
necessarily a true allergy a true
allergy involves a protein like an
allergy to casine which is a protein in
milk so just by taking a person off Milk
boy all sorts of things can clear up
number two ultra processed food
ingredients now yes you have the
artificial colorings and artificial
flavorings and the preservatives and all
that and other chemicals which may
create a lot of irritation and problems
but not to agree that these three
ingredients do that are made from
industrial processed corn okay they go
through
huge uh series of chemical reactions to
the point where they no longer resemble
the original corn and then you put that
in your body and you're going to get a
lot of what's called free radical damage
Envision just spinning a like a plate
right now on my finger it's spinning
around and we have these little weights
on it right and if I took a couple
weights off it would be lopsided it's
not going to spin correctly it's going
to fall off and might just create some
damage wherever that is so that's what a
free radical is I don't want to get
distracted synthetic sugar is bad you've
heard of corn starch and maybe modified
food starch this maltodextrin highly
reactive in the body and so it behaves
like a sugar but it's classified as a
starch and then we have the deadly seed
oils which are again highly refined here
you take this Omega 6 unsaturated uh fat
which is very unstable okay and then
you're gonna put it under heat um what
keeps it stable in that food I mean it's
literally dead people think of you know
alter processed foods or junk foods are
like the saturated fat in a burger for
example well a lot of people do dirty
keto and they go to a fast food place
they eat the burger not the bun and they
seem to do okay you know it's the bun
with the burger and the ketchup and the
soda and the fries all together that
creates the problem and this is why if
you're trying to heal the body and get
rid of inflammation you don't want to
keep consuming these seed oils you want
to get on the saturated fats those are
the ones that are stable you want to
cook with taow you want to use coconut
oil extra virgin olive oil you don't
want to use vegetable oils especially
when you use heat all right number three
viruses a lot of people have um certain
inflammatory conditions that come and go
that's because a virus kind of can go in
remission and out of remission it could
be triggered by your menstrual cycle it
could be triggered by stress and so
stress is a huge factor in this topic so
we're really dealing with this hormone
called cortisol because if you were to
raise your stress the cortisol comes up
cortisol actually suppresses your immune
system so it kind of shuts it down and
it allows this pathogen this virus to
come out and wreak havoc to create
problems so stress puts your immune
system to sleep there's people that have
major losses and that can really create
a huge problem with viruses come out of
remission and here they're taking all
this vitamins and they're taking eating
really good foods is not working because
of this darn stress situation that
they're in one thing that can help with
this is vitamin D because viruses also
have a very sneaky strategy of blocking
vitamin D in your body but vitamin D is
very important for viruses zinc is also
important as well all right number four
insulin res resistance okay if you're
doing a lot of snacks frequent eating
and you're doing carbs you can get
insulin resistance most of the
population has insulin resistance when I
used to have insulin resistance boy I
had arthritis all up and down my spine
so much worse than it is now I mean I
could barely feel it now but so many
people have told me once they get on
keto and they do in fasting their
inflammation goes away I mean you should
just know about that the next one is
just not enough cortisol let's say for
example you went through chronic stress
for many years or um you had prazone for
a period of time what happens you
develop what's called a cortisol
resistance to the point where you don't
have enough cortisol and then the body
becomes inflamed and the remedy is
vitamin D number six old injuries and
that is me okay I had a lot of old
injuries and it really has to do with a
lack of motion if a joint doesn't move
or if you don't move you're sedentary
you will develop inflammation arthritics
need to keep moving
I do a tremendous amount of exercise for
that reason that's what really forces me
to get out there I do massive exercise
and when I do that I feel so good
especially if I I run up hills and
things because I can expand my chest
which opens up the back part of the
thoracic spine the neck it just feels
great all right next one sludge in your
bile duct a super
concentrated cholesterol material okay
what keeps it from becoming a stone is
bio salts and when it starts to get
stuck in your bod ducts it backs up into
the liver and causes pain in the right
shoulder or in your romboid back here or
in your neck that can be corrected by a
healthy diet next one is iron too much
iron some people feel so much better
when they give blood because they have a
a genetic problem that they retain too
much iron especially men one thing about
iron doesn't get out of the body very
easily so if you're consuming like
supplements you might not even connect
the dots but that can be the reason why
you feel worse one way to know too is if
you maybe consume a lot of red meat and
you just feel worse from that because
there has a lot of iron that's just one
thing or or you eat liver and you feel
worse it's not very common most people
feel better when they do red meat all
right next one I want to expand on this
hypoxia situation this is a lack of
oxygen if you have uh chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease COPD in
your lungs you can have hypoxia you're
not getting the oxygen hypoxia causes
inflammation because here you have this
hemoglobin that carries oxygen right if
you don't have enough iron or B12 to
hold that oxygen you become anemic and
that is a form of hypoxia and then of
course injuries create hypoxia theosis
of the liver that would create a hypoxia
situation or even a clogged artery okay
there's a really good remedy and I might
as well just tell you right now it's
called toatal it's a type of vitamin E
to help donate electrons to all the
oxidation and it's a good remedy for
getting rid of the inflammation in the
inside of the arteries but tokros are
better than the Toof rals so don't get
the one that's mixed another thing sleep
apnea can cause hypoxia because you're
not breathing as much right it can
affect the kidney it can affect the
brain it can affect a lot of things all
right then the next one is uric acid
it's one of the main causes of high
blood pressure and it comes from
consuming a lot of fructose as in high
frose corn syrup what can you do about
this right you need to fix the the
microbes in the gut the
lactobacillus and the Bal bacteria and
you can find those too in kefir
sauerkraut kimchi and just getting a
probiotic all right the next thing and
this is really important is to build up
your endogenous antioxidants the word
endogenous means from within so let's go
through a couple things to do that
fasting next one cruciferous vegetables
and salads exercise another thing is
cold therapy next one on the list is
vitamin D3 the most potent
anti-inflammatory vitamin D can just put
some order into your immune system to
can help regulate that immune system a
lot better and at least 10 to 20,
thousand I use all right number four I
already mentioned this fasting you
should be doing regular intermittent
fasting and periodic prolong fasting if
you have any inflammation number five
low carb this is called keto number six
carnivore if you have got inflammation
really red meat is probably the the most
healing thing that you can possibly eat
and I'm talking about grassfed grass
finished now the next one on the list I
talked about that bile sludge the
antidote to that is something called
called tcff Take 2 in the morning 2 in
the afternoon empty stomach it will open
up those ducks and allow the sludge to
get through and give you a tremendous
amount of relief especially if you're
bloating or this right shoulder pain
next one is toat tral I already talked
about that great for anything related to
the heart I already mentioned coal
therapy as well that's number nine and I
also mentioned number 10 stretching and
exercise and 11 omega-3 fatty acids fish
oils I recommend codiv oil because it
has the vitamin A and the vitamin D if
you compare the seed oils the Omega 6 to
the omega-3 the codiv oil the fish or or
the salmon okay or
sardines they both compete for the same
enzyme to get the omega-3 you need to
stop the omega-6 you need Omega 6 but
you don't need as much now since we
talked a lot about cortisol I have a
list of every single possible thing
natural thing that you can do to help
normalized cortisol if you want that
download click the link down below right
now and check it out it's pretty
cool
