can't eating sugar be part of a a
balanced healthy diet if consumed in
moderation I mean come on they actually
help make healthy foods palatable Dr
David Katz says that it's a preferred
fuel for your brain and he also
mentioned that what's the point of being
healthy if you can't really enjoy
yourself and if we go to the sugar
Association and you read on their page
regarding cardiovascular disease it says
this nutritional patterns may play a
role in several of these risk factors
however scientists have heavily debated
and not fully settled whether there's
evidence for a specific role of
carbohydrates or sugar in cardiovascular
disease so this is a really common
tactic that the tobacco companies use
all you have to do is put doubt in
people's minds definitely doubt in the
scientific research I mean we know that
the American Heart Association gets
major funding from big food and we know
that the major dietetic associ
the group that organizes uh events for
dietitians get major funding to the
magnitude of like 23 million so I have a
question on average how much sugar do
you think a person really consumes it's
23 teaspoons of sugar 23 teaspoons of
sugar is roughly around a half of a cup
of sugar every single day it's a lot but
is that really all the sugar well
there's hidden sugars that I want to
make you aware of that a lot of people
don't talk about and what do I mean
hidden sugars well this food right here
this has zero sugars this one has zero
sugars this one has zero sugars zero
sugars what about goldfish zero sugars
so that's interesting because that is a
good comparison of uh junk food alter
processed food calories but there's
really no sugar in those Foods so why
are those so bad if you take the total
carbohydrates and you minus the sugars
and you minus the fiber
you're left with what a starch that's
this stuff right here and on the
glycemic index this stuff is way way
higher than actual sugar and when you're
talking about starch in these products
you're not talking about like a potato
or rice or anything like that you're
talking about maltodextrin or modified
food starch or modified corn starch so
in other words starch has a bigger
effect on your blood sugars than actual
sugar if we take a look at the average
person's consumption of starch take a
while guess how much sugar that really
is if you guess 75 teaspoons you are
correct that is roughly about a cup and
a half of sugar every single day from
the hidden sugars from starches now let
me just give you another example I used
to consume a much bigger bag of Doritos
going through college and this right
here has 11 serving sizes I'll guarantee
no one is going to consume one 11th of
this bag Chez itss zero sugar but if you
look at the hidden sugar of starches
it's about 30 teaspoons of sugar
Pringles the this has like 60 tspoons of
hidden sugar is starch about a cup and a
half okay so there's a lot of sugar and
a lot of different foods but what's so
bad about the sugar I mean sugar is
natural right well at least this sugar
is natural well it might be from nature
or it might be synthetic but there's a
big difference between actual sugar in
the refined form and the sugar in a
banana or fruit fruit or other Foods
what is the difference well with refined
sugar this is not just empty calories
this is something without nutrients
without
antioxidants it's very very different
than actual fruit and what people do not
realize is that when you try to consume
that and use that as fuel it requires a
tremendous amount of nutrition I'm
talking about magnesium calcium zinc B
vitamins and this is really unknown to a
lot of people because the biochemistry
of your body in your little factories
called the mitochondria need nutrients
to process that type of fuel and so if
you're chronically consuming that type
of fuel there's only one choice and that
is to deplete your reserves to the point
where you don't have any nutrients
anymore now there's a backup engine
that's outside the mitochondria but the
problem with that is it doesn't produce
a lot of energy it only produces like
two units of energy called ATP versus in
in the mitochondria you produce like 36
to 38 units of energy or ATP so now
you're running on an old clunky motor
and everything starts going downhill
because now you don't also have the
antioxidants to protect you against all
the damage that has occurred in your
cells so this is why we develop chronic
diabetes
Alzheimer's inflammation skin problems
so we've known this for a very long time
and this is why if you look on the
ingredients in some these Foods you'll
see that they're all fortified with
nutrients because they know if you're
deficient and even one nutrient you can
get a major disease I mean just to make
a point about that if you completely
block one nutrient vitamin
B3 you will die what the food
manufacturing companies have done is
enriched or sprayed some a couple
synthetic vitamins and you might think
that might be enough but it's not even
close spraying like seven synthetic
vitamins from petroleum is not the same
as consuming Whole Foods okay you're not
going to get the same nutrition from
these junk Foods so this is what I
recommend that you do okay number one
stop eating sugar but you might not have
considered also eliminating starches and
I'm not concerned with you eliminating
all the starches from vegetables I'm
talking about the starches from this
stuff right here because if you did that
what's going to happen is you're going
to start to reverse this whole disease
cycle you're going to start to lower the
blood blood sugars you're going to start
to get rid of a fatty liver you're going
to start to cause the body to burn its
own fat and that's called ketosis
because ketones are a much better fuel
for the heart than glucose and all of a
sudden your body organs start working
better and better and better and your
Cravings go away and your mood is
elevated now if you haven't seen my
other video on sugar that had over 17
million views I put it up right here
check it out
