hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about if it's safe for a menopausal
woman with adrenal fatigue to do keto
and in a minute fasting okay because
there's some confusion about this I
don't know there's things floating out
there that say that oh it's dangerous
don't don't do keto or in a fasting if
your adrenals are stressed especially if
you're going through menopause but it's
the exact thing you need to do but you
need to do it correctly but I think the
problem is that when you get into your
40s and 50s or even 60s the adrenal
gland takes over and backs up the
ovaries so you actually put more stress
on the adrenal gland okay so what
happens it has a harder time countering
this drop in blood sugar as you go
longer between meals and you do in a
minute fasting so the blood sugars end
up not being able to rebound like you
should so you feel dizzy and weak and
then all of a sudden you eat and you
feel better and you're like wow oh I
need to be eating more frequently no it
just means that we need to strengthen
the adrenals and tweak some things
because here's the main issue with
adrenal fatigue you're gonna have higher
levels of cortisol okay
cortisol another name for cortisol is
called a glucocorticoid that's a glucose
releasing hormone so when cortisol is
high you're going to be released more
glucose which is sugar and increase more
insulin so adrenal problems in general
have higher levels of insulin okay well
we're trying to fix that because the
insulin that's going to create the
insulin resistance and keep people from
losing weight so if you're trying to
lose weight and you're menopausal and
you're stuck you need to do keto in a
minute fasting but you want to do it
more gradually okay
very gradually three meals for a period
of time so you can avoid snacking and
then once you can avoid snacking start
to push that breakfast further and
further forward so eventually we had two
meals a day and it might take months
before you get to that point but just do
it gradually here's a couple things to
remember you want to make sure you have
enough potassium electrolytes b1
nutritional yeast I would even recommend
maybe taking four tablespoons of
nutritional yeast
in a tablet form take more so you can
really get your B vitamins because that
will help you add more fat and more sea
salt because the adrenals need those
minerals I would also add some trace
minerals because trace minerals plant
means trace minerals contained zinc and
chromium two minerals that are really
important to help you transition faster
because the goal is to get you to fully
adapt to ketosis where you're burning
fat and everything is going fine your
fuels fine and now you're out of this
whole blood sugar thing you're not going
to experience a little blood sugar
anymore
you're gonna feel a lot better and it's
going to be the thing that finally helps
you bust through that Plateau that
happens when you're menopausal and
another common thing that I'm just gonna
tell you right now you may find that
you're gonna lose weight and then
Plateau you're not gonna lose weight but
that's probably because you're gaining
more muscle and that muscle weighs
heavier so you're gonna be shrinking but
not necessarily losing weight at certain
points don't worry about that just go by
your size how your clothes fit you may
need to also consume more protein okay
so instead of six ounces do seven or
even eight ounces of protein you may
need that maybe not but the protein is
necessary as you're building the muscle
as well omega-3 fats are going to be
really important especially if you're
exercising or you have inflammation in
your body and I would get that from
krill krill is a really good source of
omega-3 a lot of the fish oils go rancid
unless you get a version cod liver oil
which is hard to find it's expensive but
krill I think might be an easier option
for you going the long walks as instead
of high intensity exercise and just go
at this very slowly and realize it's
going to take time but it is the thing
you need to do to ultimately correct
things and you'll thank me down the road
in this book I have a whole chapter on
stress so this is kind of a new thing
with weight loss you know people don't
look at stress or adrenals as a factor
but that's one of the big barriers to
losing weight is if the cortisol is too
high so I hope I have a whole chapter
chapter 16 and how to help your adrenals
and I'll help how to do actually
acupressure to pull stress out to really
get into the
delta-wave sleep and enhance your
ability to get to your goal alright
thanks for watching hey before you go
definitely sign up for my free keto
course I put a link down below it's on
messenger in facebook but it will give
you all the basics it's very quick
it's like three or four videos and it's
free check it out
