hey guys I'm back and we're gonna talk
about do you really need to take
hormones when you get older
okay let's first talk about the basics
of what a hormone is to make it really
simple because it'sit's very confusing
for people they believe some people make
it confusing but it's very simple you
have the gland the purpose of the gland
is to make hormones hormones are
communications they're messages they're
instructions that tell the body what to
do and it travels through the blood so
we have the gland makes the
communication like right now I'm talking
to you you're understanding what I'm
saying because you obviously understand
English but the words could be the
hormones they connecting your ears you
understand that and then I can't really
see you but hopefully you are tracking
with me so what happens when that
hormone connects with the receptor on
the other end of the communication
circuitry then the function kicks in
there it is activated and then the
feedback loop comes back around here
telling the gland that that function was
complied with and then the gland can
stop producing the hormone so we have
this on/off switch going on so the
endocrine system is a superior
communication system composing of glands
and hormones and the coordination
thereof okay so you end up with low
testosterone lo-fi red hormone low
estrogen low growth hormone and you're
thinking wow I'm just going to take some
bioidentical hormones because I don't
have enough because I'm getting older
right well the problem is there's side
effects and this question is never asked
why does your glands stop talking in the
first place this is what needs to be
looked at right here okay why do you
have low hormones now you say well I'm
gonna take bio tentacle hormones because
they're safer well you know what I'd
like to see the study on that there are
no studies that I know of unless you
show me that compare bioidentical
hormones like the risks versus synthetic
hormones and we know that synthetic
hormones have
major risk problems there might be some
studies but I've never seen any so the
point is that when you take hormones it
comes with a package because you bypass
your body's normal production and you
make your body dependent on that hormone
okay with a bunch of other side effects
and there's just not a lot of data known
about taking hormones in and what it
does with the complexities of your
interactions with your own hormones so
it's a it's an area of unknown okay so
let's just take a look at what could
possibly stop your gland from talking
all right
you have counter hormones that oppose
your hormones so you have like insulin
estrogen and cortisol are the big three
hormones that can nullify and block
other hormones they have like dominating
power they can block the fat burning
hormones for example they can interfere
with testosterone let's talk about
insulin for a second insulin can
increase androgens and women that's like
the male hormone and that's why they can
get a condition called PCOS polycystic
ovarian syndrome when they get facial
hair and they get hair loss they get a
deeper voice but in men it can lower
testosterone
okay so low t because they have high
levels of insulin but you can also in
men you can have high levels of estrogen
from consuming a lot of the the
chemicals in the environment which can
then block the receptor part right here
and that's called endocrine disrupters
if you do research on endocrine
disrupters you're going to find a whole
bunch of data relating to certain
chemicals in the environment like
pesticides insecticides herbicides
fungicides heavy metals even if you look
up on the lookup a book called
toxicology the study of poisons it'll
list tons and tons of research on the
effects from endocrine disrupters and
how it can affect your hormones in a big
way so let's say you consume regular
foods that are GMO and you're exposed to
an herbicide like glyphosate that's
Roundup Ready for example
that's gonna affect yourselves and it
can give you estrogen effects okay
in men and women as well so because of
the the amount of chemicals that our
environment and the complexity of our
own hormones there's all sorts of things
that can happen you can actually have
the gland enlarge it can shrink you can
have all sorts of effects down here
where certain hormones don't work you
can have a whole series of reactions
that occur down the road that don't
happen right away they might take 13
years to develop okay then you have junk
food okay or alcohol for example that
destroys the liver and it starts
developing a fatty liver so if you have
a gut chances are you have a fatty liver
and if you have a fed a liver you're not
gonna have the full capacity of a liver
function and the liver is needed
especially to regulate a lot of these
hormones to act as a buffer and a
reserve and even the production of
certain hormones so it's very very
important especially in growth hormone
which is the anti-aging hormone and
growth hormone works with testosterone
and then you have the thyroid hormone
which works through the liver so if that
liver is damaged that could be the
reason why you have low thyroid hormones
okay and lastly of statins which are
drugs that block the the body's ability
to make cholesterol cholesterol is the
precursor it's the raw material that
makes a lot of these hormones so that's
why one of the big side effects when you
take statins like lipitor for example is
severe muscle pain muscle achiness
destruction of the muscles that's
because it blocks the hormones and then
you start getting more inflammation you
don't have the testosterone now to build
muscle tissue and you start having all
sorts of inability to develop muscle
mass and a lot of pain as well now the
big question is what do you do well
instead of starting to chase around some
of these symptoms first get in the
basics I'm talking about a healthy
eating plan like healthy ketosis and
then in a minute fasting do that and see
if that doesn't actually help your
energy
system right there chances are it will
but you also want to make sure that you
consume a lot of cruciferous vegetables
to clean up these endocrine disruptors
and help your liver as well okay the
other thing that you can do is search
out a high-quality glandular supplement
okay make sure it's grass-fed to support
whatever gland that is not producing or
not working in your body all right so
thanks for watching and I will see you
in the next video hey I appreciate your
attention and if you're enjoying these
videos go ahead and subscribe and I will
definitely keep you updated on future
events live events and webinars that
we're going to do very soon
