okay so in this video we're gonna talk
about hot flashes in the mechanism
behind a hot flash okay I've done other
videos on this but there are older
videos and I wanted to do something
updated the medical term for a hot flash
would be vasomotor instability and what
this means is there's a kind of a
instability in the feedback loops
between the hypothalamus and the ovaries
okay and it creates a flushing response
they call a superficial vasodilation and
a deep drop in core temperature every
four minutes so it's on a tiny mechanism
and you can get palpitations and
perspiration problems with the heart etc
okay it's very uncomfortable usually
wakes you up when you're trying to sleep
so a woman normally has about 400 eggs
that are released each month okay in
theory they're supposed to be released
each month sometimes if you're on birth
control pills it's not going to happen
but you have a certain amount of eggs
then the last one you release and you go
into menopause roughly about age 52 so
at this point you don't need the amount
of hormones okay because you're not
going to have babies so what happens the
signal comes back up here and kicks in
another circuit for the adrenals because
the adrenal gland produces the same
hormones in smaller amounts but still it
produces the same hormone so the adrenal
glands are the back up to the ovaries so
really it's a weakness within the
adrenal glands that triggers this
instability and causes these symptoms
now if a woman takes form on a placement
therapy it will completely get rid of
this hot flashes because what you're
doing is you're bypassing all this and
you're completing this circuit
artificially okay and temporarily so the
actual trigger to the hot flash in the
first place is the weakness of the
adrenal that's creating a an abrupt
decrease in estrogen that then if you
actually add the estrogen back in there
it just turns off okay so now that's
pretty much the mechanism but now what
do we do about it okay there is various
natural things that you can take to
support this like black cohosh
but I'm gonna recommend supporting your
adrenal glands okay because that is the
thing that really created the problem in
the first place and I'm gonna put a link
down below of a bunch of things you can
do to support a healthy adrenal gland
okay but black cohosh is a really good
one to to actually supply some
phytoestrogens to help complete the
circuit if you need something stronger
I'm gonna recommend estrogen balance
which has a different blend of herbs and
something called dim which actually
helps balance estrogen too and if it's
really really bad I recommend something
even stronger it's called the adrenal
fatigue formula this is my strongest
adrenal fatigue normally you won't need
this but on a rare occasion if there's a
real big problem with hot flashes I
would do a combination of these two
right here because this one can support
a healthy adrenal gland and complete
this circuit right there so in summary
hot flashes are purely a communication
problem because the adrenal glands have
not backed up the ovaries properly and
this is the area to support right here
and the other thing that I want to
mention is when you take hormone
replacement therapy there's a lot of
side effects so I'm gonna recommend you
try to do this as natural as possible to
avoid those okay alright thanks for
watching hey guys so I'm doing a survey
of a future video and I wanted to find
out what your biggest body problem is so
that way the content is aligning with
something that you are personally
interested in so please click the link
down below fill it out and I will create
the video thanks
