today we're going to talk about how to
get rid of a cough within 5 minutes or
less you have a mucus cough and then you
have a non- mucus cough which is called
a dry cough the remedy that I'm going to
talk about will work on both but there's
nothing worse than having this dry cough
while you're trying to sleep here's my
problem with most remedies for coughs
they are going to give you a medication
that suppresses the cough if we think
about what the reason why you're
coughing in the first place is your body
is coughing as a vital defense mechanism
because there's some typee of particle
or it could be a virus or some type of
irant that your body wants resolved the
perfect remedy for a cough has to align
with the actual cause of that cough
coughing can come from a postnasal drip
you have this sinus infection that's
causing this irritation down your throat
this can relate to an allergy a cold a
virus fungal infection this dry cough
can also relate to a side effect from
certain medications you're going to have
to do something to find some alternative
to really get rid of your coughing you
can also have gird gastro esophagal
reflux disease where this coughing is
coming from Acid that is coming up
through this valve on the top of your
stomach coming all the way up through
here and if you suspect that being a
cause I'm going to put a link down below
of how to fix this problem the solution
is not to take another anti acid it's
just that the valve is not closing and
then this acid is regurgitating up the
fix the valve there's several ways to do
that another cause of coughing is asthma
so many young children develop asthma
when they're younger because their
mother did not have enough vitamin D
apparently vitamin D deficiency early on
sets you up for asthma down the road
because you need Vitamin D to help form
the lungs correctly realize anyone with
a asthma problem needs a lot of vitamin
D to put that into remission people that
get asthma usually get it more in the
winter I wonder why because we get less
vitamin D there's also something called
cro which you see in young children
which is kind of like a barking cough
it's very very different and the remedy
for that is also vitamin D another cause
could be there's just not enough
humidity in the air when the humidity
gets below 30% which means the moisture
in the air is very sparse then what
happens is that we get a dehydration or
drying out out of our throat and our
sinuses this can irritate the vocal
cords and you can start coughing this
also could be compounded with the fact
that your vents are dirty maybe they
have mold in it and you're getting all
this dry hot air coming in that's
irritating your throat and the solution
for that is to get a a humidifier to
actually moisten the air in your room
especially when you go to sleep another
common cause of this dry cough is a
spasm in your larynx it's called lingos
spasm if you look this up one of the
causes is low calcium in the blood
called hypo calcemia calcium is needed
to help facilitate the nerve
communication in the throat if you don't
have enough calcium then we don't get
the signaling then we get a misfire into
the cough reflex because there's all
nerve endings in that area why would you
have low calcium in the blood well
there's one vitamin that's very commonly
missing in most people and that's called
vitamin D3 one of the big purposes of
vitamin D3 is to increase inre amount of
calcium in the blood and if you're low
in vitamin D you're not going to have
enough calcium and then that's going to
affect your vocal cords and then causes
cough in practice I used to give people
calcium I think a better remedy would be
to give them more vitamin D3 at least
20,000 I use every single day that will
automatically increase the calcium and
help the throat you have to make sure
when you take vitamin D3 always take it
with magnesium that was recommend also
taking with vitamin K2 there's other
things that can cause this uh chronic
coughing could be
perfumes smoke it can be having some
news furniture that you bought that's
giving off some chemicals in your
environment there's even certain types
of tick disorders as in Tourette
Syndrome that can also affect this
coughing now let's talk about the best
most potent remedy for this dry cough
now I've done other videos on this topic
and I talk about consuming honey ginger
tea thyme oregano all of those are great
and even gargling with salt water is
really good but there's something else a
lot better this is going to be put in a
nebulizer that is something that turns a
liquid into a fine Mist like a vapor
because you're going to breathe it in
and it's going to go into your lungs
it's going to go through the throat it's
going to calm everything down very
quickly it's very potent It's very
effective and you can use it for both a
cough related to mucus and a dry cough
the first remedy is called
NAC n acetal cysteine this is a very
potent antioxidant anti-inflammatory
it's really good to break up mucous in
the lungs your natural detoxifier in
your liver it's been also used to treat
COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease you're going to get it in a
powder and you're going to take a fourth
of a teaspoon and you're going to
dissolve it in 4 oz of water you're just
going to keep mixing until it completely
dissolves it wouldn't hurt to have warm
water because when it's warmer it's
going to dissolve a little bit better
once the NAC dissolves you're going to
add one more thing magnesium in the form
of epson salts we're getting NAC and
we're getting magnesium what is so
powerful about magnesium magnesium is
needed for vitamin D to work vitamin D
will not work unless you have magnesium
not only that magnesium also controls
calcium it controls where calcium goes
after the NAC is dissolved into that 4
ounces of water and you're going to put
it into that liquid that you already
dissolved the NAC and you're going to
dissolve it into that fluid as well in a
nebulizer which you're going to then
breathe in for 5 minutes one or two
times per day this combination is going
to work way better than any of those
other combinations I've had in the other
videos there are a lot of different
things you can do that will work but
this is the most powerful but just as a
side note black seed oil will work as
well white Horehound and at the same
time you're doing that you're taking
20,000 IUS of vitamin D3 with vitamin K2
with
magnesium sometimes it also comes with
zinc that would be also really good that
is ultimately going to correct this
problem but this other combination is a
quick fix and it's going to really help
you get rid of this fast so you can
sleep through the night and you can stop
coughing thank you so much for watching
and I will see you in the next video
