okay so at another question about
gluten-free someone wanted to know is
gluten-free keto friendly all right let
me let me talk about that I'm gonna make
this kind of short most of you might
already know this data but if you don't
I think it's going to be important
what does gluten gluten is the protein
part of wheat okay or other grains
this causes celiac it's an inflammatory
condition with the gut most people are
very sensitive to gluten okay they're
gonna have a lot of inflammatory
problems but not just with the gut with
a thyroid with many different parts of
the body so it's very good to not
consume gluten it's essential but when
you're removing the gluten the protein
part you're actually increasing the
concentration of carbs in that grain
you're gonna spike the blood sugars more
and you're gonna cause more insulin
spike which is then going to cause more
inflammation
okay people like so I'm gluten free I'm
doing a rice flour or potato starch or
corn starch or tapioca starch really
you're just gonna basically create so
much inflammation so now it's higher on
the glycemic index it's gonna spike the
blood sugar more it's gonna raise
insulin more it's gonna create more
problems especially with inflammation so
here you are getting rid of gluten to
decrease your risk of celiac but you're
still creating a lot of inflammation
with that what people need to do is be
green free okay grain free rice free
potato free corn free tapioca starch
free alright thanks for watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
