hey guys I wanted to create the short
video for those people that are
susceptible to getting kidney stones and
this is relating to nuts okay and what
nuts have the lowest amount of oxalates
ox looks are a chemical compound in
certain foods that combined with calcium
and create a lot of irritation in your
kidney and the joints and other tissues
of the body and can form kidney stones
okay
so certain nuts are high on the list
spinach
rhubarb chocolate I'm sorry and a lot of
other foods have certain amounts of
oxalates in fact it's almost impossible
to avoid oxalates in your food because
it's in so many different types of foods
so you really want to just consume the
least amount possible if you're
susceptible to getting kidney stones
okay so in this list we're comparing
milligrams per 100 gram per weight okay
so if you're gonna take a hundred grams
of almonds you would end up with 469
milligrams of oxalates so almonds have
the highest amount of oxalates of all
the nuts okay so of course you don't
want to avoid those for sure
cashews come in number two then come
pine nuts then peanuts walnuts now we
start to get lower amounts pecans
pistachios and macadamia nuts so these
are pretty darn low and as a side note
there are other things you can do to
minimize damage control for example if
you were to consume nuts and cheese
together that calcium in the cheese
would bind with the oxalate and make it
in soluble which means it'll go right
through the body through the digestive
system and not absorb through the
digestive tract and up in your blood and
then in the kidney so the goal is to
keep your dietary amounts of oxalates
the lowest possible the other thing you
can do is consume lemon juice for
example or potassium citrate or calcium
citrate because the citrate will also
help to lower the binding effect of the
Oxford stones and I know a lot of you
are on the ketogenic diet some of you
have a tendency to get kidney stones and
it's really sometimes difficult because
you have spinach for example you have
chalk
you have nuts in so many different
recipes what do you do well you just go
on the low end right here and then add a
little bit of maybe goat cheese to the
nuts and that would definitely minimize
the damage and if you're not too
familiar with oxalates I have some
videos down below you can you can study
all right see you next time
so I wanna thank you for being here and
watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
