hi guys Dr Berg here I had another
question from someone who asked me you
know I'm taking minerals Dr Berg but I
still have leg cramps okay now when you
do the ketogenic diet or intere fasting
sometimes you're going to get leg cramps
and that's usually a matter of replacing
or putting in more electrolytes it's
usually a Calcium deficiency magnesium
potassium or sodium okay that should
normally handle it but if it doesn't
there's something else going on and
that's a vitamin E deficiency
part of vitamin E complex uh which is
it's called the E2 fraction of the
vitamin E complex in nature has um some
great properties of improving symptoms
like angina which is chest pain which is
basically a heart that's cramping up so
it vitamin E addresses a certain
fraction of vitamin E addresses the um
muscle itself it increases oxygen in the
muscle to prevent cramping of the heart
muscle in fact you can increase the
oxygen carrying capacity by
250% also vitamin E is used in high
altitude you know like climbing mountain
climbing where you can actually you just
breathe better if you have enough
vitamin E so vitamin E is very important
in helping the red blood cells carry
oxygen and also helping the muscle um
provide enough oxygen so you don't so it
doesn't cramp okay so we need more
vitamin E from the food that you're
eating make sure if you're going to do
an vitamin E supplement it's a natural
vitamin E complex not just a synthetic
fraction of one of the alpha talls you
want the whole thing uh so what foods
are high in vitamin E raw greens leafy
greens and vegetables lettuce sunflower
seeds make sure they're raw almonds
spinach
chard
cabbage uh kale
avocados and asparagus okay start
consuming those and your cramps will go
away thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press this
little button down below okay thanks
