hey guys I have a new product okay so I
recently did a seminar on every single
chapter in this book okay so it's not an
audio of me reading the book it's
actually a seminar in every single
chapter and so it's basically my book on
video plus the audio version okay so
okay it comes with this very cool little
flash drive okay you plug this into the
computer and it'll download all the mp3
files onto your computer okay then
you're going to import the files into
iTunes at the top of the software it'll
say add to library alright then you'll
take your phone and you'll hook this up
with your computer and then once you
sync it you can find the files under
music okay so that way in your car you
can actually listen to the seminars or
while you're walking and get a lot of
information about this book right here
if you're interested there's a link down
below to get some more information
