hey guys I wanted to do a quick video on
the strong odor on Keita whether it's
your urine or your breath what you can
do and what it is alright so let me just
talk about all the reasons that you can
have a strong odor mainly in your urine
sometimes through the breath okay so the
first one is liver damage that can
create a strong odor in your urine and
definitely in your breath okay an
infection can cause a strong odor in
your urine
all right dehydration that could do it
because your urine is so concentrated
asparagus will make your urine smell
pretty funky and if you consume too much
protein so if you're consuming more than
3 to 6 ounces of actual protein per meal
okay not per day per meal that could be
an issue especially if you don't have
enough stomach acid now as you get on
keto and your carbs are actually lower
than 20 grams or your fasting or you're
doing intense exercise what's gonna
happen is that your ketones are going to
go up the one that actually creates the
most technical odor on breath and in
urine is acetone this is a type of
ketone there's three types of ketones
this is one of them okay so then there's
actually a meter that you can get a
breath meter that you can detect this as
well but if your urine is darker and
cloudy and you have this odor the strong
odor chances are it's going to be
acetone now acetone is also used as a
nail-polish remover you don't have to be
concerned about that because that's
something completely separate your body
actually makes acetone naturally as a
natural consequence of consuming more
fat and less carbs it's a normal thing
so it's not harmful at all so this is
what I'm going to recommend number one
increase chlorophyll and your diet that
is a deodorizer where'd you get
chlorophyll leafy greens lots of salad a
lot of leafy green vegetables number two
add a bit more fluids that would be not
just water but electrolytes with it to
be more hydrated
number three consume apple cider
with each meal that will help you for
moderate protein make sure you're not
going crazy with the protein and one
last thing I noticed when people get on
keto but they're not consistent so they
go off it and they go on it so the body
is constantly dumping out excessive
acetone and because it's never developed
an efficient machine at the cell level
to fully burn up 100% of the ketones so
you actually end up with a bit more
acetone because these are just basically
unused ketones so you're peeing out your
fat and you're breathing at your fat in
a certain quantity but if you were to do
this more consistently and not go off
but be very strict your system is going
to become way more efficient and you're
going to burn these up to the point
where you're going to see less ketones
in the urine and the breath and you'll
have less odor all right thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
