hey guys Dr Berg here in this video
we're going to talk about some uncommon
facts about vitamin D okay I'm just very
interested in vitamin D so I create a
video on it because I just think it's
interesting maybe you might as well
vitamin D is responsible for the
absorption of calcium primarily by 20
times in your small intestine so uh
without vitamin D you get a certain
amount of absorption but not near as
much as if you had vitamin D that's a
lot of absorption going on there uh but
a lot of times people don't realize that
vitamin D also increases is the
absorption of iron magnesium zinc and
phosphate so these other minerals so
it's pulling a lot of minerals because
what it's doing it's mineralizing your
bone and supporting the other tissues in
the body with the minerals that you need
okay so it's kind of like a the dump
truck that delivers the minerals to the
right place okay but vitamin D has to be
activated through an enzyme in your
liver and in your kidney even the sun
that's coming in you don't really get
vitamin D unless it's converted into
liver and the kidney so you need the
liver and kidney to convert it and make
it active so that means that if there's
liver damage kidney damage fatty liver
therosis of the liver you're on kidney
dialysis chances are you're not
absorbing vitamin D okay it might be
building up as a toxic thing but it's
not really doing its function also
vitamin D is very important in
controlling your immunity to
viruses especially the lung okay so if
there's a respiratory virus uh boy if
you took some vitamin D that would put
that thing right back in remission
hopefully but yeah so controls the
immunity especially in autoimmune
diseases so if you have an autoimmune
disorder or your immune system is
attacking
itself take vitamin D very important
also vitamin D can turn off asthma
symptoms really fast now the reason for
that is that vitamin D is not really a
vitamin it's a precursor to making
hormones specifically steroids
specifically cortisol so basically it
helps you make cortisol thereby um you
know helping the the anti-inflammatory
effect of your lungs because think about
what is the remedy for asthma it's
steroids it's prazone it's an
inhaler so all you're doing is you're
just naturally getting it from vitamin D
okay you're building it back up
um vitamin D is important in making
strong bones if you're deficient vitamin
D your bones will be weak fragile
they'll fracture easily and they will it
will bend you'll get Bode legs you ever
see people with bow legs that's a
vitamin D deficiency or even the bending
of the spine some crookedness of the
spine like someone's Hunchback that's
vitamin
D uh vitamin D also prevents muscular
skeletal pain chronic muscle and
skeletal pain so if you know people
maybe your grandmother or your parents
that have always have this chronic pain
and their joints or their muscle they're
stiff and achy start taking vitamin D
okay get a lot of sun as well so make
sure when you take vitamin D you always
take vitamin K2 at the same time why
because vitamin K2 um helps deliver that
calcium all the way into the bone
because if you only take vitamin D3 and
calcium which is a big mistake because
what'll happen you'll start pulling all
this calcium up into the blood and
you'll get hyper
calcemia okay so now what that means is
like you're getting a lot of soft tissue
calcium we need that K2 to drive it in
the bone so you want a combination of
things um how do you know if you have
hypercalcemia increase excessive
urination increase
thirst insomnia nervous
itching those are all symptoms of too
much calcium in the wrong place and
what's interesting these are very
similar to blood sugar symptoms as well
like high insulin I wonder if there's a
connection right so anyway um I hope
this was informative and uh uh put your
comments below and thank you so much for
watching hey guys thank you so much for
watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
