today we're going to talk about the
benefits from using vitamin D3 and K2 at
the same time I think the best way to
start this presentation is to talk about
this uh calcium Paradox a paradox is two
things that sound logical but they
conflict in a certain way and the
calcium Paradox relates to like women uh
postmenopausal that have bone loss yet
at the same time they have vascular
calcification now how can that be that
sounds illogical I mean how can you be
losing bone like a calcium deficiency
and at the same time you have excess
calcium in the arteries it just doesn't
make sense and another Paradox called
the French paradox where you have people
in France consuming large quantities of
saturated fat yet at the same time they
have lower rates of heart disease now
how can that be is it the wine they're
drinking is it some phytonutrients what
is it well what we're going to talk
about now will explain both paradoxes
there's some missing information that
will make everything make sense all
right so let's start with vitamin
D3 um most people know that vitamin D3
helps the absorption of calcium in the
intestines by a factor of
20x so you can absorb a lot more calcium
when you have vitamin D in your gut
where does the calcium go it goes in
your blood now is that dangerous is that
a problem are you going to develop too
much calcium in the blood that's called
hyper calcemia now there is conflicting
studies on that sometimes it does
sometimes it doesn't and the next thing
I'm going to tell you will explain that
inconsistency too it has to do with this
one vitamin called vitamin
K2 not K1 K2 K1 is all about clotting
okay if you're deficient in K1 you're
going to bruise easily vitamin K2 is
different it takes that calcium in the
blood and transports it into the bone
and the teeth it's a calcium transporter
and it uses this helper right here it's
a protein coloso calcian to draw calcium
into the bone and bind it inside the
bone so the bones become very very solid
and K2 also activates another thing
right here called Matrix GLA protein
which is not necessarily binding the
calcium in the bone it's removing the
calcium from not just the arteries but
other soft tissues so it keeps calcium
out of the arteries out of the joints
out of the eyes out of the kidneys out
of the lungs out of the skin out of the
breast tissue and so vitamin K2 is the
activator of both of these guys right
here and without this activator K2 both
of these proteins stay inactive and you
potentially could start developing
pathological calcification which is a
bad thing because there's certain places
that you don't want calcium in fact this
thing right here is one of the strongest
inhibitors of calcification because when
someone takes calcium let's say a woman
who just became menopausal to prevent
their bone loss and now they're at a
double risk of getting a heart attack
well only if they're deficient in K2 and
so this hyper calcemia can be controlled
if there's enough K2 in the diet now let
me just add one more thing to explain
this French paradox right well they
consume a lot of fatty foods and I've
been there and that's absolutely true
yet they have low rates of heart
problems hm why that is well the answer
to that is in the source of K2 where
does vitamin K2 come from well it can
either come from animal fats those
things that we were told to avoid
because we want to prevent heart
problems which is completely false
information and so there's two main
versions of this K2 the MK4 which is
comes from animal fat but there's also a
version mk7 of K2 that comes from
bacteria as in that French cheese and
even other fermented things like
sauerkraut and a fermented soybean
called nat where they use in Japan now
understanding this mechanism and vitamin
K2 is vitally important since heart
attacks are the number one killer and if
we can keep calcium out of the arteries
that would be a very very good thing and
it also explains why a lot of people are
deficient in K2 because they have cut
out these Foods right here which I'm
going to explain they've cut out the um
grass-fed butter and ghee and all the
foods I'm going to mention now are high
in vitamin
K2 they have cut out the hard and soft
cheeses maybe they might do lowfat
cheeses well guess where all the vitamin
K2 is it's in the fat vitamin K2 is also
in egg yolks especially if it's pasture
Rays allowing chickens to run out into
the pasture vitamin K2 is also in Goose
liver chicken liver and beef liver it's
in hot dogs and it's also in Salmon wild
caught salmon now there's a very
interesting book nutrition in physical
degeneration by Weston Price I don't
know if you've heard about this but
Weston Price studied traditional
cultures and he observed that in these
traditional cultures the teeth were
almost perfect the jaw structure was
symmetrical and there's no need for
braces at all compared to our modern
diet where just about everyone needs
braces but he found that traditional
diets had 10 times the amount of fat
cable vitamins and vitamin K2 is a fat
cable vitamin in fact he talks about
vitamin K2 in his book even before it
was discovered he didn't have a name for
it so he called it activator X but it's
interesting that he isolated that way
back I think it was in the 20s vitamin
K2 doesn't just control calcium it also
can help uh make insulin more sensitive
to decrease someone's risk for diabetes
it also has benefits in improving
varicose veins wrinkles decreasing your
risk for getting cavities as well as
preventing jaw malformations where
someone would need braces and the other
thing you need to know about is vitamin
K2 also needs vitamin D3 right to help
mobilize this calcium because if there's
no vitamin D3 then where's the calcium
for vitamin K2 to deliver into the bones
so we need Vitamin D3 and we need K2 in
the control of calcium as well as in
many different functions now if someone
were to take a supplement okay um you
have the MK4 version of K2 and then you
also have the mk7 version which one is
better well the MK4 version from animal
fats is a great source it's natural but
the problem is it's too expensive to
extract uh this MK4 version from animal
fats so the way that they make the MK4
version is synthetically out of tobacco
leaves so when you buy the MK4 version
of K2 you're not really getting the
natural uh version but if you eat the
foods I just mentioned you'll get a good
amount of vitamin K2 in this MK4 version
but as far as supplements go I would
recommend the mk7 version that is a
natural version it's not synthetic its
origin is from bacteria but so is cheese
and other fermented products and the
other advantage of this MK 7 version is
it has a much longer shelf life whereas
MK4 might last a few hours mk7 lasts
much longer also if you live in Canada
and you're buying the MK4 version the
actual amounts that they allow in Canada
are so tiny it's not going to even make
a dent into what you really need I think
the maximum amount that you're allowed
to take is 121 micrograms when you would
need like
4500 micrograms per per day now the
other question is what type of ratio
between vitamin D3 and K2 this is what I
recommend for every 10,000 iuse of D3 I
would recommend 100 micrograms not
milligrams micrograms of vitamin K2 that
will be the ratio so if you do 20,000
IUS of D3 you would want 200 micrograms
of K2 if you took 5,000 IUS of D3 you
would take 50 micrograms of K2 and I'm
talking about the mk7 version now I have
a really great summary and a one-page
document of this topic and more data
that I want to share with you if you
want to download that I put a link down
below check it out
