so recently someone had a question will
drinking more water help me lose weight
so I want to quickly answer it okay they
may have missed my earlier videos on
this so I'm just gonna do a new video on
this so you can watch a lot of YouTube
videos that will tell you that drinking
water will help you lose weight and
they'll say it's scientifically proven
so they pretty much have three points
that they talk about the water will
replace these calories from food and of
course you're going to eat less and
eating less ends up causing you to lose
more weight okay well where do you know
that a low calorie diet doesn't work
okay it's gonna cause you to be more
hungry what you want to do is you want
to switch your body over into ketones
ketones are a better fuel source and
most people have a tremendous amount of
potential energy or fat to tap into to
get them to lose weight so drinking more
water does not cause you to tap into fat
loss okay next thing you talk about is
it will reduce hunger and sometimes
they'll they'll say that well when
you're hungry it really means that
you're thirsty so you if you drink more
water it'll trick your body into
satisfying your hunger well maybe for a
little bit until you have to peel the
water out but as far as water goes it
it's not the best thing to reduce hunger
you want to again adapt your body into
burning fat so your hunger completely
just goes away
okay so to do that you want to drop
insulin insulin is the key hormone that
makes you hungry for two reasons one is
it stimulates hunger and number two
it'll drop your blood sugars and that
alone will cause you to be hungry so to
reduce insulin you want to reduce your
carbs and decrease the frequency of
eating okay if you do that your body
will adapt and you will not be hungry
okay so drinking water is a trick to
reduce hunger is just basically a waste
of time all right and the other thing
they say is that water will stimulate
your metabolism absolutely not true what
will stimulate your metabolism is
lowering the dominating hormones that
will nullify all six fat burning
hormones okay so these hormones are the
fat making hormones insulin estrogen in
cortisol
these three slow your metabolism there
are six evaporating hormones that will
help you burn fat and water isn't one of
those hormones so we have insulin
cutting carbs reducing the frequency of
eating reducing insulin let's say you're
taking birth control pills well that can
add more estrogen and slow down your
weight loss or you're consuming a lot of
soy which is a bit estrogenic that could
be a problem or you're on hormone
replacement therapy then we have
cortisol which is activated by stress
and one of the symptoms of high cortisol
is belly fat but what the body is doing
it's converting protein into fat so and
it's through the action of insulin
so really cortisol triggers insulin
which then makes you fat especially in
your midsection right through in here
and then we have exercise high intensity
interval training and compound resistant
training and good sleep will help you
stimulate your metabolism if you think
about it when you go to sleep if you
weigh yourself and when you wake up
it'll actually be a little less versus
wearing yourself in the morning and then
weighting yourself at night you won't
see much difference so when you sleep
you trigger growth hormone and you
actually are your metabolism is actually
burning fat so it's totally okay to
drink water and especially if you're
predisposed to having kidney stones so
there's a condition called hyponatremia
which is over hydration drinking way too
much water and the danger of that is
that you deplete your electrolytes
specifically sodium and that can create
heart problems but again it's okay to
drink water and I'm not opposed to that
might be a good idea to add electrolytes
to it but just don't ever force yourself
to drink like gallons and gallons of
water especially if you're exercising
because that could be a problem
especially if you're not taking your
salt all right guys thanks for watching
I'll see you next video
so I wanna thank you for being here and
watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
