hey guys today we're going to talk about
the five top easy keto hacks for busy
people that don't have a lot of time
okay and these are things that I apply
okay number one in a minute fasting oh
my gosh
you're not eating guess how much time
you're gonna have so many people are
doing one meal a day
and they have so much extra time you
much time it takes to do three meals
plus snacks every single day whether
you're going to a restaurant or you're
preparing all this these meals it's
incredibly time consuming so in a minute
fasting cannot just save you time but
money you're gonna save $500 a month
just by not eating so frequently okay
number two keep your meals really simple
and this is what I do I don't do this
huge complex recipe thing I never do
that basically burger salad nuts I might
put cheese in the burger and I'm done I
do it fast or I'll do eggs bacon cheese
or I'll do fish I like salmon and bell
peppers that's what I do I don't do a
lot of complexities keep it really
really simple plan out one week in
advance so that way you have your entire
week of eating on one chart and put it
right on your fridge I have some really
good software I'll put a link down below
you can check it out you might want to
get it because within a couple of
minutes you can pick all the foods you
like press a button print and you have a
whole plan so that way your you don't
have to think about what you're gonna
eat you just already have it planned out
and then you can just basically do the
program without thinking it's gonna save
time number four
eat the same thing each day my wife and
I are different
she likes variety I can eat the same
thing every single day it saves me a lot
of time preparing because I can just buy
several things and eat them over and
over I mean if your time is more
important than your desire for variety
then this might work for you okay number
five you can do bulletproof coffee
that's basically coffee with MCT oil
butter and this basically could
basically sustain you the entire morning
if you really were
have a meal you can do this it's really
quick you can use a blender and boom you
go to the whole morning you're not
hungry
or just do a meal replacement as one of
the meals it's very quick put it in a
shake make sure it's healthy make sure
there's no carbs and shake it up and you
have one meal that will cut the time
down considerably all right guys thanks
for watching so if you're enjoying this
content go ahead and share it with
someone that could really benefit from
it
