hey guys today we're gonna talk about
sugar yeast and Candida a lot of people
get yeast infections and Candida
infections and even other infections
from bacteria even viral infections and
I want to talk about the relationship
between sugar and getting and infection
sugar basically paralyzes your immune
system your white blood cells
specifically the neutrophils which are
the frontline defense against microbes
so you have different types of white
blood cells neutrophils are the ones
that go first and they help defend the
body when you consume sugar
you basically inactivate the neutrophils
you make them sluggish and then they
don't work anymore so sugar basically
increases your susceptibility to getting
an infection so these microbes love
sugar and one example of that would be
like a diabetic that has high blood
sugar they have a greater greater
incidence of having infections more
Candida more bacterial infections if you
have these infections and you're still
consuming sugar and maybe you're taking
different remedies to try to get rid of
it it's not gonna work
you have to stop feeding these microbes
so it happens when you have high sugar
or even low sugar if you have
hypoglycemia because what happens when
you eat sugar you get this spike of
insulin and then your blood sugars drop
so you can also give these infections
when you have low blood sugar as well
what do you eat you can have protein you
can consume vegetables you can do nuts
you consume fat and another question
that people want to know can I have
outside of vinegar absolutely some
people are sensitive to it because it's
a fermented drink I find most people can
do it successfully without a problem and
lastly make sure you're avoiding the
hidden sugars and alcohol juice fruit
dates figs breads pasta cereal crackers
biscuits waffles pancakes and yogurt and
definitely avoid dairy because dairy has
lactose milk sugar and Candida and knees
love milk sugar alright thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
