hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the potential causes of
osteoarthritis that's inflammation in
your joints where the joints are getting
thinner you're getting a little spurring
you're getting a lack of ability okay in
the past it was thought that
osteoarthritis was primarily a wear and
tear situation as you get older maybe
weight-bearing joints they start wearing
out but there's been some recent
developments in the connection of dental
pathogens and osteoarthritis what they
found where there are certain pathogens
that were growing in joints that were
wearing out like whether it was a hip
joint or a knee joint that basically
normally live in the mouth and this
makes sense to me because that would
explain why someone would have a loss of
a joint in one side versus the other
side with no prior injuries okay it's
basically the microbe in there that's
coming from an infected tooth that's
somehow leaking in there and then your
immune system tries to kill it and in
the process it actually kills off the
joint so if you have a history of dental
problems dental decay a lot of tartar in
your teeth a lot of cavities you may
want to research this area and I'm going
to recommend three remedies to see if it
can help you oregano oil okay pine bark
extract grape seed extract because these
remedies tend to target microbial
biofilm which is basically the microbe
that lives within the calcium shell
which is almost impossible to target
antibiotics to kill up these microbes
they're very stealth they hide in the
calcium shell and they don't normally
show up in routine lab testing so that's
why they've been under the radar I would
also recommend glucosamine to help build
up the joints but this may give you a
lot of relief
number two insulin resistance now it's
been found that 75% of people with
osteoarthritis also have insulin
resistance which makes sense because in
some resisters causes inflammation okay
and for this of course you guessed it
it's healthy keto and then fasting all
the way because that's going to drop the
inflammation drop the sugar that feeds
the microbes so it's all connected
alright thanks for watching so I want to
know what you're interested in as far as
a future video click the link down below
and share some ideas I want to hear
