let's talk about the most common vitamin
deficiency in migraines if you've ever
had a migraine it can be debilitating it
creates this hyper sensitivity of your
smell your sound your sight so you want
to stay in the dark it can increase the
impulse to vomit or feel nauseous so
apparently when I did this research I
found something that I didn't know
before the majority of these migraines
are genetic and I do know from studying
genetics this doesn't mean that you have
to live with it it just means that you
have to understand the epigenetic
factors those things that are above your
genetics that potentially could help you
override this genetic weakness so when
someone has a genetic problem they have
a limited capacity for doing a certain
thing but if you understand the
epigenetics maybe you can override it
and in 5 to 11 clinical trials there was
significant Improvement in migraines now
four of the trials were mixed and two of
the trials didn't show any results
probably because
it wasn't genetics and there's some
other cause to these migraines but
migraines a lot of times will affect the
ocular the eye and so if you do have a
problem especially with one-sided eye
problems I think this remedy is going to
greatly help you there's various
theories about you know migraines and no
one really knows for sure but there's a
huge relationship between your
mitochondria and these headaches
especially a Hyo underfunctioning
mitochondria
there's some type of dysfunction in the
mitochondria that doesn't allow it to
work correctly and this particular
vitamin is involved with an
enzyme that helps you preserve the
aerobic metabolism in your mitochondria
that just means with oxygen and so when
you're taking food and turning it into
energy it's all about oxidizing it and
using oxygen to help make energy and
without without enough of this vitamin
apparently what happens next is you get
this OV excitation of the nervous system
the brain it's kind of weird because you
have this low mitochondria that
accelerates the neuron itself and
there's a lot of free radical damage
inflammation
oxidation which directly relates to the
mitochondria because this vitamin also
helps you build up glutathione which is
kind of like a sponge so what is this
vitamin it's riboflavin it's vitamin B2
but normal amounts don't really
apparently work you have to increase the
amounts of B2 to override this
resistance of B2 so you'd be taking like
400 milligrams per day but apparently if
you have this genetic problem in your
mitochondria uh you're going to need
more B2 to make it work and what this
vitamin is going to do it's going to
help this um hypoxic state or this state
of low oxygen it's just going to
preserve and allow this oxygen to work
through the mitochondria and another
little side note to this is um in
Parkinson's disease which is a brain
problem uh one of the earliest
indications for Parkinson's is the
failure of the
glutathione mechanism so apparently if
you don't have enough glutathione or you
have too much oxidative damage it can
seriously create um damage to your
neurons this is what I'm going to
recommend and definitely put your
comments down below
if it helps you but start taking 400 mg
of B2 just as a prevention and now let's
say for example you start getting a
migraine what I would recommend is like
instead of buying I don't even think you
can buy 400 milligrams in one tablet you
know get them in 100 milligrams wait an
hour take another 100 milligrams wait an
hour take another 100 milligrams and
keep doing this until your migraine is
gone but don't exceed 400 milligram a
day but the point is I wanted to put
this very interesting connection between
B2 uh and migraines on your radar so you
can use that within your tools to help
yourself one cause is basically a sodium
deficiency so just taking more sea salt
can reduce migraines and headaches
pretty quick the other thing about these
migraines is that there's usually always
this oxidative stress for radical damage
issue so just by taking some powerful
herbal antioxidant you can many times
get rid of the migraine as well whether
it's Ginger or turmeric those are the
two that I recommend you can try either
or now just from the standpoint of
headaches in general I did a video on
other potential causes that you need to
know about as well and for that
information check out this video right
here
