hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I
want to shed some light on this myth
called to eat less and lose weight myth
all
right first of all it's been totally
proven that this does not work okay what
happens when you reduce your calories
your body will automatically compensate
by slowing the metabolism down okay it
may work the first time you do it but
the more you do it over over and over
and over and over it works less and less
and less to the point where it won't
work at all okay so you'll shut you down
your what's called a set point so let's
say you're about 185 and you're just
plateaued you will not be able to get
lower than that if you try to go lower
than that your body is going to Crave
like crazy and be really hungry and then
it will slow down the metabolism even
more okay so dieting in general slows
your
metabolism secondly we only talk about
weight loss versus fat loss
sometimes you read these books that say
you can lose 15 pounds of actual fat in
two weeks that is a lie you can't lose
it's it's impossible to lose more than
two pounds of fat per week if anyone
says you can lose more than that they're
lying to you okay you can't it's 2 PBS
but if you're interested in water weight
you can lose 10 PBS in a week of water
weight but not more than two okay of
actual fat it's really easy to lose
water weight okay just cut out the carbs
and eat high potassium foods okay that's
vegetables boom you lose water weight
but if you're interested in Fat Loss
that's a whole different thing okay so
the maximum of two pounds of fat per
week is that's with a healthy
metabolism if you have an unhealthy
metabolism and you're losing one pound
of fat per week that's not bad okay it's
not bad so if you understand that at
least maybe you won't be as frustrated
going into this because sometimes your
expectation is a little bit more than
what's real okay I want I don't want to
set you up for a loss um if you can lose
one pound of actual fat per week I think
you should be happy with that if it's
consistent and you can stay at that over
a period of
time now there is no such thing oh
yeah there are things that you read on
the internet like one person was saying
there's no such thing as bad food it's
just calories too many calories now
there is such thing as bad food probably
the people that are telling you that are
the people that are making sodas and
donuts and they're saying there's no
such thing as bad junk food just eat it
in moderation that is another myth there
are bad foods now if we want to lose fat
we want to study the fat cell itself and
understand this little fat
cell if you cut calories you do not have
a dramatic effect on the fat
cell if you cut sugar you'll cut insulin
that you will have an effect on the fat
cell so the fat cell is regulated by
insulin if you lower insulin by cutting
sugar out you will lose weight okay so
we want to starve your body not of
calories but of the sugar to drop the
insulin which forces your body to burn
fat and there's other a lot of other
data on to uh on fat metabolism and some
other videos but the point is that if
you eat less it doesn't necessarily mean
that you're going to lose weight uh any
any long-term type thing okay so just to
summarize you need to lower insulin by
lowering sugar to be able to really tap
into the fat and there's a lot more
information on the fat cell and what to
do and how to lose more fat in some of
the other videos I hope this help and I
will see you in the next video
