so what would happen if you gave up
bread for 30 days
now this topic is not very popular
people love their bread and anytime you
get close to telling someone to give up
bread
not a good thing all sorts of very
negative reactions can occur simply
because we
we just love our bread so in this video
I'm not telling you to give up your
bread all I'm doing is
consider what would happen if you did
give up your bread for 30 days and I'm
going to talk about the effects of that
there's some information in here that
you probably have never heard about and
it's really interesting so just stay
tuned there's a lot of things that bread
can do to you in a negative way one
affect your blood sugars and I'm not
going to cover the fact that most bread
has glyphosate and it's an herbicide
that can create all sorts of issues what
I want to talk about today is the gluten
part of bread now gluten is a general
term for a lot of different
proteins okay it's not just one protein
and it's the protein in certain grains
especially wheat and gluten is basically
the only protein that our bodies cannot
fully digest and gluten is associated
with this thing called celiac disease
which is a damaged small intestine in
the layer is damaged to the point where
you have these classic symptoms and the
three big classic symptoms would be
bloating abdominal pain and diarrhea
people that are gluten intolerant as
well as people that have antibodies that
actually show that they have celiac
many times in fact the great majority of
times don't have these classic symptoms
which is very very strange so people are
like well you know maybe I can get away
with it if I just keep eating it because
I don't have symptoms and even the
reason why I'm doing this video now is
that I've been doing a lot of DNA
testing on various people and
so many people and the great majority of
people show a genetic problem with
gluten intolerance I mean it's in their
genes right it just tells us that they
have genes that make them very
susceptible to getting Celiac yet the
great majority of people when I talk to
them have virtually no GI symptoms okay
they don't have bloating they don't have
Domino pain and they don't have diarrhea
now I recently found out by doing a deep
dive in this topic why they don't have
those symptoms and it's because of this
one specific protein as a part of the
complex of gluten is called gliadenins
and this protein stimulates the opioid
receptor gluten can give you a
morphine-like effect in your gut and
other places in your body masking
a lot of your GI symptoms in other words
you eat the bread and you don't feel bad
from it which is going to lead to more
eating it eating it on a regular basis
thinking that you're totally fine and
you can handle it when in fact the
damage is being done okay but you're not
feeling it it's kind of numbing the GI
problems typically gluten decreases the
transient time of stuff going through
the intestines giving you constipation
but when people take morphine that
increases the transit time
so a person could end up with like if
they have too much morphine like
diarrhea but the fact that they have
gluten and the effect of a slower
digestive tract
combined with the morphine effect which
increases the transit time can actually
give you kind of this neutralized effect
where you just have elimination that's
normal gluten is a silent killer okay
now there are many many other symptoms
that gluten can affect that are not even
connected to your GI system it can
affect your blood sugars it can create
hypoglycemia it can even trigger
diabetes it can trigger Hashimoto's
which is hypothyroidism psoriasis as
well as dermatitis it can create
depression and anxiety it can even
trigger autism and attention deficit
disorder and even changes in the brain
but some of those symptoms in the brain
can be numbed by the morphine-like
effect of the opioids but an actual
reduction of size of your gray matter
and cerebellum there's also a higher
amount of prolactin which can affect
your periods heavy periods irregular
periods erectile dysfunction if you're a
guy so as you can see just because you
don't have GI symptoms from gluten
doesn't mean it's not affecting you in
many other ways this is why I think it's
very very important to consider not
consuming bread or grains for one month
boy there are certain groups out there
that are really pushing to get everyone
to consume whole grains and I'm talking
like 65 percent of your calories which I
think is
extremely bad advice just based on the
gluten interaction alone I mean if you
really want to know if you have a
problem with gluten you want to do
either a biopsy of your small intestine
which is pretty invasive which I
actually don't recommend that part
instead I would recommend a blood test
that looks for the antibodies that are
related to Celiac get that test done and
if it shows positive or you get a DNA
test and you have gluten intolerance on
your DNA test which makes you
susceptible you definitely want to
consider getting off this bread now what
about the topic of just gluten-free
foods right
well that's a step up but the problem is
you're still consuming grains and you're
still going to have the blood sugar
effects you're still going to have the
problems with insulin you're still going
to have the weight gain problems you're
still going to have the glyphosate issue
but the good news is there are a lot of
alternative Brands out there recipes
that can satisfy that desire for bread
and I'm going to put a bunch of links
down below I have a really really cool
video on
probably one of the healthiest breads
that you can eat and that video had
millions of views and if you haven't
seen that I'm going to put that up right
here check it out
