hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the side effects of metformin
okay this is a diabetic medication
that's used for insulin resistance so
basically it just makes the receptor
cells absorb insulin better and it
blocks the liver from making sugar it
was originally developed from the lilac
flower which is another name for that is
called go true there is a active
ingredient called guanidine that helps
insulin resistance but the problem is
that it creates lactic acidosis which is
a bigger side effect it's a toxic side
effect which you would get fatigue
weakness muscle pain difficulty
breathing vomiting and you know a 50% of
the time you die okay so that's a
problem however when you're consuming
metformin you're not consuming straight
guanidine it's a slight different
variation of it I don't know exactly the
details but it's not the same thing okay
so what are the side effects of
metformin diarrhea headaches heartburn
stomach cramps and lactic acidosis okay
I mean metformin has a black box warning
that's a very severe warning now this
may be rare but if you get this
condition it's not good
so if someone is on this medication I
always always recommend also taking
vitamin b1 from nutritional yeast
because severe lactic acidosis can be
reversed by taking b1 within 24 hours
b1 protects against lactic acidosis now
here's the problem and that Foreman
blocks your absorption of b1 and if
you're a diabetic already taking
metformin you're already going to be
deficient to b1 in the first place so
you that's why you need to take b1 to
minimize the side effects specifically
this one and do healthy ketosis in a
minute fasting to ultimately correct the
deeper cause of the reason why you're on
this in the first place but as your
transition of healing your body and
coming off this definitely take vitamin
b1 in the form of nutritional yeast
alright thanks for watching if you're
enjoying this information and getting
something out of it
please give me an unbiased Google review
I put a link down below thanks
