so I think everyone wants to live a
little bit longer
I will guarantee at the end of this
video you are going to know how to
extend your life and I'll put a
guarantee on that to the point where
I'll even give your money back if you
don't live longer so if we want to
figure out
how to extend one's life we need to
compare that to something else you can
never figure something out or understand
something if it's just like one thing
like for example if I said uh is the
number 100 good or bad right it has to
be related to something for example if
your blood sugars are 100 is that good
or bad Well normally it should be like
80 okay or even a little bit less so 100
is not that great okay what about
temperature is that good or bad well you
have to evaluate that compared to your
normal temperature which is 98.6 so 100
yeah it's uh it's a bit too high so in
order to figure out longevity we have to
compare that to the reason why people
die and and look deeper at the risk
factors
potential causes
Etc because if we could just eliminate
why people die we can extend your life
that way without knowing anything else
okay well I'll just tell you right now
the number one cause of death
worldwide is heart attacks now in this
graph that I'm going to pull up right
now it shows the greatest risk factors
for dying from a heart attack okay take
a look at this and we're looking at the
graph on the left side heart disease we
have various risk factors okay we have
hypertension we have smoking we have
obesity okay then we have aging so look
at how much greater
aging is as a risk factor for heart
disease but what we're really looking at
is that deaths from heart attacks So
based on that do we have enough
information to know how to live longer
because all we know now is the biggest
factor for heart disease death is aging
and we know that the greatest cause of
death is heart disease death so what we
need to do is we need to look a little
bit more at heart disease itself let's
look at some statistics on heart disease
I have this very interesting uh graph
showing the risk factors for coronary
heart disease as well as the biomarkers
and biomarkers are just like little red
flags which just tell you the risk of
getting a heart attack now what's so
important about this graph is to look at
the relative
differences between the different risks
and if we look at the top graph let's
just take a look at type 2 diabetes if
you have diabetes you're at more of a 10
times risk of developing heart disease
than people that don't have diabetes and
if we look at the biomarkers
specifically insulin resistance okay now
you're probably wondering what
lipoprotein insulin resistance is that's
a kind of a fairly new but very reliable
biomarker of insulin resistance look at
insulin resistance compared to what
everyone focuses on is the LDL as a risk
factor for heart attacks the so-called
bad cholesterol now I'm not going to
even get into like the small dense
particle size versus the large buoyant
size none of that I'm just looking at
LDL cholesterol we're going to compare
that to insulin resistance as a risk so
if we look at the numbers for LDL which
basically has a risk factor of 1.3 that
means if you have a higher LDL that can
put you at a risk factor of 38 percent
more risk okay now 38 sounds like a
a big risk right but let's compare that
to insulin resistance which increases
your risk by
540 percent so if we're looking at the
relative importance or Focus or
attention that you should put on
preventing heart attacks what would be a
bigger number 540 percent or 38 the
insulin resistance biomarker is 14 times
greater than LDL if we look at a
percentage it's
1300 percent greater and this blows me
away because
I don't even know if doctors even could
look at insulin resistance as a
biomarker or risk factor at all it's
mainly focused on this cholesterol value
or bad cholesterol now if we look at the
top graph the graphs in red diabetes is
caused by insulin resistance then the
second one metabolic syndrome what
causes that insulin resistance then we
have hypertension what's behind that
insulin resistance what about diabetes
what causes that insulin resistance and
then what about smoking
is insulin resistance involved in
smoking it actually does contribute to
insulin resistance in a big way it
actually can elevate your blood sugars
and I'll put that data down below too so
by looking at all the these risk factors
and biomarkers and evaluating the
relative importance apparently insulin
resistance happens to be the biggest
risk factor for premature cardiac deaths
now that's interesting but there's
something even more interesting about
this topic what is the main mainstream
treatment for high cholesterol and if
you said statins you guessed correct
what's a Statin it's a drug that blocks
the production of cholesterol in the
body and when we're done with this video
go ahead and go to Google and just type
in statins related to insulin resistance
and you're going to find that right down
the list there are many many studies
showing that when people take statins
they can develop insulin resistance and
even diabetes so the very treatment to
prevent a heart attack could end up
worsening a heart attack why because of
insulin resistance anything that
increases insulin resistance is not a
good idea when you're trying to prevent
a heart attack it's data that you should
bring up with your doctor you should
educate your doctor about this because
sometimes
um there's so hyper focused on this one
bad cholesterol they might not be up on
some of this current data now when we
talk about longevity
we want to keep the mitochondria as
strong as possible okay we don't want
the mitochondria to die one of the
reasons the mitochondria dies and even
can shorten your life is a term called
apoptosis okay apoptosis is cell death
and when we're talking about the
mitochondria it's the death of the
mitochondria well apparently statins
also impair the mitochondria and
increase this apoptosis now the other
thing you should know about statin drugs
and again I'm not telling you to come
off your Statin drug I'm just giving you
the information to be able to research
and bring this up with your dog but it's
a well-known fact that statins deplete
coenzyme Q10 which has everything to do
with helping you transport
electrons in the mitochondria they're
involved with generating more energy or
ATP in your body and when someone takes
a Statin and they become depleted of
coenzyme Q10 they can develop a lot of
they're called statin-induced myopathies
which is muscle diseases like weakness
of the muscle atrophy of the muscle
muscle pain muscle cramping and other
problems with the muscle and this is why
anyone in Statin should always always
take coenzyme Q10 and what's more ironic
just about coenzyme Q10 as a nutrient
guess what food that you find it mostly
in beef liver fatty fish you know things
with more cholesterol now let's just
talk about this cholesterol thing a
little bit because I think that people
are really afraid of cholesterol and of
course they want to keep their
cholesterol low so they can live longer
however there's some data that you need
to know about cholesterol and if this
surprises you I'm going to put the link
down below so you can thoroughly study
this this is not a weak study it's a
very strong study which basically links
LDL cholesterol
to inversely affect immortality that
means when your LDL is low
you don't live as long as if the LDL is
higher when LDL is higher this can
extend your lifespan this is probably
new information for you that's why you
should
get the information for yourself down
below
now why would this be true especially as
someone ages because cholesterol is
involved not just in nerve transmission
not just in the production of vitamin D
not just in the production of bile to
help you extract and absorb vitamin A d
e
K1 and K2
but it's also involved in making
hormones especially testosterone
especially estrogen
and cortisol the hormone that we need to
counter stress and get rid of
inflammation and the more inflammation
you have the more even infection that
you might have you may find your
cholesterol going up to help you heal
that tissue or provide raw material for
your body to work better so if you just
think about like why eating cholesterol
would end up in the arteries it's part
of the healing process
as someone ages especially if someone is
female going after menopause and she
starts lowering her cholesterol boy the
hormones just kind of tank so
cholesterol is really needed in all of
the sex hormones and also cortisol and
other hormones as well not to mention
you need cholesterol and all of your
cell membranes the great majority of
your cholesterol is actually made by
your own cells for a reason and so when
we start cutting down the production of
cholesterol it comes with side effects
and one of the big side effects with
statins is increasing more insulin
resistance the biggest risk factor for
heart disease since we're on the topic
of cardiovascular disease many people
are not just on statins they're on blood
thinners all of those medications also
contribute to insulin resistance and
increased insulin and increase blood
sugars on top of the heart healthy diet
that's recommended by the American Heart
Association which is fruits vegetables
whole grains and lean meats well I want
to comment on the fruits first a while
ago
I was eating what I thought was healthy
and I was eating fruits like apples
through the day and I was eating a lot
of other things that I'm still eating
but all I did was cut out the apples
which is so high in sugar and that sugar
is not just glucose it's fructose too
after I cut these apples out I went from
my face being round to more slender I
went from a weight that was 211 pounds
to weight that's 185 pounds and that's
what I weigh now I'm six two so fruit is
so sweet unfortunately you're just going
to raise your blood glucose and raise
your insulin not to mention the fructose
going to the liver and creating insulin
resistance from a different angle all
right what about lean proteins right
lean meats well guess what
there's something called the insulin
index and the the proteins that are more
Lean Like even whey protein which is
completely just protein and no fat at
all are the highest on the insulin index
that means they trigger insulin the most
and the proteins that are the fattiest
trigger insulin the least this is why if
you're going to eat an egg you eat the
whole egg not the egg white this is why
when you eat chicken you want the the
skin on it this is why when you eat
meats you don't want to buy the leanest
meat so it can protect you against this
insulin problem just as fiber can
protect you against carbohydrates so if
you were to eat like a carrot for
example you have a lot of fiber in there
that protects you against that Sugar
this is also why vegetables are really
good because they're very low in sugar
and very very high in fiber and of
course when we get to the whole grains
don't get me started on that topic
because grains will just increase your
blood sugars regardless of them being
whole grain or refined grain and very
very unfortunately they're even now
putting children on statin drugs with no
long-term safety studies it's tragic so
insulin resistance is the most important
risk factor for heart disease and if you
want to live longer all you have to do
is improve insulin resistance make your
insulin more sensitive less resistant
stabilize your blood sugars that is the
most important action out of anything
you can do so how do you do it the
biggest way is to start going low carb
that is called the ketogenic diet then
you implement intermittent fasting cut
out the snacks go to two carbs a day
number three don't try to go lean with
your proteins don't try to lower your
cholesterol don't be afraid of
cholesterol in your natural foods like
eggs meat cheese things like that
remember as you age that LDL is
inversely proportioned to mortality so
the people with really low LDL don't
live as long and you need this
cholesterol as raw material to build
your hormones and heal the body
especially when you're sick and
especially as you age now as far as the
vegetables go of course you need to
include that in the diet it's going to
be loaded with potassium and magnesium
two key minerals that can help this
insulin resistance problem as well as
the fiber in those vegetables feeding
the microbes to make what's called a
small chain fatty acids that indirectly
improve your blood sugars and insulin
resistance exercise as an action can
greatly improve insulin resistance so
the combination of all these things I
just mentioned will guarantee that you
definitely live longer or I will give
you your money back oh that's right this
information was free so please pass this
information on share it to a loved one
and for those of you that are new to my
channel and you don't know where to
start I put that video up right here
check it out
