so recently I had a comment Quito is too
extreme okay I can't do it because it's
too extreme let's talk about that that
really comes from two different concepts
one is you know everything in moderation
you know keep everything moderate not
too much this way not too much the other
way or how about this one there's no
such thing as the bad or good food
they're just molecules just keep your
calories balanced right it's all a
matter about balance your calories blah
blah blah well if we take a look at keto
we have moderate protein we have higher
fats which people are not gonna have a
problem with consuming more fats they
have a problem with lowering their carbs
to 20 to 50 grams per day so that's what
certain people consider extreme one it's
really only extreme if you're comparing
it to the standard American diet which
has about 350 grams of carbohydrates per
day okay this is our new normal but this
is extreme take a look at just the
amount of sugar that our society
consumes this is like a hundred and
twenty pounds 100 pounds roughly in the
80s the 90s and and really recently this
spike of sugar content is just gone way
up
so keno only sounds extreme if you don't
understand
dietary sugar and blood sugars so when
you get your blood glucose tested you
want it to be right around 80 milligrams
per deciliter that's really only one
teaspoon of sugar and your entire blood
the average person consumes a lot more
than that like 28 to 31 teaspoons that's
extreme okay so you really have to
understand what what normal is to see
what extreme is what I think is extreme
is the four billion prescriptions that
are given out on a yearly basis in the
US healthcare being three point four
trillion dollars per year okay one
trillion is a thousand billion it's a
lot of money I think that's extreme or
how about this sixty percent of the u.s.
population is either pre-diabetic or
diabetic that's extreme so is keynote
Stream absolutely not it's normal it's
reasonable
it gets people healthy so I put a link
down below exactly how to do it check it
out hey so if you haven't done so please
press subscribe now that way you can be
aware of all the new content that I'm
putting out on a regular basis
