hey guys in this video I'm gonna answer
the question from someone that wanted to
know my thoughts on fluoride in the
water so let's talk about that so the
first point I want to bring up is why
would you ever put an element fluoride
which is very reactive to the thyroid
which is very toxic to the brain on a
massive scale in the water supply okay
well they're doing it to prevent tooth
decay so right there it's kind of weird
that they're gonna put fluoride in the
water supply to prevent this condition
tooth decay
especially when the side-effect of
consuming too much fluoride is the deep
mineralization pulling the minerals out
of your teeth creating a condition
called dental fluorosis so I'm gonna
actually give you fluoride to prevent
decay which is basically the breakdown
of minerals when actually it's causing
the breakdown of minerals so that's
another huge red flag of course if you
do research on this you're gonna see
that they'll say it's safe there's no
studies that show that it's harm but I'm
gonna have you click the link down below
when we're done and just start reading
some of these studies there's actually
over 180 studies published since 2006 on
the effect of fluoride on the brain and
the nervous system the neural toxic harm
that it creates
not to mention lowering your IQ and
affecting the thyroid you can just read
it yourself now if you also just type in
Google what causes tooth decay if so of
course the first page is all going to be
explanations by toothpaste
companies but this is what they say it's
acid acid actually causes the tooth
decay and that comes from plaque
bacteria that breaks down the sugar in
your food causing minerals to be leached
out of the bone so of course if you're
eating you should always brush your
teeth after you eat to keep the teeth
free of this sugar but what happens when
it goes in your bloodstream is there a
problem
with the minerals in your body when you
actually have high amounts of sugar and
the answer is yes take a look at a
diabetic they have a lot of problems
with their
minerals in their bones not to mention
the minerals and their muscles
not to mention high levels of infection
so here's the facts when you increase
sugar you've actually paralyzed the
white blood cell so you increase the
chance of getting more microbes that
make plaque also you actually decrease
the adminserver you when you increase
glucose you actually decrease the
absorption of vitamin C because they're
both similar in chemistry and sugar will
take priority over vitamin C now have
you ever heard of security before scurvy
you have like bleeding gums right so all
the connective tissue around the teeth
become affected especially like loose
teeth bleeding gums gingivitis when you
actually have high levels of sugar so if
you're trying to prevent tooth decay
with fluoride why don't we just change
the diet isn't that much easier
so my recommendation to you is to get a
really good water filter to take this
out along with chlorine and the other
chemicals that are in your water alright
guys so there you have it my opinion on
fluoride so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
