alright guys I hate to break this on you
again this very terrible news
internment fasting has now been found to
cause diabetes and insulin resistance so
I guess I'm gonna have to change all the
data in my book and all 4000 videos
because this very credible study showed
that when you put rats on in a minute
fasting not only do they get diabetes
but they get belly fat guys listen I
can't believe I have to do another video
on this because it's it's another one of
those ridiculous almost comical things
in the news I mean it's an it's on the
most credible sites medical news.com
okay and it's pretty much spreading all
over the internet studies now show that
in a minute fasting potentially could
lead to diabetes right well here's the
crazy thing about it this study was not
even published yet it was an unpublished
study or extract okay we don't even know
what the study says you can't even look
at the study you can't even read it
you don't know what these rats actually
ate and for all that we know it can be
completely garbage and sugar which is
usually what they feed rats so they're
basing this so-called claim on an
unpublished study on rats which there's
no peer-review you can't even find the
study yet it's all over the news right
now just realize this is a very
strategic move based on certain groups
that have certain vested interests in
attacking those things that might
compete with their products and all they
have to do is put a little doubt in your
mind on the exact opposite thing okay
so intimate fasting has been known to
fix insulin resistance and greatly help
diabetes okay but then this study says
no no it will cause diabetes so now we
have this doubt now I'm gonna put a few
links below that will show you an actual
study that was published that was
peer-reviewed that was done on humans
that showed that in fasting can help
someone greatly
with metabolic syndrome and diabetes and
all those factors okay so you can check
that link out but the next time you see
a study like this that just sounds very
very confusing and you can't actually
read the study so just realize it's
another piece of propaganda completely
utterly false and it's just amazing to
me that they can actually allow
something like that all over the net and
that people can actually be led down the
wrong path the actual truth of the
matter is that intimate fasting is one
of the most powerful things for your
health for your blood sugars for
diabetes and prediabetes and everything
connected to that if you're new to my
channel I put some links down below more
on the truth of intermittent fasting
it's not a fad diet it works it's not
going away
why because of this little thing called
results so if you want more knowledge on
how to create a healthy body subscribe
now and get daily notifications
