I had a quick video today for a remedy
for herpes okay type 1 now herpes is a
virus and think about viruses is you
can't kill them because they're not
alive but you can't put them back in
remission
type 1 herpes involves the mouth or
ellipse it's like an open sore type 2 is
in the genitals it's passed by intimate
contact and non-sexual contact so there
are three remedies that I'm going to
recommend that have some pretty powerful
antiviral effects and again it's not
killing the virus it's just putting it
back in remission and it can do it very
fast so all three of these have a
plant-based chemical called a tannin or
poly phenyl that will help to suppress
viruses green tea black tea as an Earl
Grey or persimmon extract so simply all
you have to do is put this in some hot
water okay I get it activated take it
out cool it off a little bit and apply
it to the this sword directly okay and
hold it there for at least twenty to
thirty minutes and what you can find is
within hours it's going to get better
and better and better and you can apply
this throughout the day but it's a real
fast remedy to put this virus back in
remission
all right there's my quick tip if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
