so today we're going to talk about how
to respond to a naysayer or a critic of
Quito whether it's your friend or a
family member or your doctor that says
Oh Quito is dangerous you don't want to
do that how do you respond to that
well the first thing you do you don't
want to defend yourself you want to ask
this one question what is your solution
to the problem of diabetes pre-diabetes
if you combine both of those that equals
over 50% of the population right there
it's the number one problem in Mexico
Saudi Arabia China I mean the amount of
people that are becoming pre-diabetic
diabetic they're getting fatter and
fatter is just off the chart so you want
to know what is their recommendation for
a healthy diet now the conversation is
probably going to stop right there but
they may say well you know the best diet
is going to be something that's
evidence-based something by the USDA
like the Dietary Guidelines something
that's approved by the American Heart
Association or the American Diabetes
Association or the American Medical
Association or the American Motorcycle
Association that was my sarcasm the
Dietary Guidelines for the USDA are 65%
carbohydrates okay so then you asked in
this next question tell me why consuming
two to three hundred grams of
carbohydrates every day is a healthy
thing go ahead I'm listening let's see
what they say to that and this is based
on a 2,000 calorie diet because 65% of
the carbs on this diet right here equals
this many grams of carbohydrates that's
crazy amounts
Kito we're recommending 5% carbohydrates
which only come out to 20 to 50 grams of
carbs per day not 200 or 300 grams per
day but I would continue to ask this
question until you get an answer but the
truth is it is the absolutely
unhealthiest thing you can do and this
is the healthiest thing you can do and
they're not going to really have an
answer for it but you at least want them
to start looking at this really key
point which is this huge carbohydrate
problem in relationship to
the problems that we have pre-diabetes
or diabetes but I will guarantee a
hundred percent of the time they will
not know what a ketone is or what
ketosis is they will not understand what
that is so if you ask them this so out
of curiosity what is a ketone they may
know it's something related to
ketoacidosis something like that but Q
acidosis will only occur if your blood
sugars are over 300 okay so that means
you have no insulin you're diabetic type
1 you're not you forgot to take it your
blood sugars are out of control your pH
becomes very acidic and you're
generating a lot of ketones because your
body is eating up your muscle protein
it's just it's making too many ketones
but that is not the same as taking a
healthy person dropping your carbs and
getting the body to make more ketones
ketones are simply the byproduct of fat
burning and you're using them as
alternative fuel it's a more efficient
fuel it's it produces more energy less
co2 more oxygen you get more energy out
of the ketones less inflammation so it's
a very healthy thing to do but you have
to understand what it is before you can
you'd say that and people tend to attack
what they just don't understand and
that's really what you're up against so
go ahead and try this and comment below
and tell me how it goes thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
