now there's some great new data I want
to share with you about reversing
Diabetes by getting rid of the fat in
your liver now of course they don't
mention the word reversing diabetes they
call it putting diabetes in remission
but there's some interesting data I want
to share with you so apparently there's
a tremendous amount of data pointing to
insulin resistance
starting in the muscles and then in your
liver okay but there's some conflicting
data because other data points to it
starting in your muscles and then it
transfers to the liver but all you need
to know is if you fix insulin resistance
okay you can fix diabetes and if you
have a fatty liver you're not going to
be able to fix insulin resistance for
any period of time you might feel a
little bit better but that fat in your
liver must be removed so what is this
connection between a fatty liver and
diabetes
well one of the functions of the liver
beyond the detoxification function is
the storage of glucose as glycogen so
typically of a certain amount of storage
of glycogen in your liver and also in
your muscles and that glucose in the
liver supplies your brain and other
organs with glucose between meals and
then when you exercise and that glycogen
in your liver supplies the fuel to your
brain okay between meals and also when
you're exercising whereas the muscle
glycogen
pretty much only supplies the muscles
with energy or glucose but when you have
insulin resistance you don't really get
that benefit and so when you exercise
your performance isn't very good you
don't have good endurance you get a lot
of fatigue especially with exercise and
then when you get insulin resistance
from your liver over a period of time
that develops into pre-diabetes and
diabetes because of the spill off of fat
that then it's called ectopic it
actually goes out of the fat cell and
then it starts accumulating around the
pancreas okay and inside the pancreas
and then because the pancreas controls
insulin through beta cells the beta
cells start to malfunction and then you
get diabetes and it's been documented
that you can't reverse that but that is
absolutely positively not true you can
reverse beta cell dysfunction now I'm
not talking about in type 1 diabetes
talking about type 2 diabetes and the
way you would reverse it is you just
need to get rid of the fat in the
pancreas okay and allow the cell to come
back but to fix the pancreas you have to
first fix the liver you have to remove
the fat from the liver so you can
improve insulin resistance which by the
way
can happen in six days but the pancreas
could take a little bit longer it could
take like eight weeks so what am I
actually saying I'm saying this if you
have diabetes or pre-diabetes or insulin
resistance
you need to focus on removing the fat
from your liver okay as a primary goal
and then as you do that the fat from
your pancreas will also decrease and
then the function of the beta cell of
the pancreas will start to improve now
the question is how do you do it right
how do you do it do you just start going
on a low-fat diet do you start to
exercise more
what is the best thing to do well first
I need to explain something to you
because a lot of people don't know that
your brain can run on two types of fuel
okay it can run on glucose and it can
run on ketones and because there's so
much bad PR on ketones right like oh
yeah if you go on a ketogenic diet over
a period of time you'll develop
ketoacidosis and that's a very uh severe
pathology so you need to avoid ketones
right that's completely and utterly
false that only occurs when you're type
1 diabetic so if people drink that
Kool-Aid and they buy into that
then they're left with this fuel source
called glucose because mainstream
medicine will tell you that well the
brain prefers glucose and that's really
the only fuel that you need to focus on
and so if that's all the data you have
boy you're going to have a hard time
fixing this problem so let me just
mention this word hypoglycemia right we
have low blood sugars think about all of
the
brain symptoms with hypoglycemia you
have problems with your thinking memory
learning think about how many kids in
school that have low blood sugars right
and they're trying to learn on top of
that headache tired blurred vision
lightheadedness all these issues with
your head hypoglycemia originates in
your liver why because of the glycogen
restored being inhibited because of the
fatty liver or dysfunctional liver
so when your liver doesn't work you
can't store glycogen properly the stored
sugar in your muscles is not readily
available to you it's only going to
supply your muscles the brain glucose is
dependent on the liver function but if
you have a fatty liver which a lot of
people do especially if they're
overweight they're not going to be able
to store glycogen properly and the more
fat they accumulate in the liver the
more insulin resistance they have and
the more insulin that's going to go
higher pushing your blood sugars down
giving you this hypoglycemia and all
these symptoms that are associated with
it now you might think that it takes a
lot of fat in your liver to cause
insulin resistance but it doesn't I just
found some interesting data that you can
develop insulin resistance with less
than two percent of the liver being
fatty I think this specific number was
1.85 percent of your liver being fatty
and you developing insulin resistance
symptoms which is
to me very very low so in other words it
only takes a little bit of this fat in
your liver to start this process you see
this insulin resistance happens all over
the place it's in the liver okay it's
also in your muscles like I mentioned
it's also in your brain so if your diet
has too much glucose you literally are
slowly killing off your neurons which is
kind of a paradox because apparently
like even Alzheimer's and a lot of brain
issues occur because you starving the
neurons of glucose but too much glucose
will actually kill the neurons so the
neurons die if you don't feed the
glucose and the neurons die if you feed
the neurons glucose so what's going on
here well maybe the brain wasn't
designed to run on glucose in the first
place so just maybe when you increase
glucose to the brain cells
the body protects the brain cells
by developing this resistance making it
more difficult to penetrate and maybe
your body's trying to tell you don't
consume glucose because then that's
going to create a problem and of course
in the background we have the mechanism
being insulin resistant so the more
insulin resistance the less glucose you
can absorb in the neuron because the
neuron needs insulin to be able to
absorb glucose and this is why one of
the treatments that they're using for
this like Alzheimer's or dementia is a
intranasal insulin spray where they
spray this insulin up your sinuses it
goes directly in the brain and it
improves dementia symptoms now that's
adding more insulin to your brain when
you try to increase your insulin in your
brain by eating more glucose all you do
is you just increase more resistance
okay so it doesn't work so if we just
step back for a moment and take a look
at this problem how do we reverse
diabetes okay how do we reverse all
these cognitive problems that we have
associated with this blood sugar issue
that's associated with a fatty liver
first of all you have to realize that
the brain prefers
not glucose but ketones the way to fix
the liver is to run your body on ketones
not glucose the way to reverse the fat
on your pancreas in reverse the beta
cell function is to run the body on
ketones ketones will improve
cholesterol triglyceride and other
lipids in your liver ketones will help
decrease fat on your liver this is why
the ketogenic diet has been shown to
decrease 50 percent
of the fat on your liver within two
weeks how can it do that because when
you actually decrease the glucose you
switch the body into ketones and within
even six days you're improving
significantly insulin resistance on your
liver so now everything's going to start
working you're also going to have
decreased inflammation in the liver
you're going to have less fibrosis
you're going to have improved liver
function and decreased liver enzymes and
I'm going to put some links down below
to just show you that I'm I'm not just
making this up all of this data is
validated in summary you fix a fatty
liver you fix your brain you fix
diabetes if we want to just keep it
simple all right so what are some key
things that you can do right now to turn
this around get on the ketogenic diet
very simply make the carbohydrates you
eat vegetable carbohydrates one type of
carbohydrate is fiber and vegetables
have a lot of fiber and fiber is one of
the only things that will not increase
insulin so now you can have your
carbohydrates as long as they're high
fiber carbohydrates and so when you eat
a meal I do recommend that you start
with your vegetables first right and
your salad that way you get a lot of the
phytonutrients and other nutrients from
those foods that can actually help to
decrease the complications of the
diabetes you have then you have your
protein right protein is very important
don't have like a high amount of protein
having a moderate amount of protein I
think the best way to identify the
amounts to keep it really simple is if
you're female have protein the size of
the palm of your hand if you are a male
consume twice that two pieces of protein
the size of the palm of your hand and I
think it's a good idea to start with the
vegetables first then the protein
because if you start with the protein
first a lot of times people won't
consume those vegetables also add apple
cider vinegar like a tablespoon or two
in a glass of water and you drink that
down
not only is that going to help you with
digestion that is going to greatly help
you with your blood sugars specifically
making insulin more sensitive
apple cider vinegar is a amazing remedy
for speeding up the process of reversing
this insulin resistance situation when
you think about it what is apple cider
vinegar it's acetic acid apple cider
vinegar is actually a fatty acid it's a
type of fat we don't think about it as a
type of fat but fats in general are the
other thing that doesn't stimulate
insulin but with apple cider vinegar you
can actually use that to get energy and
you can use that as one strategy to
speed up the process and also there's
some great data to show that acetic acid
speeds up the removal of fat from your
liver and I would also add some lemon as
well because that would help you okay
next Point let your appetite dictate
when you eat you're going to find as you
do this and you switch to ketones you're
going to lose your appetite in your
Cravings it's going to make it very easy
to stay on this program so just don't
eat if you're not hungry and only eat
when you're hungry so really pay
attention to your appetite because what
we want to do is we want you to eat less
less frequent
we want you to avoid snacks because we
want to get rid of this habit that we
have to eat three times a day which is
absolutely not true that we have to have
these snacks to prevent hypoglycemia
which is not true because every time you
eat you stimulate insulin and at the
very maximum I would only eat two meals
a day this is going to greatly speed up
getting rid of the fat off your liver
and turning this whole diabetes thing
upside down to put you in remission
we'll call it remission and the last
thing just to put the icing in the cake
is to implement exercise on a regular
basis exercise will greatly help you
with insulin resistance actually improve
the resistance making insulin more
sensitive alright so I hope we give you
a new viewpoint on this diabetes thing
and how to reverse it now all you need
to do is get the details of how to do it
and for that information
I put it up right here
