so today the topic is telomeres I'm
gonna try to break this down in real
simple terms so you can really get it so
telomere would be compared to the end of
a shoe string that little plastic
protective thing that protects against
frank so if we compare the shoe string
to a telomere the telomere is the end
part of the shoe string it's the DNA
structure at the end of chromosomes you
can look at a chromosome as the entire
DNA strand okay with everything
connected to it so you have the DNA
which is the blueprints and basically
DNA are sections of genes but the entire
collective chain of DNA is the
chromosome so telomere is basically a
DNA structure at the end of chromosomes
that shorten with each division so I'm
gonna give you another analogy let's say
for example I'm gonna copy you okay with
a little scanner and I have to grab onto
your arm or your wrist to copy you so I
scan your entire body okay it makes a
copy of you similar to what's happening
in the body you're constantly making
copies of the DNA but the problem is I
can't scan backwards and part of your
wrist in hand is not being copied so I
make a copy but the copy is going to be
just a little shorter than the actual
body because I'm holding the wrist and
hand so then I'm gonna make a copy of
the copy I'm gonna grab the wrist scan
again and I'm gonna keep doing this over
and over and over every time it divides
okay these telomeres are gonna get
shorter and shorter and shorter and
shorter because part of the copy
mechanism has to attach to the telomere
now one thing about a telomere is is
part of what's called junk DNA and I'm
gonna do a separate video on junk DNA
but junk DNA is not non-functional it
has a purpose but realize this out of
all of your DNA only 5% is responsible
for making your tissue to make proteins
the rest is considered junk DNA but it
does have a purpose the telomere is part
of that junk DNA
so telomeres basically protect the ends
of chromosomes the Greek word for Telos
means end and morose means part so it's
the end part and they found it's related
to your lifespan there's actually a rare
genetic to
with certain children that are basically
born old and they have a body of a
seven-year-old and when they tested them
they had very short telomeres so over
time when your DNA keeps dividing over
and over the telomeres shorten and you
get less gene expression which basically
means you're getting less activation of
certain genes especially related to
repair so when you're very young your
DNA inside your cells have a huge
capacity to keep up with the damage when
you're older okay because you have less
telomeres you basically have a hard time
keeping up with a repair and that's how
it relates to aging now how do you
explain cancer cells that can live
forever
well they produce an enzyme called
telomerase which can counter this
shortening effect so a telomerase is an
enzyme that allows for the replacement
of these short bits of DNA in fact in
the 50s there was this lady who had
cervical cancer and they extracted this
cervical cancer and they started to
reproduce these cells okay out of her
body over and over and over over a
period of decades okay and that cancer
was able to reproduce 20 tons of cancer
cells I think about it one ton is 2,000
pounds so that's just an example of what
happens with cancer cells that keep
dividing and they just take over the
body now you're gonna see a lot of
research coming up in the next 5-10
years on this enzyme now there are some
research studies going on right now in
humans they've been doing research on
bacteria yeast and animals but now
they're gonna actually start doing it in
humans and so it should be quite
interesting what we do know right now is
there is a plant called astragalus
that has the ability to boost telomerase
and it seems like it has some
interesting properties anti-aging
properties increasing your immune system
decreasing your frequency of eating sick
improving your sleep increasing your
memory so the studies right now are
inconclusive so if you go out and get
this product I have no idea if it's
going to extend your life
even by one day now what I'm interested
in is taking the top reasons why people
die heart attacks stroke kidney failure
cancer lung disease and then teaching
you what you can do to take your weak
link and strengthen it because if we can
actually eliminate the top reasons why
people die you're going to live longer
regardless of your telomeres now in a
lot of videos that I've done before I
relate a lot of the reasons why people
die to high insulin okay and high
carbohydrate diets and this is why if
you're new to my channel you need to
learn more about it so I put a link down
below you need to do healthy keto and in
a minute fasting to take that weak link
whether it's your heart or your immune
system or your kidney and make it
stronger so you actually can extend your
life alright thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
