hey guys I wanted to do a quick video on
skin health and a facial mask that I
recommend a lot of people right now are
using the coffee grounds roasted coffee
grounds on the face for a facial scrub
and to help tighten the wrinkles and
give you that healthy glow and it does
work so recently I found something even
better than the roasted coffee grounds
and it's the green coffee powder now you
can buy this at the healthy store okay
or online and it's basically just
unroasted coffee beans they're green or
you can buy some coffee beans that are
not roasted and grind them yourself in
which case you need a kind of a strong
grinder but you take the powder and you
can mix it with water take a teaspoon of
it mix it with a teaspoon of water and
apply it to your face for about about 15
minutes and it'll dry and you can wash
it off but the amount of phytochemicals
that you're gonna put on your face from
an unroasted coffee bean okay with the
caffeine is going to really give you
that healthy glow so it's not
necessarily a scrub it's just a facial
application to actually kind of energize
the skin or the other option if your
skin is extra dry is instead of the
water add the olive oil with the green
coffee powder mix to a 1:1 ratio and
then apply it to the skin wait 20
minutes it won't dry but you can wipe it
off and it will give your skin a real
nice soft texture alright go ahead and
try it
hey guys so I'm doing a survey of a
future video and I wanted to find out
what your biggest body problem is so
that way the content is aligning with
something that you are personally
interested in so please click the link
down below fill it out and I will create
the video thanks
