hey I'm back in had another question I
want to answer I'm gonna make this video
fairly quick and the question relates to
pasta someone want to know if they can
consume pasta because they checked their
blood sugars right after they ate it and
it didn't spike okay so it is true that
your your blood sugars will not spike
initially after certain foods one thing
about pasta it's made from a different
type of week called durum wheat which is
higher protein weight the Latin word for
durum means hard and on the glycemic
index pasta is 45 to 50 okay a lot lower
than bread which is 70 so it digests a
lot slower than bread okay because it's
dense and the body has to break it down
and it has higher protein but it's still
a carbohydrate here's what I would
recommend and this is probably the most
important blood sugar testing that you
can do is start checking the foods that
you eat post meal one to two to three or
even four hours and you're gonna find
some real interesting data because even
if your blood sugars are not spiked
after one to two hours check it three to
four hours you're gonna find it's going
to be spiked normally after one to two
hours it should be below hundred if not
normal
this would be a really good experiment
for you to test your blood sugars for
you to see yourself so the mistake that
this person made is they checked your
blood sugars within minutes after
consuming pasta well at that point it
didn't even like barely go through the
stomach so you want to give it time to
really see what happens with the full
digestion effect of certain foods in
relationship to spiking your blood
sugars so I would recommend getting the
keto mojo blood tester that's a really
reliable test you can check ketones and
your blood sugars and start to evaluate
certain foods every hour for four hours
after you eat and start logging that and
you're going to get some really good
data thanks for watching
if you wouldn't mind to give me a thumbs
up and like this video I'd really
appreciate it
