so I had a question from someone that
wanted a now is hypoglycemia the
opposite of diabetes okay because
diabetes is hyperglycemia hyper meaning
it's too much of something hypo meaning
low okay so let's just take a look at
this hypoglycemia is not the opposite of
hyperglycemia it's the precursor it's
the thing that's going to turn into
diabetes sooner or later because look at
this let's say you eat some carbs okay
you have insulin it is triggered from
that the purpose of insulin to push the
blood sugars down if you have weak
adrenals or your livers not working for
some reason let's see of a fatty liver
or whatever then you don't have the
counter hormones okay and then what
happens is that it can drop to low and
you'll experience the symptoms like
feeling faint craving carbs nauseated
irritable things like that dizzy so
that's basically hypoglycemia you end up
with a high and then a low because the
power of insulin pushes the sugars down
to low it's like a reactive thing okay
now what happens in hyperglycemia our
diabetes is you have insulin resistance
okay so you still have the spike of
insulin over a period of time the body
is adapting to it so it's basically
blocking the insulin from working in
certain places in the body see right
here it's working too much so now your
body creates resistance and now it
doesn't work at all so now there's
there's really nothing to push the sugar
down so it stays high okay so then you
have to take medications like glucophage
or metformin the same thing to actually
open this up and eventually someone
takes more insulin to push it down which
that's a whole different video but the
point is that the difference here is
that this is actually a pre-diabetic
State and when you get to this level you
just have a lot more insulin resistance
insulin resistance is just starting at
this level it gets worse worse worse
and that eventually you end up a
diabetic and the problem is that what
mainstream is teaching you to do we're
telling you to eat is the thing that's
gonna propel this over here they're
telling you to eat frequent meals snacks
between meals okay
well every time you eat you spike
insulin we already have a problem with
too much insulin okay that's why you're
getting insulin resistance because your
body's like it's too much let's resist
it okay so what do you do if you have
hypoglycemia you basically start doing
in a minute fasting you start reducing
the carbohydrates because that is the
thing that's raising this so for those
of you that are new to my channel and
you want to know what to eat I put a
link down below check it out alright
guys I'll talk to later all right
diabetes is called hyperglycemia
Giorgi is it is it just me or do you
hear something
