so let's talk about the benefit of
breathing better than actually getting
more oxygen when you're doing the
ketogenic diet there's something called
a respiratory quotient so it's really
just this exchange of oxygen and co2
that happens in your body so it just so
happens that fat has the lowest RQ so
you're going to get the least amount of
carbon dioxide and the most oxygen this
is why a lot of people will report that
they're breathing better on the
ketogenic diet if they had COPD or at
the cyma or asthma they seem to breathe
better when they're exercising they can
go longer because they have less co2 and
more oxygen now a ketone itself
depending on the quantity of ketones
could range even a little less than that
to about 0.6 62.73
protein has a higher RQ a little bit
more co2 less oxygen but look at this
carbohydrates have the highest RQ which
means they give off the most co2 and the
least amount of oxygen now that being
said I want to bring up this concept of
something called ketoacidosis when your
body is in an acidic state it you also
will have a difficult time breathing
you'll have more co2 being produced and
less oxygen from a different reason now
if you're concerned about ketoacidosis
let me just define what it is it's not
only a drop in your ph and your blood pH
by a slight degree but it's super high
blood glucose okay I'm talking like 300
or more so when you are on the ketogenic
diet and you're not a diabetic your
blood sugars are gonna be like maybe 80
70 over 60 extremely low they're not
going to be over a hundred you'd have to
be a diabetic type one two how this
happened and this occurs when there's
actually zero insulin going on so you're
a type 1 diabetic you have no more
insulin there's no regulation or control
over this blood glucose so it just goes
super high so the combination of super
high blood glucose and massively high
ketones okay with an acidic blood
creates this state which is dangerous
but this only occurs if you're a type 1
diabetic and you're not taking any
insulin you're not paying attention to
your insulin levels ok so I just want to
bring that up there is other forms of
acidosis one would be lactic acidosis
which by the way is one of the side
effects when you take metformin if
you're diabetic and there's other
reasons for this as well but one simple
remedy would be to take vitamin b1 that
reduces this lactic acidosis so b1 will
help establish this pH so will calcium
and the point of this video is just to
talk about the extra added benefit of
the ketogenic diet generating less co2
more oxygen not just for lung stuff but
for your physical fitness for your
metabolism and to get a better quality
sleep at night alright thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
