so I wanted to create the video on this
concept of fighting obesity okay and
winning the war over obesity what
actually does this mean anyway we have a
war against obesity if you take a look
at what they say it's genetics okay or
they're lazy or people need more
exercise or they need to eat less
calories how are we gonna fight genetics
or people need more exercise so we're
gonna actually have a battle and force
people to do that I mean this it doesn't
make sense
or maybe we could just do more research
and develop a pill or a drug to help you
lose weight or block your ability to
consume calories that might work right
and they say it's a very complex topic
and you know we need more research we
need more funding realize this guys this
is a carefully crafted PR strategy to
distract you from the real cause there
is way way too much money involved 1.7
trillion that is just in the food and
beverage industry alone they
co-sponsored government research they
have millions of dollars to lobbyists so
it's simply a distraction off the real
cause of the problem which is people are
consuming excess sugar and they're
eating too frequently they're having too
many snacks or eating every three hours
and that's increasing insulin let me
show you an average person consumes 31
teaspoons of sugar every single day in
the US I'm sure it's similar in other
countries but in u.s. we consume a lot
of sugar the normal amount that our body
should have would be one teaspoon of
sugar okay but your body can actually
make that from other things you don't
have to consume any sugar to have that
one teaspoon of sugar so normal sugar is
82 this means okay one teaspoon of sugar
in your blood but here's the question
you go to the doctor and your blood
Sugar's are normal yet you're eating a
lot of sugar why is that because of
insulin the hormone insulin is lowering
your blood sugar so an average person
has massive amounts of insulin in their
bloodstream
is it ever tested never you would have
to do this test right here called Houma
IR and that measures insulin and insulin
resistance I highly recommend you you
test that because if you're actually
struggling with weight especially
chances are it's very very high so this
goes on for a period of 10 years you
have normal blood sugars but you have
all the other complications you have a
belly fat you might have a fatty liver
you might get high blood pressure you
might have high cholesterol you might
have vision problems you might have
tiredness after you eat you might have
bladder issues you know trying to retain
urine throughout the night because
you're peeing every three hours so after
10 years you become a pre-diabetic why
because you lose this function of
insulin it doesn't work anymore because
you're developing so much insulin
resistance it becomes ineffective so
your pre-diabetic okay and then you
become a diabetic and so this is where
your get treated right here but this is
the first thing the curves right here
this is why we're fat this hormone
converts carbs to fat okay it just turns
the carbohydrates actually into fat so
it much better way to win the war
against obesity is to understand obesity
and this right here is the simplicity of
exactly what's going on that is causing
the obesity and now it's not all
genetics you're not lazy you don't need
more exercise you may need less
carbohydrate calories you don't need a
pill and lastly it's actually very
simple once you understand what causes
it so don't hold your breath and any new
research coming down the pike with the
cause of obesity and just focus on
eliminating this right here and this
will come to the normal range and you
can start reverting some of these
problems right here alright guys thank
you so much for watching
so if you want to get notified with all
my content click the notification bell
next to subscribed
