hey guys I had a question someone want
to know what is gluconeogenesis okay
gluco means glucose neo New Genesis
means Crete 18 so gluconeogenesis is a
process or pathway of making glucose
from non carbohydrate sources protein or
certain lipids like triglycerides and
what's interesting is your body doesn't
need carbohydrates because it can make
carbohydrates from the protein and
triglycerides that you consume and the
purpose of this system is to prevent
hypoglycemia low blood sugar and help
you maintain your blood Sugar's between
meals and when you're fasting now nearly
all the cells in the body can run and
ketones except for a few there are
certain cells in the eye that need
glucose there are certain small parts of
the brain that require glucose but the
majority of it can live on ketones and
red blood cells so the point I'm trying
to make is you don't really need
carbohydrates if your body needs a
carbohydrate it can make it from protein
or certain fats hey some curious comment
below and tell me what you think about
this video
