hey dr. Berg here in this short video
we're going to talk about the problems
with high-protein diets now protein does
trigger the fat burning process which is
good but if your liver is toxic or weak
or it's damaged you're not going to be
able to handle all that heavy protein so
in other words protein is hard on your
liver and when that waste builds up and
you can't detoxify it it can kind of
make you feel kind of cause bad breath
it can clog up you know the lymphatic
system and it can back up because what's
happening is protein does trigger the
fat burning process but all that fat has
to go through the liver so you end up
with more of a fatty liver yeah so the
other problem with high protein diet it
doesn't provide all of the nutrition in
other words vegetables provide the
vitamins and minerals protein provides
the amino acids and some of the
essential fatty acids okay so it doesn't
provide vitamins and minerals so what
does that mean it means that you're
going to you can create deficiencies
specifically in potassium and calcium so
potassium is very very very important in
heart rate in balancing out the blood
sugars in storing sugar in your liver
and counteracting the counteracting the
heavy protein in the body so we need
potassium and a lot of different
chemical processes in the body and
potassium mainly comes from vegetables
right so and then calcium tube so high
protein diets can deplete your body of
this mineral calcium not to mention
certain if they're deficient in a lot of
vitamins so you start becoming out of
balance in that situation so I recommend
if you're in a high protein diet consume
a lot of vegetables to kind of balance
out all that waste the problem that you
might be told is that you don't want to
consume any carbohydrates because that's
going to slow down the fat burning
process and vegetables are carbohydrates
but I guarantee if you're eating spinach
or kale or salad or celery those are not
the carbohydrates that are going to
affect your your fat burning' because
they're very low in sugar extreme like
almost zero and sugar so they're very
bitter so it's not going to be a problem
of course if you have grains or fruit
that will be a problem but if you
consume a lot of vegetables with the
high protein or and I'm not even like to
like to say high protein because if you
do too much protein like more than like
eight ounces or nine ounces or ten
ounces and your liver is not good or
you're a little bit older all that's
going to be connect stir is going to be
converted to fat okay because that's one
of the triggers of fat making hormones
so if you have a smaller amount that
would be good especially in the liver so
I recommend anything anywhere between
three to four ounces and of course
you're going to hear conflicting
information you're going to hear that
all our bodies need so much per per
pound like we needed like a hundred
grams of protein a day whatever well I
don't know who came up with those
figures but you have to be very healthy
to handle that all that protein every
decade you age the more difficult it is
to digest that protein and people do
better with just a little bit of protein
and not a tremendous amount we're not
losing all this protein through I mean
like we don't shed muscle protein like
50 grams of muscle protein every day we
don't shed the protein in our body that
much it goes right through us so it's
not that we're losing protein that we
have to replace it
so we don't need as much as you might
think okay so these are the two keys
with protein diets and below I a little
nutritional quiz that you can take it's
an online analysis that you can find out
just clicking you add in your foods just
click the foods that you eat and then it
will print out if you're getting all the
nutrition from the diet that you're
currently eating and then it will give
you a graph on what you should eat to
fulfill the nutrient requirements
you need and I spent personally over my
own with my own money about $150,000 to
create this quiz and it's free to the
public just to take and to get
information what you're going to realize
when you take it is you're going to find
out where your weaknesses are so you can
start to focus on that so I hope you
enjoyed that quiz and I hope you enjoy
the video and I will see you in the next
one
