today we're going to discuss the number
one vitamin depleting food in the world
can you guess what it is if you answered
refine starches you'll be correct
because the answer is actually not sugar
if we look at how much a sugar depletes
you of certain nutrients a starch will
deplete you way more than a sugar we're
talking about refined rice flour tapioca
flour corn flour modified corn starch
molto dextrin and modified food starch
in order to process or metabolize or
break down a refined starch and turn it
into energy it requires certain
nutrients one of the big nutrients that
is needed to metabolize starches is
vitamin B1 tham another question that
you might have is why is a starch worse
than a sugar as far as depleting
nutrients a person consumes much less
sugar than starch in their given diet an
average person consumes about 50 lbs of
sugar per year an average person
consumes almost 300 lb of starch per
year on the glycemic index refined
starches are much much higher than sugar
what is the glycemic index it's a
measurement or a scale of how fast a
food or a carbohydrate can turn into
glucose or raise your blood sugar if we
compare sugar to starches sugar is about
74 m Al textr is like 180 and those
refined starches jack up your blood
sugar way faster one of the really
important nutrients that's needed is
vitamin B1 thymine couple things you
need to know about thyine we don't store
a lot of it I mean like in our entire
body we might store 30 milligrams the
rdas for B1 which were established like
80 or 100 years ago have never been
changed it's like between 1 and 1.2 mg
do you realize how tiny that is from my
viewpoint that is like way way way too
low doctors never checked for a vitamin
B1 deficiency what are the symptoms of
the B1 deficiency Beyond fatigue is
problems with your GI system your
digestion you might get slow digestion
floating maybe a little constipation
feeling nauseous because so many parts
of the digestion need be one you're also
not going to make enough stomach acid
can't release the bile coming out from
the liver just going to get a lack of
digestion another common symptom with a
B1 deficiency is stress nervous tension
solving problems especially when you're
trying to get to sleep this is why a B1
deficiency creates insomnia you're just
not going to sleep that good as this
deficiency gets worse you're going to
notice a personality changes mood swings
more frequently if you're in a
relationship with someone and they just
like flap the handle with no reason and
they're extremely Moody to spect a
vitamin B1 deficiency how many children
have that purely because they're eating
too many refined starches they need a
lot of B1 women that are pregnant are
more susceptible to a B1 deficiency one
of the big symptoms that they get right
off the bat is feeling nauseous if you
yourself are pregnant or you know
someone who's pregnant and they get
nauseous make sure they take more B1
because also that infant needs B1 too
especially in the early years and
infants they can have what's called a a
horse cry they're trying to cry but no
voice comes out muscle twitches Can't
Get Enough air your breathing is going
to be off I wonder how many people with
sleep apnea just have a vitamin B1
deficiency all the starch that comes in
the body that breaks down in the glucose
it can't be used as energy so then it's
converted to lactic acid which shuts
down the oxygen it makes the body more
acidic which is going to affect the
breathing and you might be even
hyperventilating to try to push out more
CO2 to balance this acidity this could
be one of the reasons why people can't
sleep and muscle and the muscles they're
going to get Restless like syndrome
another thing like diabetics I would say
nearly 100% of all diabetics are
deficient of B1 because they have high
sugar in the blood constantly demanding
a lot of B1 the form that I recommend is
something called Bentham it's a very
specialized type of B1 if someone is
really really deficient in B1 they
literally can be psychotic they can also
have another symptom called
confabulation which I had to look that
up that means a production of memories
which are are false off from a severe
vitamin B1 deficiency other things will
exaggerate a B1 deficiency alcohol tea
coffee raw fish as in sushi having
certain digestive inflammatory issues
with your gut where you can't absorb
certain things taking met ormon can
create a deficiency exercising a lot
increases the demand for vitamin B1 you
think about how many athletes are using
molto dextrin as an energy source but
without B1 and on top of that they're
exercising like crazy what are some
foods high in B1 Whole Foods you can get
B1 in meat in fact the meat that has the
highest source of B1 is actually pork
neat liver has B1 eggs have B1 sunflower
seeds have B1 sometimes you'll hear that
refined grains are a good source of B
vitamins that's only because they're
adding them in there through the
fortification process I definitely don't
recommend taking a synthetic B1 product
I recommend taking a natural B1 the name
of the natural B1 is called called Ali
thyine and it's from garlic it fixes a
lot of nerve issues it's a much better
bioavailable source of B1 I have a lot
of it is in B1 but I need to get to the
next nutrient that's commonly deficient
when you consume these starches and that
is magnesium magnesium is another
co-actor involved in this whole process
going from starches to energy what's
really interesting about magnesium is
it's needed to allow for B1 to work if
you don't have enough magnesium guess
what B1 can't work either in fact your
vitamin D won't work the other thing
that magnesium does is it helps control
calcium calcium typically causes
contraction of the muscle if there's not
enough magnesium you're going to get
more contraction of the muscle what do
you call that a charlie horse muscle
spasm which usually occurs in the early
morning because that's when you have the
lowest point of magnesium magnesium is
important in regulating calcium because
if there's too much calcium in the wrong
place you can get a lot of problems
calcium that builds up the arteries
kidney stones magnesium is so important
with all that without magnesium you tend
to have higher blood pressure
palpitations just a lot of problems with
the heart just think about the
medication is called a calcium channel
blocker well they're just mimicking the
effects of magnesium because there's too
much calcium that's affecting the heart
if you don't have enough magnesium your
cortisol goes up and then you can't
sleep this is why a lot of people take
magnesium before bed the type of
magnesium I would recommend is magnesium
glycate if you're very deficient in
magnesium you can get Tremors muscle
weakness migraines you can't absorb
vitamin D without magnesium so that's
important yes you can start taking these
nutrients to allow you to digest the
starch but a better thing would be to
avoid refined starches for more
information about these starches you
should watch this video right here check
it out now
