hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about what to do if you screw up on
keto okay now if you're doing this in
the very beginning and you mess up in
the very beginning let's say the first
month or so it takes a lot longer to get
back on track compared to if you're
fully fat adapted or keto adapted let's
say two three four months into it it's a
lot easier to get back because your your
body has developed machinery to burn fat
okay so that's one point the next point
I want to bring up is if you mess up
with refined carbs white flour white
sugar alcohol
those are things are empty carbohydrates
the danger of that is that you don't
have the nutrients to buffer the high
sugars and the high insulin so the real
damage from high sugar and high insulin
and a diabetic is because they become
nutritionally deficient and then the
mitochondria starts to breakdown and you
have all sorts of destructive things
happen okay but if you mess up with
something that has more nutrients in it
like let's say fruit for example it has
phytonutrients that as vitamins and
minerals honey has vitamins and minerals
you're less likely to have actual damage
other than just slow weight loss okay so
basically there's less damage from these
two however these two will knock you out
of ketosis simply because it's high in
sugar okay so that's one point so if you
mess up with empty carbs a good idea
would be to put back in minerals and B
vitamins nutritional yeast electrolyte
powder so you can put those things back
in but if you mess up with something
like this you probably don't need to do
that you just need to then get back on
track and avoid these these items right
here so let's say for example you're
chronically messing up okay and you're
not consistent at all and things are
completely out of control in that
situation what I always recommend is
start studying up on the subject a lot
more you need more knowledge you need
more understanding there's something
that you're missing and if you actually
get more education in this area
you can then have more self-control so
read my book read the details in the
book understand why you should do this
like in the area of insulin insulin
resistance key to adaptation ketosis and
a minute fasting all these topics
there's some type of confusion you
probably have and you just don't have
the full grasp of this I mean I have a
ton of videos you can watch but I always
like to go from the angle of educating a
person because I found that then you'll
you'll be able to do it a lot better in
or be easier because you have the
understanding so in summary if you're
going to screw up try to screw up with
something that has nutrients and then
get right back on track don't make it a
habit stay consistent thanks for
watching so I want to know what you're
interested in as far as a future video
click the link down below and share some
ideas I want to hear
