so today we're gonna talk about fluid
retention and seven of the most powerful
herbal diuretics a diuretic is something
that will release fluid from your body
there are synthetic chemical diuretics
and then there are also natural
diuretics but probably the most common
cause of fluid retention is the high
levels of glucose in your diet so I
don't know if you knew this but for
every gram of glucose it's going to
retain 2.7 grams of water so you're
gonna be waterlogged if you're consuming
too many carbohydrates and I see it all
the time I'll be I don't know at some
event or something and I can just see
the person's eyes are all swollen or
their feet are all puffy and filled with
fluid and they're usually consuming a
lot of carbs it's such an easy problem
to solve and then if you actually
consume enough foods with potassium as
in vegetables a person typically will
not be retaining fluid an average person
in the u.s. is consuming way too much
sodium and not enough potassium and
they're just waterlogged so the first
thing we're talking about is dandelion
okay it's so that's a weed that grows in
your backyard and it is super healthy
for your liver and the potency of the
diuretic chemical in dandelion is
concentrated in the greens not
necessarily the root so I would
recommend putting it on your salad you
can get it from the health of store or
just go in your backyard dandelion
greens are very very very high in
potassium which also helps push the
fluid out but dandelion greens help you
at many different levels
the next herb is Yuba earthy and this
acts directly on the kidney to help push
fluid out it's also really good for UTIs
it's been approved in Germany for
bladder infections now horsetail
typically people think of horsetail as
something that is good for your nails
and your hair because it's loaded with
silica and it is and it's also good to
detoxify aluminum but horsetail also has
certain properties to push fluid out of
the body
the only challenge with horsetail is it
it will tend to deplete vitamin b1 so if
you're taking some formula with work
just make sure you put the beet complex
back in there or nutritional yeast Horst
Heldt is also really good for children
who have bedwetting next one is garlic
garlic is a potent diuretic it's also a
very powerful antimicrobial antifungal
anti-ice anti-candida anti-inflammatory
antioxidant and it has anti-cancer
properties next one is black tea black
tea gets rid of excess sodium it
releases sodium from the body but not
potassium so therefore you can have the
right ratios it will inhibit a hormone
from the adrenal glands called
aldosterone this hormone mainly
functions to retain sodium so if you
reduce aldosterone you're not going to
retain sodium as much so you're gonna
get rid of fluid parsley parsley is
really good for blood pressure it also
inhibits the release of potassium so it
will help retain potassium and in
Germany parsley is approved as an
official diuretic and last one is
stinging nettle root if you're gonna get
this make sure you get the root portions
okay not necessarily the leaves but this
one is very powerful as an
anti-inflammatory but it will get rid of
excess fluid and some men take it for
enlarged prostate so it can help with
that as well
alright guys so there's a summary of the
seven herbal diuretics so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
