hey guys in this video I want to talk
about the dangers of nail polish remover
okay now a lot of people get their nails
done recently I was at a nail salon with
my wife I was watching her get her nails
done and I literally had to leave the
building because it was so toxic and
basically it was the nail polish remover
that was toxic it's an acetone solvent
which is very toxic because it goes
right into the skin it lodges into the
lung the liver and the body these
chemicals that are used on the nails are
are pretty toxic there's certain glues
that are used there's a lot of other
chemicals they even use formaldehyde
formaldehyde is that an embalming agent
okay so if you are doing your nails try
to find something a little more natural
if you want to remove the nail polish
you can use white vinegar and lemon
juice it works pretty good I'm gonna put
a link down below of a great combination
because you don't want to be exposed to
these solvents okay some of the side
effects of acetone lung damage
okay scar tissue inflammation in the
lung allergies a lot of respiratory
issues miscarriage cancer sarcoidosis
which is tumors of the lung now if you
work at a nail salon you need to get an
air filter a powerful high-quality air
filter to suck out this solvent here to
save your lungs to save your your liver
and then in addition to that start
consuming a lot of cruciferous
vegetables because cruciferous
vegetables can help detoxify a lot of
the stuff out of the lung on the liver
and out of the rest of the tissues
alright thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know hey that runs
