did you realize that your computer could
be destroying your vision an average
person will spend over seven hours in
front of their computer and digital
devices and I'm totally guilty I
probably spend maybe 12 hours a day in
front of my computer so this can really
affect your vision and it could affect
your vision from several mechanisms okay
one is the LED light this artificial
light is not full-spectrum it is very
specific to a blue light which is a
short high-energy wave which is very
irritating to the eyes and LED lights
can actually raise cortisol they add
stress to the body just like the other
lights that you have in your house that
are florescent that can increase
cortisol I would highly recommend that
you replace some of your lighting system
around your office with a full-spectrum
bulb that can actually decrease some of
the effects from the blue light also I
would recommend getting some eyewear
that can filter out the blue light at
least 50% of it and you'll find there's
just a lot less strain when you actually
on your computer I would just get the
one that's none magnified the one that
is just a filter for blue light all
right the next point is the ciliary
muscle of the eye so here's the front of
the eye right here and here's the lens
there's a little muscle called the
ciliary muscle there on both sides that
help to shape the lens to help you focus
so you can focus in near or far now when
you're sitting in front of your computer
close up
the ciliary muscles are in a state of
contraction
can you imagine contracting your muscle
for seven hours that would create a lot
of fatigue wouldn't it well just think
what's happening in the eye your lens is
being abnormally shaped because of the
imbalance in the contraction and
relaxation so here's what you need to do
go outside at least a half hour a day
and start looking at objects in the
distance okay I do this all the time I
go for a long walk but when you walk
sometimes I'll see people there actually
have earphones you're looking at their
cell phone they're listening the music
they're in their head but what you want
to do is you want to just look at
objects in the distance okay
for at least a half hour or a more
that's going to provide relaxation very
simple it'll help take the strain out of
the eye the last point I want to bring
up is carotenoids okay
carotenoids are phytonutrients there's
certain pigments in certain colored
vegetables cruciferous it's in squash
it's also in egg yolks now the plants
use the carotenoids to protect against
certain light sources like the Sun well
when you have enough carotenoids in your
body it can also help protect the eye
against the UV radiation from the Sun as
well one thing I noticed is a lot of
people wear sunglasses when it's sunny
all the time and that's fine but just
realize that you need some Sun that goes
into the I not like staring at the Sun
but enough Sun to help recharge the
pineal gland you'll find that you'll
sleep better you might want to try that
if you have a habit of wearing
sunglasses all the time alright guys
that's it for this video thanks for
watching so if you want to get notified
with all my content click the
notification bell next to subscribed
