hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about the top magnesium foods okay
number one pumpkin seeds have the most
magnesium spinach and then we go to
Swiss chard almonds avocados all the
leafy greens in fact any green vegetable
because at the heart of chlorophyll
which is the blood of the plant it's
that green fluid you have magnesium as
the mineral whereas in our blood we have
iron that makes it red okay dark
chocolate but make sure you get the
sugar free okay you can actually have it
sweetened with stevia so when people
have low stomach acids because they have
heartburn believe it or not they're
gonna have low stomach acid that's
what's causing the valve not to close or
they're on tums or anti acids they're
not going to be able to absorb magnesium
because you need an acidic stomach also
if you are not consuming in that
vegetables chances are you're going to
be magnesium deficient over half the
population is deficient in magnesium I
would say that most people have a
problem with magnesium and potassium
they have actually too much calcium so
if you have too much calcium you can
deplete your magnesium reserves most the
magnesium is stored in the bone whether
or not and you need magnesium to make
strong bones but mainly it's it's
involved with muscle physiology and
neurophysiology it activates certain
enzymes in the body it's involved in
energy production so if you're fatigued
it could be that your magnesium
deficient only 1% of all the magnesium
in the body is in your blood that's why
when you get a blood test it won't
necessarily tell you the whole picture
now magnesium will improve high blood
pressure it decreases stress it improves
the quality of sleep it helps with
cramping especially in the lower calf's
or the feet and yes you can get your
magnesium from a supplement but what's
better is if you consume it from the
vegetables because that way you'll get
all of the minerals in the right ratios
all right thanks for watching
press the subscribe button and I will
keep you updated on the future of events
