hey I'm back in this video we're talking
about why potassium makes your muscles
grow let's say you want to get more
muscle mass let's say you want to get
leaner let's say you want to get rid of
atrophied muscles okay this is what you
need to know potassium is needed for the
protein synthesis which is basically the
production of taking amino acids and
turning them into proteins not just
talking about muscle hair nails skin
collagen ligaments tendons fascia all
the cellular protein that makes up your
your body so protein cannot grow without
this mineral potassium it's involved in
a lot of the enzymes that make protein
so that's one thing
then thing we have over here we have
insulin insulin has a function of
helping absorb amino acids in the cell
so if you have insulin resistance okay
where it's blocked like in a
pre-diabetic or a diabetic these amino
acids this protein will not go on the
cell that's why diabetics lose their
muscle mass so by increasing potassium
you can improve insulin resistance so
potassium is really involved in blood
sugars so the next question is where do
you get potassium what are the foods
that are high in potassium beat top
avocados salad anything green not
pistachio ice cream but actual
vegetables so all you have to do is
increase your vegetables to seven to ten
cups a day to get your daily requirement
thanks for watching hi guys hey listen I
created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you report
