so today I want to talk about some
interesting information about hernias
and what you can do if you have one so a
hernia is a weakness within the collagen
connective tissue or facha that is there
to hold hold your body in a certain form
okay now what would create this weakness
one thing is something called glycated
proteins okay what is that that's a
condition where you're combining a sugar
molecule and a protein molecule together
when this condition happens it makes the
collagen very weak and susceptible to
tearing increasing the risk of hernias
aneurysm which is a weakness within the
vascular wall and it creates a bulging
effect which can break and also increase
risk of getting a stroke from an
aneurysm
it makes the arteries really really
stiff and the more stiff collagen is the
more susceptible it is to crack and
break
okay so whether you're talking about
collagen on a tendon a ligament or just
the fascia around your abdomen this
still applies so glycated protein can
come from aging smoking but especially
hyperglycemia okay now this is a
situation where you have high sugar
we're talking about diabetes or even
pre-diabetes and as a side note the
sugar fructose can create ten times more
glycated protein than glucose now what's
interesting is that you would think that
high fructose corn syrup has the most
fructose but really high fructose corn
syrup only has 55% fructose a hundred
percent fruit juice has 65% fructose
interesting and a gaba nectar is 95%
fructose so you really want to stay away
from fructose if you settle to getting
hernias now you can develop glycated
protein inside your body from having
high sugar or you can actually consume
glycated protein from certain foods so I
want to explain the difference okay if
your blood sugar is high especially over
a period of time you start getting
glycated proteins in the
I creating all sorts of problems with
the eye itself and circulation to the
eye the lens of the eye which is protein
the nervous system the brain the kidney
the beta cell that's the cell that
actually produces insulin in the
pancreas the vascular system around the
heart but you could also consume foods
that have these glycated proteins
because when you heat sugar with a
protein or even sugar with a fat over
248 degrees Fahrenheit you create these
proteins and that would be in deep fried
french fries donuts barbecued meats cake
dark soda so as you can see the elephant
in the room is right here hi sugar
always comes back to this high sugar
state and also make a note of this when
you combine protein with sugar or a fat
with sugar and you heat it up it's
actually a lot worse than consuming
straight sugar alright guys thanks for
watching and I'll see in the next video
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
