let's talk about the best nutrients to
remove plaque from your arteries when I
talk about plaque I'm talking about
three things the combination of
cholesterol a certain type of protein
that creates the fibrosis and we're talk
about calcium these are the three
ingredients to form a Band-Aid when you
have inflammation or some type of
problem in the inside of your artery the
first thing to know is there's two types
of plaque there's soft plaque and then
there's hard plaque plaque or calcified
plaque they're both very very different
the soft plaque is very unstable it's
more dangerous the hard plaque the more
dense plaque the more stable the less
dangerous the soft plaque is four times
as common as the calcified plaque when
you get a CAC test they give you a score
and this score really represents how
much plaque you have in your arteries
mainly the calcifi plaque because a lot
of the soft plaque is involved in the
turning into calcified plaque that does
not show up on a CAC score now there's
something called a CAC Paradox in which
you might find that your CAC score goes
up after changing your diet cleaning up
the bad stuff and starting to get
healthy the score might go up well
what's happening it's not getting worse
you're just converting more of that soft
plaque to hard plaque where it becomes
more stable and there's some other tests
that you can do which I'm going to
explain at the end that will help you
identify more of the soft plaque because
that CAC test really is not the best
test to pick up this soft dangerous
unstable plaque but I will talk about
what tests you should do about this to
assess this problem in a moment you
usually have something called glycation
connected to it what is glycation it's
where you have a sugar and a protein
that gets stuck together and so that's
involved in a certain protein that kind
of locks up and creates problems and
inflammation in your body this soft
plaque is usually involved with more
oxidation okay especially of the LDL and
I'm not talking about LDL in general I'm
talking about the the one that's more
pathogenic there's two types of LDL
there's the LDL that's uh much smaller
it's called the small dense LDL okay
that's the more dangerous type the more
pathogenic type versus the other LDL
which is very different it's the large
buoyant type and it's not the pathogenic
type you just have to realize there's
two types I'm going to show you a very
simple way to use what they give you on
your blood test to determine what type
of LDL you have the first one it's a
long name myop peroxidase the next one
is
lp- pla 2 so those are the two
biomarkers that help pick up if you have
this soft plaque now another test that
probably would be even better if you can
do this and it's a relatively
inexpensive quick non-invasive test it's
an ultrasound of your kateed and that
gives like a
98.6% prediction of having the problem
there's some other really important
values to look at too is is your HDL
okay you want that to go up hgl tends to
clean up that pathogenic bad LDL the
next thing you want to see on the low
side is triglycerides because if the
triglycerides are high then you can
pretty much know the person's consuming
too many carbs now there's another test
that if you can get this it's a really
good way of assessing what's really
going on with these lipids okay and it's
called
lipoprotein insulin resistance if you
happen to get a blood test and you can
request this it'd be very very important
to know where your number is at because
out of all of the factors that's the one
that's the most associated with
cardiovascular athro sclerosis all right
so now let's discuss how one can figure
out if they have the the small dense
particles for the LDL versus the large
buoyant okay without even doing that
test what you do is you divide the
LDL by something else called APO B it's
part of the Lipo protein that indicates
the number of particles ideally we want
it to be greater than
1.2 which will indicate large buoyant
LDL which is the non-pathogenic version
now all of that is very interesting and
a bit complex so I want to jump into
what nutrients can help remove this
plaque okay well the first two nutrients
are number one pyal that's pine bark
you'd want to take 150 milligrams picul
helps convert the soft plaque to the
calcified plaque where it becomes more
stable and also it prevents the
formation of plaque and the next one is
called go to Cola you'd want to take 450
milligrams of go to Cola go toola helps
enhance the function of pical so it's
going to help this conversion to more
stable plaque it will also prevent the
formation of plaque number three remedy
is is vitamin
K2 which is the most potent inhibitor of
vascular
calcification it basically stops the
calcification from occurring in your
arteries I would not recommend taking
vitamin K2 in micrograms I would
recommend taking it in milligrams and
I've looked around to find a supplement
that will give you the amounts in
milligrams there's not many and I
personally don't have a product like
that and I don't don't have any
affiliations or associations with any
other companies that do except I did
find one company that does have it does
provide it it's life extension it's
called Mega K2 I'll put that link down
below so the next remedy is nyise Nat
kindness can help decrease the thickness
of the kateed wall and the last remedy
is called niin don't get the sustained
release one get the one that creates the
flush I know some people don't like that
but as far as cholesterol goes it is
what you need now I'm not advocating
that you take just a lot of nutrition
I'm giving you the ones that are the
most poent I'm also going to talk about
some other ones next that also create
some amazing effects for plaing I just
want to mention them because I don't
want to leave them out tokat trinal
helps decrease inflammation of the
arteries it's a type of vitamin E
berberine is a really good one you have
also aged garlic you have magnesium and
potassium that helps to soften up the
arteries if they're stiff and rigid and
then you have vitamin D which is a very
potent
anti-inflammatory really good for the
arteries really good as an anti- plaing
vitamin and so I put a lot of the
references that I talked about down
below check them out but if You' like to
know the best meal or foods to help you
avoid plaing I put that video up right
here check it out
