hi guys it's me again now if you were to
go up to your friends or family or
coworkers and ask them does butter
actually help you lose weight they're
gonna say absolutely not it's gonna help
you gain weight but I want to show you
some data that's quite interesting
butter contains something called butyric
acid butyric acid actually has the
capacity to improve and reduce insulin
resistance okay
so insulin resistance is what's really
behind stubborn weight and insulin
resistance is a state where you have
high levels of insulin so anything that
can lower insulin resistance or improve
it will help you lose weight okay of
course if you're consuming butter with a
typical American diet you're not going
to lose any weight simply because yeah
you're going to improve in some
resistance but you're also going to
worsen it by all the carbs that you're
consuming in the high amounts of protein
so you want to consume the ketogenic
diet kind of keep your carbs low you
want to do intermittent fasting and you
don't want to be afraid to use butter
because butter can help you especially
if you're doing in a minute fasting and
you're consuming it as a part of your
fat and two more points I want to
mention is that this acid helps reduce
inflammation and supports your cells of
your colon so you don't have to be
afraid to consume butter just make sure
it's grass-fed butter
hi guys listen I want to thank you so
much for your wonderful comments and I
want to ask you if you wouldn't mind
giving me your review on Google I put a
link down below I'd really appreciate it
and thank you in advance
