you know one of the biggest challenges
people have with losing weight is
sticking to something for more than
about two or three weeks so in this
video I'm gonna show you some insights I
think you're gonna find very interesting
we're going to show you what's really
behind this and give you some great
techniques so you can stick with it long
term okay so now if you could read this
that's great if you can't I'll walk you
through it there's basically about five
reasons why people go off the program
and can't stick to it
they might get bored so they might eat
at night when there's nothing to do or
during the day or in a weekend there's
food in the fridge and they're just
gonna go ahead and eat it all so this
might be stress eaters so people tend to
eat when their stress simply because
they're they have to relieve a pressure
in their body so there's something build
up they have to relieve it and certain
foods can increase serotonin and relieve
stress no results you know there's a lot
of people who get to the point where
it's not working as wheat whatever I
want because it's it's not working if I
go on a diet so might as well eat it and
enjoy myself right so that's probably
the number one reason I see that people
have a hard time losing weight is
because they don't stick with it simply
because they're not saying change it's
hard to stick with something for a
period of time if you don't see results
social gatherings you have birthday
parties and events at work and you have
go out to dinner you have family you
have holidays all these social things
require you to eat certain foods and
then you have just straight cravings you
know you want it so that's that's really
the five reasons why people go off the
program so there's a little bit of a
cycle that they go through they're
tempted by that thing they have a
conversation in their head you know
should I do it
should I not do it should I do it and
they they try to talk themselves out of
it and almost the point when they say
they can't have it
it makes them to want it more so when
you restrict people that doesn't work
and then they invent a read
and why they're doing it so that could
be well I'll start on Monday you got a
dad something Mazel enjoy yourself or
I'll drink water to flush out the the
fat the food that I'm eating you know
like that's gonna help you flush out
those extra calories or they'll say I'll
exercise twice as hard or you know I
just want it there's no justification
they just like they don't even think
about it what's the other one
it can't be perfect all the time so
you're gonna invent a reason why you do
it but mainly people do that because
they're relieving some type of stress or
situation so then we have they eat it
they go ahead and give in and they eat
it they enjoy themselves for about one
or two minutes maybe longer and then
they kind of feel guilty about it
afterwards maybe I should have done that
and then they feel bloated and they feel
tired and their blood Sugar's drop and
then they gain weight and then they
every time this cycle happens they lose
a little bit of your their mojo they
they can't initiate or do it the next
time they lose that vitality so there's
three main techniques so we're going to
show you to get out of this trap because
it is a trap it's a habit and it's
reactive so we want to really bring your
awareness really high so you can get out
of this so let me show you the exactly
the three steps that you need to do okay
so here's the three techniques the first
one is visualized and this is the an
interesting thing because when someone's
going off-track and they're doing
something as a reactive thing they're
not really aware sometimes what they're
doing they're doing it and automatically
and this is just going to increase your
awareness so here's what you do you
actually you visually visualize yourself
eating that piece of chocolate ice cream
whenever you visualize the texture in
the mouth be visualize the sensation on
your taste buds the sweetness the
creaminess you visualize the feeling
that would give you it's going to bring
you up it's going to make you feel
better
also you visualize what it's going to
feel like about five minutes later you
know
let's visualize eating okay enjoying it
and then feeling bloated so you want to
you want to take yourself to the
consequences of what happens not just
the pleasure part but really what
happens the next day were you you're you
gained two more pounds and how you feel
and like you feel guilty you feel crap
so that's what you really want to do and
then you ask yourself was that worth it
should I do it if you're willing to
experience that go for it but the point
is that you want to think in
consequences and think what it's going
to feel like after and then you can make
a judgement with judgment call it's a
great technique so that's the first one
the second one is called viewpoint you
know if I'm going to a grocery store and
I'm watching someone about to eat a
Twinkie or something and I'm standing
there in that aisle I'm looking at the
Twinkies from one viewpoint and that
other person is looking at it from a
completely different point of view I'm
looking at it from the point of view of
I know it's in there there's no
nutrients there's a lot of chemicals
there's a lot of preservatives there's
basically it doesn't fit my definition
of food which by the way comes from the
derivation meaning nutrients or
nourishment in other words food has to
have nutrients if it doesn't have
nutrients it's not really food it's some
other thing on their viewpoint they're
looking at it from the viewpoint of how
much pleasure can I get out of eating
that thing because it's spongy sweet it
has cream filling I'm gonna feel great
it probably has MSG in it which is a
flavor enhancer or if it makes it taste
better than really is that's what
they're looking at from that viewpoint
of how much pleasure I can get so simply
by changing your viewpoint of looking at
food from the viewpoint of how will it
build my health or tear down my health
that might help in the techniques of of
maybe he's not doing it so it's really
changing the way you're looking at
something and really keeping that
viewpoint of okay my agreement is I only
know only food right now the you can get
lots of pleasure from consuming health
foods you can the sensation of looking
good in your bathing suit the sensation
of maybe celery isn't the most
but that you can create different things
that taste good but the point is
changing your point of view
okay third one is be proactive ask
yourself what problem am I trying to
solve well really when it comes down to
it all you're trying to do is you're
trying to relieve pressure inside your
body there's some pressure in your body
whether it's a stress pressure or some
urge or some craving that you have that
you have to fulfill and that's a
sensation you're trying to achieve maybe
you're feeling down maybe you're feeling
stressed so being proactive is being
preventative you're basically going to
prevent that stress pressure in your
body
number one by keeping your blood Sugar's
very very high okay so that means that
eat a very big breakfast to make sure
there's some protein in there make sure
that you have enough like you don't skip
breakfast that's like the most important
thing maybe if a blood sugar problem you
eat six meals a day and make sure that
you're eating enough so you never get
hungry because as you know if you've
ever been shopping when you're hungry
you're tired you're always you need
something that you shouldn't be eating
next thing to do is basically consume
food that gives you the same sensation
or a very similar sensation one thing
that works for me is Greek yogurt with
blueberries I mean that's like eating
ice cream I mean it's incredible you can
also put a banana with pecans in a
blender that's really good I mean if you
have the Champion Juicer which has you
can make nut butters you can put peach
and banana or just frozen peaches and
put those through the nut butter grinder
and it comes out the most smoothing
delicious kind of sorbet that you've
ever had in your life it's sweet it's
totally edible you can eat it and it
will give you lots of pleasure another
one would be um I mean I might being
strange but avocados when they're
freshly they're they're not when they're
fresh but when they're ripe enough
there's nothing better for me than a
avocado that is perfectly ripe I'll take
some salsa I'll mix it in I'll mix it
with some mayonnaise
and it makes an incredible topping for
some eggs in the morning I just love
that with some cheese that's very
satisfying to me another thing maybe you
want to do would be um maybe you have
some popcorn with sea salt and butter
that will give you the crunchy sensation
other than eating cardboard so those are
some things that you can do and it'll
give you a similar sensation or just
take some heavy cream organic and make
whipped cream out of it put just a tad
of stevia and maybe some vanilla
flavoring or almond flavoring make sure
it's now make sure it's natural and then
may maybe put some fruit in there I mean
these are things that you can do to be
proactive so you don't have to fall
victim to the trap of craving
