[Music]
hey guys I have another special guest
professor Noakes from South Africa South
African scientist professor of exercise
science and sports medicine author of
many books that I have I'm really
excited to talk to you today so welcome
from South Africa what time is it over
there right now just cause 2 o'clock in
the afternoon oh wow ok so in what day
is it
I'll have to think it's Thursday okay
got it ok great so um I want to first
talk about you you at one point promoted
the high carb diets for a while right
tell me a little bit about yeah tell me
a little bit about that and then I think
what changed your mind so I started
running in the late 1960s early 70s and
I started my physiology training in
medicine in 1970 and those that one of
the first years that the new theory
arose that muscle glycogen ie
carbohydrates in the muscle was the
single notice the single factor
determining athletic performance Wow and
that's how it was projected to all of us
and said I'm a young student studying
physiology in medicine and I'm running
marathons and I discovered this and it
this is the most exciting piece of
information I I heard in the whole
medical training so I was started
promoting this high carbohydrate diet in
the 1980 1970s and I said then of course
adopted that diet and then I went to did
my medical training completed my medical
training I was surrounded by
cardiologists it was so telling us that
if you eat fat you're gonna die so I was
gonna eat lots of carbohydrate and it
was gonna make me run better well in
fact it made me run worse and I got
fatter and progressively sicker and then
in 1970 1981 my father was diagnosed
with type 2 diabetes and he died 10
years later and eventually I discovered
that I also had type 2 diabetes and I
realized I've got 10 years to solve this
problem
or else I'm gonna die like he did and
that fortunately he forced me to look
very seriously into the what was going
on in the evidence and I came across a
book called the new Atkins for the new
for a new year written by doctors
Westman boney verlag and Finney and
within two hours of reading that book I
said oh my gosh I got it completely
wrong for 33 years Wow in two hours I'd
changed I started changing my diet and
with the results were spectacular
and I haven't looked back for seven and
a half years so that's how it all
started and then initially I was very
reluctant say anything about it because
I knew that their backlash and I knew
that I would be vilified that I didn't
realize extent to which I'd be vilified
cautious initially but then eventually
it came out and then the problems arose
and then my fat mine my colleagues
attacked me and that's been seven years
of attacks yeah I I saw that that was
ridiculous do you know do you find that
um these the more educated someone is
educated the harder it is for them to
learn new concepts new ideas that's a
really good question what I discovered
was that the academics in hospital
practice are the ones who are most
ingrained because they've been bought by
the pharmaceutical industry and what
they say is controlled by industry
although they don't understand it and so
they are the ones who are really really
tough the the guys aren't in general
practice the academics and that the the
doctors in general practice are much
more open because they've gotta treat
patients and make them better but if you
work in a hospital it actually the page
you don't have a sort of direct
relationship you see all these thousands
of people but you don't have a direct
person-to-person relationship with the
individual patients but if you're
running your own private practice you do
so so what's going to happen is that the
change is going to occur in in the
private sector of medicine with where
doctors have to face up to their
patients but in the public sector
there's still a long way to go
because there's so much resistant to
change oh yeah I know I run into it all
the time I want to talk about your you
wrote this book on water log which is
faster than me because there's this
whole I don't know it's like one of
those things that everyone knows that
you need to drink a lot of water or
drink or water keep drinking water where
did this come from is it just made up
that's a great question because again
when I started running we used to run
marathons and you allowed one drink sort
of thing that was what you Wow I can and
and you had to provide your own own
drinks and in fact that was one of the
first things I also started activating
on so when I was running I was telling
the authorities now you must give us
more drinks for our races and within ten
years it changed dramatically and then
from getting a drink every like 15 or 20
kilometers that's what Aborigine was it
came down to every mile every 1.6
kilometers that you were drinking
Wow and then then what happened was the
sports drink industry took off and they
made sure that they were gonna drive
this and so various companies one in
particular which we won't name and shame
at this stage because it's fall in the
book anyone can read it right but this
one particular company realized that
actually the marathon runners aren't the
ones you're going to drink all their
drinks it's the person going to the gym
and you've got to be able to tell the
person going to the gym that if they do
one minute exercise they could die if
they don't drink and that's the message
they got out Wow and it it's
unbelievable but they didn't said that
dehydration is a disease and it's not
it's a biological response as you know
they said the iteration is a disease and
if you become dehydrated you can die and
it's going to affect your performance
and so they Maynard managed to sell this
to millions and millions and millions of
people who working out in the gym for 10
minutes that they must drink a lot and
so on and so that's what happened but
then when you transfer that to marathon
running and you tell people to drink
ahead of thirst and you provided so much
fluid during these races because
remember
there was nowhere else in the world
where you could get so much free fluid
for the four or five hours that you ran
a marathon you could drink and drink and
drink and of course people over drank
and and sundown and we predicted that it
would be an American female runner who
would die and that happened in 1993 it
was absolutely as we had predicted Wow
so so that was its again it was industry
industry brainwashed people to believe
and that's again the problem we have
with on nutrition story industry
brainwashed us to believe certain things
just simply not true okay for those of
you are watching what we're talking
about is when you drink too much water
you're gonna dilute certain electrolytes
specially potassium and what's gonna
happen is you need potassium for the
heart to work to balance fluids in the
brain so if you drink too much water
it's called hyponatremia right and your
brain can swell it can really be
dangerous and it can die and there at
least 15 days in runners and triathletes
and and particularly in the military
which is really interesting because that
the biggest incidence has been in the
military and they finally finally find
it this year so that we describe the
condition in 1981 and now it's 2018 the
first time in in history the US military
said if a patient comes in and you think
they've got a heat illness and they
confused you may not give them fluids
until you measure the blood sodium
concentration mother that in 1985 or 86
that's how long it takes for change to
occur so just so you guys know doctor
Professor Noakes is the key the top
researcher on this data exercise
associated hyponatremia you've done us
some articles on this research a lot
right yeah we were the first to describe
that it occurred in a lady in the 1981
comrades marathon which is a 90
kilometer 56 mile race in South Africa
and she wrote to me after the race
because she'd been unconscious for four
days so here she starts this race
completely healthy and then she's
unconscious and she wrote to me a week
later or so when she'd regained
she said what happened she said no
sodium went down and so then we knew the
hyponatremia that was the first case and
we connected a whole series of cases and
just by talking to the patient's you
could see that they drank a lot and
there was clear evidence that one of
them for example was a lady with
anorexia nervosa who was very sensitive
about her weight and she said but you
know profile put on four kilograms
during this Ironman and I knew I had to
believe her because she would be you
know she would know what your weight
change was and another guy told me he'd
passed like about six liters of urine in
recoveries and so then we were getting
an idea then we did as we did an
investigation of we hospitalized eight
patients with the condition these people
near death in the comrades marathon and
we recovery study them during recovery
and we could show that they all passed
an excess of urine and that average of
the worst case was a guy who had
excreted six liters of extra fluid so
he'd increased his body weight by six
kilograms so then we knew and we
published that paper in the year in the
Journal of applied physiology and I
thought well that's the end we proved
what causes it it's gonna go away well
actually no because they were scientists
who were being encouraged to say that
this was nonsensical research and
dehydration is the real problem and if
you tell people that under drink they'll
all die of dehydration now that was the
argument and industry was driving it and
then the American College of Sports
Medicine brought up the new guidelines
in 1996 and they said you must drink ale
assist essentially to drink as much as
tolerable that was the ruling there was
the advice and there's there's no
biology that that tells you that you
must drink to as much as tolerable right
so we have to drink more drink more
thirsty right that's the common sense
type solution and that's how all animals
drink and so wash it humans be different
but we because we got this brain and we
think we must do something with the
brain well they're actually the body
will tell you what to do exactly since
we're talking about fluids what about
long distance
running and electrolytes and cramping
but in some of your books can you
touch on that yeah well we did quite a
lot of studies to try and see if people
who have cramping were dehydrated or
lost more sodium or we're at low
sodium's and we never found it however
it's remarkable that many people benefit
by taking salt and so so this is the
paradox that we can't show that you have
a salt deficiency if you're cramping and
certainly when you go on the high-fat
diet a lot of people complain bitterly
of cramping and we told him but the salt
won't make any difference but it does
make a difference so so the things about
salt that we don't understand and it's
really it's good because if you read
waterlogged you'll see I give all the
evidence and there's plenty of evidence
that you it's impossible it comes out in
deficient today yet some people benefit
by taking salt so and some people run
better when they take more salt so there
are things that we don't fully
understand God again it's just like
we're all an experiment of one and and
we just have to experiment and you know
follow the general rules and then so the
general rule is that most people that
need additional salt when they're
running but some people got cramping
will may find it beneficial
how about magnesium and potassium I
think those go together with salt so
you've probably if you are problem
suffering from cramping I certainly
would advise you to try those three and
particularly if you're on a high-fat
diet because there's a lot of reports of
people really benefiting on a high-fat
diet and they clearly become salt
deficient but I bet if you tasted them
you wouldn't find it but they that
benefit from salt and potassium and
magnesium but but it's but a general
rule is you probably don't need it but
some people will benefit from it yeah I
mean you also have the situation where
like most dissolve but most of the
potassium is inside the cell which is
sometimes it's hard to test that because
you're checking the blood you're not
checking intracellular minerals so it's
kind of um it might not show up in the
blood
or X exterior to the cell yeah sodium's
anyone that really does show up in the
inner bloodstream yeah
so let's touch on um this common thing
that people cut up like athletes that
keep asking me yes but if I lower my
carbs I'll lower my performance when I'm
working out or I'm doing athletic
activities can you touch on that yeah
okay I think that we have to realize
that 99.9% of everyone of athletes or
recreational athletes and that's the
point so when we talk about the point
one percent two competing Olympics at
short distances say up to two five or
ten kilometers yes I think there may
well be a role for for some
carbohydrates in them but for the
recreational athletes really if you run
a minute faster or a minute slow is not
that's not important what's important is
your long-term health and what worries
me is that there are a lot of athletes
like myself who eat a high carbohydrate
diet and then damage themselves for life
and that's the issue so you if you can
tolerate carbohydrates and you're not
insulin resistant and you're not heading
towards diabetes like I was yes eat a
little bit more carbohydrate but you
only need 200 or 250 grams a day I mean
if you go back and read some of my early
books you'll see we were telling people
to eat a kilogram Wow there was there
was in the Tour de France and I mean
that is that is murder you want to kill
people give them a kilogram wow that's a
lot yes a lot so I think I think you'll
find that today a high carbohydrate diet
for a Tour de France cyclists
he's probably 300 grams or 350 grams and
that they are burning most of the energy
that they're burning is coming from fats
that's critically important to remember
most of the energy when you're
exercising is coming from fat not from
carbohydrate Wow
so if you're doing an ultra marathon for
example what should a person should eat
anything in that process that's a great
question and answers if you carbohydrate
adapted you
have to eat carbohydrate and because
otherwise you're gonna run into trouble
because you see what people don't
understand is if your carbohydrate
adapted you're metabolically crippled
and no one tells you that you see okay
sure you might be able to sprint a
little bit more up one or two hills but
when it comes to a long slog over four
or five hours you've got to burn fat and
the the well-trained elite athletes can
burn 1.6 1.8 grams of carbohydrate a
minute whereas if you are carbohydrate
adapted you burning 0.6 and that's it a
third a third one when you gone a couple
of hours and you're into you you've
reduced your carbohydrates and now
you've got to burn fat the guy who's a
is carbohydrate adapted just hasn't got
the energy and and I think actually the
most most ultra distance runners even as
they eating a higher carbohydrate that
are probably fed adapted because they do
a lot of training in a set typically at
a carbohydrate depleted state because if
they wouldn't they couldn't do what they
do right they don't understand that they
are actually significantly fed adapted
even though that evening or they think
they're eating a high carbohydrate diet
fascinating and so you tap out the
glycogen Reserve and then they hit this
sometimes I hit this wall call it the
bark or something correct and that's
when you want to be burning fat and then
if you've fed adapted you can just carry
on all day so you to answer your first
question if you probably fell adapted do
you need to eat I'm just rewriting law
running and I'm going back to read all
the old stuff again and one of the great
runners was a check with Austin Newton
he really started the ultra distance
running he's a father of ultra distance
running and I'm reading again what he
used to eat and they were all eating
lots of meat and a little carbohydrate
and in the race say down a big break was
a big English breakfast and he'd run and
halfway through the race he'd stop and
he'd have a meat based food that was
what they used to eat and but Betty and
then they they did take some
carbohydrate in butter sugar in the
sugary drinks but that was it they
didn't stop and eat bananas and potatoes
and apples and things they did have
sugary drinks abuse et with added sugar
but this the main sustenance for them
was a high protein high fat meal before
and in fact during the races
then I'm as I and Bruce Fordyce and
Bernhard raise the three of us we were
the first to develop degrees in South
Africa Murray :
I remember Ward us raise an axe and say
we because here we were you know you
need all that carbohydrate and so and we
make people take all this carbohydrate
and and we were right in the sense that
if you carbohydrate a death did you need
it that if you fat adapted you have to
you don't need it and the irony is all
three of us are insulin resistant all
three of us got fat all three of us now
eat a high fat dot and eschew the
carbohydrates oh my gosh I didn't know
oh my gosh that is ironic and then the
other question I have there's another
concept that if you eat too much fat
people are gonna say this will aren't
gonna increase my cholesterol am I gonna
die of a heart attack can you touch on
that point
yeah well I'm glad to saw you also
question because I would encourage
everyone to go to the third to health VI
or ta health website and where the
health is just completed the first year
of a two or three year study in which
they feared high-fat diets to diabetics
now okay so diabetics are the sickest
people on earth they are given the worst
thought possible they told eat lots of
fat and lots of protein and cut the cost
that's a a recipe for utter disaster
yes I guess for that you mean you just
you said no car you mean high carb I
don't mean like oh sorry sorry
yeah I'm just using this so technically
according to all our knowledge they
trade they're the most dangerous diet to
the unhealthiest people concurrent it
must be a disaster they must all dropped
it right well it was they done they
actually get better and
percent put their diabetes into
remission but more importantly they
measure 24 markers of cardiovascular
health 24 mask markers 23 improved more
in the high fat group than in the
conventional treated group eating a high
carbohydrate diet only different only
one was cholesterol the so called class
on cholesterol has no predictive value
in heart disease anyway you got a look
at the package so what they showed you
take the sickest people you give them
they're supposed to the most toxic diet
you possibly can and 23 of 24 markers of
cardiovascular disease improve and the
only one that doesn't improve is the one
that is emit is immaterial anyway so
that to me that's the kind of the final
answer to this to this problem yes
indeed your cholesterol may go up but
that's probably a good thing rather than
a bad thing because everything else is
going to improve so we don't focus on
what's not important focus on all the
other stuff which is important yeah
that's right and just four people are
watching you have to realize that your
body makes cholesterol makes it 3,000
milligrams a day so it's a necessary
part of our physiology we need that
cellular membranes hormones repair all
sorts of things it's probably the most
important chemical in the body and some
it's wanted to try and stop us making it
oh my great friends very hard come says
the liver makes cholesterol it doesn't
want to try to kill you it's trying to
keep you alive that's why it's making
cholesterol
Wow yeah yeah because I do a lot of
YouTube videos and I think one of where
I get a lot of my material as I go to
the mainstream push of whatever they're
pushing and I go to the exact opposite
and you're gonna find the truth because
everything they're promoting is it turns
out to be completely utterly wrong so
they give me a lot of good material to
educate people in reverse and then the
talks on let's talk about insulin
resistance I think this plays in with
what you just said yeah and you can just
touch on what it is and then what why
fat will actually benefit someone
there's insulin resistance yeah so
instant resistance to me is the name
human condition for many populations you
know that I say that reservedly because
I don't have the data to prove it but
but I think that if you have grown if a
population has grown up eating a
high-protein high-fat low-carbohydrate
diet
they'll have to be instant resistant and
we know that mothers get more insulin
resistant during pregnancy and we knew
the babies are in some resistant the
fetuses insulin resistance when it's
born so so it's kind of in our genes and
what's happened in the last 40 or 50
years is that we've taken mothers and
we've fed force-fed and carbohydrate
we're during their pregnancy that makes
them more insulin resistant the fetus is
born more insulin resistant and then we
wean them onto high carbohydrate diets
and that makes the child even more
insulin resistance so the high
carbohydrate diets are pushing us to
become more and more and more insulin
resistance what that what is that you
can't metabolize carbohydrates properly
so in my case if I take carbohydrates my
glucose shoots up my insulin shoots up
and the insulin doesn't work properly it
can't get the glucose into my tissues so
I've got less muscle glycogen which of
course is profoundly ironic because
yellow was telling all these fat runners
to eat lots of carbohydrate and they
would they couldn't get rid of the
carbohydrate into the muscles they'll
convert it to fats and it wasn't helping
them anyway so you can't metabolize the
carbohydrate and the instant doesn't
work properly and it just gets worse
every time you take in carbohydrate you
over secrete insulin the insulin doesn't
work and it makes the system just get
worse and worse and worse and the kid
and you never burn fat because you're
always trying to get rid of all this
carbohydrate you're eating and so any
fat that you ingest has to be stored
because you can't burn it because
insulin prevents the burning of the fat
and then the incident turns out is toxic
on almost all body tissues so the body's
trying to protect the overdose of
insulin and sugar by developing instant
resistance is trying to tell us hey stop
consuming so many carbohydrates yeah and
if that's what it takes the carbohydrate
store the fat so initially it's okay
because you just get
the subcutaneous tissues but then you
put a little bit of that fat in the
liver or in the pancreas and then you
become even more insulin resistant and
that's when you tip over into diabetes
it's just one of those obvious things
that sits like the elephant in the room
that if you lower your carbs increase
your fat fat has the least effect on
insulin you're gonna actually help
insulin resistance and yeah so it's
seven oh my gosh it's crazy it makes no
sense that if you can't tolerate
carbohydrate that you encourage the
carbohydrate so forth only we the
evidence is coming through that and in
fact the first the way people with type
one diabetes where you don't secrete any
insulin they were treated on low
carbohydrate diets in the 1920s before
in soon was available and there was the
only way you could get people to live
any longer was not feeding either but we
kind of forgot that wow I didn't know
that that's it that's interesting it's
like wow it's just as amazing um what
happened was an instant came along and
then the guys thought we've cured the
disease so you can eat what you like and
we'll give you money and says then and
then other problems are that instant
drops of glucose so doctors the worst
thing they fear is that you drop your
insulin your glucose it's a rule it's
better to run at a higher glucose and
then there's more there's less danger
that you'll get a hypoglycemic attack
and that's the problem because the
hyperglycemia is caused by too much
insulin so they're really their focus on
this hypoglycemia but they're kinda
ignoring the hyperinsulinemia problem
which is just as damaging as the high
sugar it's in fact it's yeah and it's
yeah Wow so what type of um interesting
activities research are you currently
doing right now in your lab or your
office
yeah I'm Sandra tired but we have a
foundation the Noakes Foundation and we
tried to fund research in and my
interest services and diabetes and we're
just gearing up now for a study of
people who are reversing their diabetes
so over the years we developed a
laboratory where we could study pretty
much the old metallo
of the human body and we've just added
measurements of liver glucose production
because that's what really goes wrong in
diabetes is you over produce glucose so
we can now essentially measure
everything we need to measure in
diabetic patients so we're taking a
large sample of about 40 people with
diabetes and we're measuring their
metabolism before we put on the invent
intervention which is a low carbohydrate
diet and then of that 40 we're hoping
60% will reverse and then we'll see what
has changed in that group so then we'll
understand the biology of reversal which
no one has studied yet so we know that
you can reverse I use that word
carefully because you're not really
healed you still can't eat a high
carbohydrate diet so you're in remission
in the sense so we're trying to see what
happens with in remission and we think
that we will show that the liver glucose
metabolism is normalized which which
would be crucial and in that world sure
okay so that's what's the problem in
diabetes is that it's the liver glucose
production gets goes wrong and these are
the reasons why that happens
so we've being intensive research on
that but the other thing that a lot of
people ask is well if there's low
carbohydrate diets healthy and good but
it's very expensive and that actually is
not true so that in South Africa as in
in the United States the people who got
the biggest diabetes problem or the
poorest because they have the worst food
choices and we've shown that in South
Africa you can you can live quite well
on three dollars a day you can eat well
on three dollars a day and we've
developed arts for three dollars a day
now we're about to do a major
intervention of 200 people where we put
them on a three dollar a day diet Wow
see what happens and the these are
people who are sick they've got diabetes
high blood pressure and we know that
also we know we suspect that once you
take the sugar out because these people
are completely sugar addicted and
carbohydrate addicted because that's all
they can afford to or they thought
that's all they could afford and so
they've eaten those foods for four
decades and we've known and we've done
at least ten interventions already and
we show the blood pressure just comes
shooting down just like within three
weeks
their blood pressure starts to normalize
and they don't need their medications
and they start to feel some in control
because these are the poorest of the
poor who have no control of their lives
and now we've shown them actually we can
control your medical issues and it's
it's absolutely eye-opening and it's so
rewarding
so my foundation is funding a major
study like that and then the third thing
we do is we have set up a nutrition
Network just in since May we're we're
teaching doctors how to prescribe low
carbohydrate diets and then the biology
and the low carbohydrate diet and it's
it's amazing because we believe the
doctors are critical anyone in the
medical profession bit nervous physio
that whatever they all critical because
if we can eat every doctor we can
convert will convert ten thousand people
at least because he'll have a big
patience and those patients will tell
others and just as soon as the doctor
says it's okay then that makes a big
difference right what kind of are they
are they you seem to find that there's
interest there as they kind of slow what
what we've had this great sign up I mean
we just completely we expected a hundred
people we got 400 people for the first
course so that's been exciting and we're
now going to really expand into a tier
two and then a Tier three which will it
be some sort of University diploma Wow
essence real excited it is and it's been
very very well received and we had we're
very appreciative how well people are
enjoying it Wow and guys just so you
know I'm gonna put some links down below
bye professor notes foundation some of
his books and you need to check this guy
out
one question I had about them when
people start to get on a ketogenic diet
they lower their carbs obviously you're
gonna lower the insulin and if they've
been insulin resistance for a long time
occasionally the blood sugar is because
they've been held down by the insulin
tends to go up a little bit have you
have you seen that generally you know I
speak from a lot of experience if you if
you frankly diabetic your glucose
control improved dramatically so at the
extremes where people at glucose is
going up to 1518
20 in our units and I'm not quite sure
what the American units would be but
within days they can get the glucose
down to 280 which would be normal for
for the other values but we talk about
values of five and said the remote it's
remarkable when you take a diabetic and
put them on the star but you're quite
right there's there can be a small
increase initially but generally that
will but will come let the glucose will
start dropping in time well this is
awesome I want to just thank you for
your time for doing this interview and I
think you should great insights into
what could be possible to improve health
and in the kind of contour intuitive
viewpoints that are kind of shattering
some of the myths out there the
mainstream so I want to thank you for
this interview and I hope to talk to you
soon with some more updates so thank you
very much Eric which was lovely chatting
to you thanks so much great
