hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about additional insulin functions that
go beyond just lowering blood sugars
most people know about insulin as the
hormone that lowers their blood sugar
but it does a lot more number two it
stores the sugar in the liver and the
muscles as something called glycogen
which is basically just molecules of
glucose strung together in a chain okay
number three insulin converts sugar into
cholesterol if you have high cholesterol
chances are it's because your sugar is
too high number four it converts sugar
into triglycerides okay those are blood
fats number five it makes fat especially
in your middle part right here the belly
in fact it is the most powerful fat
making hormone and it dominates all
other hormones so if you're trying to
stimulate the fat burning hormones all
it takes is a little bit of insulin to
nullify that and put everything into
storage ask that number six prevents the
fat burning so not only will it make
make you fat it prevents the loss of
that fat and that's why you're not going
to lose weight if the insulin is too
high number seven it feeds the cell fuel
number eight it stops something called a
toffee G and the other videos I talked
about or toffee G which is the recycling
of cell protein so if you have damaged
cell parts your body can actually take
that and recycle it into new cells it's
a great way to slow down the aging
process and it's amazing but in the
presence of insulin you're not going to
get atop the G okay you have to do
intermittent fasting to do that number
nine it absorbs potassium zinc and
magnesium very important so if you have
a problem with insulin like an insulin
resistance you're not going to absorb
these minerals and a few others as well
number ten it makes protein like muscle
hair and things like that now this might
be confusing because in a diabetic
situation they have too much insulin so
why are they having a loss of muscle
protein and a loss of collagen and joint
tissue well when we talk about insulin
making protein we're talking about a
normal
of insulin with diabetes where you have
high levels of insulin it's ineffective
because you have insulin resistance so
we need a normal amount of insulin to be
able to build our muscle tissue in our
proteins but we don't need excessive
amounts and when you have insulin
resistance because you're consuming too
many of the wrong foods or you're
triggering too much insulin you create
insulin resistance and now you can't
absorb the protein okay so we want a
normal amount of insulin and that goes
with number 11 as well artery tone you
need normal insulin to have the right
tone in your arteries so you don't have
too much or not enough and again too
much insulin will cause hypertension and
that's because insulin is there in large
amounts but it's not being effective so
the really the person doesn't get the
benefit of insulin that's too high in
the pot it so I hope to shed some more
light on what insulin is and now you
have an expanded viewpoint that goes way
beyond just the lowering of blood sugars
thanks for watching hey if you're
interested in finding out the underlying
cause of your body issues click the link
below and take the evaluation quiz
