so as you know there's quite a bit of
conflict right now between veganism and
the meat-eaters and my viewpoint is if
you want to go vegan go for it I have no
problem with that the only challenge I
have is if you do it
unhealthily so if you look at some of
the videos right now the critiques on
this movie they're going back and forth
in certain points with the athletes with
different studies I'm gonna take this in
a different direction
so my ultimate goal is to basically get
people to eat real food now the problem
is defining what that means right so I'm
just gonna take the definition of the
word food of the dictionary that which
is eaten to sustain life
provide energy and promote the growth
and repair of tissues nourishment it
comes from the derivation which means
nutrients so as long as you're getting
your nutrients and your fuel you're
eating food now it's a lot more
challenging to get all your nutrients
being a vegan like zinc for example
which is very high in shellfish and fish
and meat but not very high in vegetables
iron is more readily available in animal
products however on the flip side of
that there's a lot of people that have
too much iron because it's really hard
to get rid of iron in which case I would
highly recommend they avoid red meat if
they have excessive amounts of iron
because this could be very very damaging
on the liver and the brain same thing
with calcium if they're not consuming
dairy it's a little more difficult to
get calcium and also DHA which is an
omega-3 fatty acid now in vegan foods
you're gonna get ala which converts to
DHA but not in a significant way however
you can get DHA from algae b12 which is
mainly an animal products however you
can find it in wheatgrass juice powder
but I would recommend adding that if you
want to become a vegan and vitamin D of
course you can get this from the Sun so
as long as you're getting all your
nutrients and you're getting
high-quality protein you could be a
vegan and be perfectly healthy then
there are a couple points I do want to
mention because when I was in practice I
a lot of vegans coming in over the years
that consume absolutely zero vegetables
okay and they were consuming a
tremendous amount of bread pasta fruit
and sugar and they basically were not
very healthy somewhere losing their
teeth
some were losing their hair so if you
were to consume more vegetables that
have the minerals the full length of
vitamin C in the final nutrients that'd
be much much better than consuming bread
and potato and refined carbs now if
you're trying to lose weight or you have
insulin resistance or you're
pre-diabetic or diabetic it's just more
difficult to being a vegan because
trying to keep your carbs low and your
fats high and your protein at a moderate
amount is just more difficult and on the
flip side when I talk about healthy keto
I'm actually comparing that to something
called dirty keto which doesn't
emphasize vegetables I do I recommend
more vegetables than most vegan plans
out there I recommend 7 10 10 cups of
vegetables every single day now just
because someone's doing keto doesn't
mean anything doesn't mean that they're
eating healthier foods or higher quality
foods or satisfying all their nutrient
requirements so I think there actually
is both unhealthy versions of keto and
unhealthy versions of veganism but the
bottom line is just making sure you're
getting all your nutrients being a vegan
you're gonna have to know how to do it
correctly and enhance your diet with the
supplements to fulfill those potential
missing nutrients the other point I want
to bring up is if you're pregnant or
breastfeeding I highly recommend not
being a vegan because of the chance of
having some deficiencies that could be a
big problem in the development of that
child now there are two other points I
want to mention because in game-changers
they're really talking about the dangers
of eating animal products well I would
love to see just one little study that
shows any negative effects from
consuming grass-fed grass-finished or
organic meats or organic eggs
is no studies that show any negative
effects so when we recommend healthy
keto recommending high quality
ingredients some of the studies that
vegans quote are done with processed
foods based on question years which I
believe are not valid and the last point
is this if someone has gut inflammation
celiac irritable bowel syndrome Crohn's
something like that I do not recommend
consuming a lot of vegetables I do not
recommend being a vegan with all the
beans and the legumes
I recommend actually being a carnivore
for two or three months get your gut to
reset and heal then start slowly adding
vegetables into the diet and I think
that would be the best approach anyway
there you have it my opinion on
game-changers so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
