that's Fred Hammond with dwell on praise
104.1 I'm still in studio with Dr Berg
now Dr Berg in his book talks about the
different body types and uh you said the
most common body type is the adrenal
gland uh body type tell us about the uh
characteristics of that what happens is
the the adrenal gland is on top of the
kidney there's two stress glands and
when the person experiences too much
stress over a period of time they don't
take care of themselves they start
getting this high level of this hormone
called cortisol that then puts the fat
in the stomach so really it's not the
stress but the hormone that's activated
by it that will put that fat there and I
don't care how many situps you do what
diet you're on it's not coming off
because it's not really a lack of doing
sit-ups it's it's that cortisol hormone
so they have they're they're always
thinking about everything 24/7 they have
a low tolerance to stress they uh have
memory problems going downstairs like
where am I going you know they they lose
that they eventually have high blood
pressure they have knee pain especially
getting up from a SE position their legs
are heavy yeah um they need a little
sweet after dinner which is a blood
sugar issue they got acid reflex they
got bloating other than that they're
perfectly healthy but they have sleeping
they do they don't sleep and when the
best sleep is the half hour before the
darn alarm clock goes off when they
finally can get to sleep but they're
dragging all day and yeah it's it's so
common yet people think all these little
symptoms are separate problems but it's
all this coming from that one thing wow
wow and it's just really changing your
eating habits well Dr Berg is going to
take calls for anybody who have a
question for him so you can call us in
studio right now at 202
383-9779 here's Yolanda Adams
