hey guys Dr Burke here listen I'm doing
a webinar on health coaching training
and I'd like to invite you if you have
the purpose of helping people and you
would like to create some huge effects
in the health of others I think you're
going to like this webinar it's only
going to be about 40 minutes but we're
going to talk about the three biggest
problems with health coaching training
programs out there right now we're going
to talk about how to do an evaluation
that goes Way Beyond symptoms gets to
the root problem
and that's very very different because
most most health coaching training
programs they basically just list the
symptoms and they go ahead and treat
those we're going to talk about the best
method of teaching because here's the
thing it's not true it's a myth that you
only are supposed to retain 20% of the
information I'm going to show you a
system that the person will retain 100%
of the information you're teaching them
okay there is a huge connection between
health problems and what you eat and I'm
going to show you some of the things
that are in the training program and I
think you might be even interested in
actually taking the training yourself
but if you're interested in this webinar
go ahead and click below and I will see
you on the inside
