hello I have a question are other people
losing weight but not you I wanted to
create a video for those individuals
that no matter what they do they just
can't lose weight for those people that
actually don't have the discipline they
don't have the willpower you know
sometimes I'll put a video out a success
story that doesn't necessarily motivate
them it kind of just pisses them off
because they're not losing weight and
other people are so this video is not
for the person that can do it easily
it's for the person that needs some
additional help it needs uh we need to
break it down so it's really really easy
because what happens is what the way you
build your confidence is through seeing
change and this video is for those
people that have a lot of losses stacked
up and no matter what they do it just is
not working and they just can't stick to
it all right or maybe they can't even
get started so we're going to talk about
how to make it easier and how to make it
more gradual so there's less
uh pain and suffering trying to lose
weight uh as compared to what's typical
of starving yourself and depriving
yourself so let's go through some points
uh number one we want to focus on what
to do necessarily not not what not to do
like people are saying oh you just have
to avoid this and this and this and it
gets really overwhelming so what to do
what can you do well the first thing I
want to talk about is um putting in the
pleasure Foods keeping these pleasure
Foods around the house versus avoing
because that seems to be the biggest
challenge with people like now I can't
eat something I really that gives me
pleasure so um I have a lot of videos um
some are simple some are more difficult
um but focus on the simple ones there's
alternative cookies there are
alternative uh types of chocolate type
treats there's like cakes and uh
different things like that that you can
make or you can just buy things like
this like take a look at this Lily ch
milk this is caramelized in salted
chocolate this is amazing guess how much
sugar it is 1 gam of sugar that's
incredible one gram of
sugar this is something you can consume
so that way you have it in the house
you're not depriving yourself you it's
something you can do use as a go-to and
I like to dip it with peanut butter it's
like a peanut butter cup chocolate
caramel salted with peanut butter it's
awesome awesome there's also some uh
Lily chocolate chips that you can drop
into peanut butter and consume that as
well at the meal just to make it so
you're you feel like you're getting
something so that's number one all right
don't deprive focus on what you can do I
think that's going to be really a key
strategy in having around the house so
you can do it all right number two we
want to make uh these
steps this more on a
gradual um easy stair step way into
doing this uh the hard thing that people
have an issue with is the intermittent
fasting um like depriving yourself like
to one meal a day for some people it's
really hard some people can do it very
easily but until the Cravings go away
you're going to need to do it very
gradually so when I talk about starting
with three meals a day and then going to
two some people cannot even start with
three meals a day so we're going to
start with four meals a day okay so we
do four meals a day and then you're
eating another meal at night as a snack
so if you can do that that would be
awesome if you need to add the snack
like between uh lunch and dinner that's
fine but here's what I want you to do
instead of snacking on protein that
everyone else is snacking on I want you
to snack on some fat or vegetables you
know you could even take like lettuce
leaves and they have different types of
um herb cream cheese things like that
that you can spread on the the lettuce
leaf or dips with vegetables you can do
hummus like that would be a really good
snack because it's fat and it's
vegetable and at least fat has the least
amount of insulin Spike so that would be
a really good tip as your snack as
you're doing this gradual intermittent
fasting into your life so we start with
four meals or just do the the snacks
that are nonprotein protein will Spike
insulin so we don't want to spike
insulin fat spikes insulin just a little
bit because just in eating in general
and vegetables are not going to spike
incant too much so that's what we need
to f focus on all right um the other
thing is that we want to make sure the
meals are very very uh simple to make
they're not like this huge complex
recipes you know for for myself I I cook
my own meals so I'll have like lettuce
and dressing that would be part of it
and then I'll I'll make a hamburger
patty I'll put some mustard on it um and
then I'll have some nuts boom it's done
it's one meal so I don't make these
complex meals I don't have time I need
to make it and then go do my thing so
just keep the meals really really really
simple and basic
um now um electrolyte powder the reason
why I'm bringing this up because a lot
of people actually uh find this very
helpful to make it easy and they depend
on this when they when you drink um this
electroly powder it's it's sweet there's
no sugar in it it has a ton of potassium
so it instantly reduces cravings and it
allows people just to go on a lot longer
and actually on a physical level it does
reduce the need for insulin so it's a
really good go-to thing as a drink or a
shake um a sweet drink that just makes
it easier um and any type of green
drinks are
good now the next thing I want to talk
about is uh you want to differentiate
the most important things versus the
trivia because if you're spending all
the your time doing the wrong things or
things that are not going to make a big
difference you just spit in your wheels
it's not worth it so I'm going to jump
right to the trivial first uh the
trivial things are counting your steps
with a pedometer that is the biggest
waste of time
because adding some more steps to the
day burning a couple more calories is
not going to add up to anything
significant at all in fact if we were
just just to take exercise I mean it
spends like you spend a half hour or an
hour a day exercising uh that's a
tremendous amount of time in investment
um realize that's only going to
contribute to
15% of your overall improvements in
weight loss that's as much as do it it's
85% of it is going to be eating so 15%
so if you're going to invest an hour a
day I would rather take that hour and
put into some other things like planning
out what you're going to eat focusing on
uh going getting the right uh meals
versus you know wasting time exercising
I'm not saying don't do it but the point
if you were to weigh it out exercise is
not going to be the big thing that's
going to turn things around uh as fast
as you would like them okay so counting
steps is a waste of time um counting
calories is a waste of time because
we're not talking about u a calorie is a
calorie calories uh differentiate from
one thing to another so if you have
carbohydrate calories versus fat
calories carbohydrate calories turn into
fat um and they because they Spike
insulin fat calories um mistakenly don't
necessarily turn into fat unless you
consume a lot of them but the point is
it doesn't raise insulin and what we're
trying to do is fix insulin fixing
insulin is going to lower your set point
so the point where you're not going to
Plateau anymore so you can keep going
lower and lower and lower with your
weight so I wouldn't waste your time
counting calories it's not going to be
the thing that's going to help you
that's why I like weight washers there's
not a lot of successful people long term
that I know with weight washers because
it's all about counting calories but not
necessarily specific calories I know
they are switching to a different point
system but still they allow too many
carbs so if we go to trivial I sorry the
vital one of the most important things
is the is the hidden little sugars uh a
little bit of fruit here a little bit of
sugar there sugar in your your Foods
your coffee and the meals that you eat
going out to restaurants and having this
hidden sugar or even the Breads and
pasta that right there if we can cut
that out and replace it with something
healthy that would be what you need to
invest your time in because that'll make
a significant difference versus counting
calories so so now the other thing is
adding more fat if you were to do a lean
steak and salad with your meals it would
be really hard to lose weight because
you're going to be hungry all the time
you need the fat to be satisfied so you
can go to intermittent fasting
intermittent fasting is actually more
important than even what you eat because
when you don't eat you're actually
giving your body a chance to really drop
that
insulin and the problem is like let's
say you do a ketosis diet you're eating
fat moderate protein and vegetables well
the fact that you're eating you're
stimulating insulin to some degree but
intermittent fasting you're lowering
insulin but to do this we need the fat
so don't be uh don't have this idea that
you need to deprive yourself of fat we
want the fat
avocado you know avocados are very
expensive um and I I don't even
recommend you get the organic avocado
because a lot of the pesticides they
can't get through that shell they're not
going to absorb through the avocado so
you can get away with um uh commercial
avocados go to a regular place that you
can get like a special like 10 for $10
that would be a great deal get 10 and
now you got your avocados and now you
can start having avocados like one or
two a day that would really really help
you because it's a really good fat
peanut butter make sure there's no sugar
you can have that as your go-to as your
fat butter you know cook with butter put
it on your your egg
yolks um salad dressing olive oil or
just nuts we want to keep that fat with
the meal so you don't ever feel
deprived sometimes you have to really
shift a person's viewpoint on this fat
thing because they're so concerned about
fat calories but but look where they
it's got them it's got them in a
situation where they have no more
metabolism left so so yeah we want to
spend the time on um cutting sugar we
want to cut sugar out but just I would
just get it out of the house and then
replace it with some alternative sugars
xol arol um monk fruit things like
that um vegetables um important very
important to have uh enough of those you
want like when I I went to the farmers
market yesterday I got some really good
salad I got great uh bell peppers
they're really they's just way more
delicious than the stuff I get at the
store and so I love to just Chomp on
those um so that's really important and
then um if you don't like making salads
just make a shake with the cha freeze it
cup of berries blend it together drink
your shake you can fill the whole thing
up with water and drink one now and then
the other one in an hour or later in the
day keep it in the fridge so again these
are the most vital important things as
you get rid of the hunger and craving
which could take uh two weeks to a month
or less it's going to be
easier when it's easier when you're not
hungry and you're not craving um you'll
be able to do this a lot better
and then because you're doing it you're
going to see physical change Health
change and then weight loss change
that's what's going to build up your
confidence so now you know this does
work and now you ride the wave and if
you get off track you know what to do to
get back on track but I always recommend
we want to build you up on success not
comparing yourself with some guy down
the street that can lose like 10 pounds
in a week um that's just unreal don't
worry about that just focus on yourself
improvements in your waist first don't
even measure yourself on the scale just
measure your waist that's very important
um so it gets easier as you go and then
what you want to do is you want to plan
out your meals in advance like at least
one or two days so that way you're not
thinking about what am I going to eat
today you already have it planned so you
just focus on the doing this uh not the
like hm what am I getting today what's
in the fridge so plan it out all the
time and then that way it's like an
automatic thing all right so these are
just some ideas is and um things you can
do to uh just kind of make it simple get
you there
faster and not get so frustrated all
right thanks for watching hi guys Hey
listen I created a pretty amazing
evaluation quiz down below that actually
analyzes your symptoms to find the cause
the root cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause so take the quiz
now and we'll send you a report
