hey guys today we're going to talk about
in a minute of fasting etapa g in your
muscles ok etapa g is a state that you
can get into when you do in a minute
fasting where your body is recycling old
damaged proteins ok here's what you need
to realize etapa g gives you a catabolic
effect ok if we compare this to an
anabolic effect you're actually building
things up or you're building muscle
protein with etapa G you're breaking it
down so catabolic means a breakdown of
something so in one hand we want all the
benefits of a Tov G which is anti-aging
longevity better immune system decrease
inflammation but we don't want to lose
our muscle mass ok so here's what you
want to do you don't want to give up in
a minute fasting ok want to keep that
going but you definitely want to add
strength training is a part of your
workout so a lot of people do like
jogging or on the treadmill and you this
light type of exercise you want to add
strength training if you want to
maintain your muscles and I'm talking
about loading up the muscles to recruit
as many muscle fibers as you can so
there's two options you can go heavy
weights with lower amount of reps ok or
a moderate amount of weight to failure
or a combination of both of these which
I like best and I think I would
recommend finding a personal trainer
that can really help you because number
one they're gonna be able to push you a
lot further than when you can push
yourself and you can do this on a nice
gradual effect so you're not
overtraining because you don't want to
hurt yourself especially when you're
dealing with heavier weights so these
two actions can create a hypertrophy
effect on the muscle which can keep them
bigger and prevent them from shrinking
when you're doing in a minute fasting
alright guys there you have it your
quick tip of preventing muscle loss when
you're doing in a minute fasting so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications daily notifications
that sounds weird well I'll just remind
you on a daily basis how about that
