so today we're going to talk about the
relationship between epstein-barr virus
and fatigue 90% of the population of
Earth has epstein-barr virus called the
kissing virus it can create a lot of
problems I had it when I was in high
school it was very severe because it
it's all up my throat I couldn't even
breathe it was terrible this fatigue and
fever swollen glands achy severe sore
throat okay
sometimes it takes three to four weeks
to recover but what happens is it goes
into a dormant phase and what's
interesting is it has a unique strategy
of in activating our own immune system
from killing it from trying to kill it
basically that's why it survives and it
can be reactivated later in life it's
called the late infection the
epstein-barr virus is involved in a lot
of health problems linked to Hashimoto's
which is an autoimmune Ms which is
another autoimmune and even cancer
non-hodgkins lymphoma and chronic
fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia and
just weird chronic symptoms that people
can't seem to figure out I think what
happens is several things number one
you're going along in life and then you
go through a huge stress let's say
you're also getting older let's say you
have a nutritional deficiency and then
this virus gets reactivated not as a
full-blown infection that maybe is maybe
as the fatigue portion okay
or maybe you start getting a key you
don't really know why okay it's the
stress that activated stress seems to
lower the immune system and allow the
virus to come out of remission this
virus is not really alive it can only
live off our energy from ourselves but
if you keep healthy it can't do that
so what can you do besides moving to a
desert island by yourself and
eliminating all the stress there's a
great remedy that I'm going to recommend
you do research I'll put a link down
below
it's called humic and fulvic acid this
is a compound that is from the earth
it's used in plants and it has some
really interesting antiviral properties
it's a key later that pulls out heavy
metals and it seems to neutralize
certain other chemicals like pesticides
and herbicides and even glyphosate now
what happens with glyphosate which is
that GMO herbicide is it throws off our
microbiome our gut flora not to mention
the soils flora and guess where our
immune system is located a lot of it's
in the gut so my theory is that with the
combination of the glyphosate
and this virus together I think this can
activate this thing right here and
potentially increase your risk for
getting this because if you look at some
of the research on glyphosate it can
increase the risk of getting this by
itself so I don't know it's just a
theory I have I don't know if it's true
so if you have any one of these symptoms
and let's say you have you're tired and
there's no physical reason to be tired
start taking this and it could
potentially help you and in addition to
that really start focusing on your
stress level and your flora and lastly
make sure you do organic foods non-gmo
alright thanks for watching so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird
well I'll just remind you on a daily
basis how about that
