welcome to the course in this course
we're going to show you how to read your
body and other bodies so when you look
across the street you'll be able to pick
up what's going on inside by the outside
you're going to look at their eyes their
lips their nails and really have a deep
understanding of what is going on inside
now I want to just make a quick
disclaimer that we're not trying to make
a mini medical doctor out of you or make
claims to cure or diagnose any medical
conditions this is purely educational
It's Entertainment okay so that's my
disclaimer now let's get right into the
course the first and most important
thing that you need to understand is
this one thing right here the
symptom does not equal the
problem okay now in medicine and health
care what they've done they made the
symptom the problem they collapsed these
two now if you do that you're going to
make the problem last a lot longer and
persist and I think the reason why
they've done it is purely Financial
because the whole system is rigged to
have you go to all these Specialists and
put you on medications and have you keep
going so what they do is they take this
symptom and and make it sound very
complex and very scientific like
lombalgia that's low back pain arthritis
pain in the joint there's even a
diagnosis called datical Kinesis that
means inability to perform rapid
rhythmic movements okay so in reality um
these are plain uh descriptions of what
the body is uh experiencing at the
effect so these are
effects okay the effect is not the
cause now this is why I don't like
donating to a lot of the different marks
for the cures and the research because
it all goes to the same drug companies
that are not looking for a cure they're
looking for some drug to manage the
problem that's what call manage care I
mean if you look take mk's manual the
the authority on diagnosis or a
pathology you're going to find that
almost every single diagnosis is um
unknown the cause of it is unknown and
um so that's why the one of the
diagnosis would be called idiopathic
that means unknown cause
so there things don't just come from no
reason don't buy into you're getting
older it's always genetic or it's just
the way things are you're going to have
to accept the fact that that's just how
things are so the symptom is not the
problem the second thing that's missing
is this little problem here with a lack
of
evaluation when you evaluate you dig
deeper you find out an underlying root
cause that's what science sence is about
it's about finding the truth of
something so we want to evaluate we want
to investigate so what we want to do is
we want to ask questions what kind of
questions well if the body has some dry
skin if it has a red dot if it's cracked
corners of the teeth if there's
bloodshot eyes if your hair is falling
out if you have high blood pressure high
glucose all these things we want to ask
a question why what is the body trying
to tell us um and we want to pull a ring
now um you want to get as much data as
you can in this uh little course that I
put together um I gave you a lot of
understanding of what certain things
mean
nutritionally and whatnot but we want to
find out the the biggest question that I
I always ask over and over and over
again of when it started okay so we have
when when did it start all right because
we want to narrowed down there's always
something that occurs right before the
problem started so we go when and then
what happened just
before that's going to give you huge um
what happens what happened just before
we that's going to give you huge Clues
on what's really the the true cause of
the problem just
before now if you just ask these couple
questions you will this obvious answer
will just pop right up and it's like oh
why didn't I think about that when you
find the true cause of something it
should be pretty obvious it's not going
to be some mysterious thing I'll give
you an example I had a patient she had
angina that's chest it's a fancy term
for chest pain um and she went to the
doctor she went to the hospital
emergency care they did all these tests
and they found nothing after
$440,000 worth of testing um she comes
in and the first thing I question I
asked her I said when did it start she
said last Tuesday I said what happened
just before that she goes uh oh I that's
right I went out to dinner I said okay
what else oh I ate a banana split oh
thank you do you ever eat that she goes
no never so she ate this Banana Split
that's going to plug up her gallbladder
which is right next to the the the Ducks
to the liver and that's going to back up
the liver and put pressure on the heart
so all I did is do a little tiny ACU
pressure on the bile duct okay which is
right here and U chest pain went away
never came back so it's very very very
sane and very simple these these simple
questions here um so you have also you
have a diagnosis called uh what's a
complex regional pain syndrome what is
that that means that when you have
surgery and you still have pain after
the surgery they call that complex
regional pain syndrome and had so many
people coming in for that they're doing
fine till they had the surgery now
they're in pain now I'm not against
medicine or doctors or any of that I'm
against the system it's set up what I
want you to do is ask questions find out
why don't be satisfied with well um you
know I'm the I'm the doctor you're the
patient find out you know um that's what
we're trying to do so we have the
symptom and we have the problem we have
the effect now when you ask this
question what happened just before the
symptoms started there will always be um
um well not always usually one of four
things all right number one it could be
something they ate that they shouldn't
have eaten okay that's that's probably a
big one right there or it's something
they should have eaten but they didn't
eat people that never eat anything green
uh except pachio ice cream lime green
Jello that was me going to college so
it's eating or are not eating all right
so that's going to give you a lot of
Clues and by the way um I do a um if you
look to the right of the screen there's
a little button um uh about if you press
it you're going to get into a survey
about my course called the health course
uh certification it's called a health
coach certification and I get into what
you should be eating I teach health
coaches on what they should be training
their um clients on what to eat
and this entire method right here in a
lot more in depth but in this little uh
presentation I'm just going to give you
some of the basics but there's more to
know so number
two can be related to
stress
stress I mean if you ask a person what
happened just before they had this
problem a stress event let's just take
weight um delivering birth you think
that's stressful big time that's
stressful on the mother it's stressful
on the baby um carrying a baby for 9
months um that could have threw off the
body and made you gain weight um I'll
give you another example I had a guy
just come in today he got hugely fat
right when he stopped smoking that was
the change now that was a stress event
now you're going wait a second no it
wasn't you're taking smoke away from but
actually um smoke actually the nicotine
relaxes the adrenal glands and it's
actually a stress reliever I know it
sounds weird all the smoke doesn't help
but when they stop smoking they get real
nervous and they actually the stress
goes up so the stopping of the smoking
shocked the adrenals and he got really
fat happens all the time so stress but
it could be in envir uh you can be in a
situation where um you're being stressed
out at work um or or you've been through
a stress event or a loss oh my goodness
really um almost every single client
that I that came in here with Ms for
example um multiple sclerosis they had a
stress event or a loss right before they
got it so autoimmune diseases get set up
with losses because it's a major stress
in the body so we have stress and then
we have environmental
factors environment and that could be an
exposure to pesticides herbicides
fungicides that can be exposure to a
toxic um relationship uh with your
spouse or um um a relative or something
like that I think everyone usually has
one relative who is very toxic but the
environmental stress can be quite quite
big uh or you know being exposed to um
radiation you know uh if you just close
to Joby um that could be an
environmental stress and then number
four is going to be a lack of sleep okay
so we got this sleep it's usually not
sleeping too much it's basically um
getting a lack of sleep if you push your
body on three or four or five hours of
sleep you are going to break down faster
you're going to have a health problems
you're going to be tired it's a lot of
stress on the heart uh and then if you
add exercise on top of that you really
push the person over the edge but a lot
of times I'll have people come in with
all of these problems right here you
know what's really bizarre is there's
there's very little attention put on
these four things in health care I mean
this is could you imagine if they focus
on these I mean the the relationship
between what you eat and how it affects
your health is huge the only way you're
going to create a healthy body is by the
nutrients in the food that you eat but
there's no attention put on those Foods
or nutrients uh I'd even I even
developed some software to analyze the
nutrition in your diet and rarely do we
have anyone that is even close to
getting enough so pretty much all my
clients when they come in they're not
eating the right things they're eating
too much of the wrong things their their
body is this one big stress ball um
they're in environmental toxicity and um
they're not sleeping okay other than
that they're perfectly healthy so I want
to make this very very simple to you
because it really is once we find out
and ask these questions then we can find
get the remedy the the true cause so we
want to define the cause and a cause
would be you can't go any deeper like I
had a lady she said um I was depressed I
said describe that to me she said oh I
feel just really tired I'm like oh okay
maybe it's fatigue maybe it's not
depression she goes yeah I'm kind of
tired in my head I said well what made
you think you were depressed she goes
well that's what I was diagnosed I said
you know what you're just tired she goes
wow I feel a little better right now
so the symptom is not the problem we
want to use the symptom as a string or a
clue to understand the real problem
cause effect we want to evaluate we want
to find out what's the body trying to do
we want to understand when it started
what happened just before it we want to
look at the four factors right here and
then when we find that main thing boom
we can plug it in as a remedy and the
person can start getting better okay so
um in the next video I'm going to show
you a little technique
um on how to get rid of any pain
anywhere in your body all right so we're
going to talk about that and also I'd
like to invite you to to actually be a
health coach and what the health coach
training is it's an 8-week course which
is all online it's like an hour or two a
week it's not that hard you'll be doing
homework it's very interesting but if
you like the ability the the ability to
help people and you like to um um figure
things out um you can take my 255 years
of Blood Sweat and Tears and summarize
it in an 8we course and learn the basics
and actually um help either do it
full-time part-time or just as a hobby
okay so I invite you to take the survey
to my left and actually become a health
coach all right so I hope you enjoyed
this I'll see you in the next video good
luck
