I'd like to discuss the specific type of
protein that you should be focusing on
for your specific body problem the
question is should it be fish should it
be eggs what about beef what about
chicken should you consume beef liver or
what about plant protein or even protein
powder So today we're going to look at
the nutrition profile in all of those
different sources of protein and I'm
talking about
amino acids uh bioavailability of those
amino acids
that means how well they're absorbed and
utilized also the B vitamins in those
proteins the omega-3 to omega-6 fatty
acids in those proteins the minerals in
those proteins that trace minerals in
these proteins and we're going to look
at which type of protein is good for
certain things more than other things
when I started to do this I quickly
found out that plant protein sources
those so-called clean plant-based
proteins they're not sufficient in other
words they don't have the quantities of
amino acids and they don't have the type
of amino acids that are bioavailable
they don't have the right ratios of
these essential amino acids so I didn't
even include that in the list
I also didn't include protein powders
why because in nature protein always
comes with certain nutrients like B
vitamins and minerals and trace minerals
when you do protein powders it doesn't
have those things in it and these
vitamins and minerals are very essential
to make that protein work in other words
you know people might have this idea
that you know if you just have enough
protein and eat more protein that you'll
build more muscles and ligaments and
tendons and Bone Etc but that protein in
our body cannot work unless you have
vitamins and minerals and trace minerals
the vitamins and minerals and trace
minerals are called
cofactors or
coenzymes and so if we look at the
biochemical Pathways in our bodies that
help to do all the functions in the body
they're all dependent on certain
cofactors and coenzymes and for example
if you're a deficient like B12 you can't
make red blood cells or if you're
lacking vitamin C your adrenals can't
work and you can't make collagen and the
other important point I want to
emphasize is we don't just need protein
for our muscles and ligaments and
tendons we need it for all of our
biochemistry there's a lot going on in
everybody tissue from making hormones to
making neurotransmitters to affect your
mood to building structural things like
just things to keep the heart and Rhythm
and other things that keep your nervous
system intact not to mention keep your
immune system strong and from this list
I focused on the higher quality protein
sources like the grass-fed versus the
grain fed and the wild caught versus the
farm-raised fish and the pasture-raised
eggs versus the conventional you know
eggs that are from chickens in a barn so
let's start off with the first condition
which is basically aging as we age we
definitely need more protein for repair
to support maintenance especially of our
muscles a lot of us when we get older we
lose our hair we lose the elasticity we
lose the ability to make antioxidants we
lose the ability to detoxify like we did
when we're 18 years old but the other
important factor to know about as we age
we also lose our hydrochloric acid in
our stomach the strength or the pH of
the stomach
goes higher that means less acidic as we
get older so what does this have to do
with protein well you need this very
strong concentrated stomach acid to
break down different types of protein
into what we really need is amino acids
so the older you get the less
hydrochloric acid you have that means
you need to digest certain types of
protein that are easy to digest like
eggs and fish
and this is probably also the reason why
as someone ages they just dislike the
taste of red meat sometimes because red
meat is a bit more difficult to digest
but red meat has more proteins okay it
has more leucine which is a key amino
acid to help maintain muscle but if you
can't digest it it doesn't matter right
I mean if we compare even beef to eggs
beef has more vitamin B3 B6 B12 but X
have more B2 B9 which is biotin and
vitamin B5 yet beef if we compare that
to eggs has more iron magnesium
potassium and zinc but eggs have a bit
more calcium phosphorus and sodium so
you can see that each protein Source has
its own strength but if we compare the
two eggs are easier to digest but this
is what I would recommend if you're
older
um and you have low stomach acids I
suggest you just add betaine
hydrochloride to your diet before you
eat maybe three butane hydrochloride
tablets before you eat that way you can
build up the acid and start breaking
down a larger variety of protein sources
that way you can get the benefit of beef
when you eat it as well as eggs and fish
because you're about to learn each
protein Source has its uniqueness it has
its positives and its weaknesses but as
we age we need more stomach acid as a
side note the way you know you need more
stomach acid is this if you have
indigestion if you get gas if you get
acid reflux especially gerd that means
you need more hydrochloric acid and you
know that sounds strange but
if that confuses you watch the video
when we're done with this below I'll put
it in the description so let's assume
that you're adding this betaine
hydrochloride if you're getting older to
be able to digest red meat maybe you
just do red meat um once or twice a week
now I would recommend oysters once a
week okay or other similar shellfish
because of the high level of zinc and
selenium and especially iron that as we
get older we need more of selenium is
good for the thyroid zinc's good for the
immune system and testosterone and iron
is good for the blood but here's the
thing and this mainly pertains to men if
you are a man and you're watching this
and you have a problem with iron you
might have either a genetic problem with
iron where you hold on to iron or you
just don't do well with excess iron you
need to consume
more chicken meat white meat not the red
meat but more the white meat and turkey
okay not the dark meat but the white
meat that way you can have less amount
of iron I don't know if you like liver
beef liver or not but if you're getting
older and you have liver once a week boy
that would give you super high level
amount of nutrition I mean even if we
compare beef liver to regular beef beef
liver is super high in iron it has much
more iron than regular beef it has super
amounts of folate it has about the same
amount of amino acids as beef but it has
a lot of other things that's that are
really good for your body but if we
compare beef liver to oysters Believe It
or Not oysters have more iron than even
beef liver oysters have more zinc than
beef liver as well and so oysters are at
the top of the list with those nutrients
even more than red meat but if you can
consume beef liver once a week if you
like it you know I personally don't like
it I wouldn't do it myself off but if
you like it like liver and onions that
would be a really good thing to do as
you age the other thing that's I think
important to consume twice a week is
fatty fish like salmon or sardines that
way you can have higher levels of
omega-3 fatty acids as part of the raw
material to support your brain as well
as reduce inflammation and support your
heart as well the next condition I want
to talk about is osteoporosis or
osteopenia that basically is a loss of
bone osteopenia is like the the phase
before you get osteoporosis and of
course one of the most important things
for that would be vitamin D a good
amount of vitamin D as well as the
omega-3 to help your bones now let's
shift to another condition called anemia
okay the two things you need for anemia
are iron and b12 and of course I already
mentioned oysters have the highest
amount of iron but beef liver is also
very high in iron and it's also very
very high in b 12 in fact it has the
most B12 of anything so the more anemic
you are the more you should have those
two now you can also do red meat which
is loaded with iron as well and b12 but
you can do a combination of those
depending on what you prefer but if we
compare like iron to plant sources of
iron it's not bioavailable the animal
sources of iron are the best now when we
get into chicken okay chicken and turkey
have more of the non-heme iron so it's
not as available as like red meat and
for some people when they consume red
meat it's not that they don't have
enough hydrochloric acid they might have
other problems with malabsorption in the
digestive system so if they want to get
the benefit of this red meat just
consume hamburger now let me just
mention hamburger now of course you'd
want to consume grass-fed now you might
say well I don't really like the taste
of grass-fed compared to you know
regular grain fed because grain fed has
more fat in it but if we look at the
health of that animal like a fatty
animal versus an animal that's leaner
even if you have like deer meat this is
a difference between consuming like
athletic meet versus kind of a meat
that's borders on like metabolic
syndrome or diabetes the fattier that
meat the less health of that meat and I
do have a theory and the theory goes
like this
you may get a little healthier if you
consume healthier animals and healthier
plants but that's just the theory right
now of course we have to do the testing
to really find out so if someone has
lower digestive problems like irritable
bowel syndrome they probably will do
better on hamburger and eggs those two
are really high in nutrients okay but
they're easier to digest and with
malabsorption problems that occur with
you know inflammation in your gut you'll
get a higher level of nutrition or more
of a nutrient dense type
compound that penetrates this
malabsorption barrier
it wouldn't hurt to have that grass-fed
beef liver once a week as well to get
your iron in your B vitamins now what
about macular degeneration okay that's a
problem with the back of the eye with
the retina and there's two different
phytochemicals that help macular
degeneration lutein and zeaxanthin which
happens to be in egg yolks so eggs are
good for that condition
oysters or other shellfish are good as
well because of the zinc but to really
fix it you're going to have to fix
insulin resistance and get off all your
carbs as well as well as avoiding the
omega-6 fatty acids which is very high
in chicken because they're grain Fed so
anyone with macular degeneration should
not be consuming chicken or even turkey
all right what about inflammation in
general well that can include any
condition with itis like bursitis
tendonitis arthritis as well as
autoimmune diseases anything with
inflammation is going to do good with
omega-3 fatty acids okay omega-3 fatty
acids are anti-inflammatory so that
would be that fatty fish like salmon but
I just want to mention one little note
about fish okay if we compare
farm-raised fish to wild caught fish you
may see similar nutrients for almost
everything in similar protein but
there's some big differences one is even
no farm-raised fish is high in omega-3
it's also very high in omega-6 at the
same time and omega-3 and omega-6
compete for each other so if you're
consuming something with higher amounts
of omega-6 that's going to cancel out
the effects of Omega-3 because they both
compete for the same enzymes so if
possible start consuming the wild caught
and not the farm raised now what about
hypertension high blood pressure well
there's a lot of evidence that shows
that omega-3 fatty acids and vitamin D
are really good for that condition and
that brings us back to the fatty fish
again like salmon would be really good
for hypertension but also as a side note
if you're deficient in potassium you can
get high blood pressure just from that
that condition is called
hypocalemic
hypertension so you're going to need to
add your potassium from large salads or
large amount of vegetables but also
vitamin D can help lower blood pressure
all right now what about depression well
depression can be improved with vitamin
D for sure and omega-3 fatty acids
because a certain omega-3 fatty acid
called DHA makes up 20 of all the fats
in your brain so structurally it's very
important in your brain it's been shown
to improve cognitive function as well as
mood now if we shift to anxiety for
example you need more B vitamins so that
would be the beef liver right beef liver
gives you a lot of B vitamins you can
also get it from nutritional yeast but
beef liver is a really good source of B
vitamins now what about muscle building
in general I'm going to say red meat red
meat has a really high amount of amino
acids it has to be vitamins it has zinc
it has iron and the zinc will help you
increase testosterone as well which will
then help you increase the muscles and
if you add the exercise on top of that
you'll have a complete package and I'm
just comparing this to like the whey
protein powder which has none of the
cofactors or coenzymes to allow those
proteins to work so if you're deficient
and vitamins and minerals and you take
whey protein powder it's not going to
work to help anything connected to your
muscles what about gallstones well
that's usually a lack of a certain amino
acid that's needed or required to make
bile because a gallstone is really a
deficiency of bile so you need more
taurine and you can get taurine from
scallops muscles and clams what about if
you have a problem in detoxification you
get exposed to let's say mold or a heavy
metal or a chemical or you're walking
down the grocery store and you you smell
some of these chemicals cleaning
chemicals and your body starts
you know malfunctioning or on a DNA test
you have genes that show poor
detoxification this usually means you
need more nutrients especially B
vitamins to help these enzymes detoxify
better I mean the best thing would be
grass-fed beef liver as well as red meat
all right what about if you have a fatty
liver okay what's good for that well
that can come from a choline deficiency
choline is one of the B vitamins again
and one of the highest foods with
choline is egg yolks so I would
recommend eggs for a fatty liver all
right now what about diabetes is there
anything that would be a little bit
better than other things for diabetes
what's interesting about shellfish okay
is shellfish actually has
carbohydrates it has more carbohydrates
than any other types of protein sources
that would be like the stored glycogen
in a shellfish so you probably want to
avoid shellfish because it has
a bit of sugar and instead add the fatty
fish like salmon which has the omega-3
fatty acids which can help stabilize
this insulin problem and make insulin
more sensitive but also grass-fed beef
is very high in something called CLA has
been known to make insulin more
sensitive helping your blood sugars but
you're not going to find a lot of CLA in
like regular beef has to be grass-fed
not grain fed some of you might be
saying well I just can't afford
grass-fed or wild caught or pasteurized
type foods
and I do understand that this video is
not necessarily for trying to find the
cheapest source of protein I mean I
remember I was in college I had no money
I had to stretch my pennies and yes I
went to Burger King to get the two
burgers for a buck many many times and
yes I went to the discount grocery
stores to get the canned foods and the
very unhealthy foods and of course I
just said I'll eat healthy when I
graduated which didn't happen for
probably 10 years after that but the
point is that do the best you can right
now with what you have and do
intermittent fasting which means you'll
be spending less money on food so you
can afford a little more money to invest
in the quality of food that you eat as
you probably are realizing certain
protein sources have their strengths and
weaknesses so it's always good to have a
combination of different protein sources
but what I wanted to do is kind of give
you some ideas on if you were to have
the best source to optimize
the profile of nutrition a certain
protein Source what would that be for
certain conditions what should you focus
on more than other things and how can
the quality of that protein be better
for you I mean like even the farm-raised
fish uh compared to wild caught fish
kind of similar protein or amino acid
profiles but the farm-raised fish has a
lot more omega-6 it has more Mercury
which has more pcps which is kind of
considered a toxin anyway I hope I
enlightened you on these different
protein sources and since I did mention
this low stomach acid problem if you
want more information on that you should
watch this video right here
