so today let's answer the question does
skipping your breakfast cause diabetes
or does it cause you to gain weight
okay there's been quite a few studies
out there that show the link between
skipping a breakfast and we're sending
your blood sugars or increasing your
risk for diabetes and even gaining more
weight okay guys so there's a couple
things you really need to know number
one most if not all the studies that
show this link are sponsored by the food
industry surprise and the studies that
are not sponsored by the food industry
do not show this correlation so recently
there was another article published
November 2018 and entitled breakfast
skipping is associated with increased
risk of type 2 diabetes among adults
a systematic review and meta-analysis of
prospective cohort studies and this was
published in the Journal of nutrition so
I just want to kind of go through this
because it's quite comical okay first
section in conclusion the study
indicated that there is an association
between breakfast skipping and risk of
type 2 diabetes okay the key word is
Association what does association mean
does it mean that it caused anything no
it means it's a connection only it
doesn't mean that it caused anything
okay point number two to strengthen the
evidence on this association more
studies are warranted especially from
different geographic locations because
the current evidence came from only the
United States and Asia so if you live
anywhere other than these two locations
all this information doesn't apply to
you okay next point this was based on a
question here with and without a
validation so you're just going to ask
people hopefully they've remembered and
hopefully they're telling the truth
alright next point interestingly the
strongest association with type 2
diabetes was observed for the
combination of breakfast skipping and
having a Western diet pattern
among men from the health professionals
follow-up study okay what is the Western
diet pattern that is the sad diet
basically it's what people eat in the
West which is all refined carbohydrates
and sugars all right so let's cover the
next point evidence from studies has
shown that high intake of red meat comma
foods with high glycemic index or load
comma and sugar sweetened beverages were
associated with an increased risk of
type 2 diabetes whereas whole-grain
products and coffee consumption were
associated with reduce risk okay guys so
you can see right there they're not
quite unbiased because they're telling
you whole grains will decrease the risk
okay guys next point moving right along
there was evidence for publication bias
indicating that small studies with
negative results were missing okay so
you can see right there they're
basically cherry-picking we're gonna
show you this correlation but we're
gonna omit this little piece over here
alright in the last little point I want
to bring up is that there are different
definitions of breakfast skipping among
the different studies which again it
doesn't keep everything very standard so
you can see guys that this study was
completely filled with holes but there's
a really interesting paper that I put a
link down below that you have to check
out because it goes into this topic and
how you can manipulate data and there's
just point after point after point but
go ahead and read this in your spare
time because it's quite fascinating they
list all the different studies on this
connection between skipping a breakfast
and diabetes skipping breakfast and
weight gain and they basically show you
all the results of the independent
studies that are not sponsored by the
food industry so you can actually see
the true information and guys I just
wanted to bring up the most important
point okay and that is this whether you
consume the breakfast or don't consume
breakfast has absolutely nothing to do
with whether you're going to get
diabetes or not why because diabetes is
a disease of what you eat okay
these studies don't talk about the diet
they're talking about skipping a
breakfast that's ridiculous
how can you possibly determine if
someone's gonna gain weight get diabetes
or have a disease if you don't know what
is being consumed okay you can't it's
impossible it's illogical you're
sleeping all night long right you're
fasting all night long you wake up in
the morning and then you eat breakfast
you actually break the fast that first
meal does not stimulate your metabolism
in some way that helps you lose weight
that's not what happens
now people who use that and they'll say
well well I got hungry well that's
because your blood Sugar's went up and
then it went down and then you're gonna
be hungry that is not necessarily
stimulating fat burning it may stimulate
certain enzymes to help you digest but
it has nothing to do with burning fat I
mean there's two things related to
diabetes number one what you're
consuming how how many carbohydrates are
you consuming and the data of eating in
general stimulates insulin okay diabetes
is a disease of too much sugar in the
blood so when you eat especially carbs
you're gonna raise sugar take a diabetic
who's on insulin for example what
happens when he or she eats they have to
take insulin to reduce this sugar okay
is that improving diabetes no eating
worsens diabetes okay
fasting lowers glucose lowers insulin
there by how big diabetes it helps you
lose weight
it doesn't worse than anything that's
illogical and when you combine in a
minute fasting let's say you're gonna
now skip breakfast and you're continuing
to eat a bad diet you you've never
adapted so in other words you're gonna
have a heck of a time getting in the fat
burning because it takes at least three
days for your body to switch over to
burning fat so you can go from one meal
to the next if you've never adapted if
you skip breakfast your blood sugars are
gonna go down you're gonna be really
really hungry grouchy and tired and
you're gonna eat you're gonna feel
better
but you're never gonna fully adapt and
another big problem is that the media
picks up on these studies okay and of
course it's you know why they're doing
it the food industry wants to get people
to keep eating the media picks it up and
then it becomes truth and I want to show
you something on that one point all it
seems to take is some association or
some link to make it a fact here's some
quotations that show breakfast is widely
believed to protect against obesity this
is by dr. oz the fact is when you're
trying to lose weight you can't skip
breakfast okay
that's false information here's another
by Web MD there's ample evidence that
the simple act of eating breakfast every
day is a big part of losing weight lots
of weight here's another one by the US
Surgeon General eating a healthy
breakfast is a good way to start the day
and may be important in achieving and
maintaining a healthy weight here's one
by John Hopkins
studies show that breakfast can be
important in maintaining a healthy body
weight here's another one by Mayo Clinic
in fact skipping breakfast actually
increases your risk of obesity and of
course the Academy of Nutrition and
Dietetics want to trim your waist try
eating breakfast alright guys in summary
association does not mean cause we are
being hit from every angle of research
data being manipulated and camouflaged
as this credible evidence-based science
so in the future if you see something
like this get the study read it yourself
before you accept it as an actual fact
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
