so I wanted to do a video on the side
effects of calcium carbonate because a
lot of people are taking it they don't
really know much about it the biggest
thing that you need to know is that
calcium and other minerals need an
acidic medium to be absorbed okay so if
your stomach does not have the acidity
that you need that calcium is not going
to be absorbed too well a lot of people
are taking calcium carbonate for
heartburn and what happens the calcium
carbonate dries up the acid in the
stomach over time to the point where you
have less and less acid so not only does
that calcium not absorbed and benefiting
you anyway but the calcium ends up
causing heartburn because now there's no
way of creating a signal to close the
valve at the top of the stomach and now
you get GERD or acid reflux you need a
really really really acid stomach to
keep that valve on the top of the
stomach closed so there's no acid that
shoots up now this is my opinion but I
think you would be better off by taking
outside of vinegar for GERD or heartburn
than any type of calcium products but of
course check with your doctor before
taking any of my advice now there's a
couple studies I'm going to put down
below that talked about this high doses
of calcium carbonate did not increase
bone density in the condition of
osteoporosis but it did increase the
risk of heart attacks also there's some
interesting information on calcium
carbonate lowering the thyroid function
and blocking the person's ability to
utilize t3 which is the active form of
the thyroid hormone here are some of the
side effects loss of appetite
constipation gas nausea vomiting
decrease in hydrochloric acid I talked
about that you need HCl to absorb
calcium and the calcium being alkalyn
will decrease HCl so it's a double-edged
sword
there are various contour
Asians to calcium carbonate one is you
don't want to take it if you have kidney
stones or two if you have hypercalcemia
this means too much calcium in the blood
here are the symptoms increased
urination how many people get up several
times of the night and they think it's
normal
fatigue headache abdominal pain now you
can also have a blood sugar problem in
some resistance or being a pre-diabetic
and have some of these symptoms too but
it could also come from too much calcium
in the blood and a lot of people
especially the elderly are taking this
daily calcium and mega doses thinking
that it's gonna prevent their bone loss
when it's actually creating other issues
now if you think about someone that is
older what do they have arthritis
calcification now you're gonna dump more
calcium into the system might not be the
best thing to do and lastly calcium
carbonate gives a severe interaction
with 210 drugs so if you take some of
this older that has normally glow
hydrochloric acid so they're gonna have
heartburn and they start taking this and
they're also taking it for their bone
loss and they're getting up urinating
all the time from this right here and
they're usually on multiple medications
which could interfere with this it's
just something to be aware of if you
happen to be taking this or have a
parent or a grandparent who's taking it
have them watch this video the mineral
calcium is actually very interesting and
if you want to see a really interesting
video check out this one on calcium that
I did quite a few years ago
