hi guys recently I got a question what
is c-reactive protein so I'm going to do
a little video on that and exactly what
to do about it what causes it
it's basically inflammatory marker in
the blood so it's a test that you can do
to see how much inflammation is in the
body through the blood okay it's
obviously a protein that indicates that
so it's a better indicator of heart
disease in vascular disease then
cholesterol way better because
inflammation is a better indicator of
the whole process okay so that's what it
is now what what do you do to actually
get it under control well you want to
ask yourself why is it there in the
first place why do you have inflammation
in your in your body and your arteries
well the most important things were
number seven number eight down here and
that's basically gluten which is the
protein and grains can raise that so you
want to get the grains of the diet and
then insulin of course you probably
already know that but we have to lower
insulin I'll put a link down below if
you don't know how to do that but that's
the sugar and that's the frequent eating
the smacking you have to get down into
control because that is the biggest
inflammatory thing that's triggering
that so but also nutrition wise vitamin
C vitamin C will lower C reactive
protein here's the thing with vitamin C
you want to get your vitamin C from your
vegetables like seven to ten cups that's
the ideal scene that provides you enough
vitamin C to drop this the people that
have a lot of inflammation don't consume
enough vegetables and they're doing a
lot of like the wrong type of omega-3
oils okay so that's what it is
now what do we do about it okay I'm
going to first cover some of the
nutrient things and then some nutrient
things that are even more important
number one vitamin C you want to get
your vitamin C from your vegetables okay
this will lower C reactive protein
most people do not consume even close
the amount of vitamin C they need from
vegetables so you need like at least
seven cups minimally ideally ten so
that's like two good salads or a salad
and vegetable each day you want to get
used to doing that
we'll bring the information right down
because if you think about it you can
ask yourself why do you have information
in the first place you know there's
something that is not right in your body
and it's creating a problem in your
arteries curcumin is a turmeric turmeric
that spice that you can consume you can
get in a powder or a supplement or use
it on your food okay so that's a very
powerful way to lower c-reactive protein
and then stinging nettle root that's
another plant that you can get in a
supplement and you can actually use it
to do a lot of things but it's one of
the most powerful anti-inflammatories
that I know vitamin k2 that will also
help lower that that also removes
calcium into the arteries it cleans out
the arteries of plaquing and then fish
oil is a high quality fish oil if you're
going to get a fish oil don't get one
from the drugstore go into the health of
store and get something higher quality
because a lot of times that is rancid
but a good cod liver oil is omega-3 is
anti-inflammatory okay coenzyme q-10 is
also something you can take to lower
c-reactive protein and then lowering
gluten from the wheat all the breads
pasta cereal crackers that has gluten
that's highly inflammatory that will
raise that and lastly most importantly
is lower insulin cut the sugar out of
the diet cut out the frequent stacking
that will lower that and that's probably
the biggest reason why people have high
c-reactive protein in the first place
that's involved in the clogging of the
arteries alright thanks for watching you
I'm just wanted to take a moment out to
thank you for your amazing feedback that
you guys are giving me it's just
mind-blowing
the success is the winds I created a
link down below so you can actually type
out your full success story and if you
have a before and after with weight loss
that would be awesome and if you don't
have a success with weight but other
things just put an image of yourself and
your personal success story and I would
love to read it and also share it with
others so I want to just thank you in
advance for doing that but there's a
link down below fill it out I can't wait
to read it
