so I always get this comment that when
you're fasting you're starving okay but
it's not true you actually are eating
when you're fasting your cells are
eating its own fat they're being fed not
from the diet but from your storage so
the only time fasting is starving is if
you go way too long and you used up all
of your fat and you have no more fat
left so then the body is gonna start
eating up its muscles but that would
take a very very long time
so the average thin person is walking
around with about a hundred thousand
calories of fat on their body that
should last them for a very long time so
fat will give us glycerol and fatty
acids and these two will turn into
ketones but certain parts of your body
can definitely run in fatty acids in
fact 60% of the fuel used when you're
fasting is fatty acids so it can use
that and as far as the brain is
concerned two-thirds of the fuel can be
ketones and one third will be glucose
now this brings up a question wait a
second I thought we can run our whole
body and ketones we don't need glucose
not true we do need a small amount of
glucose one third of the brain needs
glucose the red blood cells need glucose
in certain parts of the kidney need
glucose however there is something in
the body called gluco neo Genesis where
the body can make its own glucose and
where does it get it from well you can
get it from glycerol which is part of
the fat breakdown as far as ketones can
give you 10 grams of glucose each day
recycled lactate which is a different
type of fuel you can get up to 40 grams
of glucose a day from that your organs
can generate up to 80 grams of glucose
per day and lastly alanine which is an
amino acid from your muscles can provide
up to 15 grams of glucose
now realize this would only occur if you
run out of this because when you do
fasting your body protects against the
loss of muscle only very small amounts
of muscle is used for fuel and that
would usually occur over a period of
time so you don't have to worry about
losing your muscles if you're especially
doing in a minute fasting or if you have
enough fat to actually use as your fuel
now after 30 hours of fasting you will
completely deplete all of your glycogen
which is the stored sugar and your liver
so now the only glycogen you have is in
the muscles and certain other organs but
that glycogen can be made from these
sources right here it does not have to
come from the diet our bodies are very
well adapted to this and especially the
brain the brain doesn't even have to
develop new machinery for burning
ketones
it already has it ready so if you just
increase the ketones in your blood it
will take that as priority it loves
ketones and it thrives on ketones so the
significance of this alone tells us that
our body is very well designed for
fasting and intermittent fasting and it
does very well on that it doesn't do
good on the frequent meals and the
snacks through the day and I just wanted
to create this video to let people know
that your cells are actually eating when
you're not eating thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
