today I'd like to discuss the most
common micronutrient
deficiency that can keep you on the
short side personally growing up um I
think my growth was stunted through
wrestling I wrestled uh junior high
school high school and I started college
until I fractured my neck but for about
three years I actually went through
cycles of literally starving myself to
make weight I think that's stun on my
growth and I'm only 6'2 now you might
say well you're only 62 yeah but my
Dad's 65 my younger brother is 67 my mom
is 6 foot no I'm just kidding she's 58
so if you're a teenager and you starve
yourself you know especially three years
in a row that can have an influence on
your nutrition most stenog growth is
related to malnutrition it is so
important in the beginning years of life
that you have all the essential
nutrients I'm talking about protein I'm
talking about vitamins minerals healthy
fats because as because this relates to
growth and development not just your
height but organs and tissues if you're
deficient in iodine for example it can
affect your cognitive function if you're
deficient in zinc you can definitely be
shorter as well if you have some problem
with your pituitary that's going to
affect your height because pituitary
controls something called growth hormone
but generally speaking girls generally
have a growth Spirit between 10 years
old and 14 and boys between 12 and 15
but if we take a look at growth we're
going to talk about all of the things
we're going to talk about the protein
talk about vitamins and minerals and
we're going to talk about hormones let's
start with hormones okay in a child
growth hormone primarily helps you grow
helps your bones grow helps your muscles
grow helps your height then when you
become an adult growth hormone has other
functions it keeps and preserves protein
on your body it's anti-aging it helps
you with weight loss and there's several
things about growth hormone I want to
talk about number one it's stimulated by
amino acids protein if you're not
consuming enough quality protein your
growth hormone can be diminished if you
have a high sugary diet if you have high
blood glucose or you have insulin
resistance if you don't sleep enough
growth hormone is made by your pituitary
goes to your liver and then your liver
makes insulin like growth factor number
one now this hormone if deficient can
definitely make you shorter and this
hormone is also triggered by a good
amount of Amo acids and zinc you know
how could you become deficient in zinc
number one not consuming enough foods
high in zinc and out of all the foods
that are high in zinc we have red meat
other animal Meats we have fish
shellfish and there's not a lot of zinc
in plant Foods especially grains and
especially corn especially cassava
especially rice and if we just take a
look at the country that has the highest
zinc deficiency that would would be in
Africa the Republic of Congo and I'm
primarily talking about children and
mothers now why would that be because if
you look at their diet it's mostly
composed of rice corn grains and cereals
Okay now what's the common denominator
of all of those it's phytic acid it's a
certain chemical that blocks zinc
creating a a massive zinc deficiency
which can affect the immune system okay
what are some other things that can
create a deficiency of Inc stress sugar
eating junk food that was me now I also
mentioned something related to Sugar
insulin resistance most of the
population has insulin resistance and
that can create an effect on your growth
as well because the insulin receptor has
another function that goes beyond just
the regulation of blood sugars it helps
you absorb nutrients this is why when
someone goes on the ketogenic diet and
starts to repair this insulin resistance
and now insulin becomes more sensitive
sensitive they start having a healing
effect with their muscles another
important nutrient is vitamin D vitamin
D is another really common deficiency uh
simply because first of all kids don't
go outside much anymore it's almost
impossible to get from your diet all the
junk food inhibits it and the
inflammation in our guts block the
absorption of vitamin D all of these
things influence your growth hormone and
your igf number one which is the insulin
like growth factor so if you have a
child that has St of growth grow I would
definitely um Implement some of these
strategies and there's one more uh thing
that I used in practice that seemed to
work very well because your pituitary is
at the heart and anything you can do to
support the pituitary would be a good
thing there is one product that standard
process uh sold when I was in practice
that seemed to really work it seemed to
help children grow a lot more in a short
period of time and it's called patut
tropen PMG I would definitely recommend
that maybe one before bed for maybe
three months just to optimize the
potential for a child's growth now since
we're on the topic of zinc there's a lot
more to learn if you have not seen this
very interesting video on zinc I put it
up right here check it
out
