hey guys I'm back and I'm here to answer
your question we had a question about
malic acid what is malic acid
well malic acid actually comes from
apples that comes from vegetables it
comes from certain fruits and it has
certain health benefits at number one
it's good for kidney stones it doesn't
completely dissolve kidney stones but it
does reduce the size of kidney stones it
also is good for golf stones Golf sludge
it's very tart it's also good for
fibromyalgia but not directly my theory
is that it thins the bile or it will
actually increase the bile flow and so
many people have our amalga on the right
side I wonder why it really has to do
with irritating the gallbladder and then
the referred pain through the entire
right shoulder and all the way down that
your right your right side so in reality
I think that the improvement for
pharmacology really comes from the
improvement in the gallbladder not to
mention when you improve the gallbladder
you improve fat soluble vitamins and a
lot of the fatty acids are
anti-inflammatory especially like
omega-3 all right guys so that's your
quick video on malic acid so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
