let's talk about Sjogren's syndrome and
a really good protocol if I personally
had Sjogren's syndrome I'm going to show
you exactly what I would do many times
this syndrome and syndrome is kind of
involving multiple areas is mistaken for
dry eyes or dry mouth but in fact it's
an autoimmune disease but the dry mouth
can lead to dental decay chap lips
difficulty swallowing but it involves a
lot of mucous membranes and you have a
lot of mucous membranes to the entire
body and so it can really affect your
sinuses it can affect the
gastrointestinal tract it can also
spread to the lungs the kidneys and the
nervous system so it's Progressive and
it's chronic so it typically gets worse
with time but I'm going to show you what
to do to put in remission it's very
common for people with Sjogren's to also
have lupus
and or rheumatoid arthritis or other
autoimmune diseases there's pain there's
fatigue involved there's also a high
risk of lymphoma which is like a tumor
in your lymphatic system women are nine
times more likely to get this than men
and there's even a genetic part like it
was called a polymorphism which
basically is a weakness within your
genes that can get turned on with
certain environmental triggers but if
you have this Gene it doesn't mean that
you're going to get shograms it just
means that you have a tendency to get it
if there's a certain environmental
stress factor in play and that stress
factor is usually viral I'm talking
about Epstein-Barr virus and
cytomegalovirus okay now both of those
viruses are latent which means you get
this infection it goes in remission and
so you don't have this problem anymore
and then it can come out of remission
later or the same thing with chickenpox
right you have chickenpox and then later
in life you end up with this um shingles
okay it comes and goes depending on
stress well Epstein-Barr virus or
cytomegalovirus can come out of
remission which is probably triggered by
some major stress event it could be a a
loss of a loved one for example I see
that very common when I was in practice
and then it just Alters your immune
system to the point where you have an
autoimmune disease which I'm going to
get into in a minute but the point is
that many of these conditions are
triggered by various things and viruses
are at the top of the list but what's
behind that is usually a stress event
and this is why Sjogren's can sometimes
go in remission right they just kind of
goes away and people don't know why well
it probably has something to do with the
person's stress level they just suddenly
handled their stress and this condition
gets much better as far as the
underlying mechanism right they've
studied this I put a lot of references
down below to if you want more
information but they isolated this very
specific problem within your immune
system and I'm not going to get into
detail but all you need to know is
there's two types of T cells involved
you have the T helper cell 17 involved
that cell is normally involved in
attacking pathogens viruses bacteria and
fungi but for some reason that goes out
of balance and it loses control and it
starts to attack your own tissues and so
they found that we have too much th17
that's out of balance with another T
Cell called the T regulatory cell which
is all about self-tolerance and
protecting our own tissues from being
attacked in other words attacked by our
own immune system so it prevents
friendly fire it helps the body
differentiate between our own cells and
a pathogen so the perfect storm seems to
be this increase of th17 and this
decrease of the T regulatory cell that
part of the immune system gets out of
balance and that initiates an autoimmune
response and then we get a lot of
inflammation and collateral damage but
the isolated this out of balance with
like psoriasis lupus Sjogren's and so
the protocol I'm going to talk about
really addresses putting this part of
the immune system back into balance now
personally from looking at this data
there's a lot of evidence to show that
this might also be initiated in your gut
because in the mucous membrane of the
lining of your colon you have these th17
cells as well as the t-reg cells and so
you have this GI system with a massive
massive surface area if you were to
stretch out your intestinal tract which
is basically an internal protective
barrier to the inside of your body if
you took the surface area of that and
you stretch it out it would be the size
of a tennis court which is constantly
being exposed to a multitude of viruses
bacteria certain junk Foods things that
create inflammation so there's a lot
going on if you have any autoimmune
disease disease or any condition that
involves inflammation
boy you better get your diet right to
make sure that nothing you're eating
creates inflammation in your gut and
that's pretty much all I'm going to say
about that I'm not going to get into the
diet for this I'm going to jump right
into the protocol so the protocol
involves natural remedies backed up by
some pretty hardcore studies that do a
couple things one is put this
th17 t-reg ratio Back in Balance and so
the first remedy is called sweet
wormwood okay there's an active
ingredient in there that's highly
researched that is really good for your
immune system and especially this
Condition it's called artemisinum and it
also has another function of inhibiting
viruses specifically the Epstein-Barr
virus and the cytomegalovirus so it'll
help you in both areas now as far as the
dosage on all the things I'm going to
talk about I would
just follow what is on the back of the
label the next thing I'm going to
recommend is this is more of a food
broccoli Sprouts you could get
sulforaphane as a supplement but it's
preferable to get broccoli sprouts and
just put them on your salad you know
just a little bit each day but the
sulforaphane in broccoli Sprouts also
helps to balance your T cells as well as
reduce the cytokines or the inflammatory
Cascade that occurs after this imbalance
sultheraphane is also very antiviral it
helps you with oxidative stress and this
next remedy is you know not a supplement
it's safe food and it's sauerkraut and I
know you're probably wondering
what would sauerkraut do for an
autoimmune disorder right well another
piece of fascinating data is that your
gut microbes regulate
the T helper 17 cells as well as the T
regulatory cells to prevent viruses from
creating problems also from invading
that lining in your colon so I would
recommend just a little bit of
sauerkraut in your diet every single day
as a probiotic which will also give you
the vitamin C and it'll also give you a
good fiber to help feed the microbes and
you can also do a probiotic but
sauerkraut is one of the best probiotics
that you can consume nearly all of the
Sjogren's syndrome cases
have dysbiosis they have problems within
their gut and that might be actually one
of the biggest factors in this perfect
storm of developing an autoimmune
disease and so if you can focus on
getting this diverse population okay in
your gut
um that right there might put this thing
right back in remission there's two
other potent
vitamins that can help put these T cells
back into balance one is vitamin D and
the other one is vitamin A and I'm not
talking about beta-carotene I'm talking
about retinol both have potent effects
of balancing out to make sure you have
the right ratios of your T cells I would
recommend 30 000 IUS of vitamin D every
single day which by the way will also
drop your inflammation and as far as the
vitamin A goes I'm going to recommend
you get that from cod liver oil and the
cool thing about cod liver oil is not
only does it have DHA and EPA which is
needed to help counter the dryness in
your eyes and your mouth but Cod Liver
also has vitamin A and vitamin D and so
it's one of the best oils for this
condition because it has so many factors
that contribute to lessening the side
effects from this problem so the cod
liver oil specifically the DHA and the
EPA
is going to help also stimulate the
glands to produce tears in your eyes and
I'm going to also recommend very
importantly this other oil it's black
currant seed oil it'll give you a type
of fat called GLA which in combination
with that cod liver oil will help
stimulate the tear ducts to produce more
tears now before you go to sleep at
night I would recommend you put coconut
oil in your mouth okay just to help with
the dryness when you're sleeping and you
can even take on a Q-tip put some in
each nostril of your nose to help with
dryness if needed especially if you have
cracking and the last remedy is called
cordyceps mushroom that can Target the
malfunctioning salivary gland and so
it's going to increase the production of
saliva as well as address part of the
immune system that's out of balance so
go ahead and apply this information and
then come back to this video and please
comment in the comment section your
results now the next most important
video is my video on the relationship
between vitamin D and what it can do for
autoimmune diseases in general so check
that out I put it up right here
