now I've done a lot of videos on how to
boost testosterone which is a type of
antigen but I haven't done any videos on
how to reduce testosterone or androgens
and I have had some questions on how to
do that so this video is on the eight
natural herbs that have the potential of
reducing androgens now if you have too
much androgen and you're female you may
get facial hair you may get acne you may
have polycystic ovarian syndrome you may
have loss of hair primarily thinning of
the hair or alopecia which is an
autoimmune condition where you're losing
patches of hair throughout the head and
you can actually be male and have the
same problem now in a male you may have
prostate cancer or a benign prostatic
hypertrophy
which is an enlargement of the prostate
gland and in the female and you may have
a deep voice as a result of having too
much antigen now there's an enzyme
called 5-alpha reductase increases the
conversion of testosterone to DHT so a
lot of these natural herbs are
inhibitors of this enzyme so they block
this process let's start with the first
one spearmint tea okay that has certain
properties to help lower testosterone
red reishi mushroom has significant
effects of reducing this enzyme and
reducing prostate enlargement and also
reading acne licorice which is the final
estrogen and can help increase estrogen
to lower excessive amounts of androgen
so it's really good for menstrual
problems number four Chinese peony now
this herb will take the excess amount of
testosterone and convert it to a
sturgeon and just so you know estrogen
in the body can be made from androgens
okay number five green tea significantly
reduces this enzyme thereby reducing the
amount of DHT number six black cohosh
great for the prostate great for benign
prostatic hypertrophy and it's primarily
used in men okay number seven chaste
tree it
juice this enzyme to reduce the powerful
form of testosterone and number eight
saw palmetto which is really good for an
enlarged prostate alopecia and
polycystic ovarian syndrome now if
you're female and you have polycystic
ovarian syndrome make sure that you
watch the video below because excessive
amounts of insulin because your
carbohydrates are too high will result
in an excess amount of androgens okay
but these are some herbs that you can
use in addition to that all right thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
