now out of all the things that can
affect your state of well-being and your
health sleep is at the top of the list
and people don't even appreciate a good
night sleep until they don't sleep there
was a period of my life actually 12
years where I had terrible terrible
sleep there were nights where I didn't
even sleep one minute so I really
appreciate sleep and I have 12 things
today I'm going to share with you about
sleep based on firsthand experience
there is a direct correlation with your
sleep and your overall heart function
and your longevity and if you don't
sleep it can affect your Cravings you
can actually develop an alteration in
your blood sugars from just not sleeping
that well your appetite will increase
your cortisol will increase your mood
will go down if you don't get enough
sleep but boy when you sleep good
everything is great so the first thing I
want to talk about is cortisol cortisol
is an adrenal hormone and um that can
keep you up at night especially around 2
to 2:30 in the middle of the night you
want to take more vitamin B1 make sure
it's a natural version but it can
actually greatly reduce your cortisol
you want to put a lot of attention on
long walks every day just to kind of get
rid of this stress because obviously
stress is activating the cortisol
release so you want to do a lot of
things to focus in on what's really
underneath the stress is it that you're
watching too many YouTube videos on the
news and bad news and that can play a
huge role and I know people want to be
informed of what's going on but you have
to limit uh or curb how much of that you
can take during the given day the second
really important thing about sleep is
getting enough vitamin D if you don't
have enough vitamin D uh your circadian
waves won't work that well if you get
jet leg for example uh vitamin D is the
greatest antidote to Jet leg it can
quickly reset your circadian rhythms
pretty quick within a day or two you you
kind of need a lot you you need between
40,000 to 50,000 IUS of vitamin D3 but
vitamin D even taken right before bed
sometimes can greatly help you sleep
especially if you have sleep apnea all
right the next thing and that is calcium
if you're trying to go to bed at night
and your muscles are kind of crampy and
things it could be magnesium which I
will cover but it could also be a
Calcium deficiency so calcium is
involved with the muscles and also a
Calcium deficiency will cause you to be
tired
I don't know if you've ever been really
really exhausted and so tired that you
can't sleep well calcium is the remedy
for that there's a couple ways you can
get the calcium one is just with a
calcium supplement maybe a a calcium
magnesium supplement maybe calcium
lactate which is a good one uh another
thing you can do is uh consume more
cheese during the day make sure it's a
high quality cheese I like European
cheese especially if it's raw let's talk
about milk for a second is milk okay
well if you can find some raw milk that
would be the ideal situation right
before a bed uh there is also something
called nighttime milk and you can buy it
and this type of milk is created um when
you milk cows at night which enhances
your tryptophan in the milk and the
melatonin in the milk but if you really
can't find that there's something else
that I would recommend kefir uh like
from goats milk before bed plain uh
seems to work good and if you're
concerned about it breaking your keto uh
or your fasting just take it right after
the meal that can give you some
probotics which will help your sleep as
well as the calcium and also what's in
milk is high levels of tryptophan which
turn into
seratonin and melatonin which can help
you sleep and so now let's talk about
magnesium magnesium will help reduce
that cortisol too it'll help relax you
especially before bed it can help with
muscle cramps which can keep you up some
people take like a hot bath before bed
with epsom salts which is magnesium
sulfate that's another tip with
magnesium and there's other types of
magnesium um massage oils that you can
have someone work on your back and
muscles that are tight the next thing on
the list is making sure you have enough
pottassium in your diet potassium is uh
kind of like a physiological
tranquilizer it calms the nervous system
a lot of the potassium is used in your
muscles and your nervous system and so
if you're deficient you may notice that
your muscles are not relaxing properly
and your heart you might have
palpitations or an arhythmia which can
keep you up as well as a higher pulse
rate so potassium is key in keeping your
pulse rate lowered and if you ever
consumed a lot of refined carbs or sugar
you're going to notice that you end up
with a potassium deficiency uh it can
even create this like pounding sensation
in your inner ear right right before
sleep that means you have need more
potassium and the way you can get more
potassium and magnesium is through
eating more leafy greens uh in your diet
uh I normally have between seven and 10
cups so if you can work up to like seven
cups of salad per day that will give you
your potassium and magnesium
requirements potassium is also really
good to help lower anxiety so if your
diet is like really heavy with meat and
uh which is kind of stimulating and you
don't have the offsetting minerals like
magnesium and calcium from the greens
you may find that your nervous system is
more accelerated and you don't have the
brake pads that magnesium and potassium
provide now let's talk about your
environment in your room you have your
pillow you have your mattress if your
pillow is not the right um the height of
your head so your head's too low or too
high that can be an issue so it's really
worth investing in a good quality pillow
not a cheap pillow that can hurt your
neck as well as a good mattress because
you basically spend onethird of your
life in bed I suggest go to a mattress
store and test things out and see what
you like best and also you have the room
right if your room is um like in the
winter and it's cold outside you can't
keep the the window open so you don't
get as much oxygen you might have too
much CO2 and if having an imbalance of
too much CO2 and not enough oxygen that
alone can keep you up but you can simply
just get a couple plants in your room to
help reverse that but I always sleep
better with the window open if possible
and also with your temperature people
tend to sleep better if the room is a
bit cooler so I keep the temperature of
my room about 68 and that I seem to
sleep better now what about taking
melatonin is that a good thing I don't
recommend it because melatonin helps you
get to sleep it doesn't help you stay
asleep and melatonin is a hormone
produced by the pineal gland and anytime
you take
melatonin potentially it could create a
problem with the gland that's supposed
to make it so instead you can increase
your melatonin through Foods as well as
through light the sun over 50% of the
sun's rays are infrared which will
naturally increase melatonin inside your
body believe it or not and this
melatonin has a different function to
the what the pineal creates melatonin is
a very potent antioxidant and I will put
a video on that down below and so
melatonin can be increased through this
infrared which actually can even
penetrate through your clothes so
especially like a sunrise or a sunset uh
you can get some really good infrared
from that and even like uh sitting in
front of a a fireplace or a candle or a
campfire or even having an infrared
device so you can see I have one right
here you can get one of these devices
and to increase your infrared and you
can also use that for various other
things like controlling pain and
inflammation and the other thing to know
about that topic is that if you have
fluorescent lighting or you're in front
of
your uh screens a lot or your cell phone
or the TV all of that puts out this blue
light which interferes with your sleep
cycles not to mention the other thing
that's involved with the cell phone in
the computer screens that's called EMF
electromag magnetic fields boy that can
really affect your ability to sleep
especially if you're doing that right
before bed or you spend a lot of time on
it or there's some type of device close
to your head while you're sleeping the
next thing I want to talk about is
vitamin B12 B12 is really good to help
prevent things like sleep apnea B12 is
also involved in the creation of
melatonin and so if you're deficient in
B12 for various reasons that can keep
you up as well the next nutrient is
vitamin B1 vitamin B1 specifically helps
that brain chatter that excessive
thinking before bed and I recommend
getting a natural one because a B1
deficiency is so common with so many
people and if you haven't ever
experimented with it taking it uh when
you have anxiety or nervous tension
within minutes you just feel calm and
relaxed and uh you can drift off into a
wonderful sleep B1 is essential for the
brain stem function which has a lot to
do with you're breathing and you may
find that your breathing is off
especially at night if you don't have
enough B1 so you might catch yourself
like breathing very shallow and what
causes a B1 deficiency is the stress
sugar uh refined carbs and drinking too
much coffee or tea B1 is also really
good to uh remedy nightmares and that
brings us to the next part of this which
is carbs right if you're consuming a lot
of carbs if you're consuming a lot of
sugar
or alcohol you're going to deplete your
B1 and that's going to increase What's
called the fight or flight mechanism or
the sympathetic nervous system which is
going to keep you up at night not just
with cortisol but with adrenaline try to
sleep if you're being chased by a tiger
it doesn't work so the more carbs the
more sugars the more insulin resistance
that you develop and guess what else
happens when you have insulin resistance
you start having frequent urination at
night so all these people that have to
get up to the night and some people I
know it's like 12 times a night it's
crazy what they need to do is fix
insulin resistance because insulin
resistance as well as pre-diabetes and
diabetes causes a situation where you
have this excessive urine at night that
will just force you to get out of bed
and it's so easy to fix that if you just
change your diet another nutrient to
help you sleep is zinc zinc tends to be
intimately involved in the circadian
rhythms and the uh REM sleep as well as
increasing tryptophan which turns into
serotonin and then melatonin so
sometimes taking zinc before bed can
greatly help your sleep if you're
deficient zinc can also help you fall
asleep faster a couple extra points on
sleep stimulants if you're consuming
caffeine boy that'll keep you up so I
would really look at that as well I have
just a very small cup of coffee in the
morning and that's it I don't have anym
and I find if I do that I can sleep
really good your liver has to detoxify
that caffeine and uh if you have any
problem with your liver then you might
just tend to retain that caffeine longer
than you should I always focus on my
breathing to help me get to sleep and
also if I get up in the middle of the
night and I can't get back to sleep I
notice that I'm catching my breath so
slow even breaths making sure that your
inhalation equals the exhalation
breathing through your nose breathing
through your stomach focusing on the
breath can greatly help you sleep and
the last point is not eating too late or
overeating because if your digestion is
stressed or you're bloated you will not
be able to sleep so try to have that
last meal as early as possible and
especially if you have insomnia you may
just find that can create a huge
difference now because of the censoring
and the suppressing of the algorithms on
YouTube it's becoming more difficult to
find my content and there's a lot of
content that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other
side
