hey dr. Berg here in this video I'm
going to show you an exercise that will
flatten your stomach this is
specifically good for that little not so
beautiful little pooch of fat right in
the lower part of the stomach it's kind
of that flab that extra skin that you've
might have developed after several
babies or maybe a c-section okay so this
is what that's for
and so what you're going to do is you're
going to do an exercise standing now
it's based on the principle of a
technique that I developed for
stretching and I had a patient actually
try this and she says dr. Berg why don't
you actually do this to the stomach and
I never thought about it and she told me
and it works great in fact if you do
this exercise you'll see change within
about four minutes I mean think about it
what what you're going to do is you're
going to contract a muscle and that's
what people do they do sit ups so they
contract the muscle but what are they
doing to the skin they're not toning the
skin they're not toning anything on top
of that muscle so what you what tones
the skin is the opposite it's the
extension okay not the flexion so what
you're going to do is you're going to
stand up and you're going to do this
stretch and you're going to go backwards
so you would stand up go back all the
way try not to fall on your back tighten
up your gluts and go forward now just as
a word of caution if you have back pain
you may want to do this very lightly and
when you bend back first tighten up your
stomach muscles and your butt muscles
this will stabilize and protect your
back back and forward back and forward
about twenty five times and then what
you're gonna do is you're going to rest
for thirty Seconds okay and when you
rest maybe you want to flex forward you
want to arch your back forward and then
go back again I mean think about what
means most people do with sit-ups is
they're flexing they're flexing they're
flexing but they're not toning the skin
superficially or anything on top of it
so this is quite amazing so you're going
to do this four sets of
t5 with a 30 second rest in between and
you can do it every other day and then
as you get used to it you can do more
and more and more to the point where
you're doing 50 sets every day four sets
or five sets of 50 each and every day
and what's going to happen is you're
going to notice a nice flattening of the
lower part of the stomach it's one of
the only exercises that that I know that
will do this specific action doing the
other way what you're doing situps will
not do it and it will take way way too
long it might do it a little bit but not
near to the degree that this will do it
so I hope you enjoyed the tip and I will
see you on the next video
