it's a lack of this one mineral that's
causing your aging spots now what's an
aging spot aging spots are also called
liver spots which are not really caused
by the liver necessarily but if you have
a bad liver you probably have similar
skin problems so today I'm going to talk
about where they come from how to get
rid of them why do they uh develop uh
kind of patches around different places
in your body are they dangerous are they
going to turn into skin cancer I'm going
to cover all that 90% of everyone over
the age of 60 has these blemishes so I
am 59 I have something to look forward
to next year what we're really dealing
with with this darken spot is melanin
melanin is a pigment that's behind the
color of your skin the color of your
hair the color of your eyes and one of
the big purposes of melanin is to
protect you against a certain type of
radiation called UV radiation because UV
can create damage in our skin cells
especially the DNA our body has created
over a long period of time this umbrella
that is a protective thing against the
cells to protect the DNA against damage
and so one of the big things that will
trigger more melanin production is more
UV radiation The Catch 22 is that we
also make vitamin D through this UV
radiation when it hits our skin and so
melanin is a pigment it's like a natural
sunscreen it blocks UV and that's going
to also block your production of vitamin
D now one of the problems with these
blemishes is the treatment that you get
when you go to the doctor they'll do all
sorts of uh chemical treatments
bleaching treatments laser treatments
synthetic vitamin A all these different
remedies which have side effects but
don't worry I'm going to give you a
natural solution that does not have have
any side effects another interesting
point about melanin is that it's not
necessarily evenly distributed through
their skin there are certain areas that
have more than others why is it when
someone is younger and they're exposed
to the sun they don't necessarily get
those little blotches all through the
face those aging spots or liver spots
yet when we get older we have more of
those why is that and that's because as
our skin ages it becomes less efficient
in
regulating melanin and so we really get
this overcompensation where our body
actually makes more melanin in certain
spots and not others and one of the
things I want to bring up right now is
that when you get UV radiation on your
skin you're getting a lot of free
radical damage another term for that is
oxidative stress probably didn't help
you understand it but it's basically a
type of stress that occurs at the
cellular level and so both from our diet
we have antioxidants and also from our
body we make antioxidants to help
neutralize all of that oxidative stress
but the reason I wanted to bring up this
word oxidative stress is because
oxidative stress is another trigger of
melanin it increases more
pigmentation just like UV radiation and
there's other things that can create
more pigmentation as well one thing is
when you go through pregnancy you have a
higher amount of estrogen and
progesterone that can do it also being a
diabetic because high levels of insulin
also activate melanin this is why with a
diabetic uh especially in different
places in their body like the fold
around their neck the crease around
their neck or underneath their armpit or
around their elbows they have this
darkened skin that's because of insulin
inflammation in general can cause this
pigmentation to be greater certain drugs
can also increase melanin like certain
drugs that um help get your heart in
Rhythm and even stress can do it as well
I don't know if you've ever seen any of
my videos that when I talk about high
levels of cortisol develop a certain
body shape and sometimes I also mention
a low level of cortisol where the person
is very very thin and very very tan but
they have no immune system so in other
words there's a lot of things in
addition to UV light that can create
this uh pigmentation in your skin but I
just want to make clear what melanin
really does it absorbs UV and it
neutralizes the damage by dispersing it
through the body and turning it into
heat actually like
99.9% of UV light is filtered out by
this melanin now let's talk about how to
undo this
overcompensation of melanin happening in
your skin now I looked up four different
patents related to using natural things
to get rid of uh aging spots or liver
spots one patent had a combination of
vitamin C grape seed extract and zinc
another one had licorice extract it had
certain berries all mixed into a cream
and then when you look into the research
on some of these Natural Things there's
a significant uh effect using zinc and
selenium on Aging spots and that's the
one that I would recommend a little bit
more and I'm going to tell you why right
now first of all zinc is good for
everything related to your skin it's
involved in hundreds of different enzyme
reactions biochemical Pathways and it's
really considered a very powerful
antioxidant and it has the ability to
naturally lower this excess melanin
production now if you combine zinc with
selenium I think you have a very
powerful onew punch because selenium is
the precursor for glutathione which is
one of the most powerful antioxidants in
your cells and when I say antioxidants
I'm talking about something that gets
rid of oxidated damage the thing that
could be actually creating this problem
in the first place and also zinc greatly
reduces oxidative damage as well so both
of these together can significantly
reduce this overcompensation of melanin
as well as get rid of some of the
triggers that are creating it both of
these trace minerals because you don't
only need them in small amounts also
help you protect DNA so they have a
similar purpose to vitamin D which by
the way vitamin D alone is very very
important as well in this condition and
it's really kind of a cat22 because here
you are trying to get more vitamin D on
the Sun but you're getting more UV as
well until the melanin kicks in there
and kind of protects you against the UV
but then now you're not going to get
enough vitamin D so I think a balance of
some sun to get your vitamin D but not
too much where you burn is going to be
the solution but on the internal part of
your body your zinc levels your selenium
levels which by the way a lot of people
are deficient in both of these could be
the reason why you're having this
overcompensation because the body
doesn't have enough antioxidants in the
skin to counteract this UV radiation so
it has to
overcompensate with melanin which is
acting like an antioxidant so there's
two ways to get more zinc in selenium
one is to find some cream with it I
would recommend taking Tak them as a
supplement and taking them in a um blend
of other trace minerals because that way
they go on the inside of the body and
they end up in your skin eventually and
like I said before a lot of people are
deficient in zinc and selenium and
they're two really important trace
minerals for your immune system and also
to increase other antioxidants that can
help protect you at the skin level and
at different levels now since I
mentioned zinc if you have not seen this
video on zinc I think it'd be very wise
to watch it check it out
