there are at least four mineral
deficiencies that can significantly
affect your IQ that's the topic for
today generally speaking it's your
intelligence it's your ability to solve
problems it's your ability to learn and
understand certain things there's a
memory or recall component to it and
some people say well you know what your
intelligence is really finite and either
you're born with it or you're not that's
absolutely not true okay you can have
training you can do self-improvement you
can do a lot of things and even what
your mother ate while she's pregnant has
a a factor on your intelligence and your
future ability to solve problems as
you're going to find out but there are
other factors too like with learning it
could be that you were in school and no
one ever taught you how to study or
learn and I'm being very sarcastic
because they don't teach kids how to
study or learn you're just expected to
know that so you go in there and you
sort of memorize you reread you rewrite
things over and over and hopefully
somehow you pass the test and you get
through it but today I want to really
focus in on the nutrient part of your
intelligence so probably one of the most
influential trace minerals which you
don't need a lot of it but you need a
little bit of it and if you don't have
that little bit you're going to be in
big trouble because if you're deficient
in iine as a child your IQ can go down
significantly like 13 points okay now
even if you're deficient iodine as adult
there are certain studies that show that
it can decrease by 15 points and that's
pretty significant but the crucial time
to get iodine is when the woman is
pregnant with that baby as well as when
they're breastfeeding vitally important
and so iodine is involved in the
creation of your brain and of certain
parts of the brain like the hippocampus
which is involved with learning
memory being able to navigate yourself
through different things so primarily we
have the hippocampus and then the
frontal lobe involved in problem solving
but of course how much of these parts of
the brain are involved with problem
solving in IQ I mean it's pretty
remarkable some people have had huge
amounts of trauma and damage to their
brains I mean destruction of a good
portion of the brain and they still seem
to maintain their cognitive function and
their IQ so I just wanted to point that
out because we really don't know how
much brain we really need apparently we
have a lot of extra now the second
mineral that is the most important is
zinc zinc is involved in hundreds of
different enzyme reactions okay it's
definitely involved with the hippocampus
it's involved with making
neurotransmitters and if you're low on
zinc your IQ is going down but this zinc
correlates with copper they both work
together so you need this zinc to Copper
ratio and when you have children that
have autism for example there's nearly
always extremely low zinc and copper
levels but there's a huge correlation
between high IQ and good zinc to Copper
ratios copper is also very low in
Alzheimer's patients also it's super
concentrated in a structure in your
brain stem called the locus cilus which
has everything to do with your sleeping
and then we have magnesium magnesium is
needed for making ATP it's needed for
energy in the brain and if you don't
have enough magnesium there is a huge
correlation between a lower IQ and so if
we look at this right here we have you
know Seafood shellfish okay and
magnesium salad vegetables leafy greens
but you can also get it in nuts and
other Foods as well but Seafood shell
very important to get the top three I
wanted to add a few more vitamin D
deficiency is also correlated with
learning dis disabilities lower IQ and
cognitive function so here's another one
that's very very important especially if
you are pregnant now iron also
correlates with a lower IQ probably
because it's involved with anemia and
red blood cells and carry oxygen to your
brain now there's a couple other things
I really need to cover related to this
cognitive
function and that has to do with this
thing called Sugar Sugar actually makes
you stupid it definitely correlates with
a lower
IQ now that being said I do want to make
a very important point just because
someone has a high IQ just because
someone is so-called intelligent doesn't
mean that they are sane okay they could
be very intelligent but be in completely
insane and when I talk about insane I'm
talking about destructive right but when
we're talking about sugar we're talking
about blood sugar we're talking about
even diabetes so if your A1C is like
above seven your recall is goes down
okay your ability to recall memories is
significantly affected diabetics on
average have a lower IQ by
7.84 points when someone is a diabetic
and they have higher sugar in their
blood that shrinks the hippocampus so we
have less hippocampus to work with which
means less capacity for memory less
capacity for Learning and that is
intimately connected with
IQ now if we take a look at the brain um
that has insulin resistance okay it's
brain insulin resistance which is always
the case for someone that has high sugar
like a diabetic there is a lot of
destruction going on in the neurons okay
and so when you feed the brain cells the
neurons too much sugar you end up
destroying those synapses and thank
goodness there's an alternative fuel to
bypass that whole thing and get the
energy that the neurons need so you can
have more intelligence and that
alternative fuel is ketones now what's
interesting about ketones is that your
brain is the organ that does not have to
adapt to ketones like other parts of the
body in other words there's not a period
of three days where you have to adapt or
convert over to ketones it can use
ketones immediately if it's in the blood
there's not a lot of if any stored sugar
in the brain the brain does not store
glycogen why because there's no space
because when you're storing glycogen you
have to store a lot of water and there's
just no space so the brain is dependent
for its energy from the blood okay and
then that usually comes from your liver
primarily so if your liver's damaged
that can affect the brain but if the
brain has a choice between ketones or
glucose it will always pick ketones as a
primary Fuel and that way even if
there's damage to the brain the brain
cells can get energy so in other words
your brain is very vulnerable to what
diet you are on and really what
determines if there's ketones in your
blood or not is really two things
glucose and your insulin levels so when
a person starts to go on the ketogenic
diet and they start lowering their
glucose uh they notice also their
insulin levels lower they may still have
problems and they may not notice the
significant benefits of ketosis for
quite some time primarily because
there's this H background uh basic level
of insulin in their blood at all times
and if someone is obese they usually
have like three times the insulin levels
and this really has nothing to do with
their diet it's just that their Baseline
insulin is just a lot higher than
someone that doesn't have a weight
problem so if you are watching and
you're overweight just realize the more
you lose weight the more the insulin
levels decrease the more the benefits
and it could take some time so what are
the takeaways from this video
shellfish
Seafood big salads and cut the sugar out
and go on a low carb diet now there's a
lot more to talk about the brain if you
haven't seen this video related to brain
health this would be a very interesting
one to watch next
