so I had a question from someone that
was on metformin because they were a
diabetic and they wanted to know is that
gonna bump me out of ketosis is it gonna
prevent me getting into ketosis
well metformin is used for type 2
diabetes is also used for polycystic
ovarian syndrome and it doesn't increase
insulin like other diabetic medications
do it basically focuses on the insulin
receptor okay so it targets insulin
resistance it allows the insulin to be
more efficient and to work better in the
body okay so that sounds good
it sounds like a great strategy doctors
say it's safe you know it's all the
medications it's at least damaging then
why do they put a black box warning on
this medication okay I mean in order to
put a black box warning there has to be
some serious side effects there is small
but fatal lactic acidosis risk okay so
there's a small risk that you may
develop lactic acidosis and there's a
complication that you may die but it's a
small risk so they have to put this
black box warning so what is lactic
acidosis well it's a condition where you
become hypoxic you you decrease your
oxygen absorption to the cells your pH
becomes more acidic in the blood you get
tired electrical problems with the heart
like an electrolytes you can have heart
arrhythmias abdominal pain and this side
effect of death if you're a diabetic and
you're taking metformin or you know
someone that's taking metformin this is
what you need to know right here severe
lactic acidosis can be reversed by
thiamine that's vitamin b1 within 24
hours I'll put the data down below you
can check it out it's a very simple
solution to a very major problem okay b1
you also need to know this metformin
inhibits be warned transportation so
basically it blocks b1
the more you take metformin the more you
depleted with b1 the more you're
deficient the more you're gonna have
lactic acidosis it's kind of crazy so
you need to know that like if you're
taking that form and you want to take it
you better be taking b1 the ideal scene
is to just do healthy keto and then I'm
gonna fasting to the point where you
don't need this anymore now the other
interesting thing is this there's
certain contraindications for taking
that form in the first place if you have
kidney damage or liver damage or
cardiovascular damage they don't want
you to take that form in because it will
increase the risk of eating a lot again
so dosis now if someone's taking that
form in there probably a diabetic right
as a diabetic they probably have some
kidney liver and heart problems don't
they so I guess you have to be pretty
healthy to take neck Foreman nowadays to
prevent this risk again it's very very
simple take vitamin b1 and you can
actually greatly reduce the risk of
lactic acidosis thanks for watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
