I'm going to show you a really good
remedy if you're losing your eyelashes
okay and you want to build strong
eyelashes
I want to First Define the derivation of
a word alopecia which comes from the
Greek word which means Fox apparently
the ancient Greek foxes often lost their
hair due to mange okay now mange is a
condition where you have these
mites okay they're microorganisms that
are affecting the hair growth so if a
fox has mange they have these patches of
hair loss okay and that comes from a
Mite now on our bodies we also have
mites that live within our friendly
bacteria okay they're called commensal
organisms which means
they don't hurt us they don't help us
they're kind of neutral the word
commensal comes from if I'm not mistaken
drinking from the same dish and so
basically we have this Diversified
microorganism mixture of all sorts of
things we have bacteria we have yeast we
have fungus and apparently we have some
mites okay and they don't bother us
unless the condition changes where you
start getting an overgrowth of these
mites and it just so happens they live
in the hair follicle and they also live
on your skin and so if they're in the
hair follicle and they're hungry they're
going to eat your hair okay because they
also eat dead skin cells and apparently
the the greatest concentration of this
Mite is in your eyelashes also if
there's an overgrowth on your skin
you're going to get either
rosacea okay which is like a redness of
the cheeks there's like 18 times more of
this microorganism in rosacea than there
is in normal skin and the name of this
microorganism is called Demodex and this
might is also known to cause
alopecia but not in every situation but
they did an interesting study on Rogaine
which is the main medication for
Alopecia and found that it worked better
when they added the remedy I'm going to
recommend for these mites which is tea
tree oil in fact the medication that
they use when you lose your eyelashes
would be your ax Ivermectin and Flagyl
what do all of these have in common they
kill this Mite okay so it's another clue
that this condition is coming from a
microorganism so what would be the
remedy well I want to recommend two
things which are very powerful one is
tea tree oil oil and the other is castor
oil both of these are antimicrobial and
most of these will kill this might now
there's a couple things you need to know
about this
teacher oil is very very concentrated
and it can irritate your eyes so you
don't want to get this oil into your
eyes what you want to do is you want to
use like two drops of tea tree oil okay
in a tablespoon of castor oil now castor
oil also can irritate the eyes so again
you don't want to just start dumping the
stuff in your eyes and you can either
get a cotton ball swab or a Q-tip and
very gingerly and gently put a little
bit on the roots of the upper eyelash
okay just a little bit on there before
you go to bed and then you're going to
let that sit all night long and do its
job and then you're going to apply it
every other day for six weeks because
what's happening you're not only going
to kill these mites but you want to kill
the eggs to make sure they don't come
back the advantage of this remedy is
that there's very minimal side effects
compared to this remedy right here and
of course check with your doctor before
applying any of this information now if
you happen to have Rose show this next
video is for you check it out I put it
right here
