so today I want to answer the question
why do women live longer than men men on
average live 76 years women 81 years why
is that well it has to do with one
hormone estrogen now let me explain in
the body you have this constant battle
or this balance between oxidation and
antioxidants so whether it's chemicals
stress too much sugar that produces all
this oxidation you also have from the
food antioxidants and your body actually
makes antioxidants to counter this
oxidation if we have too much oxidation
at the genetic level and not enough
antioxidants we get a buildup of free
radicals now what does that mean free
radical is an unpaired electron so we
have this little atom with electrons and
normally we would have to that balance
each other so if we only had one that
would be unpaired electrons creating a
very unstable atom and then that's what
really creates the damage I'm talking
about damage within the DNA and various
proteins in the body but estrogen can
come in as a very powerful antioxidant
and actually give you what you need to
balance out the oxidation and on top of
that we have something called
phytoestrogens
from plants okay cruciferous vegetables
for example that can also help the
antioxidant networks as well
you have genes which are like the
hardware very similar to let's say you
have a DVD that's holding several movies
ok it's like storing certain movies and
it has a playlist for example then you
have something called a DVD player to be
able to use the discs
you cannot extract data from that DVD
unless you have the player so the genes
are the DVD which encodes all the
information and you can't use that
information unless you have the player
well that is epigenetics epigenetics
means above genetics and there's certain
things in the environment that express
these genes or turn them on or turn them
off like nutrients stress levels
exercise fasting and hormones and
estrogen has the capacity to cause
certain longevity genes to be expressed
or to be turned on so yes women have to
go through the pain of pregnancy having
the menstrual cycle menopause but they
get to live longer by five years thanks
for watching if you're liking this
content please subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
