I would say out of all the vitamins that
I've have worked with in practice B1 is
at the top of the list as far as
creating effects there are many
different other vitamins or nutrients
that you take you don't really feel much
change at least initially but B1 is
different you usually see pretty quick
changes for a lot of different effects
and that's what I want to get into today
as well as talking about some of the
warning signs and how you would end up
with a B1 deficiency in the first place
B1 is intimately involved as kind of a a
helper nutrient for your mitochondria
the energy Factory in the cell and so if
you're deficient you're going to have a
hard time making fuel you're going to be
tired okay that's a big symptom right
there and relating to that fuel in the
mitochondria you need it to burn um
glucose the more glucose that you have
running through your bloodstream the
higher the carbohydrates in the diet the
more B1 you're going to need or you are
going to run out of B1 really fast
because it's needed to metabolize this
Fuel and when you run out you can't burn
that fuel you're going to be tired now
what I mean by burning off glucose I'm
talking about like even using your own
stored glucose as glycogen in your
livers so even if you're on the
ketogenic diet you do still uh burn
glucose to a certain degree it's not
just completely 100% fat burning or
ketones um certain cells certain parts
of your your body need glucose and so
there is a different um levels of
different types of fuel that you'll use
at any given time so B1 is water soluble
which means it doesn't get stored in the
body for a long time like the fat cple
vitamins like vitamin A d e and K so if
you're doing fasting right and let's say
for example you're under a lot of stress
and you're drinking tea all of these
things can deplete B1 and even if you
have inflammation you can use up more B1
so if someone is a diabetic okay they're
going to have higher levels of sugar
chances are they're almost always going
to be deficient in B1 and this is why
one of the major symptoms from a
diabetic is peripheral neuropathies okay
so what is that that is a situation
where the lower part of your feet you
have this um
neurological problem whether it's
numbness extra pain burning that's
because you're low in B1 and that's
where it shows up first so you need B1
to build the milin sheath it's like the
coating let's see if you could see this
right here this little wire right this
is like coating around a wire so that
would be like myin around your nerves so
you need to be one to support that and
without that you start getting a short
circuiting uh neurological issues the
autonomic nervous system the main
nervous system that controls the flight
of fight mechanism and the recovery
mechanism and that's called the
parasympathetic and it's sometimes known
as is like rest and Recovery which works
through the vagus nerve needs B1 and so
there's a lot of conditions related to
this vus nerve B1 deficiency like a
condition called
gastroparesis where your digestive
system is just really slow it's just not
working food tends to stick around a lot
longer than it should this is why a B1
deficiency can create constipation and
part of these nerves also control um the
valves on the top of your stomach and
even the bottom of the stomach so if you
have a valve problem at the top of your
stomach you have what's called gird okay
so you're going to have like acid reflux
things like that you can also have
problems with the valve at the bottom of
the stomach and you can actually
regurgitate bile coming up into the
stomach and then coming up into the
esophagus and that can act as a very
powerful detergent and irritate the
lining of your esophagus all the way up
into the back of the throat where you
might have heness or chronic cough
and it can actually destroy some of the
connected tissue and as far as the
autonomic nervous system goes if you are
in this situation where you don't have
full sympathetic function you can have a
problem with excessive sweating or no
sweating at all excessive tears or no
tears at all so that has a lot to do
with your ability to adapt to your
environment like you might just get out
of the shower and all of a sudden just
break out in a sweat or if it's really
extreme you might stand up and feel
dizzy there's an extreme version of that
called pots where the body just cannot
tolerate gravity stress so you need be
one another common uh symptom probably
one of the most common one is you just
feel highly irritated this nervous
tension this buildup of pressure that um
it makes it so you don't have any
tolerance for stress at all boy does B1
work for that you give some B1 to a
person Within minutes they're just
feeling calm B1 is needed to make Gaba
too and Gaba keeps you relaxed and calm
and I'm not sure if this next effect is
related to Gaba or something else but B1
is known to help someone just have a
positive mental attitude it's pretty
wild so if you have people around you
that are kind of Debbie downers or
negative people just slip some B1 into
their coffee there's also other uh
problems with the autonomic nerve system
that you can have blushing like getting
a red face easily embarrassed even the
regulation of temperature if you can't
tolerate uh extreme cold temperatures or
extreme you know hot temperatures you
probably need B1 typically if someone is
B1 deficient they're gonna have a
tendency to be more cold and it's going
to be very uncomfortable and in their
minds they're thinking oh thyroid but
they might just need B1 and by the way
as a side note B1 helps thyroid cases if
you're deficient in B1 your pulse rate
could go up as well so if we think about
it from the Viewpoint of what causes the
deficiency of B1 like high carbohydrate
diets or U diabetics what are the common
symptoms for that well anything related
to the eye cataracts glaucoma kidney
problems artery problems brain fog
issues heart issues nerve issues so B1
can act as a very powerful antioxidant
too to counter some of the oxidation
effects that this sugar is creating on
the kidneys on the nerves on the brain
and the eyes so if you have cataracts or
glucoma taking B1 would actually be very
beneficial but just realize that just
getting B1 from the diet probably is not
going to be enough especially if you're
trying to uh achieve a therapeutic dose
to create an effect so you'd want to
take some B1 another interesting uh
effect if you ever if driving in a car
and someone has motion sickness give
them some one if someone's trying to
recover from a canker sore give them
some B1 so if someone consumes a lot of
sugar like I used to consume a
tremendous amount you're going to get
what's called restless leg syndrome
which can be relieved with some B1 I'll
never forget I mean in the middle of the
night I was getting up at 5 o'clock in
the morning I'm pounding my legs like
they are so Restless they would just
wake me up it was miserable and I had no
idea it was connected to this B1
deficiency
and probably the bend and Jerry's didn't
help so remember more carbs more alcohol
or tea the less B1 you're going to have
now you could actually develop more
serious uh problems with a B1 deficiency
a severe B1 deficiency it en llarge
heart edema and swelling in the lower
legs mental confusion there's another
one H what was that
um uh memory loss n stigmas where your
eyes are kind of going back and forth
you sometimes you see that in children I
mean think about how many kids are
consuming so much sugar um and they're
highly irritated sometimes and they're a
bit agitated and Restless give them some
B1 but also cut out the sugar there's
something else called ATT taxia which uh
affects part of the brain and when you
walk you stagger right you're not
balanced anymore uh B1 can help that
condition hearing loss could be another
symptom of a B1 deficiency sleep apnea
is another one this is why taking B1
right before bed can greatly help you
with not just sleep apnea but also panic
attacks
nightmares anxiety and calming down that
excessive thinking that goes on before
you go to bed it's not going to give you
a lot of energy it's just going to
actually give you what you need to be
able to sleep now one thing that will
keep someone up at night is not being
able to breathe the respiratory centers
in your brain stem need B one and when
you're deficient you're going to find
you're going to have difficulty
breathing and that could be the reason
why you can't sleep I remember in
practice giving people B1 and they're
just like wow I just feel like I can
breathe right now so it's interesting
breathing is going to help sleeping
anything related to brain fog uh B1 can
help and also um anything neuritis like
inflammation of the nerve especially
fibromyalgia now fibromyalgia if it's on
the right side think gallbladder taking
a remedy like bile salts but if you have
fibromyalgia all over the place take B1
as far as the type of B1 I would would
not recommend synthetic unless you're
doing some type of short-term
detoxification uh because the synthetic
B1 uh the way they make it they use
hydrochloric acid sometimes
acetone uh they use ammonia and even
colar so you can't imagine something
that's made from that is like the same
as something from nature I personally
take it's called Ali thamin okay that
comes from garlic extract and I will put
a link down below for more information
on that another version of the B1 is
called benot toine now this is a
different uh form of B1 and yes this one
is made
synthetically but I've never had a
problem with it because it's not made
from colar and it's in a fat sble form
so they made this water cable B1 vitamin
into a fat cable vitamin so it can
actually
penetrate U the nerves in the bottom of
your feet apparently does not cross the
bloodb brain barrier but if you have
anything related to your feet okay feet
pain nerve pain I would take botam
another thing you have to realize too
when you take B1 if you are magnesium
deficient you may find that the B1
doesn't work as well so you might want
to find a supplement with either
magnesium or even take magnesium
sometime during that day or just make
sure you're not deficient certain drugs
will create a deficiency of B1
metformin and
diuretics certain antibiotics if someone
has a lot of inflammation chances are
they're going to be deficient in B1 now
if you want a really good summary of all
of the functions of B1 I put everything
in one download click the link down
below and you can download it for free
