let's talk about this amazing herb
called ashwagandha I want to talk about
the dosage when they take it when not to
take it there's certain precautions but
also some benefits that you probably
have never heard before this is an
amazing herb ashwa gandha uh comes from
the derivation of a Hindi name Ashan
which refers to H's odor as in H's urine
apparently this herb does have a scent
of hes urine but that being said this
herb is quite magical what it does so
let's Dive Right In as far as the
amounts that are recommended based on uh
randomized control trials you'd want to
consume between 250 milligrams to 500
milligrams twice per day if you're doing
a tincture uh like a 1:5 ratio it's
recommended that you take between 2 and
four milliliters that's roughly between
40 and 80 drops three times a day now
personally I don't like the the drops in
alcohol because I just don't like
alcohol so I like the capsules but a lot
of people like the tinctures and it
seems to work just fine now the most
profound effect that this herb has on
people is if you feel nervous this is
the best herb to take ashwag gandha is
an adaptogen okay now what is an
adaptogen a safe substance that helps
you adapt to stress States adaptogens
help you resist stress tolerate and cope
with stress better and also help bring
the body back to a normal State
apparently it's really good for any
problems related to the autonomic
nervous system because the sympathetic
nervous system is the system that adapts
the body to stress and then the
parasympathetic which is the other
branch of the autonomic nervous system
helps recover the person from going
through stress so apparently this herb
helps both parts of that puzzle and
since we're talking about stress there's
two main mechanisms that the body uses
to deal with stress one is through the
hypothalamus pituitary adrenal access
okay and that mainly has to do with the
hormone aspects of stress specifically
cortisol which is released by the outer
part of the adrenal glands called the
cortex whereas the other mechanism which
is also controlled by the hypothalamus
okay has mainly to do with the inner
part of the adrenal gland called the
medulla and specifically adrenaline okay
so we have cortisol and adrenaline
adrenaline is a
neurotransmitter cortisol is a hormone
both of these systems are involved with
stress and ashwag can help both
mechanisms so ashwaganda has been known
to significantly lower cortisol which is
very cool which is going to then help
you potentially lose weight as well and
improve insulin resistance because too
much cortisol can cause insulin
resistance and that can create all sorts
of problems from a metabolic syndrome
issue which affects your lipids to blood
sugar to a fatty liver to being a
pre-diabetic and also cortisol is
involved with uh stress induced
insomnia not to mention adrenaline is
also involved so this herb can help you
sleep better especially if the cause of
that sleep problem occurred from stress
and because the lowering of cortisol is
occurring you're going to feel calmer
you're going to have less anxiety you'll
have better brain function less brain
fog and overall better cognitive
function ashwaganda has been known to
improve stamina which is endurance
strength while exercising it's a good
anti-inflammatory it's also been known
to help stimulate the thyroid so it's
really good for hypothyroid type
situations but not necessarily if you
have a hyper thyroid which we'll get to
in a bit and because ashwagandha helps
regulate cortisol it's going to help
your immune system anything related to
disregulation with cortisol is going to
affect your immune system ashwag Ganda
has also been known to improve male
hormones specifically testosterone which
can improve sex drive also sperm count
as well as sperm Mobility so it's
involved with improving male fertility
ashwagandha is also good for pain
helping people with low back pain
improving uh spasm muscle spasm and it's
good for fluid retention now at the
cellular level um ashwana can help
increase something called heat shock
proteins which is involved in the
Hermetic effect which basically has to
do with getting the benefits from a
moderate intermittent stress causing the
body to adapt and become stronger so
those are some really cool effects that
can occur when you take ashwag now when
wouldn't you want to take ashum if you
have a sensitivity to the night shades
okay you probably don't want to take it
ashwagandha is high in iron so if you
have a genetic problem where you
accumulate imate iron and you can't get
rid of it easily ashwagandha is not good
for you ashwagandha is good if someone
is iron deficient because it's loaded
with iron but you don't want to take it
if you have too much iron and like I
mentioned before ashwagandha is good for
hypothyroid situations but not a hyper
thyroid situation and so if your thyroid
gland is working too much as in you have
let Graves disease don't take
ashwagandha ashwagandha also enhances
the effect of Barb
and the thyroid hormone so if you're
taking those two medications uh you
might not want to take ashwagandha now
as far as pregnancy goes there's some
interesting data on this it's been used
in India for a long time even with women
that are pregnant it's been used like as
a a tonic and sometimes they put it in
milk however there are no safety studies
that look at pregnant women taking this
herb there's some animal studies that
shows that taking large amounts um does
not have a bad effect but there is no
studies with humans now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other
side
