hey guys I'm back in this video we're
gonna talk about headaches and key to
adaptation okay now in some of the other
videos I talked about the transition
from sugar burning to ketosis or fat
burning requires certain nutrients like
B vitamins and potassium right
some people take these vitamins but they
don't fully adapt so I'm going to talk
about why that could be there's another
reason and it's basically withdrawal
symptoms because if you have been
consuming breads pasta cereal whatever
for a long period of time or junk foods
or just sugar and you come off them it
it's gonna create some symptoms just
like coming off coffee or coming off
alcohol and what happens is there's a
neurotransmitter in your brain called
dopamine and when you have a dopamine
deficiency that's when you're gonna
start feeling these weird symptoms right
here and one big one is headaches so
there's two things that I'm going to
recommend number one slowly start
increasing a little bit more carb
okay maybe like five grams at a time
until these symptoms go away because a
lot of people really suffer not just
with headaches with they just feel
really funky and number two you can take
something called phenyl alanine which is
a natural amino acid which will then
help build up more dopamine in the
system so then there'll be less of these
withdrawal symptoms okay so I'm just
pointing this out as another reason why
you may have headaches or other symptoms
that go beyond just the key to
adaptation alright thanks for watching
so we've been getting a lot of success
stories but I don't have your success
story yet so click the link down below
and upload you before and after I want
to actually hear about your success
story I want to see your
before-and-afters and every week we do
featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
