[Music]
all right let's go what are we making I
know you love my mic so what is it this
is you know I've said before I'm from
Pennsylvania and one of the biggest
comfort foods when I was growing up with
potato pancake and that my father was
polish my mama's Pennsylvania Dutch
German and both of them made potato
pancakes and we always served it with
sour cream which I don't have today but
I really wanted to find a replacement
and cauliflower is it well so it's
really I love a good cast iron pan and
make these you don't have to steam the
broccoli or cauliflower
you just mix of things together toss it
in the pan and it fries up really crispy
and they hold together this is a winner
and yeah and you serve them warm with
sour cream it's just like potato I know
I'll wow this is really good can I like
some the other another great recipe to
get cruciferous in your body right we're
trying to do right anti-cancer here this
thing is too big for me keeps flipping
down I'm trying not over to you because
I just start what do they like but it's
going to come tomorrow so after use this
different dedication it was like we're
gonna educate your people great right
Mike all right you going right on - um
yeah let's go good right after this yeah
right okay all right you're gonna love
this recipe
um I don't know else inside okay let's
go right into them so how to do rocky
right okay thank you okay
[Music]
that aren't they
[Music]
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
