let's talk about the ten benefits of
cryotherapy or the benefits of freezing
so since the Stone Age time our bodies
have adapted to various things like
starvation and freezing so a little bit
of freezing occasionally is very
beneficial to your body it creates
something called the hormetic effect
which is inducing a small stress to make
your body stronger and there are certain
genes proteins and enzymes to get
activated when you put your body in
colder temperatures whether you put
yourself into a crowd there opee chamber
or just take a cold shower you can
activate certain genes one is the
satellite sound now a satellite cell is
like a pre muscle cell like a stem cell
that can actually then turn into a
muscle cell so one of the benefits is
muscle soreness or muscle repair from
damage and that's one of the things that
gets activated and then you can increase
these enzymes called kinases which
increase muscle synthesis so again it's
repairing a muscle damaged after some
injury and this is why they apply ice
after you have an injury also cold
therapy will suppress certain genes that
regulate inflammation so it's not just
about vaso constricting the blood flow
and getting the blood flow out of there
it's about activating your genetics to
create an effect that's called
epigenetics so so certain things in the
environment can turn on or turn off
certain genes and col therapy can also
increase the number of mitochondria
which relates to increasing your
metabolism so these are the benefits
decreased muscle soreness repair damage
improve your immune system but of course
if you're out in the cold too long that
can add too much stress so I'm talking
very short amounts of cold therapy
number three can decrease inflammation
for it can increase your mood try taking
a cold shower you're gonna go into
exhilaration really fast alright number
five it can help you sleep
number six it can improve your
metabolism number seven it will increase
your antioxidant Network - then fight
against oxidative stress so it can
actually help lower your oxidative
stress it can improve herniated discs
decrease pain
and spasm and I put another video
explaining the hormetic effect of
various things check it out it's very
interesting
