hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about maitake
mushroom okay it's a fungus and it has
amazing properties for cancer it
contains a compound called beta D
glucans okay this actually will help
your immune system fight cancer
it increases natural killer T cells it
increases macrophages which are those
white blood cells that eat up other
cells especially of the breast deliver
and the lung it also has great
properties for insulin resistance and
improving diabetes I'll put some links
down below if you want to get this in a
supplement it comes in something called
maitake diffraction that's like a
concentrated amount of this chemical
right here but there's several trials
right now that have been done to show
significant decrease in risk of certain
types of cancer I'll put the links down
below but it also will shrink tumors so
if you have like fibroids for example
and they keep growing back I would be
consuming these I think another reason
why this will it's really good for
cancer is because it also will decrease
that bad type of estrogen in your body
it also improves the symptoms of cancer
and actually will help shrink tumors and
fibroids so put your comments below and
give me your feedback hi guys hey listen
I created a pretty amazing evaluation
quiz down below that actually analyzes
your symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
