so let's talk about the truth of
something called autophagy it's a
fascinating biological process that's
always happening to a certain degree and
I'm going to get into all the triggers
and how long it takes to get in
autophagy but this is what autophagy
does it self eats it eats the junk from
your body and transforms that into
usable things so it's like a very
complex junkyard with a recycling unit
right next to it and when I say junk I'm
talking about unusable damage proteins
in the body which trigger inflammation
also it recycles something called
organel what's an organel well inside
your cells you have all these different
um machines that are on an assembly line
to actually make certain stuff you have
the mitochondria you have other machines
that make certain proteins well if
there's any damage that goes on to that
Machinery well autophagy can take care
of it and autophagy helps to get rid of
pathogens right like bacteria fungus
mold and viruses all of those can also
trigger inflammation as well and it gets
rid of something else called viral
antigens now what is a viral antigen
well there's something on viruses that
signal your immune system to create a
reaction that can also cause
inflammation and it's also part of the
antibody production machine which I'm
not going to get into but what you
should know is autophagy
clears all that up so if there is
something in the background that is
stirring up inflammation in your body it
can kind of wipe that out and start from
like a ground zero level where you don't
have that anymore this is why autophagy
is considered kind of like an anti-aging
cleaning system of the body and it
doesn't just clean stuff up it provides
new raw material to build new things new
cells as well as to provide fuel when
you need it it's how do you get into
autophagy well you're already probably
into autophagy to some degree the
question is is it significant or not to
really create any type of significant
autophagy you need to deplete your
reserves to some degree you have to
deplete some energy Reserve in the body
and before I get into that there's two
things that will stop autophagy very
fast and the big one is sugar okay
because that's a fuel source and protein
as well but any significant amount of
calories will stop this autophagy
because think about what autophagy is
it's the recycling of proteins and other
things that are related to that and if
you have enough protein available it
doesn't necessarily have to recycle your
old proteins all right so now here's
what you need to know healthy cells and
cancer cells so this next thing I'm
going to tell you is very important uh
because autophagy it sounds like it can
really help you but there's a paradox it
can actually hurt you in relationship to
to cancer autophagy Act is a very strong
protective barrier against disease so if
you're constantly cleaning up those
damaged mitochondria you can bypass and
avoid this cancer as well as avoiding a
lot of other diseases but if you let
your body go to the point where you now
you have cancer autophagy can help the
progression of cancer it can help grow
the cancer why because well autophagy is
going to provide the resources for this
cancer is going to provide the fuel for
this cancer does that make sense and
there's multiple ways that autophagy can
support cancer and so there's one type
of uh medicine that targets this one
area and what they've done is they've
created uh autophagy inhibiting drugs to
stop that from happening and it seems to
really help as an anti-cancer therapy
and one of the drugs is called hydroxy
chloroquin but of course there are a lot
of side effects with all drugs so
research is also looking at non-toxic
Inhibitors of autophagy so if someone
had cancer they can use those as well
and there's a lot of research on that
I'm going to put a link down below of a
research paper that I just did a deep
dive on and I'm going to list some
natural mostly plant-based Inhibitors of
autophagy if someone has cancer but
realize that when I list these natural
remedies these are not things you're
going to have to worry about to inhibit
autophagy if if you don't have cancer
okay because they're very healthy things
for a healthy cell as well but very
unfortunately uh we have this
double-edged sword with autophagy it can
help you if you're healthy it can hurt
you if you're not healthy and
unfortunately a lot of people wait until
they get sick or wait until they get
cancer before they do something about it
especially in the stimulation of more
autophagy right because autophagy can be
very good if you're healthy and it can
prevent a lot of problems so this might
be one motivating factor for you to do
what I'm going to tell you to do next to
trigger more autophagy hands down the
single most potent thing to trigger
autophagy is fasting okay fasting why
because you're depleting your excess
your calories and you're forcing your
body to become very efficient by
recycling a lot of these damaged
proteins now the big question is how
many hours of fasting do you really need
to do before you start triggering a tagy
well like I said said before you're
already in topology to some degree it
could be just turned way down and so
just like with exercise right when you
do exercise you have two types of
exercise you have aerobic exercise okay
and you have anerobic exercise and each
one of those uses a different type of
fuel so if you're going to run up a hill
you're initially going to use your
glucose right and then if you slow down
and you're jogging eventually you're
going to start burning your fat but
during this process you're really
burning percentages of sugar and fat and
so when you're doing low intensity long
duration you're burning more fat but
you're still burning a little sugar as
well so both the metabolism for sugar
and fat are on dials they're on dimmer
switches so the dimmer switch starts to
be turned up as you start going into
like about 18 hours of fasting and it
really starts going up when you start
getting into 48 to 72 hours of fasting
but a lot of this depends on what you're
eating okay because let's say uh you are
eating a tremendous amount of sugar
right or
carbohydrates and then you're going to
go on this fast for 18 hours well you
might have to fast a lot longer because
you're going to have to burn up all this
sugar you're going to also have to tap
into your your glycogen Reserve in your
liver and deplete that as well so one
really simple strategy is to go on a low
sugar low carbohydrate diet so that way
we don't have a lot of this sugar
sitting there we're going to tap into it
and deplete it very quickly so you can
actually have the benefits of tagy a lot
quicker now the other little tip is we
talked about protein right so if we want
a little bit more Advantage from aagy
you wouldn't want to necessarily do a
high protein diet You' want to do a
moderate amount of proteins right
because again we want to deplete these
proteins we want to fully digest them
because as soon as you eat a meal it's
going to take at least eight hours for
all those calories to be ass simulated
and go into your system but out of all
of the three
macronutrients fat okay is the least
affected with theophagy in other words
if we compare fat to Sugar Sugar is the
one that really depletes theophagy way
more than fat but that being said if
you're like snacking even on fat which
has a good amount of calories through
the day you're not going to really turn
that dial up with autophagy you need to
actually fast and not eat anything you
can have certain nutrients vitamins and
minerals and sea salt but not any
calories this other tip I want to
mention is related to doing a dry fast
or water fast now what what what I mean
dry fast or water fast well you're
fasting you're not eating anything
except you're drinking water that's
called a water Fest a dry Fest is you're
not eating anything and you're not
drinking anything apparently when you do
a dry fast which means no food no water
your body goes into a much deeper AO
the effects are roughly about three
times more than a water fast which makes
sense because you're adding more stress
to the body and you're forcing a deeper
cleansing now you have to be in pretty
good shape to do a prolong dry fast
where you're not drinking water for
sometimes a few days which I'm not
really promoting but that being said
what if you were just to shift when you
drank water to actually have more
fasting without water like for example
on your last meal right you drink water
but then you don't drink right before
bed and then all night long you're
fasting without water you're doing dry
fasting and you get a little bit more
benefit from that because if you fasted
from last night's dinner all the way
until maybe noon or 1 o'clock or 2
o'clock and then you had your first
drink of water that may produce more
results and let's say you're still
drinking 2 and a half liters of fluid
but you're drinking at between let's say
1200 noon or 1:00 or 2:00 and then 6:00
okay so that's fasting number two
cutting down your calories and not
overeating does mimic fasting to a
certain degree if you were to consume
let's say 500 calories and not on a
regular basis just occasionally that
could help you increase your autophagy
especially if you're going to go into an
actual fasting period of time why
because you're not eating a lot of
calories and you're going to use those
up pretty quickly and then you're going
to go into tagy much faster especially
if those lowered amount of calories were
lower amount of carbs and lower amount
of protein as in maybe a huge salad with
a little bit of protein all right number
three I kind of already talked about
fasting but I'm just in this point I
want to bring up just doing consistent
intermittent fasting with a minimum of
18 hours um but if you could push to 20
hours that would be a lot better and
then combining that with number four
which is exercise exercise depletes your
resources it stimulates
autophagy and believe it or not aerobic
exercise right lower intensity longer
duration uh will stimulate more
autophagy than high intensity resistant
training but I recommend to do both of
them because if you look at a
longdistance runner they probably go
through a lot of autophagy but they're
very very thin they don't have as much
muscle versus uh someone that does
weight training or resistant types
training developing those muscles are
very very healthy for many reasons so
autophagy and building up muscles don't
really mix too well so I would highly
recommend to do a combination of both
but the point is that let's say you're
doing intermittent fasting and you
actually do a workout okay during the
fast that can compound things and make
things better because you're tapping out
your resources you're using up your
resources when you're fasting because
you're not eating anything and you're
increasing your metabolism and you're
using up your ATP causing an increase in
autophagy and just is a side note we
mentioned with water and everything I
don't know if you know this but when you
actually burn fat your body does release
water okay yeah you get water from
burning fat so your body's not
completely starving without water now
number five and I've already mentioned
this before I just want to emphasize it
to really build up autophagy you want to
reduce your carbs as low as possible
okay we you know why we want to reduce
those carbs and number six I already
talked about this but I want to
emphasize it you don't necessarily want
to go too high with your protein go
lower with the amount of protein and I'm
not talking about low protein diet I'm
talking about a moderate amount of
protein and then number seven uh there's
certain phytonutrients that create a
hermetic or a stress response to the
body that can trigger autophagy to a
certain degree uh the certain phon
nutrient in coffee tea especially green
tea berberine adaptogens like
ashwagandha certain mushrooms Ginger
things like that now before we end off I
want to switch gears and talk a little
bit about cancer if someone has cancer
whatever program that they do they
probably also want to add a few of these
items I'm going to talk about that are
researched and I'll put the link down
below of things that can inhibit
autophagy so that way we can starve off
the cancer even more in addition to not
feeding the thing that cancer just loves
the most which is sugar now I want to
list some of the natural Inhibitors of
autophagy all right number one Stony
sponge okay you probably have a sponge
right now in your kitchen right well
apparently the Stony sponge has certain
properties that can inhibit autophagy
appenine that's a
phytochemical that is in certain foods
you can look that up it's in a lot of
different foods cumin which is in
turmeric
okay that's one black cumin seed that's
another one the next one is thunder of
God Vine and then retinol which is the
active form of vitamin A all of those
are being researched right now for their
natural inhibition of autophagy which is
one strategy for cancer like 54% are
being researched by drug companies right
now finding ways to extract and then you
know put them in certain compounds where
they can patent them but I will say this
one last thing about drug companies as
much as I can't stand them if they could
at least come up with remedies or
treatments that have low side effects
that would be a great thing now because
of the censoring and the suppressing of
the algorithms on YouTube it's becoming
more difficult to find my content and
there's a lot of content that I cannot
put on YouTube unfortunately so to make
sure you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other side
