hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about asthma and the
best remedies the absolute best remedy
for the asthma is this one right here
vitamin d3 why because vitamin d3 works
on the immune system
most asthmatics are always deficient in
vitamin d3 okay but if you're going to
take vitamin d3 there's two things you
number one you need to take it with k2
because vitamin k2 + d3 work together
I created a link down there to kind of
watch that video but because if you take
too much d3 you're going to raise too
much calcium and not enough k2 the
drives a calcium into the bone
the calcium might plug up like the
joints and get arthritis bursitis
tendinitis that type of thing
so for every 10,000 IU's you need 100
micrograms of dk2 I'll put the data down
there so you can check it out so this
one is 10,000 IU's so the next point
about vitamin D is you need it in higher
amounts if you have asthma so probably
between 20,000 I use to 40,000 IU's but
don't be freaked out about the amounts
because I you really like 10,000 IU's is
like one milligram it's not that much
okay so you're not taking too much so I
wouldn't worry about it in fact if
you're on the Sun you get about 40,000
IU's if you're there for like a half an
hour so it's not that much so vitamin d3
is for asthma okay
now secondly is what is the common drug
that people take for asthma they take
Branko steroid inhalers what is a
steroid inhaler
it's an adrenal hormone it's called
cortisol so cortisol is part of the
adrenal gland which is a you have to top
of the kidney and when you run out of
those hormones you get asthma right why
because those adrenal hormones are
relaxers for the bronchial tubes figure
it inflammation and if you're deficient
in the adrenal even adrenalin that
everything will tighten up okay so what
I recommend for that is cortisol support
this is awesome now this is not going to
cure asthma but it gives you some
support
worked why because it supports the
adrenal gland itself both the outside
and the inside of the gland so it has a
real complete full food vitamin C
complex during a hormone complex so it
gives you everything you need and this
would be a great thing too if you're
going to transition with help of your
doctor off steroids alright be able to
take less that would be a good thing to
take this is not supposed to be used
with people with high cortisol it's for
people that are burnt out and don't have
enough okay so you might want to try it
so the other thing with kids the kids
that get lots of Sun what's interesting
about their asthma is it seems to go in
remission so if you have the chance to
get Sun get more Sun and that will help
you with the asthma okay so the last
thing about asthma is this there are
some other nutritional elements or
deficiencies that could trigger asthma
and that has to do with a lacking of
your stomach acids in your stomach so if
your don't have enough stomach acid you
can also experience asthma so drinking
apple cider vinegar to put this Demick
put the acid back in your body would be
very beneficial for asthma so I would
take a teaspoon maybe in some water
three times a day and just see if that
doesn't help you alright hope that
helped I'll see you in the next video
