today we're going to talk about bruising
and the type of bruising that doesn't
involve some trauma okay so people are
getting bruising and they're like you
know I didn't hit myself I wasn't abused
by anyone I didn't have any type of
physical impact so why do I have this
bruising that's the topic for today and
it's actually a very interesting topic
now if you look up bruising you'll see
all sorts of
um descriptive types of bruising that
classifies bruising by size like a small
bruise would be classified under this
condition and you have a moderately
sized bruise would be this or a larger
bruise will be called something else but
that's not really the important thing
about bruising the important thing is to
find the obvious cause of a bruising
that's very very common there's rare
things like leukemia other types of
cancer
blood clotting disorders genetic
disorders that could cause bruising
certain viruses can cause you to bruise
and a lot of different medications as
their side effect can give you bruising
like when you're on warfin which is the
blood thinner or certain antibiotics
or prednisone which is steroids or a
weight loss medication called orlestat
you can even get it over the counter as
something called Ali and even certain
types of bowel disorders like Celiac or
ulcerative colitis can increase your
risk of bruising a fatty liver can
increase your risk of beauty and
bruising so what is the common thread
among all of those things I just
mentioned that's the topic for today you
have this one vitamin it's called
vitamin K1 so you may already know that
vitamin K1 comes from leafy green
vegetables right that's the highest
source and vitamin K1 is also stored in
your liver and we also know vitamin K1
is part of the fat soluble vitamins and
so the other fat soluble vitamins are
vitamin A D E okay and you also have a
different form of vitamin K called K2 so
we need vitamin K1 very desperately
because it prevents bleeding okay so it
helps clotting because if you had a
paper cut and you could never stop the
bleeding
um you'd literally you could bleed to
death so the point is that vitamin K1 is
a very important vitamin in relationship
to survival because we don't want any
internal bleeding or external bleeding
going on now some people have this idea
if they consume too much vitamin K1
they're going to get extra clotting and
they're going to develop a clot that is
absolutely 100 percent false okay if you
get too much vitamin K1
there's a limit to how much clotting
you're going to have it's not going to
be more than normal okay but that extra
vitamin K1 goes to two other very
important purposes number one it's
involved in a very potent
anti-inflammatory mechanism so it helps
you get rid of inflammation
that's only if you have extra vitamin K1
so vitamin K1 it's not just about
clotting it's also about getting rid of
inflammation
then if there's extra K1 left over it
ends up in the bowel where it's
converted into Vitamin K2 and vitamin K2
is vital in preventing calcification in
your arteries and in your joints and
also making sure that your bones are
very very strong and so you don't end up
with soft bones like osteomalacia or
osteopenium or even osteoporosis so
let's just take some of these
medications for a second and just take a
look at how they would deplete you of
that K1 let's take the first one called
Warfarin okay that's a blood thinner
well that actually is a drug that blocks
the absorption of K1 directly okay and
so it thins your blood in fact it's uses
one of the poisons to kill rats right
it's a rat poison it blocks vitamin K2
and then they bleach it out of course
when someone's giving Warfarin they're
not giving you massive amounts it's just
it's highly regulated to thin the blood
to make sure it doesn't clot so this is
why people on Warfarin don't have a
significant amount of vitamin K1 and so
they might bruise so that could be
reason number one why you have bruising
let's go to number two and antibiotics
certain antibiotics increase your risk
of bruising well here's the reason
bacteria make a secondary backup type of
bile salt okay so your liver can make
bile but your microbes also make bile so
if you wipe out a good significant
amount of your microbes especially the
ones that make bile then you're going to
have a heck of a Time extracting this
vitamin K1 from your Foods okay because
bile is all about helping you pull these
Fat Cycle vitamins from the food that
you eat also these microbes have the
potential to make vitamin K1 directly so
if you don't have those microbes then
you can't make vitamin K1 not to mention
you're not going to be able to convert
K1 to K2 very well so you'll be
deficient in vitamin K2 so pretty much
all these medications I'm talking about
also will inhibit or create a deficiency
of vitamin K2 as well now let's take
statins okay
the purpose of a Statin is to block the
production of cholesterol now what's
this relationship between cholesterol
and vitamin K1 well guess what bile
salts are made from
cholesterol and if you don't have enough
cholesterol you can't make the bile
salts that help you absorb the fat
soluble vitamins this is why there's
even a condition as a side effect called
statin-induced calcification wow
so without vitamin K1 or K2 you are
going to get buildup in the arteries of
calcium so it's pretty wild that you're
taking this medication to reduce
cholesterol to prevent heart problems
yet it increases the amount of calcium
that builds up in the arteries which
will pretty much create the same thing
and I'm not telling you to come off
medications I'm just giving you the
information but one of the side effects
from statins is bruising now you know
why all right what about these steroids
like prednisone
what's wild about Prednisone is that
prednisone causes more osteoporosis than
any other medication you can possibly
take so one of the reasons it does that
is it blocks vitamin K1 and vitamin K2
so then you don't have the factors to
make your bones really really strong and
prednisone uh really destroys the
gallbladder okay it will inhibit the
bile production and increase your risk
of gallstones which by the way people
that have gallstones also have a higher
risk of bruising and that is because you
need bile salts to prevent gallstones
okay and so gallstones are really caused
by a lack of bile and that bile is also
necessary to extract these fat soluble
vitamins from your food like vitamin K1
then we get oralistat okay it's an
over-the-counter weight loss pill so
this is supposed to help you lose fat
and I'm not sure the mechanism if it
blocks fat or whatever but it definitely
lowers your bile output okay from your
liver and without enough bile you're not
going to be able to absorb vitamin K1
and you're going to be more at risk for
bruising I mean even this medication has
one of the side effects is increasing
your risk for something called
thrombocytopenia which is definitely a
disorder of your platelets that can
cause bruising now also one of the side
effects from having a fatty liver is
bruising and now you know why because
without a fully functioning liver you're
not going to be able to produce enough
bile to again extract these fat soluble
vitamins remember when I told you where
vitamin K1 comes from leafy greens the
question is how much actual greens does
an average person consume in America
well you might be surprised to find out
it's only on average one and a half cups
okay per day one and a half cups you're
not going to get enough vitamin K1 from
one and a half cups now your microbes
can produce vitamin K1 but if there's
some problem with the microbes then
you're not going to produce K1 and this
is why other problems that are
associated with the gut microbiome like
ulcerative colitis Celiac also give you
this increased risk factor for bruising
because without enough microbes number
one you can't make vitamin K1 you can't
convert K1 to K2 you can't make the bile
salts that are necessary for the
extraction of this K1 from your food so
you can see it's a big issue now we
talked about bruising as the primary
thing with this video but also realize
that vitamin K1 has a lot to do with
preventing inflammation
as well as giving you more vitamin K2
which is kind of keeping your arteries
free of calcium keeping your joints free
of calcification keeping your bones from
getting osteoporosis and also there's
quite a few other symptoms that you can
have like for example you can have
nosebleeds you can have more problems
with varicose veins or spider veins if
you're deficient in vitamin K1 so that's
all interesting it just might give you
another reason to beef up no pun
intended the amount of vegetables dark
leafy greens that you should be eating
per day especially if you have any of
the problems that we talked about
especially if you're on these
medications we talked about especially
if you have a fatty liver so like
parsley has probably the most vitamin K1
of any green then we have kale brussels
sprouts
spinach any of the dark leafy green
vegetables iceberg lettuce does not have
a lot of K1 now as far as K2 is
concerned you can get K2 from egg yolks
you can get it from animal liver you can
also get it from hard cheeses you can
get it from extra vitamin K1 if you have
any extra left that is provided into
your gut but your microbes can also make
k2 directly so this is why you can also
get vitamin K2 in sauerkraut and also
this fermented soy dish called NATO and
of course if you're not from a certain
Asian country you may not like that dish
so maybe you want to stick with
sauerkraut but if you have bruising on
your body and you didn't have trauma
suspect vitamin K1 deficiency but with a
catch it could be lack of bile it could
be all these other reasons that are
preventing you from getting enough
vitamin K1 now I think the next most
important video for you to watch would
be the one on vitamin K2 check that out
I put it right here
