there is nothing more frustrating
than doing all the right things to try
to lose weight
and it doesn't work you know your spouse
loses weight or your friends are losing
weight but you're not
and you're wondering what am I doing
wrong right and then your friends or
spouse will dub in all the reasons why
they think it's not working and they're
usually wrong and then that can just
make things worse give me the wrong
diagnosis Etc I've done videos on this
topic extensive videos on all the
reasons why people don't lose weight but
today I'm going to share one additional
reason that will make everything make
sense if you have this problem so you're
not stuck in this mystery of what could
it be okay it is true that
past dieting social metabolism okay it
is true that the longer you've had
insulin resistance the harder it is to
lose weight okay so we have that factor
we also have people doing the right type
of diet you know ketogenic diet low
carbs doing intermittent fasting okay
and then also applying it correctly
that's very very important and also your
sleep is really important too so if
you're not sleeping your blood sugar is
going to be off your stress hormones are
going to be up and that can be the
reason why you're not losing weight as
well and it could also be other health
problems all of these are valid but
there's one more reason that I've never
covered in any videos
and that is your genes your genetics
okay now this is a very interesting
subject and I'm going to give you some
solutions if your problem is genetic but
I'm doing a deep dive into genetics
right now and so I have some fascinating
new information I'm going to share with
you in upcoming videos but there's
something called a gene variant and a
gene is basically a blueprint that tells
the body what to do and there's all
sorts of environmental things lifestyle
things that can affect your genes uh
positive and negative but within
individuals there's certain variations
of certain genes that act differently so
one person could have a fast metabolism
and another person could actually have a
slow metabolism one person can burn fat
slowly the other one can burn fat very
quickly some people are just always
hungry and no matter how much they eat
they can still keep eating whereas other
people can get satisfied very quickly
with food then you also have all these
different behaviors you know like with
Suites for example
certain people when they start eating
sweets they can't stop right they just
will keep eating and keep eating and
they keep eating for some reason other
people might go after fatty foods and
maybe some other people might go after
more protein and then you'll exercise
you take two people right
they're working out the same one person
loses the other person doesn't
so this can be very very frustrating if
you don't understand there could be a
genetic Factor now you may consider this
a weakness okay within your genes but
it's not really a weakness if you
understand
the body is always trying to survive and
do its best within its environment and
so these genetic variances are not
errors they're just things that happen
within our genetics long ago and those
genes now do not help us in the current
environment we're in so let's just take
metabolism okay what would be the
survival advantage of having a slow
metabolism and burning fat slower and
retaining fat right versus other people
they're just very lean and they burn
very very brightly so what would be the
advantage of someone with a slow
metabolism well if you take a look at
thousands of years ago let's say in the
caveman era if you had a slow metabolism
and you could retain fat easier and hold
fat longer you're the one that survived
the people who couldn't store fat would
die off easily but of course in this
environment nowadays it doesn't help
that there's so much food available now
what about
the person who when they eat sugar they
just can't stop what would be the
survival advantage of that well let's
say for example there's not a lot of
food and you're foraging through the
woods and you happen to come across
a beehive filled with honey right and
this is a lot of energy right this can
give you a lot of survival energy by
consuming all of that beehive you
wouldn't necessarily just eat a little
bit you'd probably eat the whole thing
and that would help you survive versus
someone else that wouldn't necessarily
eat those carbohydrates because eating
those concentrated carbohydrates would
then very easily convert to Fat which
would give you more Storage Fuel to live
longer but that doesn't actually help
you in this environment when there's so
many different types of Honey around or
other sugars in fact when I have my
genetics tested I have kind of a gene
variant related to Sugar that once I
start I can't stop which makes total
sense because growing up I was the kid
that would eat massive amounts of sugar
almost like I was not surviving that I
would have to hoard it because I thought
maybe I wasn't going to eat tomorrow
that's kind of the thought process that
was going through my mind in fact during
Halloween right we would have bags of
candy I would eat the whole thing in one
night I mean that's just crazy and I did
that for years and so in this
environment it can be very very deadly
to your health the problem with these
Gene variants especially as it relates
to losing weight it's just that you're
in the wrong environment now right
you're no longer in that environment
where it helped you survive so I'm going
to give you some tips on what you should
do first of all realize this you could
be doing everything right it's not that
you're doing anything wrong okay it's
just that it's going to take longer it's
going to take more work you have certain
genes that are still operating like
you're still living a thousand years ago
when it's actually 2022. so number one
give it some time number two
um chances are you're gonna have to be
very strict with your carbohydrates
whereas someone else can tolerate more
carbohydrates you probably can't number
three I would definitely add more
fasting more prolonged fasting fast
longer that's going to help you that's
something you can do that's called an
epigenetic action something that control
your genes and greatly help you because
we want to mimic the environment in the
past which you didn't eat three meals a
day you'd be lucky if you ate once a day
or once every other day now if you're
like me okay and you have a problem with
sugar you're gonna have to completely
avoid sugar like just a little bit of
sugar here and there is not going to
help you because that's going to lead to
more and more sugar and that is one
reason why why I don't eat any sugar and
I have enough knowledge and discipline
just to avoid it but I could very easily
slip into that sugar thing and just
consume a massive amount and this may
also include avoiding some of the keto
snacks that are sweet or
um even the sugar alcohols you might not
do well with them why because you're
still getting the sensation of sweet it
might be definitely better and good for
a transition if you also have a problem
with being satisfied okay and you're
just always hungry you just enjoy food
the way to handle that is to really get
into a deeper level of ketosis where
your body is really adapted to Fat it's
burning fat 24 7. and you just
absolutely have no appetite whatsoever
that's the best way to handle the
appetite thing and of course when you're
eating eat nutrient-dense foods and that
way your cells will be satisfied so many
people when they do keto they don't
focus on the nutrients so yeah yes
you're in your body in ketones but the
nutrients in the food actually help
satisfy you if you ever eat an empty
tomato or some of the food that's empty
like let's take Doritos right you can't
just have one right you have to have the
whole bag it's like so empty of
something you're trying to satisfy
yourself but it's impossible because
there's no nutrition in there in the
first place and of course they also have
flavor chemicals MSG that stimulates
hunger all right and the last point I
want to bring up is you may have to add
a lot of different
um tactics okay or things that can give
you Advantage not just one thing but a
lot of different things right and that
can include more exercise okay more high
intensity exercise more recovery the
apple cider vinegar with each meal that
conclude the apple cider vinegar in your
water that will greatly help blood
sugars more sleep okay that could be
huge berberine which is like a natural
metformin which helps insulin resistance
uh adding cinnamon these are just really
little things that can make a big
difference and the other point if your
metabolism is on the slow end you're not
going to consume as much fat as someone
with a faster metabolism so in this
situation you don't want to add a lot of
fat okay you just want to have the fat
that normally comes with the protein and
don't add the extra Bulletproof Coffee
well initially you should just to be
able to fast longer but over time you
should then cut back on your fat maybe
below 100 grams but not below 75 grams
okay so you don't want to go low fat but
you don't want to go high fat okay you
want to probably want to go medium fat
realize keto is low carb it's not high
fat you can't eat more fat to get deeper
in the ketosis it's about lowering your
carbohydrate and the other thing I would
really avoid is going out to dinner try
not to go out to dinner very often
because it's crap shoot there's so many
things that can throw you off the bread
the desserts the Temptation the quality
of food
um a very very important to be able to
control your food so again realize that
you may have a gene variation you just
need to um give it more time and do
these things to more of an extreme level
now if you haven't seen my recent video
on metabolism this will give you
additional things you can do check it
out I put it up right here
