let's talk about the 11 potential causes
of achy legs now it could be in one leg
or the other leg or both legs so number
one you have this condition called
claudication as an intermittent
claudication instrument it means it
comes and goes it has to do with pain or
achiness upon exertion so let's say for
example you climb up the stairs or
you're starting exercising or you start
to exercise and your legs get really
painful or achy what's happening is
there's some type of obstruction in the
vascular system and your lower legs it
could be a thorough sclerotic plaquing
but the bottom line is you're running
out of oxygen to the lower extremity one
essential thing to do about that is to
get in a low carbohydrate diet also in a
minute fasting is going to be beneficial
and then start getting on an exercise
program that is very very light but it's
consistent every day and you do that
gradually over a period of time you're
slowly increasing it because when you do
that you're going to increase the growth
of more blood vessels to the area number
two sciatica
now the silac nerve is the longest nerve
in the body it's about the width of my
thumb and it originates from the lumbar
vertebra and it's form it forms this big
nerve that goes in the back part of the
buttocks down to the back of the leg so
you could either have a pinch in your
lower back from I don't know a disc
protrusion or something or you could
have a pinch in the location of the
buttocks by a muscle called the
piriformis if it's in spasm it could
pinch that nerve and you can experience
achiness in the lower part leg but
realize this the static nerve is in the
back part of leg not on the side of the
leg if you have a kena sore pain on the
side that could be another nerve but
it's not the site of nerve for pretty
much all of these I put videos down
below to tell you what to do about them
for this one you want to make sure that
you want to work on the curve in the
lower back to create that more space in
the nerve roots okay number three
restless leg syndrome and I have a video
on this specifically but this is a
buildup of lactic acid in
muscles in your lower leg because you're
low in vitamin b1 okay and if you're
deficient in this because you're doing
too many carbohydrates you're not going
to be able to get rid of lactic acid so
you're gonna have a condition called
lactic acidosis so it's more acidic than
it should be and the muscles are gonna
feel very restless I had this for many
years I didn't know what it was I would
be getting up in the middle of night
going for a jog in the middle of the
night to try to get this energy out of
my legs it just I could not relax very
simply I wish I would have known this b1
nutritional yeast gets rid of it like
that and of course cutting out the carbs
I was doing a lot of carbs back then
okay number four virus is like an
Epstein bar virus can come in and out of
remission over the years depending on
your stress level and what activates it
and that can create various symptoms
fatigue achiness in the muscle or
swollen lymph nodes okay number five low
vitamin D why because vitamin D is one
of the most powerful anti-inflammatories
so if you're low in vitamin E you're
gonna have more inflammation especially
in the lower back but it can be anywhere
in the body and it can also show up as a
keenest not just pain number six if you
have a pinched nerve in your back
somewhere that can refer not just pain
in the lower part of your legs but
achiness as well number seven
electrolyte imbalances so if you're
deficient in potassium or sodium or
magnesium or even calcium that could be
enough to create not just a cramp but an
achiness in the calf or your foot or
your buttocks muscle as well it could be
any anywhere in the body number eight
old injuries let's say for example you
fill in your tailbone okay you Jam the
tailbone or you fell on the knee or you
sprained an ankle or you stub to toe
that can alter the biomechanics
and cause you to walk a little bit out
of balance and over the years that is
gonna create wear and tear on certain
joints especially the knee joint and and
then it causes one muscle to tighten up
and the other one who's going to be too
loose and create imbalances asymmetries
that can cause a keenest pain and
arthritis I have videos on what to do
for old injuries especially if you fell
on your tailbone or you sprained an
ankle or you have knee pain so I put
those down below number nine deep vein
thrombosis this is a situation where you
have a clot in the deeper veins of the
legs and that's obstructing blood flow
now I talked about the clot right here
okay but if you have a clot called a
thrombus that's in your deep veins
that's gonna create a lot of achiness
swelling one of your legs could be extra
warm and you can have alteration in the
color of the leg because it's affecting
the circulation number 10 varicose veins
or spider veins that is a problem with
the superficial veins in your legs which
could definitely create achiness okay so
both of these can create a cleanness and
then we have diabetes diabetes is a high
blood sugar situation not only will it
deplete mountain b1 but it will also
create oxidation in the inside of the
artery and the capillaries the small
blood vessels that feed the nerves so
you can have a keenest from the muscle
aspect because the muscle is not getting
oxygen but also a heinous from the
neurological damage that occurs from
having diabetes and I put videos on each
one of these down below so you can check
it out and there you have it 11 causes
of achy legs thanks for watching so if
you want more knowledge on how to create
a healthy body subscribe now and get
daily notifications
