hey guys I'm back and today we're going
to answer the question is Keitel only
good short-term ok and you see this like
in the news and and certain web articles
where yeah Kido works but only
short-term and their rationale is
because keto is a high-fat diet
and ketones are acidic so yes you're
going to lose weight you're going to
feel great but then you're going to
become too acidic and that is not
healthy okay that's the argument so
let's just kind of cover some points
about that well first of all you have
essential nutrients like essential fatty
acids which by the way come from
plant-based type diets and they're
essential which means your body can't
make it so it must get it from the diet
right so I mean these are acids amino
acids can come from plant base type
foods that's an acid should you avoid
all that no these are essential ok you
also have bacteria in your gut that make
lactic acid should we just kill that out
so we can actually prevent becoming
acidic certain parts of your body are
acidic in certain parts are alkaline
your stomach is very acidic your large
bowel is acidic your urine should be
acidic for very specific reasons so we
don't want to alkalize all the parts of
our body ok
and just focus on one pH I mean there
are plant-based foods that are acidic
citrus is an acid tomato is acid
pineapple is acid and then you have
diabetics who develop acidosis because
of too much sugar it's too much
carbohydrate they don't just consume too
much fat they get it from too much
carbohydrate in fact you can increase
cortisol and have a lot of that stress
for Mom be active and develop alkalosis
ok so we don't want to go too far one
way or the other so the bigger point I
want to talk about is to differentiate
between the traditional ketosis which
was recommended for kids with epilepsy
which was like certain oils and low
quality fats and they did not recommend
a lot of vegetables and something called
healthy Heat
which is very different it's not the
same even no one has ketosis in it okay
we do healthy ketosis we're recommending
seven to ten cups of vegetables that's
going to counter any problem with this
acid and there's just as many problems
with a vegan diet especially if someone
doesn't know how to get their b12 their
vitamin A other fat soluble vitamins
they can become deficient long-term so
what we want to do is want to combine
the best of both worlds
a lot of vegetables and moderate amount
of animal protein and healthy fats and
that way keto can be very beneficial to
you
long term hey guys so I'm doing a survey
of a future video and I wanted to find
out what your biggest body problem is so
that way the content is aligning with
something that you are personally
interested in so please click the link
down below fill it out and I will create
the video thanks
