hi guys dr. Berg here in this video
we're going to give you the 10 vegetable
tips today okay number one if you're
going to leave the vegetables in the
fridge longer than one week it's better
to freeze them okay because they'll
actually lose their nutrients if they're
sitting in the fridge for more than one
week okay so just freeze them you'll
retain more nutrients number two I don't
know if you realize this but three
servings of cruciferous vegetables
that's three cups will decrease certain
types of cancer risks by 41% it takes 23
cups of other vegetables to decrease
cancer even in the 20 percentile so
cruciferous
handsdown are the most potent
anti-cancer vegetables that you can
consume so at least get three cups
alright number three avoid canned
vegetables when you can a vegetable you
have to pasteurize it you're going to
kill all the enzymes that's why I can
sit on the shelf for a long period of
time so instead of doing canned
vegetables do fermented vegetables much
better
next one broccoli leaves have more
nutrients than the actual other parts of
the plant so when you cutting up
broccoli make sure you use the Leafs as
well and consume those they have a lot
more vitamin A and other vegetables
number five eat the outer part of the
cabbage or the onion or the lettuce so
sometimes when people are consuming
cabbage they start peeling it down they
get rid of the most nutrient dense part
of that vegetable which is the very
outer portion especially even the onions
and the lettuce as well don't throw that
away consume it okay number six if you
want to increase the longevity of your
vegetables in the refrigerator spray
them with a little water they'll last
longer number seven don't cook your
vegetables in copper pots because that
will deplete vitamin C and vitamin E
number eight you stainless steel or
enamel or glass okay number nine use the
least amount of heat possible he
destroys enzymes the purpose of
consuming the vegetables is to get all
the enzymes and the vitamins
a lot of these vitamins and enzymes are
heat sensitive so keep them or maybe
saute them and then take them off the
stove as fast as possible
all right number 10 refrigeration does
increase longevity so if you have your
vegetables sitting out a little Bowl
they're going to go bad a lot faster
keep them in the fridge just to increase
the longevity alright thanks for
watching hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
