so I had another question that came up
regarding potassium someone said I'm
concerned about taking potassium because
I heard it's dangerous for my kidney so
is it okay to take potassium okay well
it really depends if you have stage 5
kidney failure end-stage renal failure
okay we're you have 10% of the kidney
working you want to avoid potassium why
because you've already lost your ability
to rid potassium and other nutrients as
well so it's gonna build up and that
could be dangerous to the heart because
your pulse rate goes down you might have
neurological problems like a tingling
sensation or even numbness you feel weak
nauseated but if you're healthy like the
great majority of the population
potassium is protective to the kidney it
actually can prevent a bad kidney
especially if you're diabetic one of the
complications of being a diabetic is you
lose the kidney function if you have
enough potassium you can hopefully
prevent that effect so potassium is very
very healthy especially for the kidney
okay and the reason why you would have a
kidney problem the first place it
usually comes from high levels of sugar
and insulin which destroys the kidney
the eye the heart and the brain but the
kidney especially so a lot of diabetics
died of renal failure they end up on
kiddie Dallas's so not only can
potassium protect the kidney but it can
help reestablish normal blood sugars as
well so as you increase more potassium
you can just make insulin work better in
the body and you can bring it down so
that can help a diabetic greatly not to
mention it can lower blood pressure too
so a lot of blood pressure problems
actually come from a potassium
deficiency but what people are doing is
they're lowering their salt but they're
ignoring this potassium what they don't
know is they need a lot they need like
four point seven grams of potassium
every single day
it's a lot of vegetables but potassium
can help you potassium functions on the
nerves the muscle the rhythm of the
heart it's a major electrolyte most
cells in your body have potassium pumps
because it's intimately involved in
creating energy and fluid balance
alright guys thanks for watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
