what you eat and especially drink at
night is really important there are
seven nighttime drinks for diabetes
pre-diabetes and for people with insulin
resistance which comes before
pre-diabetes which usually takes about
15 years for your blood sugar for your
quality of sleep to prevent getting up
several times a night urinating if a
person has blood sugar issues they're
not able to go for a long period of time
between meals their fuel is dependent on
the meal that they just ate at night
when they had their last meal now they
have to go like 12 13 14 hours without
food and a lot of things can happen the
first thing you need to know about is
the blood sugar will go down sometime
during the nighttime the body can't have
that it's constantly working to
stabilize your blood sugar the way it
does that is through cortisol which is a
stress hormone that's what the body uses
to kind of bring the blood sugar up of
course adrenaline it's not really a
hormone it's a neurotransmitter but it's
going to be another thing that can kind
of wake you up if you don't have the
quality of sleep that you need that's
going to put a lot of stress on your
blood sugar blood sugar issues prevent a
quality of sleep and then poor sleep
causes blood sugar issues so it's a
NeverEnding cycle of course A lot of
people are getting up to the night
peeing all the time and you're going to
lose water if you have high blood sugar
because the body's trying to get rid of
it and then the person's a little more
dehydrated and that dehydrated State
causes more concentration of blood sugar
and now we're right back into the same
situation there's even something uh that
is called the dawn phenomena which is in
the morning cortisol which is a stress
hormone it's the highest at 8:00 in the
morning that's usually when a diabetic
has the highest blood sugar even if they
didn't eat any sugar the night before
when I go through all these drinks it's
going to actually help correct that
problem let's talk about these seven
drinks the first one combining apple
cider vinegar with cinnamon you want to
add water with a tablespoon one or two
of alider vinegar add a little pinch of
sentiment if we just combine those two
we get this very powerful blood sugar
regulating drink that can help you to
the night number two chamomile tea it
has one effect of helping you sleep and
feel calm but another one on your blood
sugar it lowers cortisol it protects the
actual cells in the pancreas that make
insulin then we get to number three
golden milk this is a combination of
turmeric and ginger it's made in a latte
but here we're combining one of the most
amazing herb compounds turmeric that has
the active ingredient called curcumin
with another amazing one called ginger
together it creates a nice compounding
effect and you would drink this golden
milk before bed number four aloe vera
juice you may think about this juice uh
to help with digestion ulcers some
people take it topically uh for wound
healing it has another really potent
effect on the cells of the pancreas that
make insulin number five berberine tea
berberine works very close to the
effectiveness of Metformin it's a common
diabetic medication but without the side
effects it's awesome number six
electrolytes mainly potassium and
magnesium magnesium can potently
decrease cortisol it's going to help you
with stress help you with sleep and
especially help you with blood sugar
issues and then pottassium is another
interesting mineral we need a lot of
pottassium we need like 4700 milligram
rarely does anyone get this much
potassium and magnesium are both
physiological relaxers but potassium
will bring down your pulse rate if it's
too high potassium is also needed to
help you store glucose in your liver and
even in your muscles potassium is just
really good for stress in general as
well as for sleeping and number seven
and it's actually an electrolyte as well
salt in fact I would just add the salt
to the electrolyte and now you have this
really awesome compound to help you
sleep now what is it about sodium that
can help your blood sugar because this
is something that diabetics are told to
avoid that advice in fact lowering
sodium actually raises cortisol I've
also found that when I take a little
salt either underneath my tongue or in a
little glass of water before bed I
always feel calmer and I sleep better it
can reduce cortisol which will then keep
your blood sugar more balanced also the
sodium helps to be more hydrating to
your body so you can hold more fluid and
you're not dehydrated which then we
could prevent that super concentrating
uh blood sugar situation I mentioned
before I mean if you think about it
sodium is like a an essential mineral
that will help your nerves work muscles
work hydration but it also lowers
cortisol it supports the adrenal glands
I've given a lot of options for drinks
that you can add before you go to bed go
ahead and apply one or more of these and
then comment down below and tell me how
it worked thanks for watching and I will
see you in the next video
