there are always things that you can do
to speed up your results and to maximize
fat burning pretty much every week in my
live show I'll have someone that is uh
struggling uh with weight loss or
they're plateauing and so this video
will go through every single uh point
that comes up when you're trying to lose
weight and you're unsuccessful and you
may just need one of these points to
crack the case and lose weight like you
want to now that being said what I'm
going to show you is a bit extreme but
some people need to go to this level to
see the results that they need if our
goal is to get you into fat burning and
get your body to run on as much fat
calories as we
can there's a great measurement of
ketones to be able to see that um
through your blood okay you can measure
your ketones get a little Ketone device
and check not the urine but the Blood so
it goes on the scale right here and uh
you'll
probably never really see above three
unless you do several other things which
I'm going to explain you'll usually stay
between one two and maybe three if you
do keto and intermittent fasting okay
but when you add more exercise more
hardcore exercise it'll go a little bit
deeper the numbers going up are deeper
ketosis right and then if we add prolong
fasting okay we can see higher and
higher numbers depending depending on
how many days that you fast for now
sometimes people are concerned about um
keto acidosis if it gets too high like
9.5 to 10 right which you're getting the
keto
acidosis this condition only happens if
you are a type one diabetic and you have
no more insulin and you're not
regulating your blood sugars or you
forget to take your insulin whatever so
if you're producing insulin you're never
going to get to this level okay so I
just wanted to show you this what I'm
going to show you is how to go as high
as you can right up through here doing
other things okay including exercise and
prolong fasting and what you're going to
see in the majority of this video is
things you're not going to do okay
versus doing certain things okay you're
going to be avoiding things that's going
to create the biggest change okay so
number one dropping your carbs close to
zero so that means not consuming any
berries or nuts unless you consume
acadamia nuts no yogurt there's sugar in
yogurt no
kefir no carrots beets corn squash peas
or tomatoes you can do leafy greens but
I wouldn't do these okay the closer you
get your carbs to zero the more ketones
we're going to generate number two no
extra fat okay with the meal so that
means no MCT oil why because your body's
going to use this
before it uses your own fat Reserve no
Bulletproof Coffee okay which is
basically MCT oil and butter in your
coffee now keto bombs say these little
desserts right after your meal just
don't eat those okay and especially if
they're uh if you buy them because they
they stick all these different
ingredients in them but we don't want to
add more fat uh than necessary you only
want to consume the fat that comes with
the protein and I wouldn't add any
anything in your coffee either just
drink black coffee so no half and half
or no cream at this stage I'm just going
through all the things that potentially
could slow you down a little bit okay
and if you add all these things together
you're you're pretty much guaranteed
success okay three no sugar alcohols
this is the alternative sweeteners that
a lot of people use on keto like no
xylol reol not that there's sugar in
them but they can really alter your
digestive system and that can create
blood Lo in and additional problems this
is why we're going to also recommend no
almond flour so many people have an
issue with almond flour okay they get
bloating and also no keto packaged Foods
nowadays they're slipping in all these
synthetic fibers these new called
functional fibers the cable corn fiber
the tapioca fiber and additional hidden
maltodextrin that they don't even put on
the label so we just want to avoid that
so that way
uh it's not going to be a barrier all
right number four when you go to a
restaurant it's crapshoot there's so
much seed oils that they fry food in
that they put into the food at
restaurants especially fast food
restaurants but other restaurants as
well um when I go out to a restaurant I
really have to read that menu and I'm
really asking the waitress or the waiter
uh very specific questions about these
ingredients because my body is very
sensitive I can pick up if there's any
hidden sugar in the food or chemicals
and I'll walk away from that restaurant
not feeling quite right because I'll
know that there's something in there
that disagreed with my body so at this
stage if you really want to see some
great results I would just not go to any
restaurants cook your own food so you
can control it okay now only one cup of
coffee not more than that because we
don't want to add more caffeine that can
inhibit your
sleep it also adds more strain in the
liver because the liver has to work hard
at detoxifying the caffeine all right
number six apple cider vinegar like one
tablespoon in a glass of water before
your meal why because apple cider
vinegar is really good at helping your
blood sugars okay at improving this
insulin resistance problem also the
apple cider vinegar will help your
stomach be a little more acidic so
you'll get better digestion all right
let's go to the next section here all
right seven no more than 8 ounces of
protein per meal why because if you have
too much protein that can Spike insulin
so typically you want to go from I don't
know three to six ounces to no more than
eight ounces of protein per meal but
because we're doing omad one meal a day
Monday through Friday you want to eat a
little more protein so 78 ounces would
be a good amount the type of protein
does matter you want protein with the
fat that normally comes with it you
don't want to do any lean protein but
you want fatty protein like hamburger
like you can do fatty steak uh salmon
fish Seafood eggs and you can also do
some cheese if it's quality like an
organic European cheese from grass-fed
cows uh from raw milk cheese that would
be the best cheese is a good source of
protein without the carbs as compared
comped to other Dairy like just regular
milk or kefir or yogurt I also recommend
no protein powders why because there's
all sorts of stuff in there and also
it's too lean okay the leaner you go
with the protein the higher you spike
insulin all right I also recommend not
consuming any pre-made shakes okay they
have a lot of weight loss shakes they
have a lot of meal substitutes in a
shake avoid those there are certain
ingredients that you don't want to put
in your body all right next point would
be number eight one meal a day Monday
through Friday okay and and you don't
have to restrict your calories okay
consume enough food make sure it's
nutrient dense and then in the weekends
okay Saturday and Sunday do a 48 hour
fast now you might at first think that's
extreme but the amount of Health that's
going to be generated in your body on
all different levels is going to be
incredible not to mention your
metabolism it's going to improve and
you're going to also bust through that
set point that that weight level that
you just can't seem to get past I think
this is a really good pattern for not
just weight loss but Health in general
and also as an anti-cancer thing make
sure you take your electrolytes B
vitamins and sea salt anytime you do
fasting okay number nine very important
I did another video on how
significant stresses with with your
weight with your metabolism with
increasing cortisol you need to do
what's called a stress detox okay and
the biggest source of stress is other
people so you want to avoid any and all
people who stress you out there's really
two groups of people people that are
bringing you up and people that are
bringing you down anyone that brings you
down or stresses you out you want to
just put them on pause for a while and
you're stress level is going to go down
and you also want to stop watching the
news why because it's mostly bad news
there's not a lot of good news and also
try to limit as much as you can so if
you don't watch the news don't hang out
with these people you're not going to
have a lot of bad news and that is going
to make a huge shift in your sanity your
stress level and
cortisol you want to keep super busy
okay why
so you don't have time to think too much
right and start worrying and being
stressed out so many people if they have
idle time get to thinking and start to
stress themselves out and too much
thinking especially if it's like
analyzing different problems constantly
can definitely increase your cortisol
level so you just want to stay really
busy so you can keep your mind off these
problems for a period of time as well as
preventing B
right because the worst thing you can do
is sit around while there's food in the
kitchen and not be busy okay so that's
that one and then physical work or
exercise two to three times a week for
one hour I would recommend doing more
physical work if you can because that's
very therapeutic why because apparently
this also handles the mental stress at
the same time more than actual exercise
does now the type of exercise you want
to do is something like significant
something that you know you're going to
get sore the next day you really want to
work your full body high-intensity
interval training would be the best not
just like five minutes you really want
to work out till you get tired and you
might not be able to do that without the
help of a personal trainer so you might
want to think about that get as much sun
as you can without burning yourself
because this is very therapeutic uh to
reduce cortisol uh real quick I had a
patient once who had this huge belly
and every time he went down to Florida
for a vacation he'd come back his
stomach was completely flat and he
wouldn't change his diet but he's out in
the sun and the fresh air and the Sun
and the lower stress just reduced his
cortisol also be around nature as much
as possible number 10 fermented veggies
like one cup like either sauerkraut or
kimch a day is really going to help your
gut and your sleeping which I'm going
mention or if you can't do that just
take a probiotic before bed it's going
to help your sleep and it's going to
help you lose more weight all right
number 11 support the beta cell what's
the beta cell that's the cell the
pancreas that's regulating and producing
insulin so you want to make sure you
have enough potassium foods magnesium
foods those are the big salads vitamin D
you can also get these as a supplement
from electrolytes but vitamin D is very
very important with your pancreas and
helping you lower insulin and so is B1
in the form of nutritional yeast these
four are really good to help um insulin
resistance and to help the pancreas and
last but not least number 12 sleep if
possible I would recommend going to bed
at 9:30 that might sound pretty drastic
but that's what time I go to bed and uh
you get this cycle down where you know
you go to bed and try to get as much
sleep as you can you might wake up in
the middle of the night but just try to
get back to sleep and try to sleep as
long as possible okay get at least eight
hours I did a recent video on sleep
that's very very important that will
help you regulate the amount of light
that you're exposed to in fact I think
that's the next one you should watch
check it out I put it up right here
