let's talk about the seven foods that
you must never ever eat again these
foods are promoted as healthy foods but
in reality behind the scenes they are
not healthy at all in fact they're going
to make you sick so we're going to go
through all seven and number seven is
very interesting because I tested this
food in my basement on rats so you
definitely want to stay till the end to
hear about what happened let's start
with number one granola bars right
Nature Valley sounds wonderful is it
really healthy they promote using whole
grain with just a touch of honey so
let's take a look at the actual
ingredients now I always like to ignore
the nutritional facts because it doesn't
really tell you much about what the
ingredients are so let's look just at
the ingredients it says whole grain oats
okay so this doesn't tell us if it's
organic or conventional but if we scroll
all the way down it says contains
bioengineered food ingredients now what
does that mean it means that they have
GMO ingredients which they're going to
have levels of glyphosate that's an
herbicide and General Mills who owns
this company drop the 100% natural
because they got sued the problem is it
contain a chemical col glyphosate like I
just mentioned a weed killer which is
linked to cancer now you have to realize
that glyphosate is the main ingredient
in Roundup Ready this is a popular
herbicide which by the way they were
ordered to pay $300 million to a man
with terminal cancer after being exposed
to that herbicide so the first thing to
know is the whole grain oats are not
organic second thing is sugar they don't
tell you what kind of sugar cane sugar
or beet sugar most likely it's beet
sugar which also is GMO and then we get
into canola and or sunflower oil this is
a seed oil which is from my viewpoint
not very healthy because it's going to
create a lot of problems on the inside
of your body it's high Omega 6 then we
get into the rice flour okay that's a
starch highly refined when you're
dealing with the starch you're really
dealing with sugar right that's what a
starch is it's a group of sugar
molecules connected together then we get
honey like a like they said only
probably just a tiny bit of Honey Salt
brown sugar syrup when they make sugar
into syrup they have to refine it more
and it's actually going to create a
really nice Spike when you consume it
with with your blood sugars one serving
size equals just under Seven teaspoons
of sugar all right let's dive into
number two agave syrup now this is a
type of sweetener that a lot of people
consider to be diabetic friendly
ketofriendly because it's low on the
glycemic index it sounds very natural
but anytime they make a product into a
syrup especially a gab you're going to
create more fructose okay now the thing
you need to know about fructose is only
the liver can deal with fructose so
whereas can suar has about 50/50 glucose
and fructose agave syrup is literally
85% fructose out of all the foods and
sweeteners out there Agave has the most
fructose it has even more fructose than
high fructose corn syrup okay this means
it's going to create a major problem for
the liver your liver treats fructose
like it does alcohol like a toxin and so
yes it's low on the glycemic index but
it's going to create an indirect effect
with insulin that's going to create the
risk for diabetes insulin resistance
obesity you know think about sugar or
fructose you're taking this sugar out of
the normal food and you consume this in
a concentrated amount in large amounts
this is not healthy this is not good at
all it's going to create a lot of damage
to the liver number three flavored
yogurt right now flavored and of course
they always add sugar to it you have
this appearance that it's a healthy
thing because it's a probiotic and it
has calcium it has protein it's very
convenient people give this stuff to
their kids all day long but you have to
realize that most of these flavored
yogurts have more sugar than a candy bar
tons of sugar 30 gr per serving size
okay this is like way too much sugar and
then when you're adding the sugar to the
protein in it and all the other stuff
you're just going to feed your pathogens
not the good bacteria and the amount of
probiotics or beneficial microbes in
this product is not very significant
most if not all these microbes don't
even survive the stomach acid personally
I do not believe there's any benefits
whatso ever of these probiotics going
into the actual intestine and increasing
your microbes anytime you consume a
yogurt you want to consume it as the
whole food the whole fat you don't want
any yogurts being with skin milk or low
fat at all I mean if you're going to do
yogurt do Bulgarian yogurt do Greek
yogurt without the added sugars I mean
Yogurt by itself has you know six gram
of sugar per serving size why would you
want to add more sugar what's even
better than yogurt is kefir I do it
plain you can even add berries to it
it's delicious but the difference
between kefir and yogurt is that kefir
has way more friendly bacteria so you're
going to get more Diversified microbes
if you have kefir than actual yogurt but
in these flavored yogurts they put
thickeners as modified corn starch they
have MSG in there monosodium glutamate
as a flavor enhancer so if you're
consuming these flavored yogurts
thinking that they're doing you some
good healthwise they're not all right
next one on the list non-dairy creamers
that are considered a healthier
alternative to milk and creams because
they're lower in fat right but what's
interesting is sometimes you don't even
need to put them in the refrigerator
what is in these things well there's a
lot of crap in these things they have
high fructose corn syrup they'll have
glucose syrup they'll have maltodextrin
and the type of fat that they use is
trans fats but a lot of times it's
hidden because if you actually put trans
fats which are seed oils if it's below a
half of a gram per serving size which is
very easy to do in a non-dairy creamer
then they round it out to zero and they
can even say trans fat free when in fact
it has trans fats in there so you really
want to look at the ingredients and make
sure it has no seed oils soy corn canola
cotton seed just use regular cream
organic cream organic half and half then
we get to my favorite soy milk I mean
it's bizarre to me to think that they
can even call it a milk with the soy
milk you're getting a lot of estrogenic
effects personally when I was in
practice I had a gentleman come in that
started to develop breast tissue and he
was consuming I'm not kidding gallons
and gallons of soy milk every single
week so there's a lot of debate whether
soy is healthy or not well here's the
thing the way that they process soy soy
oils soy isolate proteins soy milk I
still to this day do not understand how
soy milk can be considered or perceived
to be something healthy or cleaner than
actual organic real milk or milk
products then we get to number six which
is the fast food lettuce or Salad okay
now no one's going to consume that salad
without dressing so it comes with
dressing and if youve ever read the
ingredients in these dressings for the
salad massive seed oils hidden trans
fats hidden starches high fructose corn
syrup I mean it's just another chemical
cocktail that you put on your salad to
try to think that you're eating
something healthier there's a chemical
called sodium bisulfide this is
something that they put into the lettuce
to preserve it so it doesn't turn brown
it's a chemical so you don't really know
how long that salad's been sitting there
but I think the biggest thing is they
use a chlorine wash to make sure all the
eoli salmonella is killed off well
realize when they're killing off this
bad pathogen they're also killing off
the good stuff as well and I don't want
eat a salad that has this chlorinated
bleached chemical on it the next time
you want a salad don't get it from a
fast food restaurant and the last food
that I would highly recommend that you
avoid puffed cereal puffed rice cakes
there was this chemist and he worked for
Quaker Oats okay they fired him because
he noticed when they did the study on
rats with puffed cereal they would die
so I set up this experiment in my
basement I had four separate cages okay
and the first group of mice I fed them
mice food the second group of mice or
rats I fed whole wheat bread okay third
group I fed white bread and the fourth
group I fed puffed seral in one of the
cages of rats I noticed that the eyes
started turning bright red and started
bulging out and these mice were actually
dying prematurely and this is after a
week and a half to two weeks okay now
take a while to guess what group you
think this was most of you are thinking
it's the white bread right no something
in the puff Cal created the eyes to turn
bright red and it was literally bulging
out and it was killing the mice so Paul
st's experiments were actually true from
my viewpoint he wrote a book called
beating the food Giants you can probably
get it on Amazon he goes through the
whole story that was enough of an
experiment to get me to stop consuming
puff Cals but here's the wild thing that
happened I went on vacation for a week I
to do this seminar and my I told my wife
to take care of the mice somehow the
mice that surv
got out of the cage I don't know if you
know my wife Karen right she comes
downstairs and she sees that the cage is
open and all these mice are getting out
she freaked out right so this is why I
have never duplicated that experiment
I'm not allowed to have any type of
Geral hamsters mice ever ever again we
had to have some people come out to
catch these mice when I finally got home
I went out in the woods and I let them
go free so anyway now you know the seven
foods to completely stay away from if
want to retain your health and if you
haven't seen this video on the
healthiest food that you should be
eating I put that up right here check it
out
