today I'm going to talk about what
nutrients you should be careful of
taking as you age especially over the
age of 50 then I'm going to talk about
what nutrients you should probably take
more of as you age so let's first start
with what to not take first one on the
list is iron our bodies do not have a
good way of getting rid of excess iron
and too much iron in the body creates
damage in the liver if you were to take
iron on a regular basis that could even
increase your risk of getting an
infection if your immune system is low
because you're giving the pathogens
plenty of food also when you take more
iron it depletes zinc really one of the
only remedies is just to donate blood to
get rid of some of this iron now if
someone's female and they're
menstruating they're constantly getting
rid of blood every month but in any
situation that someone's anemic I would
recommend to get your iron from like red
meat liver grass-fed liver pills or
spleen extract the next Min we're going
to talk about is calcium far too many
people are taking too much calcium we
develop a lot of extra calcium that
builds up in the arteries and the
calcium can also build up in the kidneys
as well just think about like people
that have high blood pressure what do
they take they take a calcium channel
blocker now the other point about
calcium is that I do recommend a lot of
vitamin D because it's very very
important but one of the side effects of
vitamin D in higher Amounts is
hypercalcemia what is that that's too
much calcium in the blood now I
recommend taking high doses of vitamin
D3 if you have autoimmune problems or
you have a lot of inflammation because
we're trying to prevent too much calcium
in the blood next vitamin on the list is
vitamin A but I'm not talking about the
natural vitamin A I'm talking about the
synthetic version of vitamin A because
they can become a problem especially if
you're taking them on a a regular basis
with the liver as in liver damage
osteoporosis and increase intracranial
pressure so that's like headaches the
natural version of vitamin A is totally
fine you can get that from civer oil you
can get it from egg yolks get it from
butter but I would avoid taking any
synthetic vitamin A you would think
sodium would be on this list but sodium
is very necessary for you to take
especially as you age so sodium is
necessary to give you energy following
up with that let's talk about the
vitamins that you need more of as you
age there's the synthetic version of
vitamin C and then there's the natural
version in the past I've been very much
against synthetic vitamin C but since
then I found there's definitely a time
and a place for taking large amounts of
vitamin C for various things one is just
to lower your histamine so if you have
this allergy attack it seems to do
wonders for that and even one being to
help with cancer but on the flip side I
also recommend taking the vitamin see
from sauerkraut would also be a good
idea all right next vitamin on the list
this one's very very important this is
vitamin B3 in the form of nasin the
problem with nasin it gives you this
flush if you start off with very small
amounts like you start with 50
milligrams and slowly go to 100
milligrams but I personally take about
500 to 1,000 milligrams of nin every
single day anyone over the age of 50
should do that it's one of the only
things that can increase good
cholesterol it helps to repair DNA it
helps with giving you energy then we get
to the mineral called magnesium
magnesium is the thing that counters
this calcification problem it keeps the
calcium from building up inside the
cells great for blood pressure great for
muscle cramps great for energy great for
sleeping and great for lowering your
cortisol okay let's move on to the next
one vitamin D I think most people need a
lot more than they're getting you need
10,000 IUS I'm not going to get into the
milon reasons why but if you have any
thought that that's a toxic amount just
think about this if you're going to be
out in the sun for about 40 minutes okay
you're going to get
20,000 IUS of vitamin D3 so why in the
heck would 10,000 I use be a toxic
amount the next vitamin I'm going to
talk about you needing is vitamin K1 now
vitamin K1 has the function of clotting
the body there's this false idea that
people have that if I take too much K1
I'm going to get more clotting that is
false information when you take even
high doses of vitamin K1 the blood will
only clot to the normal amount it won't
give you extra clotting it's not going
to create a clot or a clogged artery
they should be consuming foods that are
high in vitamin K1 dark leafy greens are
loaded with vitamin K1 the last vitamin
that I'm going to recommend taking is
vitamin K2 it not only helps you
mobilize calcium and keep the calcium in
the bone where it should be but it also
has other benefits too for energy to
support the mitochondria
