so recently I did a video on advanced
techniques for losing weight in this
video I'm going to talk about keto and
imminent fasting for procrastinators
okay and I'm probably talking to you
Mary John Stefan yeah if you're a
procrastinator make mental notes okay I
wanted to keep things very very very
simple because procrastinators sometimes
are overwhelmed and they need a way to
just jump in there and focus on the most
important things there are just six
simple steps step number one remove all
the junk food from your house okay
real simple just get rid of the junk
number two remove all the food from the
countertops like the nuts and the fruit
that's sitting in your face 24/7 so
number three go to the grocery store and
buy these foods kale berries eggs other
proteins nut butters hummus celery salad
and cheese okay I like to buy the kale
already chopped and cleaned and you just
put it in the freezer okay so that way a
little bit later you can take it out and
blend it with the berries that are also
frozen and make it into a great shake
you can drink that it's really really
easy okay three steps now step number
four plan out your day of eating okay
what you're going to consume for
breakfast lunch dinner so let's say we
do eggs cheese avocado bacon whenever
you want to do for breakfast make sure
you have enough fat to go from this meal
to this meal without snacking and then
at lunch do your big salad you can put
your salad dressing and have protein and
make sure you add fat so that would be
the nut butters and maybe you have
celery hummus and celery I don't even
care if you do carrots and celery or
that would be fine
that would give you enough fat to go
from this meal to that meal and then do
the same thing for the dinner vegetable
moderate protein and a good amount of
fat now we go no snacking we go from
this meal to this meal of fasting and
also fasting between the meals okay step
5 start to push your breakfast forward
and forward until finally there is no
more breakfast there because your
eating if you're not hungry so we have
two meals a day okay again add fat fat
so you can actually add more time
fasting at this point you're really in
it hardcore and you're feeling good then
your energy is up and now it's easier
there's no more cravings you may want to
add potassium B vitamins to make this
transition real smooth
electrolytes nutritional yeast those are
the two ways that I recommend getting
those minerals and B vitamins okay step
6
limit going out to the restaurant in
fact I would just not go to any
restaurants during this period until
you're fully into it hardcore because
there's so many things I can stop you in
this transition you get thrown off and
next thing you know it's months later
and you have you you haven't got back on
the wagon avoid alcohol that's gonna
knock you out of the program for a few
days it's not worth it okay that's it
six simple steps anyone can do this so
go ahead and start with step one John
Mary Stefan okay start alright thanks
for watching hey before you go
definitely sign up for my free keto
course I put a link down below it's on
messenger in Facebook but it will give
you all the basics it's very quick it's
like three or four videos and it's free
check it out
