so we want to talk about the four health
benefits of olives okay number one very
high in vitamin E that has a good amount
of iron copper and calcium number two
it's keto friendly because it's 74% fat
Olek acid which is a monounsaturated fat
so both olives and olive oil are have
anti-inflammatory characteristics number
three it only has four to six percent
carbohydrates now if you deduct the
fiber which by the way they classify as
a carb even though it's not going to
affect your blood Sugar's you just take
away the fiber you get net carb so for
10 olives you're only looking at 1.5
grams of carbs okay that's pretty darn
low so this fiber will feed your
microbes number four loaded with
phytonutrients okay there's a huge long
list of phytonutrients which give
additional health benefits
anti-inflammatory benefits anti-cancer
supporting the heart repairing liver
damage
so olives are pretty healthy one of the
drawbacks of olives is they do contain
lectins okay lectin is a large protein
molecule that's a defense mechanism in
plants and nuts and seeds and beans and
grains and basically what happens is it
goes into our body and creates a lot of
inflammation so if you're consuming a
diet very high in lectins you're gonna
have a lot of digestive issues and
bloating leaky gut and probably
eventually autoimmune but the way to
lessen the lectins is to use
fermentation and guess what
most all olives are fermented okay so
we're not going to have the amounts of
lectins that we would have with other
things also it will decrease phytic acid
which will then increase the
bioavailability of these nutrients in
general so that's really cool olive leaf
extract is a really good remedy for
viruses if you have the flu take olive
leaf it works really good
it also has antihistamine properties so
it's good for rhinitis or
his congestion alright guys thanks for
watching
so you know my viewpoint on this topic I
want to know your viewpoint what do you
think about this video go ahead and
comment down below
