hey it's me again in this video we're
going to talk about the good and bad
snack foods the first thing you need to
know is that if your metabolism is slow
there are certain snack foods that they
tell you that are good they're actually
bad so I'm going to go through what you
should snack on and what you should not
snack on one of the best snack foods
Believe It or Not would be peanut
butter now why because peanut butter has
a sugar uh of like 1 gam per serving
size so that's pretty low but make sure
when you buy peanut butter it does not
have added sugar so you have to really
read the label okay a bad snack food
would be
fruit now even in my book I do recommend
fruit apples and things and berries but
a lot of people that will slow down
their weight loss fruit does not cause
weight gain but it can slow things down
because it's a bit too sweet so if
you're trying to look to improve things
just a little bit you may have to omit
the fruit from your diet until you hit
your ideal weight then add it back in
all right so uh then you can play around
with the uh amount so let's say for
example you eliminated all the bad
things and maybe you can get away with a
little bit of blue little bit of
blueberries or um berries in your Cal
Shake but some people I need to remove
that completely to get them in fat
burning just because their system is so
sensitive okay a good snack food would
be
hummus why because hummus has a zero
sugar gr so we're looking at the back of
the label and we're looking at the sugar
amounts one of the bad uh snack foods
would be those uh protein bars because
inevitably they have sugar if you go to
the store and you see all those natural
bars those meal replacement bars a lot
of those have tremendous amounts of
sugar okay okay so you want to avoid
that um over here we can do cheese
cheese is a fermented food and that
means that the bacteria that helps make
the cheese in the fermented process uh
eats up all the milk sugar so that
should bring it down but over here we
have yogurt now again yogurt's a healthy
thing of course the sweeten is really
bad but even the plain could have up to
20 g of sugar per cup it's still too
much now maybe there might be some type
of yogurt in a form of kefir which is
kefir it's a type of yogurt that I I did
see on the market in in some of the
stores that has a uh lactose free so you
might want to read the back of the label
and see if plain kefir would be an
option it may be it may not be I don't
know but um the question is now what to
put the peanut butter the hummus on
uh do you put it on um crackers do you
put it on apples well if you're trying
to lose weight you might have to bite
the bowet and put this on your favorite
which is celery which is very exciting
right or put the hum hummus you know
maybe carrot sticks carrots actually
have very low sugar even though they're
a little bit sweet so if you juice them
they're going to be sweet but if you
have them as a fibrous thing they're
going to be okay so you could take
vegetables and dip them in these things
as well and then of course cheese like
to take cheese and tomato that's a
really good thing uh but not on the
breads the grains Okay so I just wanted
to give you I wanted to do this video
because so many people have a little too
much of this like their diet is perfect
but the snack foods are just bumping
them out of fat burning just enough to
stop the results one last thing I
recommend the kale Shake but if the kale
bloats you if anything bloats you any
bloating from any food and that includes
all the good things too like
vegetables you're going to have to
either cook the vegetables or omit those
from the diet because the bloating will
stop your weight loss it's a key point
so if this is your situation and you
make the change it could be the
difference between losing weight and not
losing weight okay so I just wanted to
make a a video and emphasize this one
point I'll see you in the next video
yeah
