now you probably heard about food
combining and different diet programs
and books
well there's one combination that you
definitely want to avoid and that is a
combination of protein plus sugar or
refined carbohydrates or fat plus sugar
or refined carbohydrates because when
you combine these two things especially
when you heat them up you develop
something called a GES okay what are AG
nice advanced glycation end-products
this is the thing that plugs up the
circulation in the back of the eye that
causes macular degeneration this is also
involved in brain chemistry that stops
the neurons from communicating and
Alzheimer's and even Parkinson's if the
compound that is in the beta cells of
the pancreas that's involved in diabetes
so these two combinations are very very
bad now how would this relate to your
foods well let's say for example you
consumed barbecued ribs right and also
when you heat fat and sugar let's see
what would be that combination well you
have ice cream anything deep-fried so
you have this fat with the carbohydrate
and of course the wheat probably has
gluten in it which is a protein so when
you cook these two together you create
more of these right here so all these
complications of diabetes Alzheimer's
Parkinson's involve these right here
creates massive oxidation so you can
think about oxidation is rusting out the
inside of your body the arteries the eye
the kidney it is the thing that makes
you get old really quick because if you
think about what it does to your
proteins it makes them very sticky and
brittle and stiff and it's behind the
high blood pressure as well okay so what
do we do to counter that well how about
this avoid the sugar that would be a new
concept number two aged garlic is way
more powerful than fresh garlic as an
anti glycation substance so it actually
reduces the AG ease carnosine this is a
combination of two amino acids that's
really good to prevent
cataracs of course you can have to avoid
this as well but if you're starting to
have cataracts and you get on the
ketogenic planet and you take some of
this that would be a smart thing and
also been photo mean I've talked about
this a lot in other videos is really
beneficial to help counter the AG es in
diabetes especially if you have
peripheral neuropathy or problems with
your vision because it helps the retina
and if you don't have these chronic
problems and you want to live long get
on a ketogenic diet by avoiding the
sugar so we can avoid these right here
thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
