so today we're gonna talk about five
things you must know about ketosis and
I'm talking about healthy ketosis okay
the first thing you need to know is the
principle of get healthy to lose weight
and not lose weight to get healthy so
there's a version of ketosis which is
used on children way back 100 years ago
and to actually handle epilepsy okay I
don't really consider that a healthy
version of ketosis for the average
person to do because they're they're not
emphasizing the quality of those macros
okay so we want to use higher quality
ingredients and we want to focus on
getting healthy first now what does this
actually mean the great majority
population has too much insulin
excessive amounts of insulin is behind
most chronic health problems heart
problems strokes definitely diabetes
inflammatory conditions cognitive
deficiencies I think mood disorders as
well 65% of the population is either
pre-diabetic or diabetic so right there
they have too much insulin okay so
getting healthy is normalizing insulin
we don't need zero insulin we just need
normal insulin okay so that's really
really important all right number two we
want to add in a minute fasting to
ketosis why because it's another tool to
lower insulin why because every time you
eat you trigger insulin so of course we
want to do everything we can to help
normalize insulin you're gonna see so
many powerful health benefits also when
you're doing admit fasting you can
actually potentially increase growth
hormone four times higher than exercise
and I'm talking like hardcore exercise
that's huge this is the anti-aging
hormone you want to let your body tell
you when to eat and how to do
intermittent fasting so you go as long
as you can and then when you're hungry
you eat so what's gonna happen is in the
beginning you're gonna eat a little bit
more frequently and then all of a sudden
it could even be a week or two you're
not hungry anymore
ride the wave go as long as you can
without eating it could be a day two
days it could even be three days but as
long as you're doing your electrolytes
and sea salt would be vitamins
you're gonna actually do very well
because prolonged fasting has even
bigger benefits than regular
intermittent fasting alright number
three don't get caught up in the
significance of calories okay or macros
I want to keep it really really really
simple because each body is different
and you need to test this out on your
body to see you know exactly how many
grams that your body does well on of
protein and fat and in vegetables okay
but here's a simple diagram here if we
just take a plate if we cut it in half
and we fill up half the plate with
veggies okay it's like four cups five
cups of course you're gonna do this two
times right if you're doing two meals a
day if you're not you know then just do
as much as you can but we need a lot of
vegetables but believe it not the
calories for these vegetables are very
small given the total amount per day so
it's really only about five to ten
percent of your total calories because
it's mostly fiber and water so that's
the veggies okay if you bloat then
consume less we don't want you bloating
but here's the thing protein usually
comes with fat so a lot of times this is
a combination but you really want about
three to six ounces of protein
now think about when I talk about three
to six ounces I'm talking about the
actual piece of meat or fish okay the
actual whole thing not the protein in
that meat or fish I'm talking about the
actual whole food itself okay and that
comes in like twenty percent of calories
but again I don't want you to get caught
up in this just visualize the plate okay
and then this could be like nuts olives
avocados that type of fat and then as
far as other carbohydrates we're dealing
with like 5% that could be hummus a
little bit of berry things like that
before
higher fat in the start of the program
and then less fat as you adapt to fat
burning okay when you start this keto
plan you want to increase the fat to be
able to go from one meal to the next
okay then once you've adapted and the
way that you know you've adapted is the
hunger it goes away
so you're no longer hungry so guess what
it's working you no longer have cravings
it's going to be easier now if you have
very
hunger and no cravings you're going to
be able to do it a lot longer okay then
if you're on the higher carb diet which
is you're gonna be hungry all the time
and snacking all the time but once
you've adapted to fat-burning okay it
could be one week two weeks then you can
actually start cutting down the fat a
little bit maybe down to 75 grams or
less because that way we can force your
body to eat its own fat and this is
mainly for people that are trying to
lose weight you can speed it up by just
kind of scaling it back a little bit
alright number five this this is really
not a diet that you're gonna go on and
go off this is really just a new way of
eating it's a lifestyle change
we're just fulfilling all of our
nutrients and we're not eating all the
carbohydrates sometimes people think
that it's not normal not to eat that
many carbohydrates but we're just
outlining what our body needs based on
blood Sugar's right now you have about a
gallon and a third of blood in your body
and normal sugars which around like 75
to 85 milligrams per deciliter in your
blood if you were to get tested now and
if it was normal it'd be like between 75
and 85 okay definitely under 100 that
would basically come out to about one
teaspoon of sugar for your entire blood
very small amounts okay and you can
actually get that sugar from eating
protein or fat your body can convert
that into sugar so we really need no
sugar but the average person consumes 31
teaspoons of sugar every single day
that's not normal
so when people say that we need more
cars because our brain needs it that is
a lie we don't our body doesn't need
that much okay so this is a normal thing
it's a healthy thing it's a sane way of
eating but the key is understanding why
you're eating what you're eating okay
because the bigger goal especially in
the in the beginning is usually you're
going on this program to solve a problem
either wait you have inflammation you
have some body issue and that's because
the insulin needs to be normalized okay
and keto healthy keto and them in the
fasting are two tools that can help you
so I would not look at as a diet
I recently had someone tell me that Oh
your program didn't work and I found out
they only did it for two weeks it did
work when they were doing it and they
stopped doing it and then the weight
came back yeah I'm like okay so you're
not very aware of why you're doing this
right so basically I said you want to
keep doing what worked it's not a diet
that you're gonna stop and go back to
your junk food I mean that's like
completely does not make sense so you
want to do it long-term and you want to
adjust the macros based on your own
physiology all right thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
