hey guys today we're gonna talk about
branch chain amino acids okay a lot of
times people take them to think that
they're gonna build muscle and that is a
total myth the first thing I want to
talk about is what is an amino acid
amino acid is the building block to
proteins okay so look at it like
alphabet you have all these letters that
make words that form a language in the
body with amino acids you have all these
different combinations from simple to
very complex protein structures made
from amino acids I mean from muscle to
skin to enzymes to hormones to bone
almost the entire body is made out of
amino acids so there are actually three
branched chain amino acids leucine
isoleucine and valine okay now normally
we have nine essential amino acids that
means this they're essential because
your body can't make them you must get
them from the diet okay so we're talking
about three we're missing six we need
nine to build muscle now there are
actually no human studies that show that
taking a branch amino acids either in a
powder form or a pill form will increase
muscle synthesis or a muscle building
now not only will it not build muscle
but it won't even prevent muscle loss
now there are actually two intravenous
studies that showed that it decreased
protein synthesis okay so what does it
do it turns into fuel so you may
experience a little bit of energy while
you're working out maybe a little
improvement in performance but no muscle
growth so you need all nine essential
amino acids for recovery for repair for
growth of proteins and as a side note
seventy percent of the muscle loss that
you get is recycled alright so the
amount of protein that we need actually
is not as much as you think now when you
do fasting and you get your body into a
tofu G which is the recycling of old
damaged proteins this number does go up
we don't know to what
degree but it is higher than 70 all
right guys
there you have it that is the myth of
the branched-chain amino acid thanks for
watching I'll see you in the next video
when you have all nine you get recovery
you get repair whoops
[Music]
