hey guys today we're going to talk about
the only fat that can cause insulin
resistance sometimes you might hear this
on the news that Oh a teen ketogenic
diet high-fat diet is gonna cause
insulin resistance and diabetes and then
you find out it wasn't a high-fat diet
it was a high-fat high-sugar diet so the
next time you see a study go ahead and
read it yourself and see if it's done in
humans or mice and exactly what they ate
but there is one fat that can cause
insulin resistance which is the thing
that comes right before diabetes and it
creates a lot of other issues and that
is trans fats okay trans fats
edible plastic in 2010 an average
American consumed five point eight grams
of trans fats every single day
incredible but thanks to the FDA in 2015
they classified trans fats as not
generally recognized as safe finally
they acknowledge that but here's the
problem when a manufacturing company
puts down zero trans fats they're
allowed trans fats in their products as
long as those trans fats are less than
0.5 grams per serving size okay so 0.4
grams would be okay and that could be
rounded to 0 yeah interesting
the problem is trans fats cause strokes
diabetes heart attacks and list goes on
and on and on so what I want to know is
what happened to the testing originally
with trans fats what kind of testing do
they do safety wise how long do they do
it I mean this happens with so many
products food products and drugs all of
a sudden we found out it's not really
safe well why didn't they find this out
before they even release it to the
public right okay how you gonna know if
it has trans fats just look for this
word in the ingredients if it has
partially hydrogenated okay oil of any
sort just avoid it because chances are
it's trans fats all right thanks for
watching
so if you like this video go ahead and
share it with someone that you know that
can truly benefit from it
