I'd like to show you how to not only get
rid of the symptom of peripheral
neuropathy but also the root cause as
well now many doctors practitioners will
just tell you what remedy to use without
really giving you the understanding of
this root mechanism in a simple way
that's what I want to do with you
because once you really understand this
it's very unlikely you're going to ever
get it again because you're going to
know exactly what to do diabetic
neuropathy is a condition that affects
usually the bottom of your feet and
sometimes the hands now of course the
question is why does it affect those
areas well it's one of the first signs
that you're having some pretty severe
problems with your blood sugar and
because you have very long nerves in the
body the very last end of the nerve is
going to be affected first because
that's the area of your body that gets
the least amount of oxygen or fuel
compared to uh some nerves that are
closer to the heart and I'm primarily
going to focus on diabetes and blood
sugar problems because there are other
causes of peral neuropathy but not as
common like for example chemotherapy
could cause it hypothyroidism could
cause it some type of autoimmune disease
some medication a virus and Lyme disease
diabetes tends to affect uh four tissues
nerves arteries eyes kidneys but this
peripheral neuropathy can be a real pain
because you have to walk sometimes it's
hyper sensitive sometimes it's burning
sometimes it's severe pain and sometimes
it's just itching but there's some weird
thing going on with the nerve and the
problem is over time if we don't correct
it it can end up with ulcers in your
lower part of your body Gang Green but
when you understand the mechanism the
solution is really simple so a couple
things going on with the nerves on the
bottom of your
feet if you look right here you'll see
this insulated wire right this would be
compared to an insulation around your
nerves and that insulation is called
milin and what happens with a diabetic
is the myin is breaking down to the
point where you have like a raw nerve
the second thing is you're getting a
lack of blood flow to or circulation in
general nerve and blood flow to the
bottom of your feet because you're not
getting the circulation because there's
damage in the vascular system you're
going to basically have nerves that are
getting starved but I'm going to go a
little bit deeper but in a simple way
because I really want you to understand
and what's happening at the cellular
level because if you remember in some of
my other videos I talked about the
mitochondria which is this little energy
Factory and what happens when you
consume too much sugar as in a diabetic
situation you overload the motor okay
but really there's a kind of a premotor
even before the mitochondria
that has to break down glucose into
something that the mitochondria can use
that is where the real problem is
because we start with maybe glucose and
then it goes through all these different
steps on this assembly line to the point
where eventually the mitochondria can
use that fuel and then everything works
nicely right but in the last step of
this assembly line there's an enzyme
that stops working because you're
overloading this carburetor with too
much fuel and you put out the spark plug
like vitamins and minerals this problem
really is a nutrient deficiency because
when you consume so much sugar going
through the bloodstream The increased
demand for nutrients goes way way way
way up and So eventually you're going to
deplete these nutrients from your
tissues and you're going to be high and
dry there's not going to be any
nutrients there for the glucose to be
able to convert into the form of fuel
that your mitochondria needs so you can
imagine it's kind of like this
biochemical pathway that you now get
this bottleneck it just kind of dams up
and then that backs up in the system and
creates lactic acid Doses and for
radical damage and all sorts of issues
enzymes basically do all the work in the
body they can transform one thing to
another thing and all these enzymes have
co-enzymes or co-actors which basically
are the vitamins and minerals but I just
want to interject one one other distal
thing that happens in this process your
body has all sorts of backup plans like
a plan B to try to give the Body Energy
so one alternative pathway the byproduct
of that pathway is sorbitol which is a
sugar alcohol here's the problem with
sorbitol
sorbitol gets stuck in certain tissues
like the lens of the eye to cause
cataracts like the retina which causes
diabetic retinopathy which is a a
problem with the retina because what's
happening the cells are swelling up also
sorbitol gets into the cells that make
that insulation around the wire around
the nerve that swells up and that breaks
up and goes haywire and then sorbitol
also can convert to fructose which
creates more problems the big question
is what are these co-actors that allow
that enzyme to work and start to heal
these nerves so you can get rid of the
pain the first one is vitamin B1 but
here's the big problem if you try to get
your B1 from your diet when you've
already had diabetes you're going to
have a really hard time because you
would need a lot of it
therapeutically to fix this problem and
this is a common thing that I hear even
with doctors that don't really
understand nutrition they'll say well
you can get all your nutrients from your
food well maybe some but it's really
hard to get all of your nutrients
especially if you're trying to
therapeutically correct something now
can you just take B1 well here's the
problem with B1 B1 is water soluble so
the water soluble has a hard time
getting into that fat soble nerve to fix
it so it's a synthetically made fat
cable B1 it's called benot tamine
normally it comes in I think 300
milligrams and you take just one of
those four times a day sometimes
supplements come with the next remedy
I'm going to talk about and that's
called lipoic acid lipoic acid is
another co- factor for that enzyme
that's not working and this is based on
working with tens of thousands of people
over 30 years and I had a huge practice
with a lot of diabetics so I've used
this over and over so I have a lot of
experience uh getting success with this
condition there's three more nutrients
that are involved vitamin
B5 vitamin B2 and vitamin B3 three those
are all the co-actors for that enzyme to
allow you to metabolize the glucose so
then it can be converted to something
that your mitochondria can actually use
so hypothetically you could actually be
a diabetic and not have peral neuropathy
if you took a lot of this nutrition but
why would you want to do that why not
correct it by lowering the carb okay so
you want to go on low carb plus
intermittent fasting now there's another
reason why you want to do this
because diabetes over time chronically
creates a Cascade of all sorts of
problems that go very deep into your
nervous system up into the brain on one
hand the first type of symptoms are the
foot pain and the hand pain things like
that but then it can spread to other
parts of your body especially the
autonomic nervous system constipation
you might get stomach pain things like
that you might start having heart
problems
now you could just change your diet
right and you're going to feel great
relief on the bottom of your foot but
I've noticed certain people get relief
but it's doesn't always go away 100%
unless they do high doses of botam
lipoic acid But ultimately it's very
very important to correct the real
problem which is the diet and for that
you need to study and watch this video
right here
