what is the healthiest food you can
possibly
eat you got it
kale per cup it has 35,000 international
units of vitamin A that's per cup that's
like 10 times the vitamin A of any other
vegetable it has potassium vitamin K
it's loaded with all sorts of
phytonutrients those are plant-based
chemicals that prevent cancer and really
will get your body healthy so I'm going
to show you how easy it is to get kale
in your body and we're going to make a
kale shake and I have probably 3 to
500,000 people in the Washington DC area
doing this kale Shake okay now there's
two types of kale one right here we have
the regular kale the green kale right
here which I kind of like the best but
then you have the Dinosaur Kale which is
flatter leaves right here so we're going
to just do this with the regular kale
you're going to take a couple leaves and
I a handful the stems and all just stick
it in
there okay so we're just going to pack
it in there maybe
like three stems okay so we're going to
stick it in there pack it down like that
and then we're going to take some
blueberries now you can take any
fruit I have like a half a cup of
blueberries handful of
strawberries you know just like that
okay so that's pretty much the
combination then we're going to just
take water filtered water and I'm going
to just put
this right above the kale not all the
way up I like it a little bit thicker
you don't have to put ice cubes because
it's frozen this fruit is frozen you
could put a banana if you need it to be
sweet I don't like it too sweet and plus
if you're trying to lose weight you
don't want to add a banana um unless
it's green because it makes it smooth
the other thing that you might want to
add is coconut oil now this is
not something
that um I really tell a lot of people
but you take a teaspoon of coconut oil
coconut butter and put it in there now
you have this
incredible smooth
Shake okay so we're just going
to okay now the key is 3 minutes okay or
more because if you don't blend it for
that long what happens is it gets a
little bit chunky so you want it really
really smooth you can use vitam mixes
you can use all sorts of high power
blenders I just use a regular cheap
blender it works great and um if you
want to wait till it settles down you
can do that as well but this
shake is incredible so I'm going to do
is I'm going to actually just put it
to test this out I'm going to have our
camera guy test it out so let's uh
Manuel let's go ahead and let's go ahead
and see what you think about that you
know see I don't know if you ever had
this before uh I've had the one from the
office never okay tell me what you think
about this
one it's a subtle fresh it's good yeah
it's not bad is it mhm I mean it it
looks kind of greenish brown but it's
not bad um so you're drinking you're
infusing your liver with a tremendous
amount of nutrients and vitamin A what's
going to happen it's going to go into
the liver and through the whole skin the
mucous membranes and the sinuses you're
going to breathe better you're going to
get more oxygen if you have like a a lot
of acids in your liver it's going to
flush it out it has so much nutrition
you need to do this every single day do
it in the morning and you have maybe a
two eggs with that or go ahead and do it
at night
right when you get home from work but I
highly recommend the kale Shake check it
out and then send me your success
stories
