let's talk about the best way to deal
with keto trolls and haters when you
think about it's so weird that something
that is so positive that helps people so
much can attract so much hate I mean
sometimes I'll do a video on incredible
success story or a testimonial and I
will get people that will literally
attack that it's very very strange so
you might be seeing a lot of negative
press on keto I could have causes bad
breath keto crotch where you have
itching causes heart disease keto causes
cancer now causes diabetes which is
ridiculous because it actually reverses
type-2 diabetes
and of course they'll say that all this
bacon grease and butter that you're
consuming is going to clog your arteries
like keto is only bacon grease and of
course that we all know the fact that
meat causes cancer right they're not
differentiating between grass-fed
grass-finished or organic meat or the
hotdogs you would get at the 7-eleven
and then of course how dangerous keto is
long term we know it helps in the short
term but if you do it long term it's
going to affect your thyroid it's gonna
create a lot of problems you're gonna go
off the program so they're trying to
create doubt and confusion and it can
really upset some of you because you've
gotten results and then you see all this
negativity and then you respond back and
it goes back and forth and then next
thing you know
so you see this entire long line of 100
responses going back and forth
completely unnecessary because this is
what you need to realize the majority of
these posts are not from concerned
citizens taking an objective view they
are from troll farms yes
troll farms what is a troll farm well
you can hire a troll for 50 cents a post
in India and the Philippines use these
tro forms to counter opposing viewpoints
in fact there is a leak of the company
Monsanto using a troll farm under the
campaign let no negative comment go
unnoticed so you have all these trolls
searching on the internet for anything
that opposes you know GMO foods
glyphosate and making comments about it
and they'll set up fake profiles with
normal-looking posts so you just have to
realize it's a covert method of
invalidating counter viewpoints and
they're pretending to be someone they're
not the key of their success to keep it
secret and make sure there's no links
back to the company in fact Facebook
deleted over a period of six months over
three billion fake accounts so you know
this is very very popular
but it's under the radar so you don't
really know what's happening so the best
way to deal with Akito troll is two ways
one is to either ignore them or share
your results because there's nothing
more than a troll hates then success
like these lost 130 pounds with keto and
intermittent fasting and I love it I
feel amazing I've been doing keto since
December so I lost 42 pounds I'm in
maintenance now back to the way I was
pretty much in high school my journey
through keto and intermittent fasting
has been
something that has literally like
changed my life I lost over 40 pounds in
less than seven months I've lost 44
pounds and I've lost 37 pounds and I
feel fantastic yeah I lost 30 pounds
like within about four to six months I'm
off the medication and my glucose levels
are down to about a hundred three weeks
I had him down to 100 I gained 90 back
after the Biggest Loser in 18 months and
lost but 30 of it through Kido and the
rest through intermittent fasting lost
370 pounds on keto in two years I lost
346 so yeah I've had great success on it
and continuing to have success with it
