in this video we're going to talk about
how much food that you'd have to eat to
get your vitamin D requirements a
vitamin D is from my viewpoint one of
the most important fat soluble vitamins
out there not just for your bone health
and in calcium absorption but for your
immune system for inflammation how it
actually controls you immune system but
here's the thing there are many things
that deplete your vitamin D that go
beyond just not getting enough from your
food or not getting enough from the Sun
and I did a video on this recently the
receptor for vitamin D called the
vitamin D receptor actually gets blocked
from microbes
okay certain viruses and certain
bacteria it's very very common so they
have a strategy to block your absorption
of vitamin D so they can survive because
somehow they know that vitamin D is
essential for your own immune system so
if they can cut down that immune defense
they can actually survive better also
there's certain genetic defects that a
lot of people have in just simply the
absorption of vitamin D I've done some
videos on that I'll put those links down
below stress will deplete your vitamin D
consuming too many refined carbs and
sugar will deplete your vitamin D not to
mention having insulin resistance which
most the population has will decrease
your ability to absorb vitamin D also
not getting enough Sun will do it the
older you get the less vitamin D you can
absorb the darker your skin the less
conversion you're going to have on the
skin with vitamin D from the Sun so you
need more Sun to get a certain level of
vitamin D so as you can see there's a
lot of barriers getting vitamin D that
go beyond just the diet now if you look
up the RDAs for vitamin D and says 400
to 800 international units
okay well that's 10 to 20 micrograms
I believe those numbers are way way too
low especially if we factor in all these
things right here I think it should be
at a bare minimum 5,000 IU's per day
okay and that's at a minimum if you have
health conditions or symptoms you need a
lot more probably ten thousand or even
twenty thousand IU's a day that's just
my opinion
alright let's talk about the foods
salmon four ounces only has 511
international units okay so maybe that
might fit you into the bare minimum
according to the USDA but from my
viewpoint that would not be enough
sardines 3 ounces give you a hundred and
seventy five I use one egg forty three I
use and these are the foods that are
supposedly high in vitamin D tuna four
ounces
93 I use and you can just do that math
yourself and multiply the quantity you
would need to really get this up to
where you need to be you'd have to
consume a lot of food milk which I'm not
recommending but milk four ounces from a
cow has 62 IU's of vitamin D mushrooms
shiitake 1/2 cup has 20 I use of vitamin
D not very much cod liver oil has the
most when tablespoon has one thousand
three hundred and sixty IU's of vitamin
D so as you can see these are the foods
that are high in vitamin D so it's
virtually impossible or very very
difficult to achieve consuming a diet
now maybe if you do eight ounces of
salmon every single day you'll get there
but if you don't have salmon and you're
not having cod liver oil it's very
difficult to even get the bare minimum
of vitamin D the absolute best way to
get vitamin D is from the Sun the key
with getting vitamin D from your son is
getting enough exposure and getting a
moderate amount of Sun so you're not
burning your skin okay that's important
but also realize that vitamin D is fat
soluble so it does get stored in your
body and you wouldn't necessarily need
to get Sun every single day but if you
get it several times a week that would
be really good in the winter months I
recommend that you supplement with
vitamin D but also always make sure you
take vitamin k2 with d3 simply
because if you take only d3 you could
over time deplete vitamin k2 as far as
the amount ratios for every 10,000 IU's
a vitamin d3 you would need a hundred
micrograms of k2 that would be the
ratios that I would recommend so there's
a lot to know about vitamin D it's in a
very important nutrient I put some
important videos on vitamin D on this
page right here check them out
