okay guys have another tip for you let's
say you're doing in a minute fasting
you're doing keto but you're still
craving okay your cravings should be
going away your hunger should be
completely gone so the single biggest
reason why people create today is what
they ate the day before so let me ask
you something
is there anything that you've eaten
yesterday that you shouldn't beaten is
there anything that you drank that you
shouldn't have drank well what do you
think about when I asked you the
question yeah that right there I'm just
I'm just playing with you but the point
is if you drank some alcohol or ate
something you shouldn't you are going to
be craving the next day so let's say for
example you did eat perfectly yesterday
okay
well maybe you just need to give it more
time maybe you need to add more greens
because you need more potassium or
magnesium which actually fixes insulin
resistance you may need to be vitamins
in nutritional yeast or you may need to
add more fat to the meal but these
reasons are usually not the reasons it's
usually something you ate before but the
absolute best indicator to know that
you're in deep ketosis is that you have
no cravings and no hunger alright guys
thanks for watching
I think you did that one already -
really all right well guys you know I
completely ran out of content and I have
nothing else to say I'm sorry I'm sorry
I'm taking this and I'm I'm going home
see you
[Music]
you
