so let's talk about the 13 top sources
of calories in the US okay number one
grain-based desserts as in cakes cookies
donuts that's number one number two
bread three chicken but most of this
chicken is not going to be organic it's
gonna be probably fried chicken okay for
soda with high fructose corn syrup
energy drinks filled with tons of sugar
and sports drinks which are really sugar
drinks five Pizza six pasta and pasta
dishes number seven Mexican dishes
burritos tacos things like that eight
beef dishes nine dairy desserts we're
talking about ice cream things like that
ten burgers of course with the bun right
don't forget the ketchup eleven regular
cheese like in Velveeta cheese twelve
potato and corn chips and thirteen
alcohol now what's going to happen when
a person starts consuming this they're
gonna start getting tired because the
massive amounts of sugar and insulin
going on they're gonna swollen eyes a
lot of fluid retention especially in
their feet eventually high blood
pressure metabolic syndrome they're
gonna definitely crave carbs they're
gonna be hungry all the time because the
amount of insulin pushes the blood
Sugar's down they're gonna probably be
grouchy irritable and they're gonna have
a belly and speaking from personal
experience this pretty much was my diet
before I was 28 years old okay so I
lived on these foods ton of sodium lots
of sodium lots of msg very little
potassium very little B vitamins a lot
of refined foods of course if you were
to tell me this back when I was in my
20s I wouldn't listen to you because I
didn't have very many health problems
until a little bit later
so what should we eat pasture-raised
eggs okay organic eggs fish seafood
sardines avocados greens salads and
veggies grass-fed meats dairy including
grass-fed butter olives and olive oil
nuts and berries and when I think a lot
of people don't realize is that when you
make this transition it's not as painful
as you think I do know though when I was
in college I would go to the grocery
store with the intention of buying these
foods right here
okay and sometimes I would buy them they
would sit in the refrigerator I would
never eat them and of course I ended up
driving home with Doritos with a huge
bag of Doritos and that would down the
whole thing I mean one serving size I
think of Doritos gave you 250 milligrams
of sodium and there was like I don't
know how many like maybe 20 serving size
I would down the whole thing in one
sitting okay so I had a massive amount
of sodium going on and a massive
deficiency of potassium I had zero
information on health I had to go
through a lot of health problems before
I finally like did it a hundred percent
for those of you that are watching that
might have a similar consideration just
realize that a lot of these like even
pizza you can make a pizza that tastes
very similar to the pizza that you're
consuming I said similar not identical
and be very satisfied with it and not
have the bad stuff so there's recipes
for that I'll put them in the
description down below same thing with
the pasta the same thing with this
pretty much every single thing you see
up here can be consumed as an
alternative food or dessert to give you
the same pleasure so you can make the
transition and not make the mistakes
that I made thanks for watching so if
you want to get notified with all my
content click the notification bell next
to subscribed
