today we're going to talk about the 12
simple and very powerful home remedies
that will not only help you prevent hair
loss but also help you regrow the hair
back you know losing your hair is a
devastating experience and you want to
try natural things first before you try
medication simply because there are side
effects so I'm going to show you 12 very
effective very cool things that you can
do that are pretty cheap they don't cost
you much money so get a piece of paper
out and write these things down now the
first two things I want to talk about
very important very significant but very
few people um are aware of this so if
you think about what the hair is exposed
to on a regular basis well you take a
shower and you're exposing your hair to
the water did you know that the fluoride
in your water creates significant hair
loss as well as acne in your skin yes
this is true the fluoride the fluoride
that is supposed to be good for our
teeth actually destroys our hair so the
first piece of advice I'm going to give
you is just stop taking a shower I'm
just kidding what you really want to do
is just get a simple shower head that
filters out fluoride okay I found a good
one I'll put the link down below now I'm
not an affiliate or I don't get any
kickbacks from this company but it's a
pretty good shower head that will filter
out fluoride now that right there could
be the reason why you're losing hair in
fact fluoride also blocks your thyroid
and a hypothyroid condition can very
easily stop your hair growth all right
the next thing you need to know about is
your shampoo sulfates sulfates destroy
protein and your hair is made up of
91% protein so if you're exposing your
hair to sulfate shampoos on a daily
basis you're literally creating all
sorts of problems and inhibiting hair
loss so you really want to make sure you
get a sulfate free shampoo all right
those are the two things that you just
need to avoid now to understand hair
loss let's first look at the
mechanism how most top hair loss
medications work they basically block an
enzyme to inhibit DHT which is a
powerful form of testosterone that tends
to burn out the hair follicules so
testosterone turns into DHT a very
powerful form of testosterone through
this little enzyme and so these drugs
inhibit that enzyme the enzyme is called
five Alpha reductase and people that
have too much DHT get this condition
called androgenetic alopecia which is
pattern hair loss both in males and
females all right so now the question is
are there natural things that can
inhibit this enzyme because of course
the drugs have side effects and the
answer is yes so there's a couple things
you can do onion juice which I put a
video out on this this one topic is a
potent natural inhibitor of that enzyme
so you dilute it in water okay like a
50/50 ratio rub it into your scalp and
let it set for 15 minutes and then you
would wash out your hair I put a link
down below of the video that I did on
this topic all right green tea same
thing you would make some green tea
dilute it by 50% rub it into your scalp
for about 15 minutes then wash it out
with shampoo now the next um potent
inhibitor of this enzyme is Ros rary oil
there's one study that I found that
showed that this oil is comparable to R
gain as far as the effectiveness for
preventing hair loss and so you would
take rosemary oil rub it into the scalp
and leave it on for about 10 to 15
minutes and you would actually leave it
in overnight and then in the morning
take a shower shampoo your hair so
rosemary oil is a potent inhibitor of
five Alpha reductase now another
inhibitor of this enzyme is just zinc
okay maybe you're deficient in zinc like
a lot of people are so the best food for
zinc is oysters start consuming some
oysters a few times a week but zinc is
also in red meat so you might need some
more red meat it's also in Seafood it's
also in eggs but red meat and oysters
have the most zinc okay now we have five
oldfashioned home remedy apple cider
vinegar you don't want want to put
concentrated apple cider vinegar on your
scalp okay I'm just letting you know
right now it's going to burn your scalp
you want to dilute it like one3 cup of
alider vinegar to one liter of water and
you can rub it into the scalp and it
actually will help clean up some of the
pores that may be filled with sebum
which is an oil that can be preventing
the follicules from growing properly and
also apple cida vinegar gives a really
nice shine to your hair in addition to
that alider vinegar is acidic and so is
your scalp so alider vinegar can help
reestablish the pH of your skull which
can actually support the friendly
microbes or the microbiome in your scalp
you don't want to create an environment
where you the outside of your skin is so
sterile because you have millions of
microorganisms living on the outside of
your skin helping you and when you
sterilize or clean your skin too much
you can end up with all sorts of
problems including hair loss so this is
why you want to minimize the amount of
chemicals that you expose your skin to
let's go to number six what if you go on
the ketogenic diet and you start losing
hair what does that usually indicate
that usually means that you're not
consuming enough protein that's the
number one cause so increase your
protein okay there's some other things
you want to look at as well number one
Trace minals especially if you are doing
intermittent fasting or fasting with
your ketogenic PL because we are very
very deficient in trace minerals in our
food trace minerals are minerals needed
in very small amounts but they're very
very essential so either consuming food
highend trace minerals like seelp or
shellfish or fish from the ocean and sea
salt is a good one or just get a
plant-based Trace mineral product will
add more trace minerals to give the hair
what it needs to build all right the
other key vitamins that are needed in
larger amounts when you're on the
ketogenic plant are the B vitamins and
so there are a lot of links between a B
vitamin deficiency and hair loss so you
want to make sure you're taking enough B
vitamins and so nutritional yeast is a
really good remedy for that just make
sure that when you're doing nutritional
yeast that you want to get it
unfortified with synthetic vitamins all
right number seven cruciferous
vegetables if you have too much estrogen
that can affect your hair this is why
women when they go through their
menstrual cycle tend to lose hair this
is an excess amount of estrogen and so
one of the natural uh ways to help
regulate estrogen uh is to start
consuming cruciferous vegetables another
great way to regulate estrogen would be
to take celp because when you take celp
you get more iodine and iodine also
regulates estrogen now one more side
note on that let's say you're menopausal
and you you start losing your hair that
usually is higher levels of cortisol
related to stress and if that's your
situation I put a link Down Below on
cortisol because that's a very very
important topic let's talk about number
eight is selenium next home remedy would
be something to support a
hypothyroid condition if you have a slow
thyroid a lot of times you lose hair and
one of the key trace minerals for the
thyroid to support it and help convert
T4 to T3 is selenium and the best food
for selenium is Brazil nuts and seafood
and seaweed or seelp now if you do seelp
you also get the iodine that's also good
for your thyroid and one note about that
um you can have a hypothyroid condition
from other reasons that are not related
to selenium for example you can have
high estrogen too much estrogen inhibits
the thyroid function you could have a
fatty liver or liver damage that can
stop your T4 from converting to T3 you
could have gut damage from antibiotics
from eating the wrong Foods especially
gluten I would say out of all the foods
that is damaging to the thyroid it would
be grains specifically the gluten in the
grains Okay so if you have Hashimoto
which which is usually 90% of all
hypothyroid cases you definitely need to
avoid gluten like the plague because
that will keep the thyroid inflamed and
you're going to have a difficult time um
fixing that problem then we have nine
increase your vitamin D you want to get
more sleep and you want to start
exercising to reduce stress stress is a
huge uh problem with your hair in fact a
lot of people if you ask them when did
you lose your hair after an emotional
stressful event because you're spiking
cortisol and cortisol is very damaging
to proteins now a couple things you can
do if this is your situation start
taking more vitamin D in fact you just
need to be out in the sun more if you
can do that now if it's winter it's
going to be be a hard time but more
vitamin D can greatly greatly help your
hair and lower your stress Vitamin D3
can act like a natural cortisol hormone
but without the side effects it does
very similar things it's an
anti-inflammatory so to reduce stress
you want to increase your vitamin D and
or expose yourself to Sun you want to
get more sleep I have a ton of videos on
that if you're new to my channel you
want to start doing daily walks and you
want to start exercising to reduce
stress all right number 10 in a lot of
hair formulas they add silica okay
silica gives the hair its strength and
and most spring water has silica like
peligrino and even most other types of
bottled water where it comes from a
spring is going to have silica you can
even buy silica Rich water which is
really good for the hair in fact you're
probably going to notice that your skin
your hair and your nails will all just
start growing and become very strong if
you start consuming silica all right 11
the ketogenic diet as well as doing in a
minute fasting if you are female and you
have polycystic ovarian syndrome you
have to realize that one of the big side
effects is hair loss because you have
this Spike of androgens and that's
coming from insulin so just by
understanding that simple relationship
and lowering your amount of insulin you
can help lower antigens and help prevent
hair loss so how does that happen well
start going on a low carb diet that's
called the ketogenic diet as well as
doing in minuted fasting and lastly 12
if you look at a lot of remedies for
hair loss supplements they always add
biotin now what's this biotin biotin
helps proteins in your body especially
hair biotin will help regrow your hair
and prevent the loss of hair but biotin
is a very key B vitamin for the
manufacturing of these proteins that
give the hair its structure and biotin
is made by bacteria okay so your own own
gut makes Biotin and so many people
after they lose the gut
microbiome start losing their hair
because they don't have the microbes to
make bitin anymore so take a while guess
what food is loaded with Biotin and can
increase your own friendly bacteria to
make your own biotin sauerkraut
sourkraut has aund times more probiotics
than most probiotics and the good
bacteria in sauerkraut survives the acid
in your stomach plus it gives you
massive amounts of vitamin C which is
also needed to help grow proteins
specifically collagen and keratin so
sauerkraut on a regular basis can
greatly help you reestablish your
microbiome in your gut help give you
vitamin C and give you more biotin now
if you have a reeding hairline I did a
very specific important video on that
topic and I put it right here check it
out
