what if I were to tell you you could
take one tablespoon of something and
help yourself lose more belly fat would
you be interested if so there's a really
great natural solution and this goes
beyond the typical eat less exercise
more Etc this talk is mainly for the
person that has a slow metabolism and
they need an unfair Advantage but I need
to really clarify something because
people that say they have a slow
metabolism actually don't have a slow
slow metabolism it's not that the
metabolism is
slow it's just very efficient okay if we
take a Hummer on this side versus a
Hybrid Camry what would be the main
difference well one is a gas guzzler and
one is more efficient with its fuel
right the Hummer gets about 16 m per
gallon and the Hybrid Camry gets around
51 miles per gallon huge difference so
with people that have a difficult time
losing weight their real problem is deep
in the motor the motor is just too
efficient they can go a longer period of
time with less fuel compared to someone
with a so-called high metabolism so the
question is how can we switch your motor
over to a system that is more of a gas
guzzler and you're in a situation where
you're wasting more fuel that would be a
good goal wouldn't it this is probably
going to be a new term for you but it's
called
mitochondrial uncoupling well the
mitochondri is the energy Factory that
turns food into ATP which is kind of
like a storage form of energy and I
think the best way to describe
uncoupling related to the mitochondria
to make it really simple is that the
mitochondria is going to make less
ATP and more heat so what's happening
instead of making this storage form of
energy it's basically just creating a
lot of heat and that heat can be wasted
so today's talk is about discovering
what you can use as a MIT condal
uncoupler now there's a certain weight
loss drug which I don't even think it's
still in the market in the US at least
it's called two4 dinitrophenol but we're
just going to call it dnp okay this is a
drug and if I'm not mistaken it was
taken off the market because yes it
helped people lose weight very fast but
it created some pretty serious side
effects it overheated the body people
were sweating extensively now aspirin by
the way is another mitochondrial
uncoupler which I'm not going to
recommend that even though it may help
you lose a little weight because it's a
drug and it causes side effects like you
know a bleeding ulcer but other than
that it's perfectly fine now there's
another drug called niclosamide which is
a dewormer and it's also been tested to
help lose weight in my studies I don't
think they repurposed it for a weight
loss medication but it too uh does
what's called mitochondrial uncoupling
now now the question is is there a
natural mitochondrial uncoupler and yes
there is the first thing that can help
increase it is something called
Resveratrol now what's interesting about
Resveratrol Resveratrol is in several
things it's in grapes cranberries it's
in blueberries it's also in dark
chocolate it's in pistachios and it's
especially in something called Japanese
KN weed they make that into a tea and
they do have Resveratrol in a powder so
if you going to take a like tablespoon a
day that could help you but what's
interesting about Resveratrol and all
the berries that I just mentioned is
that they're all polyphenols and even in
the chocolate it's loaded with
polyphenols okay now remember when I
talked about that drug 24 dinitrol
phenol apparently there's an interesting
connection between phenols right
polyphenols and just regular fenals the
chemistry of fenals apparently uh can
create a mitochondrial uncoupling effect
now there's some other things that can
create this uh uncoupling as well
ketones this is probably one of the
reasons why people lose more weight when
they do the ketogenic diet and of course
ketones actually help the mitochondria
just work better in general then we have
cold therapy think about what happens
when you do cold immersion or cold
shower the core temperature uh needs to
always be constant and your body is
going to fight like heck to keep that
core temperature at 98.6 so think about
how much heat you'd have to generate to
do that and when you're doing cold
immersion you're not exercising you're
not eating differently you're just
experiencing a lot of uncomfortableness
and you're generating a tremendous
amount of heat and you're burning a lot
of fat then we have another one called
exercise that's right exercise helps the
mitochondria waste energy fasting is
another way of creating uncoupling green
tea has a mile effect of mitochondrial
uncoupling and even doing a sauna or a
Jacuzzi it creates a similar effect to
mitochondrial uncoupling now on the flip
side what are some things that will
block this mitochondrial and coupling
that would be important to know number
one excess calories think about it when
you eat too much and what I mean too
much is I'm talking about you're eating
excess of what your mitochondria can
burn you inhibit this mitochondrial on
coupling and you worsen the mitochondria
this could be eating way too many carbs
too much sugar like the average person
but it can also mean eating too much fat
this is something I rarely talk about
but I think it's important not to
overeat because you're forcing your body
to overload that mitochondria and your
body can't burn it off now if you
exercise a lot then you need to eat more
but how many people are eating just too
much for their activity level and their
age this also includes the snacking this
is why it fasting is a really great
strategy as well aging as you get older
we have less mitochondrial uncoupling
the more sedentary you are the less
effect you're going to create with this
uncoupling the more you're exposed to
heavy metals that can also block the
mitochondria and certain medications
especially
statins beta blockers metformin and
antibiotics now if you want to know the
details of exactly what to eat for the
healthy version of the ketogenic diet
it's in this video right here check it
out
