so if you yourself have an infant or a
small child or you know someone who has
a small infant or a small child and is
feeding that child rice milk soy milk
almond milk cashew milk oat milk hemp
milk or even coconut milk make sure you
have them watch this video so you go to
the grocery store and you observe all
these new milks coming out soy milk and
rice milk and you're like wow that
that's probably really healthy not for
kids okay not for small infants
especially what can happen it can create
very severe deficiencies okay b12
vitamin b2 vitamin D vitamin A but
especially DHA in EPA these two fats are
essential in the development of a
growing infant especially for the brain
for the endocrine system and these are
healthy fats they're omega 3 fatty acids
you're retarding the growth of the child
you're affecting a cognitive function
the vision can be affected the retina of
the eye and even the entire brain needs
large amounts of DHA so even in breast
milk you have over a hundred and sixty
different fatty acids loaded with DHA
and EPA so you need these certain
healthy fats for vision for brain
development for a nervous system for the
central nervous system development to
prevent learning disabilities to support
the immune system to support a growing
endocrine system so you definitely don't
want to give your baby even a small
child any of these right here
all right so what would be the best
solution for an infant breast milk okay
so if you absolutely positively cannot
breastfeed you can make your own formula
all right the formula that I recommend
is by Western price I put some links
down below with several mothers creating
these formulas so you can check it out
it's a little bit of work but it's
definitely worth it all right thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird
well I'll just remind you on a daily
basis how about that
