this is a quick video on the 7 best
natural laxatives now if you're
constipated the problem that you have is
mainly in the large intestine more than
the small intestine the large intestine
has smooth muscle that allows it to
contract and push food along this tract
and that action is called peristalsis so
let's start with number 1
senna is a really good remedy senator
has a certain chemical in it it's a
natural chemical that's eaten by your
friendly bacteria that stimulates smooth
muscle it stimulates motility it
triggers this peristalsis action not in
a small intestine but just in the large
intestine the next one is cascara
sagrada this is a very popular herbal
laxative that does the exact same thing
there's a certain chemical in it that is
eaten by the bacteria that will
stimulate the smooth muscle contraction
now I will say that anytime you're
taking a laxative you can deplete your
potassium over a long period of time so
if you're in a situation where you have
constipation that you have to take it
make sure you take some additional
potassium simply because it could
deplete your potassium all right next
one is black psyllium okay this is a
certain fiber that will swell with water
because you need that water to form the
gel that actually helps things move
along but psyllium seed in general is a
very popular laxative Castro oil okay is
another good laxative it comes from
castor seeds and then we have magnesium
a lot of people add magnesium to herbs
to enhance the effect that magnesium is
a mineral that helps relax muscle in
general not just skeletal muscle but
smooth muscle to allow food to actually
go through the body so if you have pain
in the colon from some type of spasm
magnesium is a great thing to take as
well potassium is another mineral that
goes along with magnesium it can have a
similar effect okay vegetables in
general especially fermented vegetables
are really good to feed the bacteria but
you want to adjust the vegetables
sometimes increasing vegetable
we'll feed the microbes to actually help
you eliminate but other times you might
want to decrease the vegetables
especially if you have a condition
called SIBO small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth because if you took more
vegetables fiber that's fermented
especially you are gonna cause more
bloating so if you don't have this
adding more vegetables would be a very
good thing mainly because a lot of the
digestion in the large colon is done by
the help of microbes and last thing is
actually taking friendly bacteria
it's called probiotics so the
combination of adding probiotics with
fiber which feed the microbes usually
will correct constipation if you want
more information on a really good liquid
probiotic I put a link down below now a
common question that people have is I
don't want to take a laxative because
they're addicting okay well you have to
weigh out the advantages versus the
disadvantages of having constipation the
toxic effect of having chronic
constipation is very very very dangerous
to the body over a period of time versus
the minor side effect of taking a
laxative which is not going to be an
addiction it might be a small drop in
potassium but you can easily take more
potassium ultimately want to correct
what's causing the constipation which
usually happens to be what you're eating
or a lack of friendly bacteria but it
could also be the food that feeds the
bacteria which are these things called
vegetable fibers our bodies do not have
the ability to break down fiber and
that's why we have microbes and as a
last note if you haven't seen my video
on the basics of digestion check it out
I put it on this screen right here
