hi guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're gonna discuss early puberty okay
this is for those parents that have kids
that are going through puberty much
earlier now if you have a young girl
that's going through her cycle at ten
years old or less or developing breast
tissue or pubic hair at less than seven
years old or a young boy who's getting
breast tissue a higher voice or they're
getting early growth the pubic hair or
enlarged genitals at the age of nine and
a half years old or younger there's a
situation going on this is basically an
exposure to something called
xenoestrogens the Greek word for Zeno
means foreign and the new of estrogens
so basically it's estrogen which is a
hormone that's coming external your
body's not making it it's coming from
the environment now a xenoestrogen could
be birth control pills it could be the
estrogen in the food supply or it could
be chemicals that mimic estrogen so one
chemical would be BPA in plastics or
another chemical PCB and industrial
wastes or satellites or there's like
basically thousands and thousands of
chemicals that were exposed to it's in
the food supply it's on the golf course
it's in your yard as you're spraying
these chemicals it's all over the place
but one chemical I want to talk about
that I need to increase your awareness
is called Serrano this is an anabolic
growth hormone that means it makes
things grow they inject it into cattle
okay that's how they make them fatter
now Serrano was banned in Europe in 1985
but it's still used in the US and Canada
presently unfortunately it's such a
strong potent estrogen it's a hundred
thousand times stronger than BPA it's
been known to cause cancer and it's in
our food supply and this brings up a
really important point is when you do
meat or dairy you need to do organic
food why because you have a lot of
chemicals you have antibiotics going in
there and that's gonna set you up for
cancer okay now yes it's more expensive
to get organic grass-fed but again if
you're doing in a minute fasting you're
gonna save between three and six hundred
dollars a month so you can afford to
invest that in higher-quality food
all right
thanks for watching hey guys a lot of
you already have my book some of you
don't but this new edition called the
new body type guide is an upgrade from
my last edition called the seven
principles of fat burning it has a
hundred fifty six images three hundred
seventy eight pages full glossary I
talked about Kido in a minute fasting
the body types in detail I have a new
stressed chapter I'm going to show you
exactly what to eat any comprehensive
FAQ I put a link down below check it out
