hello Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about hepatitis C remedies
okay what is heeps C it's a liver
condition involving a virus okay so the
problem is that you can't kill a virus
so when anyone says you can cure a virus
you can't because they're not alive in
the first place a virus is a piece of
genetic material wrapped in a sack that
can invade your own cells create damage
if your cells are susceptible or
weakened to that virus so viruses come
out of remission when you're stressed
tired burnt out getting older certain
chemicals can activate them so they're
not alive so really it's about keeping
this virus in remission as long as
possible one of the biggest things that
I've seen with people with Heep is
they're literally 100% of the time
really stressed out there's always a
situation in your life where they're
stuck between a rock and a hard place
okay so the biggest advice would be to
do whatever you can to remove that
stress whatever it is if it's emotional
stress environmental stress change of
environment move out of the neighborhood
whatever change relationships the stress
will keep this virus
unstable
okay now as far as remedies go milk
thistle is a really good liver
supporting herb highly recommend it
selenium is another um natural mineral
Trace mineral to help keep that virus in
remission oregano oil is one of the best
antiviral um oils that I know of and you
can take them in little pearls they're
really good as an antibacterial
antifungal
anti-candida um antimicrobial and
antiviral vitamin D lots of sun help
keep viruses in
remission there are certain viruses that
um activate are activated with sun but
not this one garlic is really important
uh for the liver and also keeping
viruses in
remission you want to avoid sugar you
want to eat a lot of healthy foods make
sure you have organic foods and I think
you're going to be fine if you do that
all right thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press this
little button down below okay thanks
