hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about the
relationship between wheatgrass juice
and your energy level now the unique
thing about wheatgrass juice is that
it's incredibly packed with something
called chlorophyll chlorophyll
chemically is almost identical to
hemoglobin in your blood so it carries
oxygen so it's just amazing how a plant
converts the sun's energy into chemical
energy so chlorophyll is really stored
energy from the Sun so if you just take
one teaspoon of wheatgrass juice powder
that's equivalent to six to eight shots
of wheatgrass or a tray we graphs 18 to
20 inches that's a tremendous amount of
nutrition and one tiny little teaspoon
what the heck that's my mom's all right
I was going to take a call from my mom
one second
Wow
I'll talk to you later bye Karen there
she is
Wow that wheatgrass stuff really works
yep saw your hand doctor I saw your hand
I saw your hand I think uh maybe you
should head on doctor so that
like I'm here and then starts coming up
my shirt okay
