so I believe diabetes persists because
how its defined diabetes is a state or
condition in which you're unable to
maintain your blood sugars okay
you start developing high blood sugars
now what's interesting is between 1979
1997 normal fasting was below 140
milligrams per deciliter and the way
they diagnosed diabetes was this if you
have blood sugars greater than 140
milligrams per deciliter and two
separate occasions you were a diabetic
then in 1997 they changed how they
diagnosed diabetes so anything greater
than 126 milligrams per deciliter
fasting glucose was considered diabetes
so overnight
millions of people were not now diabetic
so if you're a diabetic or a
pre-diabetic or you want to avoid
diabetes you must know what normal blood
sugar is okay it's between 70 and 85 and
yes it can go up to 90 but right in this
range is this this is where you want it
right here between 70 and 85 milligrams
per deciliter when you're fasting
there's an interesting study I'm gonna
put a link down below two thousand men
that revealed that if your Sugar's are
over 85 it increases your risk of dying
from a heart attack by 40 percent okay
so we want to keep your blood Sugar's
right around 85 or less okay that's the
ideal scene right now worldwide we have
14% of the population on planet Earth
diabetics okay and pre-diabetes is much
much higher so sometimes people have
this idea that oh yeah my blood sugars
are below 140 so I'm okay I can just i'm
not diabetic yet oh yeah I'm a
pre-diabetic so I can just keep doing
what I'm doing right so here's what you
need to know you have this pre-diabetes
right where you're going into diabetes
okay your blood sugars may be over
between 101
125 but here's the thing if your blood
sugars are between 85 and going up to a
hundred this would be considered
subclinical kind of like the it's like
gradually going into this pre-diabetes
which will eventually going into actual
diabetes so anything over 85 is not good
diabetes is a condition of high blood
sugar so for those of you that are new
to my channel you must realize that to
correct this you must get the sugar out
of the diet and the carbohydrates but
that's not what is recommended according
to the American Diabetes Association the
expert on diabetes the authority on
diabetes okay so I wanted to show you
what they recommend it's very
fascinating alright
avoid or cut back on regular soft drinks
in juice now notice how they say they
give you the option of cutting back I
mean come on if you have pre-diabetes or
even if you have blood sugars in your
90's or you're diabetic you shouldn't be
cutting back you should be completely
and utterly avoiding sugar of all kinds
okay choose a low calorie snack such as
popcorn
principle on the on the glycemic index
popcorn is way too high it's going to
turn into sugar it's gonna spike your
blood sugars so they're recommending a
low-calorie what does a calorie had to
do with it there's no link between
eating more calories in causing diabetes
it's the type of calories that you're
consuming it's the sugar and the
carbohydrates next one include at least
one vegetable every day one vegetable
they're saying one serving which is like
one cup no you need to do a lot more
because you need the potassium to help
fix the insulin resistance which is
always involved in type 2 diabetes and
many times in type 1 to next one be
careful with salad toppings the calories
can add up fast again they're focusing
on the calories what about the carbs
choose fruit instead of cake pie cookies
well that's better but why even add
fruit in there because fruit is high in
sugar eat smaller servings of usual
foods
they're not telling you to necessarily
change your diet too much in this one
just eat smaller servings of the junk
that you're eating when eating out share
your main course with a friend or family
member because of the calories right
eating too much all right next one be
mindful of how much fat you use in
cooking why are you even talking about
fat fat has the lowest response on blood
Sugar's it doesn't trigger insulin okay
and by the way for this for when you see
in the media where they say that oh yeah
high fat diet cause diabetes or
prediabetes or insulin resistance those
studies were based on mice which really
did not consume a pure fat diet or a
high-fat diet or a keto diet they were
consuming high fat and high
carbohydrates at the same time okay so
you can pretty much ignore any of those
studies all right avoid foods high in
saturated fats like butter again no no
you want to eat more butter if you have
diabetes use healthy oils such as canola
which by the way is GMO olive okay
that's good in vegetable oil like what
like what kind of vegetable oil corn oil
soy oil which is high in omega-6 fatty
acids which will increase insulin
resistance inflammation and it's GMO
okay start with one meat free meal each
week by trying plant-based protein such
as beans or lentils in place of meat
wait a second meat doesn't cause cancer
especially if it's grass-fed so again
they're not talking about the most
important thing you need to avoid they
keep switching to the the meat thing and
the fat thing okay eat lean meats such
as round or loin cuts or chicken without
skin again no no we need the fat the
more lean proteins you consume the
higher you are on what's called the
insulin index if you don't know about
that I'm gonna put a link down below and
insulin index is the non carbohydrate
foods that affect insulin okay the
glycemic index is all the carbohydrate
foods that stimulate blood sugars but
you also have the insulin index and lean
protein
okay spikes insulin more than fattier
protein interesting we want to keep
things low on the insulin scale next one
cut back on processed meats that are
high in fat and sodium again it's it's
not the fat okay and it's not the salt
per se it is the carbohydrates okay eat
fewer and smaller portion sizes of
desserts and treats such as ice cream
cake and cookies try saving these for
special occasions well why why do you
even allow people to consume it at all
and also realize this if you consume
just a small amount of a dessert you're
gonna be hungry for it one hour okay
because of the carbohydrates will start
increasing hunger because of the insulin
spike so this is why diabetes is
persisting okay so you want to know
normal you want to keep your blood
Sugar's right here you need to keep you
need to actually get a blood glucose
testing kit and keep checking it and
change your diet until you can get it
within this range right here I put a
link down below of the diet that I'm
gonna recommend and if you're a diabetic
and you're trying to get your blood
Sugar's down and you've had diabetes for
a long long time you might not be able
to get it down here but get as low as
you can and make sure that you filed a
plan I'm recommending so you can lessen
the complications all right thanks for
watching
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
