hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about why estrogen
dominance after menopause this is one of
those burning questions that people have
I mean think about it the ovaries go
into retirement they stop working after
age
52 so that would mean that your estrogen
should go down right why do a lot of
women have estrogen dominance and are at
risk for cancer and have all sorts of
issues after menopause let's let's show
you why first let's cover the symptoms
of estrogen dominance anxiet
irritability agitation uh breast
tenderness weepy depression craving for
chocolate joint pain acne cystic
acne um weight in the hips the thighs
and the lower pooch in the stomach low
libido fibroids cancer
endometriosis it takes estrogen to make
cancer grow in the breast and the uterus
okay now let's talk about facts related
to estrogen to put this together um
estrogen does drop after menopause okay
so that's that's really what happens but
progesterone drops even more giving the
relative ratio of higher amounts of
estrogen to Progesterone progesterone is
a hormone that opposes estrogen it
counters it so if you drop progesterone
too far down with no unopposed estrogen
it can appear to be higher and more
damaging
okay now adrenal glands are the backup
to the ovaries so during Menopause the
adrenal glands will make the same
hormones that the ovaries do okay that's
another little fact and the adrenal
glands are on top of the
kidney progesterone feeds cortisol
progesterone converts into
cortisol if the body needs more cortisol
that's the stress hormone from the
adrenal it will get some of the
cortisone from progesterone so here we
have this situation where we have the
adrenals are weak okay low
cortisol your body is going to rob that
little bit of progesterone that you have
what do you think is going to happen to
estrogen then it's already high it's
going to appear to be higher because
it's going to be unopposed by the
progesterone so we're going to take that
last little drop of progesterone we had
and drop it even more to convert it to
cortisol so really it's the adrenals the
weak adrenals behind this whole problem
okay and it's forcing other parts of the
body to be depleted because the adrenal
considers the stress uh countering
stress the adrenals like the most
important thing so it will rob from this
and take from this just to keep the
adrenals strong okay so um basically
increased need for
cortisol depletes
progesterone Okay so you got that so far
now let me show you some additional
facts okay so what do we know we know
that progesterone converts to cortisol
if there's a low adrenal and there's you
need more cortisol the body will make
more from sucking more progesterone
thereby increasing the relative ratio of
high estrogen okay don't worry it gets
worse okay so more facts your own fat
makes estrogen so the more fat you have
the more estrogen you're going to have
because fat makes estrogen and it takes
it robs it from the hips and it doesn't
Rob the fat it just it basically
generates it from the fat okay and also
estrogen uh makes fat so it's kind of
like a never ending uh nightmare now um
they used to use something called
estrogen replacement therapy and they
don't use it anymore because they found
it causes cancer uh and they switch it
to hormone replacement therapy which
they add a little bit of progesterone so
this was just estradi and then they
added
progesterone and and then an estrogen
together and then they they found that
that has some side effects with cancer
and so they added proa which is a
synthetic progesterone okay so then some
women take that and then they decided to
um use prro which is uh estrogen and
synthetic progesterone together but the
problem this is all synthetic and that's
what a lot of women do for hot flashes
vaginal dryness night sweats but they
have to realize that um there's some
other natural things that you can do and
I'm going to put a link down below if
you have low estrogen because that's a
whole other thing that we want to talk
about later we're talking about estrogen
dominance okay so now the estrogen is
really three hormones you have
estradiol estrone and esterol and I'm
going to explain uh these two right here
so estrone is the type of estrogen that
occurs after menopause and it's made
from androgens or testosterone so
basically it's a little complex but
basically you can make estrogen from if
you have too much androgens so there's a
condition called polycystic ovarian
syndrome that a lot of people have um
and that's a situation where you're
taking you have too much Androgen now
how could how would a woman have too
much Androgen well guess what causes
Androgen to spike insulin so again it's
a little complex but if you have a
insulin problem um and I'll put some
links below if you want to check that
out insulin resistance
um you can get PCOS or polycystic
ovarian syndrome from that men when men
have uh too much antigen whatever it can
convert to estrogen and that's what
causes the uh the breast tissue in a
male body the prostate enlargement the
low libido okay that's this right here
because there's an enzyme that converts
Androgen to estrogen and it's called
aromatase and
ratas basically is always seen in people
with with breast cancer or even prostate
cancer it's higher and that's because uh
the source of that cancer is fed by
estrogen made from this darn enzyme here
and it's converting the Androgen to more
estrogen so you can see there's a lot of
different places that estrogen is being
produced uh not just from the ovary but
from
progesterone from the environment from
um uh from synthetic medication from
your own Androgen that's being
converted so um so and estrone can cause
erectile dysfunction a lot of problems
in men um you know like men have
prostate issues right um what happens is
that their T their estrogen increases as
they get older and their testosterone
goes down so this whole idea that what's
causing the prostate is high levels of
DHT which is a powerful form of
testosterone is is not true because they
use DHT to fix prostate enlargement um
it's really the estrogen that's messing
up enlarging the prostate so um estrone
is a known carcinogen it causes cancer
and it converts to estradiol okay all
right so now estriol what's that estriol
is is the last the third type of
estrogen and that's like a waste product
of estradi okay so it's basically there
to help buffer estradi because if estral
is too high you'll really get cancer and
so it's there to balance and buffer it
because estral is considered
anti-cancer so it's it protects you
against the um bad estrogen so to speak
okay then we have the hormones and
animal products that you eat if you
don't need organic or hormone free then
you're getting those estrogens same
thing with dairy um xenoestrogens that
would be like in the environment you
have pesticides insecticides herbicides
all that stuff mimics estrogen okay and
I just want to make a note I do not
believe that it's the estrogen that your
body makes that causes the cancer I
believe it's from other sources so I
don't think it's it's that your body is
just making too much there's something
environmentally that's increasing and
that's really what's causing the cancer
that's just my opinion by the way the
last thing I want to talk about is um
gml genetically modified foods right now
uh the big ones are soy corn and beets
okay all the beet sugar in US is uh
basically genetically modified and the
soy and the corn try to buy food that
doesn't have that in there and plus
guess what they feed the animals corn
corn and soy so you're getting a lot of
GMO okay now this is something that's
not labeled in the grocery stores and
the problem is that when they make
something GMO it's it's modified in a
way that it resists an herbicide okay a
weed killer so the farmers can basically
spray more weed killer on the soy and
corn and um and not kill the soy or corn
just kill everything else okay has a lot
of consequences the problem is the
chemical name is glyphosate glyphosate
is fat sble it's not water cable so it
gets stored in your body right now
there's certain studies I'll put the
links below that indicate that GMO the
residue can affect your consist parts
per trillion parts per trillion if you
took let me just give you the magnitude
on on that let's just say you had 600
train trucks okay hooked together filled
with a liquid of water and I took one
drop of this glyphosate and I diluted it
into 600 train
trucks that's the delusion that you
would need to affect your own endocrine
system so it's very very small amounts
and it's a affecting everyone on a
massive scale the long-term studies are
not done and I think that's the most
obvious thing that's creating a lot of
estrogen because not only is this very
estrogenic but the soy is also
estrogenic the chemicals in Roundup that
are not even glyphosate are estrogenic
and create a lot of problems so that's a
whole other video but I'm just kind of
showing you that there's a lot of things
messing up and raising your uh level of
estrogen so now the good news let's show
you what to do about it okay we're to
the solution hang in there I know it's a
long video um we want to go organic
vegetable um we want to do hormone free
meats and there's a thing called
aromatase Inhibitors now they use this
synthetically for uh cancer okay but we
we want to use the natural things okay
so you have cruciferous vegetables um I
personally use a concentrate because
it's in a pill form and it has all the
cruciferous it's organic um the other
thing
is iodine iodine helps lower estrogen I
get it in seek help okay dim is a
concentrated cruciferous phytochemical
and you can get this from the health
store nettle root is a very powerful
aromatase inhibitor as well I like the
herb nett root it's a really also it's
good for prostate issues it's good to
lower estrogen it's good as an
anti-inflammatory now all those symptoms
that I showed you about estrogen
dominance some of them have joint pain
and anxiety those are mainly not
necessarily from estrogen it's from the
imbalance of estrogen straining the
adrenal okay it's really an adrenal
symptom just a side Dome uh Chase tree
black Kash is a good thing to take for
this condition now if it's really really
bad and you've tried everything
nothing's working then at that point I
would get congest progesterone cream
okay but that's pretty powerful you
might not to go might need not go that
route right off the bat um and then
cortisol support why because this is a
product that I use cortisol support this
basically goes deeper into the adrenals
and it's mainly for someone that has low
cortisol not high cortisol so it will
give the adrenals a chance to come up
and not steal your progesterone and I
use that for hot flashes as well but
it's mainly to help support the adrenals
during menopause as a back up for the
ovaries okay we covered a lot of
information you might have to watch us
again I put some links down below but
thank you so much for watching
