hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about protein digestion and salt
okay the relationship sodium chloride
salt provides chlorides which provide
the raw material to make hydrochloric
acid hydrochloric acid is necessary to
digest protein in the stomach now an
average American consumes way more salt
than they really need in fact six times
as much salt than they need so they have
enough of the chlorides to make the
hydrochloric acid but when you start
putting them on keto and taking them off
the processed foods what happens you're
dropping the salt significantly and
because you lose a lot of fluid with
keto and then fasting you also lose some
electrolytes and if you're not consuming
enough of that salt
you could have low amounts of chlorides
which end up creating low amounts of
hearta chloric acid creating an
inability to digest protein in the
stomach so you your biggest symptom
you're going to have gas bloating
constipation so you have people now
taking a lot of apple cider vinegar
which is great but don't forget about
the chlorides to make the hydrochloric
acid don't forget about the salt so if
you have a problem digesting protein on
a keto plan like constipation gas or
bloating definitely add the sea salt in
addition to the other acidifier thanks
for watching so I want to know what
you're interested in as far as a video
click the link down below and share some
ideas I want to hear
