hi guys today we're gonna talk about
potassium and when you should not take
extra potassium the typical situation is
that people are deficient potassium and
they need more potassium and it's
actually a rare condition where you
would need to cut back okay now when I'm
talking about excess potassium you have
this condition called hyperkalemia this
is too much potassium in your blood
ninety-eight percent of all the
potassium is inside the cell versus the
outside the cell in order to really know
what's happening with potassium I would
recommend taking an intracellular
potassium test and you can look it up
online to try to find out where you can
take it I think it would be a very
valuable thing but that would measure
how much potassium is inside the cell
that being said some of the symptoms
with hyperkalemia would be palpitations
muscle weakness numbness abnormal heart
rate and shortness of breath and these
are the identical symptoms by the way
when you have high blow Kelli Mia which
is interesting so you can't really know
what's happening based on the symptom
you could take a blood test however
these are the top three conditions where
you would not want to take potassium and
I'm going to tell you why first one is
stage 5 kidney disease that would be
end-stage renal failure renal meaning
kidney so if the kidneys are really
diseased you would not want to take
potassium however this is rare and
potassium normally protects the kidney
okay it helps the kidney
especially with blood pressure in fact
it can probably help you lower your
blood pressure so just because you have
kidney disease doesn't mean you don't
need normal amounts of potassium so you
just need to check with your doctor
they're gonna tell you when you should
avoid potassium or take potassium if you
have a kidney problem and the real issue
with this is that if the kidney is
diseased and it stops filtering and
you're taking more potassium you won't
be able to release it and get rid of the
excess amount and too much potassium
could be a problem but if you have
healthy kidneys it's almost impossible
to develop high berkelium you know too
much potassium
blood through taking too much potassium
because simply your body can easily get
rid of excessive amounts of potassium
mainly from the function of aldosterone
this is a hormone from the adrenal
glands and the purpose of aldosterone is
to retain sodium and get rid of excess
potassium so let me just kind of cover
this next reason and that's if you had
an aldosterone deficiency and that can
come from adrenal failure several other
diseases of the adrenal gland in which
you just don't have any more aldosterone
in that case you won't be able to
regulate properly the potassium and it
can go too high again very rare okay
Addison's disease this is a condition
also rare where you basically lose the
function of your adrenal glands and in
that state you you lose a lot of weight
your skin gets bronzed the inside of
your lips and even your lips can get
blue your immune system is very very
fragile and you lose a ton of salt or
basically sodium so if you were to take
excessive amounts of potassium guess
what you're gonna do you're gonna drive
down sodium even more well
Addison's disease is a state where you
really need more salt in a patient with
this condition should be taking a ton of
salt through the day to actually
maintain the adrenal function and they
should definitely avoid potassium
because this is the mineral that they're
having a problem they have enough
potassium but they don't have enough
sodium and as a side note insulin helps
you absorb potassium in your cells and
if you have insulin resistance like a
lot of people have guess what you're
generally going to be deficient in
potassium you're not going to have
enough potassium in cells which is a
more common condition so taking more
potassium will help regulate insulin and
definitely help insulin resistance
alright guys thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
