hi guys in this video I want to talk
about the best natural
antihistamine um a lot of times people
are taking his antihistamines and they
don't they don't want to do that they
want something more alternative and um I
recommend the Mormon tea okay what is
the Mormon tea Mormon tea is a weak
version of a fedra or mayong now you may
have heard about this being taken off
the market and I personally think that
yes there were some people that died
from it but there are more people that
die from the complications of aspirin in
one week than ever died from ephedra so
and I think people have abused it we're
trying to lose weight but the thing that
I think it works very well on is sinus
chronic sinus issues lung issues
allergies asthma anything like that
because aedra which is this um which is
basically it mimics epinephrine or
adrenaline uh has some interesting
properties
it basically uh vasod dilates the lung
it opens up the lung it allows you to
breathe it opens up the coronary artery
the coronary artery is the main blood
vessel to the heart so it's really good
to for congestive heart failure because
it opens up that artery where it it will
constrict all the other arteries so
that's why it does tend to increase
blood pressure so of course you wouldn't
want to give this to someone that has
high blood pressure or they're
pregnant but if you could monitor it and
take a little bit for these conditions I
think it's a pretty cool thing but you
can't you can't buy this anymore okay
but you can get this I mean you could
grow it and you could use it that way
but um Mormon tea is kind of a weak
version and uh I recommend you try it
out take it in the first part of the day
before uh like 12:00 because it does
tend to bring up the adrenals and uh it
could keep you from sleeping if you have
too
much but here's the thing epinephrine or
adrenaline the same thing thing is made
by our adrenal glands the inside the
adrenal the inside the adrenal is all
nerve tissue the outside is all gland
tissue it's interesting so people that
need antihistamines that have sinus that
have lung issues really have a weak
adrenal and I think they're deficient in
epinephrine or adrenaline and so that's
why it works so the long-term uh fix is
to support the adrenal over time so you
don't need these anymore the Quick Fix
is to take some Mormon tea to get some
temporary relief all right thanks for
watching all right thanks for watching
guys hey press the Subscribe button what
this is not my ringtone okay
[Music]
jeez press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you informed of the future
events
