cancer thrives in a low vitamin D
environment let me explain there's so
many different mechanisms on how Vitamin
D can reduce someone's risk for cancer
so this is really a catch 22 because on
one hand the great importance of vitamin
D to help keep you from getting cancer
but on the other hand if you get cancer
now what that cancer is going to drive
your vitamin D right down to the bottom
somehow it knows that if you have enough
vitamin D it's very hard for cancer to
exist number one one vitamin D has the
ability to trigger a cell to commit
suicide if there's damage to that cell
because if you think about it what's
cancer cancer is a normal cell that
converts to a cancer cell because
there's some damage to it normally
what's supposed to happen if that cell
is damaged is that it's supposed to
commit suicide and get rid of itself
vitamin D is intimately involved doing
the job so it doesn't go into cancer
number two vitamin D helps regulate
excess out of control cell growth if the
tumor cell cannot get any nutrition at
all or resources it can die next one
vitamin D is anti-inflammatory one of
the Hallmarks for cancer is inflammation
vitamin D normally is supposed to get
rid of that inflammation so several of
the things that occur with tumors or
cancer is number one inflammation number
two a lack of oxygen and number three an
alteration in the pH in other words the
environment where tumors thrive is acid
well guess what vitamin D enhances
almost every part of your immune system
vitamin D also enhances chemotherapy and
vitamin D also helps to make insulin
more sensitive when people have insulin
resistance they're also greater at risk
for getting cancer vitamin D actually
downgrades genes that cause cancer and
vitamin D greatly supports the gut
microbiome that also is like 80% of your
immune system That's What vitamin D can
do now let's talk about what cancer does
in a cancer cell you have impl infation
that lack of oxygen called hypoxia and
you also have an environment where it's
very very acidic all three of those
things block the absorption of vitamin D
they don't allow vitamin D to work
cancer also blocks the enzymes that help
you convert the inactive vitamin D to
the active form of vitamin D directly
when you get cancer there's a lot of
damage that occurs to the liver and the
kidney the two very important sites
where you have have vitamin D metabolism
then there's one more important piece of
the puzzle before I get into the
solution okay and this involves four
little tiny glands around your thyroid
called the parathyroid gland let me
explain what that is so I want to show
you something very interesting about
tumors and cancer 80% of tumors make
this specific hormone which is very
similar to the one that we have in the
parathyroid gland let me just make this
really simple par means next to thyroid
you have four of them so the thyroids
right here and you got four little
glands are called the parathyroid the
reason why this cancer makes this
hormone right here is mainly to extract
calcium from the bone because the
purpose of the parro gland is to make
sure you have enough calcium in your
blood cancer somehow is able to make
this specific hormone to extract calcium
from our bone this is one of the factors
that you'll see in cancer is high levels
of calcium in the blood they call it
hyper calcium cmia and now you know why
because that darn cancer is making this
hormone it's extracting it from our
bones as well as other resources from
the bones as a survival mechanism but
here's the problem this hormone when it
goes up actually lowers and inhibits
your vitamin D too much calcium in the
blood will also inhibit vitamin D so now
we got two other additional things that
suppress this vitamin D as you can see
on top of all the other barriers having
genetic problems having vitamin D
resistance from a microbe or an
infection when we get cancer the need
for Vitamin D goes straight up and
vertical let's talk about a solution
there are two systems of vitamin D
vitamin D affecting your bone and
calcium okay but there's another system
that doesn't involve calcium it doesn't
involve your bone it involves supporting
your immune system the bone system can
get buy with a small amount of vitamin D
once every two weeks the other system
needs higher amounts in daily amounts
for cancer you want to go way up from
10,000 you want to do 50,000 iuse every
single day with the Magnesium with the
K2 with the zinc and I want to make a
disclaimer I am not telling you that
this is going to cure your cancer I'm
just giving you some additional
information especially since the World
Health Organization even acknowledges
that vitamin D has anti-carcinogenic
properties it's also interesting other
inflammatory conditions like autoimmune
diseases you have this lowered amount of
vitamin D3 because vitamin D3 does
doesn't work when you have a lot of
inflammation you need to take more
there's quite a few other diseases that
you nearly always have low amounts of
vitamin D3 and autoimmune diseases
osteoarthritis which is not an
autoimmune but it's inflammatory disease
TB tuberculosis HIV we talked about part
of the solution of just taking more
vitamin D3 and so now I'm going to give
you a list of all the things that I
research and I'm going to put the
research Down Below in the description
and these are all epigenetic factors
okay things that you can take either as
supplements or lifestyle changes or even
Foods okay number one magnesium that's a
big one omega-3 fatty acids as in fish
oils or cod liver oil then we have
Resveratrol next one is coratin those
are in onions and different herbs
curcumin from turmeric berberine also
good for blood sugar can help increase
the vitamin D receptor intense exercise
as a lifestyle chains can help increase
the vitamin D receptor sulfurane and
broccoli sprouts Ginger fasting and
intermitted fasting doing things to make
insulin more sensitive going on a lower
carbohydrate diet when you have insulin
resistance with diabetes that can also
lower your ability to absorb vitamin D3
probiotics can also help with vitamin D
or just exposing yourself to certain
light frequencies like infrared can
increase melatonin and melatonin helps
your absorption of vitamin D interesting
decreasing your stress because high
levels of cortisol and adrenaline can
lower your absorption of vitamin D3
because I'm talking about high levels of
vitamin D3 I think it's very important
to understand the toxicity factor and if
you have not seen this video you should
check it out I'll put it up right here
