hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the importance of cholesterol
for your muscles okay
now the brain the nervous system and
your muscles desperately need
cholesterol okay without cholesterol
they just don't work so the body can
make cholesterol and it makes a lot of
it it makes like 3,000 milligrams every
single day but you also get it from the
diet but the dietary cholesterol only
accounts for twenty to twenty-five
percent of your total cholesterol okay
so people are freaking out about
cholesterol it's it's gonna cause my
heart you know to have a heart attack
and blah blah blah but that's actually
not true I'm gonna put a link down below
for some more data that you need to
watch on that one point but in this
video we're not going to cover too much
of that so consuming foods high in
cholesterol consuming dietary
cholesterol does not increase your blood
cholesterol levels okay if you disagree
with me please do the research and put a
link down below to show me proof of that
you will not find any study that shows
any type of significant increase in your
blood cholesterol by consuming
cholesterol because there is no study
that proves that that's interesting
cholesterol is needed to make bile to
help you digest fats cholesterol is
needed to make vitamin D but your
muscles really need cholesterol to
actually make them stronger to make them
bigger because cholesterol actually is a
precursor for making certain sex
hormones okay they're anabolic they
build things up so anabolic means build
things up so testosterone for example
needs cholesterol so without cholesterol
you can't make testosterone so when
people have high cholesterol they
usually put on a statin drug right now
the problem with statins is that it
blocks the pathway to make cholesterol
in the liver so it shuts down the total
production of cholesterol and look at
some of the top side effects myopathy
which is a destruction of your muscle
cells it actually kills muscle Myositis
which is inflammatory conditions of your
muscle
so pain back pain achy muscles weakness
in the muscle low amounts of coenzyme
q10 which your heart needs your heart
muscle needs that to be able to work
right so these are the side effects of
low cholesterol or blocking the
cholesterol pathways so this is the
connection between cholesterol and
muscles you need it to actually function
statins even have a blackbox warning
because it causes diabetes which then
increases your risk for heart attack so
here you're taking statins to lower your
cholesterol to suppose supposedly
protect your heart
but then the side effect causes heart
problems insane so the benefits of
statins are very very very very very
very insignificant but the side effect
is very very very huge if you want
information alternative ways to support
your diet to help stabilize normal
cholesterol levels I put a link down
below but the point is that you don't be
afraid of consuming cholesterol if you
want to support your muscles and also to
support healthy testosterone levels
alright thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know
hey that runs
