I had another question relating to does
keto cause kidney disease okay I just
want to do a video just on this one
topic because his absolutely ridiculous
number one ketogenic diet is a very
natural thing for the body to do in fact
I believe it was the first diet that we
all were on and our bodies are very very
used to it it's a much better fuel
running your body on ketones and the
confusion is that a ketogenic diet is a
high-protein diet and of course high
proteins can damage the kidney and the
liver as well but it's not a high
protein diet you're only doing three to
six ounces of protein with each meal
that is not very high the ketogenic diet
is a low carb diet and low carbs are
beneficial to the kidney high
carbohydrates are very damaging to the
kidney high sugars are very damaging to
the kidney let's take a look at a
diabetic
they usually have vision problems nerve
problems and eventually kidney problems
they usually end up on kidney dialysis
because that - sugar it's very damaging
to the kidneys so high carbohydrates
destroy the kidney low carbohydrates are
very safe on the kidney now there is a
condition when you have diabetes called
ketoacidosis okay and that means that
the pH coming from those ketones and
this is very unhealthy ketosis by the
way it's completely different than the
type of ketosis that I'm talking about
it's more of a side effect because the
body is burning up protein and it's
turning into ketones and the pH is
becoming very very very acid but you
don't don't worry about that because
when you're actively doing ketosis just
by cutting out the carbs and you're not
a diabetic type 1 we're gonna recommend
and I've been recommending a lot of
vegetables to get your potassium and
potassium is very protective on the
kidneys until you have complete kidney
failure and you're on kidney dialysis
and in that situation you don't want to
consume a lot of protein because you
can't really utilize that protein that's
completely different situation but in
general potassium is very protective on
the kidney and that is why we recommend
7 to 10 cups of vegetables with the keto
plan to protect the kidney and give it
the nutrients that it needs
and another problem with Kido is that it
can increase the uric acid well it's not
going to do that if you keep your
vegetables high but some people can get
uric acid stones or gout simply because
they're not consuming enough vegetables
okay so we're not gonna have to worry
about that but recently there's been
higher incidence of kidney disease
actually around the world and of an
unknown origin and really I believe and
it's my opinion that it's the GM o foods
I put a link down below just to show you
the relationship between glyphosate and
what it's doing to our kidneys because
your body has to get rid of this stuff
not to mention the liver so if you want
to protect a kidney you know keto is
going to be totally a good thing to do
number two you want to do intermittent
fasting in me3 you want to keep the
vegetables high and lastly you want to
avoid GMO foods with that glyphosate
because it's a big unknown now and you
just don't want to be the guinea pig in
this huge GMO experiment they're doing
on us right now
alright thanks for watching hey tell me
what you think about this video go ahead
and comment below and give me your
feedback
