hi guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're gonna answer another good question
that someone had and they called in and
they wanted to know dr. Burke I have
normal blood sugars yet I have a lot of
symptoms of insulin resistance how can
that be
okay so I'm gonna answer that question
in my new book the new body type guide
okay this is on page 153 check this out
when you go to the doctor he or she will
test blood sugars right but to the ever
test in some levels testing fasting
insulin levels will give some deeper
insights and we're really what's going
on okay
so really for someone that have an
alteration in actual blood sugars which
is pre-diabetes or diabetes okay
that's later on the chain of events
because insulin resistance turning in
the diabetes could take ten years the
first thing that happens is insulin
resistance which your insulin is being
resistive and then the insulin isn't go
in the cell and then it sends another
signal back to the pancreas and the
pancreas starts making more and more
insulin okay but normal blood sugars
okay so if you really want to find out
if you're in this stage right here which
is like the pre pre-diabetes all you do
is you ask your doctor to do a fasting
insulin test not a fasting glucose test
okay they're gonna measure the actual
fasting insulin what it's doing and if
it's higher than normal then we know you
have been send resistance okay very very
simple and if you have that just you
just do what I talked about in this book
okay so anyway great question thanks for
asking that and I hope that helped hey
you probably already subscribed but if
you haven't press this little button
down below and I will keep you updated
