hey guys I'm back and we're gonna answer
a question someone wanted to know why
would I have blood in the urine after I
exercise okay let's talk about that well
there's several underlying reasons why
you would have blood in the urine it
could be an infection it could be
related to an enlarged prostate
it could be something worse it could be
a side effect from medication but
probably one of the most common things
that is behind blood and urine after you
exercise is kidney stones because here
this kidney stone is not necessarily
nice and round and soft it has little
jagged edges it's in your kidney and
you're jogging and that thing is up and
down tearing up the inside of your
kidney so that's usually what it is so
if that is the case then you need to
start doing a couple things first of all
you want to do prevention you want to
avoid certain foods and I have a lot of
videos and this already I'll put some
links down below you want to avoid
spinach peanuts almonds tea chocolate
things like that now if it's a uric acid
stone you know and you don't really know
but it could be a uric acid stone more
likely if you're doing keto in which
case you might want to cut down some of
the protein if you're doing a large
amounts of protein and also of course
the spinach and other things too but if
you're prone to kidney stones definitely
drink a bit more water it's staying more
hydrated potassium citrate is really
good but the best remedy is
hydroxycitric you can get it but the
health of store or online you take that
in a regular basis that prevents stones
both oxalate stones and uric acid stones
and an will help to dissolve the
stone itself potassium citrate also
helps but hydroxycitric works much much
better so that's what I'd recommend so
as long as you're avoiding the foods
over time I think you're gonna be fine
and you take this remedy that should
help you you may want to do a sport that
doesn't involve jogging up and down to
jar the kidney so maybe take a Viking or
some low-impact sport while you're
dealing with this stone and then of
course if it keeps coming back get it
checked out but if it's a one-time thing
and you're jogging all of a sudden your
urine it's blood and your
what tax going on but you have no the
symptom that's probably what's going on
and it usually will go away after you
just stopped jogging because the urine
is basically filtered blood and so as
soon as you stop jarring it the body
filters it and it'll be a normal color
urine alright so I hope that answered
your question
hey if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
