today we're going to talk about the
benefits of energy drinks now in theory
when you consume an energy drink you're
supposed to have more brain energy
exercise performance more endurance your
cells are supposed to be recharged but
in reality most energy drinks out there
will cause brain fog less exercise
performance less endurance and the
ingredients will deplete your cells now
the big problem with energy drinks is
that the ingredients don't give you real
energy these drinks are composed of two
main things caffeine and sugar
let's take redbull for example 8.4
ounces gives you 80 milligrams of
caffeine a 16 ounce monster drink is a
hundred and sixty milligrams of caffeine
a 16 ounce Rockstar drink gives you a
hundred and sixty milligrams
the 5-hour energy drink the real small
one that has like one point eight three
ounces gives you 200 milligrams of
caffeine and guess what caffeine is not
a fuel it's a stimulant it gives you
this artificial sense that you have
energy but really it's just revving up
your adrenal glands now the next problem
is the crazy amounts of sugar that is in
one of these drinks one of these drinks
has about 36 grams of sugar that is
crazy
what's gonna happen is your blood sugars
are gonna spike and then the hormone
insulin is gonna come in there and take
that sugar and push it all the way down
and now you're gonna be really tired
irritable and grouchy and you're gonna
want another drink because you need to
actually bring the energy up with
caffeine and more sugar and you're in
this cyclic trap now you might be
thinking I'm gonna exercise so I'm gonna
be using up my energy my glucose and the
muscles and so I need to replace that
right so I'll just drink an energy drink
get the sugar and put it back well a lot
of the sugar that is in the energy drink
is not just glucose its fructose as in
high fructose corn syrup as in dextrose
which is synthetic corn syrup or just
corn syrup so now you're getting a good
that fructose and what a lot of people
don't realize is the fructose only goes
to your liver it doesn't go to the
muscles it goes nowhere in your body
except the liver so if you're not
feeding the muscles or other cells or
your brain it's not going to give you
any energy at all it's just gonna be
converted to more belly fat oh and
before I forget if you haven't already
subscribed click the red button below
and that little bell icon so you can be
notified of all the new videos that I'm
gonna be releasing and I have some very
cool and interesting videos coming up in
the next coming weeks plus in addition
to that you'll be notified of the live
Q&A sessions that I'm going to be doing
throughout the week and you don't want
to miss those as well alright so what's
the problem you're trying to solve when
you drink an energy drink you're trying
to get more energy right well the
question is why are you tired in the
first place are you getting enough sleep
are you taking the right nutrients and
these are the two nutrients that you
need to look for on the back of the
label when you buy an energy drink the
most popular sports drink or energy
drink out there has 270 milligrams of
sodium that's not the main mineral
that's going to give you a lot of energy
okay
potassium it only has 75 milligrams
your body needs 4700 milligrams every
single day 75 milligrams is not even
close to giving you a fraction of the
amount that you need and not to mention
of course the sugar these are the main
ingredients of the most popular energy
drink out there you want to find an
energy drink that has all of the
electrolytes okay electrolytes are
electrically charged minerals that help
to energize your cells and I'm talking
about your muscle cells and the nerve
cells in other words these minerals
allow for electricity to travel through
the body now one of the big purposes of
potassium is to help recharge your cells
battery all your cells whole
electrical charge to be able to keep the
heart in rhythm to be able to cause the
muscles to contract relaxed in order to
cause the nerves to transmit so
potassium is the key mineral to keep
that battery at full capacity and
prevent the drainage of energy in the
cell magnesium on the other hand feeds
the mitochondria this is the energy
factory this is where all your energy is
created in your cells and without
magnesium you're not going to have
enough energy so here's the thing if you
want the benefit of an electrolyte drink
make sure it has zero Kathy zero sugar
and it's filled with a good amount of
electrolytes all right thanks for
watching and if you haven't already
subscribed click the red button below
and that little Bell icon so you can be
notified of all the new videos that I'm
gonna be releasing and I have some very
cool and interesting videos coming up in
the next coming weeks plus in addition
to that you'll be notified of the live
Q&A sessions that I'm going to be doing
throughout the week and you don't want
to miss those as well so stay tuned for
more great content
