today I'm going to show you how to stop
nighttime urination it is not hard to
fix this problem if you know the
underlying root cause the biggest
mistake or problem with people with
urinary frequency especially at night
they don't know that 95% of the time
it's this other thing over here and if
you don't fix that you're not going to
see results I did another video on this
topic a while ago I'll put the link down
below I had 10 million views this is an
upgrade of that video but if you read
the comments on that video it's amazing
like people are getting results all over
the place let me tell you what doesn't
work thinking that your prostate is the
primary problem so many people either
take medications or natural things for
the prostate doesn't really change the
frequency of their urination at night
sometimes people will say well it's a
urinary tract infection or it's kidney
stones or it's this or that yeah it
might be but there's something way more
common the number one most common
problem with urinary frequency at night
is two much insulin in your blood
there's a condition called insulin
resistance which is a situation where
your body's receptors are not absorbing
insulin and then the body has to
compensate by sending signals to the
pancreas to tell it to produce more
insulin there's a super high percentage
of diabetics that have a problem getting
up to the night and urinating very
frequently if you do have high blood
sugar what's going to happen is wherever
the sugar goes the water is going to go
any time the sugar is high the body's
going to get rid of it through the
kidneys because it's considered toxic
and you're going to pee out more
frequently it's called polyuria which
basically means you're urinating very
frequently insulin resistance causes an
overactive bladder even if your blood
sugar is normal there's experiments with
dogs that they injected with insulin and
there's a high correlation with them
urinating more frequently at night
urinary frequency at night is an early
Sun
that you have insulin resistance which
is a precursor to diabetes insulin
resistance causes your kidney to filter
out things more frequently puts more
stress on the kidney this is why the
main cause of most kidney disease comes
from diabetes also insulin resistance
causes electrolyte imbalances it affects
more blood pressure at night and insulin
resistance increases cortisol which can
also increase urination insulin
resistance in a female now weakens the
floor of your bladder and the pelvic
muscles insulin resistance also creates
a magnesium deficiency which can
aggravate this whole problem because you
lose control of all these smooth muscles
the other interesting thing about
insulin resistance is what it does to
testosterone it lowers testosterone some
people that are treated with
testosterone replacement therapy improve
their ladder and their symptoms of
excessive urination at night as we get
older and our testosterone goes down
people typically have more problems with
their bladder and their control of urine
especially at night and what's
interesting is when people take
testosterone replacement therapy they
actually can also improve insulin
resistance what would cause you to have
more insulin resistance at night if you
guessed snacking at night you are
correct that is the single number one
damaging thing to your urination problem
out of everything when I'm talking about
snacking I'm talking about snacking on
something like this right here or even
this right here even if you snacked on
something healthy that can also increase
your insulin so I'm going to highly
recommend that you eliminate all snacks
after your dinner don't drink anything
after that period of time because not
only does refined carbohydrates and
sugar cause insulin resistance but it's
also just eating in general will raise
insulin these snacks also cause bloating
before bed they interrupt your sleep
here's another problem with this when
you don't sleep because you're getting
up and peeing every few hours that lack
of sleep then raises your cortisol it
will mess up your blood sugar to the
point where it's going to cause you to
crave more of the snacks at night in
between meals also a lot of times people
snack because they're tired or bored or
just out of a habit as a first step if
it's impossible to stop snacking at
least snack on something that's a little
healthier like blueberries or maybe
strawberries or celery or even a
grapefruit but it's best if you snack on
nothing and just get in the habit of not
snacking one of the smartest things to
do is not to buy any more snack foods
because if this is sitting in the pantry
and it's calling your name because
you're watching TV and you're seeing
these commercials it can just trigger
this I'm just going to let me just have
one and then one turns into two and
three and four and before you know you
ate the whole bag when you're on a low
salt diet you could also have a problem
with urination at night just from the
fact that what sodium does to your fluid
it helps you retain fluid you do need a
certain amount of salt in the diet also
some people are snacking because they're
craving salt it could be that you just
need to add more salt to your meal
through the day so you won't have that
craving when you have enough salt your
cortisol stays down people that have a
salt deficiency usually have higher
cortisol and it affects their sleep just
make sure you have enough salt sea salt
healthy sea salt I like the Himalayan
sea salt but there's other types of sea
salt that you can consume I talked about
not snacking at night but I also have to
recommend through the day go on a low
carb diet don't consume over 30 gram of
carbohydrates why because this will make
a huge difference in your insulin
resistance yes I'm talking about getting
on the healthy version of the ketogenic
diet and I will put a link down below of
exactly what that means but equally as
important is intermittent fasting
starting with three meals no snacks
especially not snacking at night and
then going down to two meals skip your
breakfast have a lunch and a dinner no
snacking in between don't worry about
your calories eat until you're really
satisfied you have to break this habit
of snacking I'm telling you this will
work it's worth it to do it you'll be
able to sleep through the night you'll
feel great in the morning you'll have
more energy you'll have less cravings
when you sleep better even adding 30
more minutes to your sleep is massive as
far as health benefits I did a video on
this and it's just incredible for your
heart for your blood sugars for your
stress level for your energy for your
cognitive function for your uh
creativity solving problems it's massive
one last thing I'm going to recommend
make sure you have enough vitamin D
vitamin D can help insulin problems
insulin resistance it's very very
effective to that also it can help with
your sleep cycles also make sure when
you get vitamin D you add it with
magnesium
both of those together will greatly help
your sleep and I'll give you the details
of how much to take Below in the
description but if you really want to
know what you should be eating I put
that video up right here check it out
