hey guys in this video I want to share
some data about this amazing trace
mineral called boron it's one of the
most underused trace minerals it's kind
of a neglected trace mineral but I think
it's so important it's great for
building bone
it also supports calcium magnesium
ratios in the muscle and in the bone so
if you have a lot of muscle spasm or
tightness it'll allow these minerals to
work better in the body it's also great
for all types of inflammatory conditions
arthritis bursitis tendinitis all the
itis it's been known to increase
testosterone estrogen and menopausal
women it has anti-cancer effects
osteoporosis we talked about that right
here and it's good for hyperthyroidism
so boron there's a trace mineral and if
the trace mineral is not in the soil
it's not going to be in the plant it's
not going to be in the food it's going
to show up as a deficiency and I really
believe that most people are deficient
trace minerals just because our soils
are so depleted so if it's not in the
soil it's not going to be in the plant
it's not going to be in our bodies and I
really believe that trace minerals as a
category of nutrients are probably the
most efficient thing in our diet simply
because when a farmer works the land
they don't always put it back into the
soil they might put in three or four
minerals but they're not putting all the
minerals back in there and unless you're
growing food on fertile soils chances
are it's not going to be in the soil
you're going to get a small amount of
boron in almonds hazelnuts Brazil nuts
walnuts but just make sure that if
you're going to consume these nuts they
have to be either roasted or germinated
because there are certain types of
factors in here like phytic acid that
will prevent the absorption of minerals
and trace minerals so again make sure
these are roasted if you consume them
raw chances are you're not going to get
any boron now if you're going to take
boron I would try to find a product that
has all the trace minerals with it like
in a blend of all the trace minerals
because anytime you take one mineral of
anything without the other minerals it
can create a problem if you take it
long-term
alright well thank you for watching
so I want to know what you're interested
in as far as a video click the link down
below and share some ideas I want to
hear
