intermittent fasting for serious weight
loss that's the topic for today now
intermittent fasting is the most
important and most magical thing you can
do for your body but the question is why
what does interal fasting do well number
one it actually increases your white
blood cells it strengthens your immune
system it increases stem cells with your
immune system so it can revive and give
you a new immune system if it's been
damaged it powerfully suppresses
inflammation so if you have arthritis
btis tentis any of the itis is those are
going to go byebye it is a powerful
stimulator of something called autophagy
which is the recycling of old damaged
proteins your skin your hair your nails
your organs it is one of the most
powerful stimulators of growth hormone
growth hormone is all about fat burning
it's all about anti-aging an exercise
only will increase growth hormone by
like I don't know
750. fasting can increase growth hormone
by
2,000% so why would anyone even hesitate
from doing an a minute fasting it can
increase testosterone by
180% it greatly improves your mood so
let's say you have depression or anxiety
or you're not feeling that great it can
bring your emotions up to a whole new
level so you feel more like yourself I
mean that alone is is huge intermittent
fasting helps regrow your brain cells so
your cognitive function improve memory
concentration focus it is very very
beneficial if not essential for people
with Alzheimer's Parkinson's dementia
and the best way to kill cancer cells in
the shrink tumors is fasting there's so
many different epigenetic uh factors in
relationship to cancer one is that it
helps to recycle old damaged
mitochondria and the reason why that's
really important is because what causes
cancer is damage within the mitochondria
so if you can recycle and fix all the
broken mitochondria you can really not
just prevent cancer but you can help to
uh slow it down and so one term related
to that is not called autophagy it's
mitophagy but beyond that I think the
biggest and coolest thing that fasting
can do for someone is fix a broken
metabolism so if you have a slow
metabolism it can give you a fast
metabolism if you have this situation
where you can only lose a certain amount
because you hit the set point it can
help bust through that and help you lose
more and more because it fixes insulin
resistance not to mention diabetes there
are so many people studying this right
now it's very very exciting and the
reason why uh Inman fasting becomes
easier as you do it is because your
hunger completely goes away I mean try
to do any diet if you are hungry it's
just not going to work not having a big
appetite and definitely not craving just
makes it doable and just it makes it
easy now real quick I just wanted to
mention this amazing amazing success
story uh of this guy who is
completely depressed
suicidal nothing was going right in his
life and so he decided to commit suicide
and the way he was going to do it was he
was going to starve himself so he went
to his room laid down on his bed and
stopped eating for three days so you can
guess what happened after the second and
third day he started feeling better and
better and he no longer had depression
he felt energy he felt better so his
plan backfired and so he got on the
internet and started searching about
fasting and he found that's what he was
missing he found one of my videos we did
an interview and it completely changed
his life around so if you haven't seen
that video I I put a link down below
fascinating all right so now all you
need to know is exactly how to do
fasting in a very simple way I'm going
to show you a very gradual way to get
into fasting so you can go as fast or as
slow as you want but I want to make it
very very simple okay now inent fasting
is a pattern of eating and not eating
it's not a diet so we want to combine
the ketogenic diet with fasting in this
video we're primarily going to just
cover the fasting part okay the pattern
of eating all right first thing is
starting out worst case scenario let's
say you're doing three meals a day and
three snacks like I was okay and at
night you're just grazing with chips and
nuts and you just do that until you go
to sleep now realize that every time you
eat you stimulate insulin so we have
three big spikes of insulin and then we
have also three kind of mini spikes of
insulin because every time you eat you
trigger insulin so there is just
absolutely zero chance of losing weight
with that pattern of eating so the first
thing to do is just to eliminate the
snacks what you can actually do is
change your snacks to maybe protein or
fat and then push them to the meal so
that way they're no longer a snack
they're part of the meal so the first
step is doing three meals no snacks now
just to make it easier on yourself you
want to add more fat to the meal to be
more satisfied so you can go longer the
goal at this stage is to start to reduce
insul
and to go longer in between meals that's
your goal because snacking is deadly now
of course if you cut out the carbs at
the same time it's going to make it
easier because carbs drop your blood
sugars and then now you're going to be
hungry so if you combine keto with this
it's going to be really easy all right
so we go in the first stage three meals
no snacks you do that for a few days and
what's going to happen is you're going
to wake up in the morning you're not
going to be hungry anymore and and so if
you're not hungry just don't eat you
might want to write that on your
refrigerator but it's very very
important because we don't want to eat
out of habit or schedule we want to eat
when our bodies are telling us to eat
and so if you're not hungry guess what
your body is eating but it's eating your
own fat and that is the goal so don't
screw it up by eating and then all of a
sudden now you're hungry an hour and
half later so the most important thing
at this next phase is to take your
breakfast and keep pushing it more
towards your lunch to the point where it
becomes your lunch okay so we're just
combining our breakfast and lunch
together and a lot of times my first
meal is my breakfast I'll have eggs or
bacon or Avocado now you can also do the
Bulletproof Coffee just to make it
easier but I find this stage goes pretty
quick you might even be able to jump
into this within the next day because as
soon as you start reducing the frequency
of eating your hunger goes down because
we start making the switch from burning
sugar to burning fat all right so we got
rid of our snacks we're doing three
meals a day we're adding fat to the meal
and then we're going to skip breakfast
now we're at two meals per day so let's
say for example you eat at noon and then
that six that gives you a fasting
pattern of 16 hours okay a fasting with
an eight hour eating window now when I
mention the eating window you probably
are going to be fasting through that
window as well we could add those hours
but for this example we're not going to
add those hours we're only going to
count the point where the last meal is
and then all the way to the next day to
the first meal okay so that pattern is
16 and8 and for convenience you can do
12 and 6 you can do eating at 100 p.m.
to 7 or 2 to 8 depending on what your
schedule is you can adjust that all
right so now you're at 168 you're going
to start to see some amazing results
okay the best way that you know it's
working is your appetite goes away okay
that's the most important indicator not
weight loss not even energy all right if
you want to see more results we bring it
to the next stage and if you can look
Below on this chart you're still doing
two meals but you're going to take these
two meals and start squishing them
together okay so this is where I am at
now okay so I'll do two meals and
they're within a 4our eating window so
that gives me 20 hours of fasting that's
huge if you can do 20 hours of fasting
you're are going to see amazing benefits
not just with your weight with your
cognitive function with your immune
system your body even starts making more
antioxidants uh your stress goes down I
mean it's just very remarkable all right
so at this stage your pattern is 20 and
four and let's say your meals were
between 12: noon and 4: or 1 and 5 or
two and six so just adjust that to your
schedule all right so this is where a
good amount of people pretty much stay
at this level but let's say you want to
take it to the next level okay and let's
say you're over the age of 50 like I am
I'm
56 and you have a slow metabolism and
you want to have more uh I don't know
improvement with your brain for example
you want to have less inflammation with
your joints you want to have a better
immune system you want to speed up the
loss of belly fat this is what you do
you go to What's called omad one meal a
day that gives you a pattern of 23 hours
of fasting and one hour of eating now
with this meal you want it very large
you want to make sure it's nutrient
dense but realize that all the
nutritional requirements actually go
down when you do one a meal a day your
body adjust and so you don't actually
need the quantity of nutrients because
your body becomes very very efficient
and at this stage I always have to
remind people don't eat if you're not
hungry okay just ride the way for some
people who are who have a lot of fat to
lose and they have a slow
metabolism sometimes they're not even
hungry in a given day so what I will
tell them is just go another day fast as
long as you can and some people fast for
three days and they lose a ton of weight
and they feel great so I have a lot of
videos on the making this transition but
in this video Let's just stop at one
meal a day if you add exercise to this
it's going to be even more deadly
powerful but I just wanted to give you
the overview the picture on how it goes
and you can plug in wherever you want to
plug in go at your own pace make it
easier in yourself but I really want you
to get started so you can personally
experience this for yourself and before
you get started I have some details
about fasting that you need to know
about I put those up right here check
them out
