so in this video we're going to talk
about protein there is so many
confusions about protein and also should
I have this amount or that amount or
should I be a vegetarian uh so I'm going
to clear up some uh common
misconceptions about protein um one of
the princip principles behind uh any
diet is to you want to trigger fat
burning right you want to lose weight uh
if we look at the Viewpoint of what
hormones trigger fat burning and what
foods trigger those hormones protein
comes up very at the top of the list so
protein does trigger the fat burning
hormones okay but you have to understand
what is a protein because in nature very
few things come in pure proteins they're
always a combination of proteins
carbohydrates and fats and if you're
basing your diet on a calorie counting
model which by the way is incorrect
you're going to be looking more at the
fat calories and avoiding those since
they have the most calories you're not
going to be looking at the protein uh
part of this okay so that's a
misconception and your entire diet is
going to be wrong or if you're looking
at maybe the Atkins diet and you're only
focused on protein and realize there's
six other types of foods that trigger
fat brating
process but they're focused just on
protein then you're going to ignore some
of the other pieces of the puzzle puzzle
especially as it relates to the liver
function because the more um the liver
is damaged the more the liver is
dysfunctional the older you get uh the
less the liver can function the less
protein you can digest so if you start
increasing too much protein it's going
to throw off something else and also if
the liver is not good you're not going
to be able to have the thyroid work
because the thyroid Works through the
liver as well so anyway let's just talk
about protein and some of the
misconceptions let's you know you have
people that say well I'm I'm eating
protein I'm eating nuts okay well let's
take a look nuts only have
15% Protein that's not a lot so you're
not going to be triggering a lot of fat
burning with nuts and then it has 133%
carbohydrates so that's fairly low and
those carbohydrates aren't necessarily
high sugar carbohydrates they don't turn
in Sugar very fast unless you have maybe
cashews um but for the most part they
don't turn in the sugar very F fast but
they they are high in fat but now when
we're looking at the triggering the fat
burning process fat is neutral so in
other words we don't necessarily have to
worry about fats if you want to burn fat
through the hormone system but we do
have to worry about fats in relationship
to what it does to the liver so too much
fat can irritate and clog up the liver
and that's why a lot of times when you
eat nuts high in fat it irritates the
gallbladder so the way we counter that
is we um we increase the greens the
vegetables to keep the liver healthy so
as long as you're having enough Greens
in the diet about six to seven cups a
day you can pretty much get away with
fat and that includes even bacon and
things like that so that's how we
counter it but if you um are only eating
fat and protein that can aggravate the
liver so what we want to do is we want
to keep the carbs relatively on the low
side but I'm not talking about all carbs
I'm talking about the ones that turn in
the sugar fast so even though vegetables
are almost all
carbohydrate they're they're very high
in fiber and they're very low in sugar
and they don't turn on the fat they're
insoluble fibers so they don't really
turn into sugar on the other hand grains
are very high in carbs but they're
different than vegetable because they
turn into sugar very very fast okay so
we want to we want uh in a food that has
a bit higher amounts of protein a bit
low carb or carbs that don't break it
down in the sugar very easily and we
really don't care about the fats because
we're going to keep our vegetable
content very high to flush things out of
the liver all right so this whole
conception of high calorie high fat
turning into fat just take that and just
put it over here because that really
doesn't affect um insulin which is the
thing that really makes you get fat so
and I know people are it's in their mind
they like oh my gosh I have to avoid all
fat well how does that work enough for
you does it work I mean try it you cut
your fats out it never really turns into
weight loss it it's the carbs okay so we
also have another Factor here called
nutrients because what we want to do is
we want something high in nutrients so
let's just take oatmeal for example
oatmeal for breakfast is like eating
cardboard it's very low in nutrients um
yes it has some factors that help lower
cholesterol a little bit but as far as
nutrients it's low all right same thing
with hummus hummus is a great food but
it's very low in nutrients okay so if
you're trying to eat foods that increase
the health if you have oatmeal or um
hummus don't be surprised if they I mean
they're like a neutral food they might
not hurt you but they might not help you
again like eating cardor it's not going
to kill you but it's not going to help
you so nuts okay so nuts do have some
good amount of nutrients okay so we have
that now beans have 23% protein a bit
more than nuts but look at the carb 72%
versus 13% so this is going to get you
right here those carbs now I'm not
against beans um and look at how low
they are in fat but they do have a bit
um a bit too many carbs to if you're
trying to lose weight now there's layers
to this problem so it's not just as
simple as calories in equals calories
out or high protein or low fat you have
there's different layers of um
complexities and I'm trying to make it
simple but one layer is this
um beans are cooked so you destroy
enzymes and then you destroy nutrition
so you're eating kind of a a dead
product and
also even though they have higher
protein than nuts they're very very low
in fat and also most uh vegetarian
programs say or um low lowfat diets say
oh yeah beans are great because they're
such low in fat and low in calorie and
they're going to you're just going to
burn off these calories but a lot of
these carbohydrates especially refined
beans well those that'll turn into sugar
pretty fast and black beans it's um it's
not going to help your weight loss so we
have this food and then we have your
body interaction with it hormonally if
your metabolism is low and that's
another
variable if you consume some of these
Foods too high in carb it's going to
create an effect on your metabolism in
fact it's going to slow you way down if
your metabolism is high you can get away
with all these carbs but and most people
especially if they reach the age of 40
or 50 you're not going to be able to get
away with these higher carbohydrate
Foods um so even though you might walk
it off in a mile the insulin response
the sugar response uh could last far
more than that mile it could last two
three 4 days okay so what you have to
know is just a little bit of the wrong
thing can nullify a lot of good things
all right so
hope I'm not confusing you too much here
I probably am but let's just kind of go
through this so nuts high in fat but
that's okay if we keep our vegetables
high because it's high in nutrients uh
beans uh most of them are obvious cooked
you're not going to eat raw beans and so
the nutrition is not as high with beans
but it's kind of a neutral food if your
metabolism is good if you're trying to
lose weight uh you're going to find
beans might not help you lose weight um
and then we have hummus again
uh look at 11% protein 45% carbs 44% fat
okay all right not too bad um it's not
going to turn into the sugar that bad
because there's a certain amount of
fiber um but it's like a neutral food
because the nutrition is not very high
so it'll be something to snack on
something to keep you going but it's not
necessarily going to help you burn fat
but it's not necessarily going to cause
you to gain weight either so this is a
neutral food now let's talk about
yogurt and cheese now yogurt has 36%
Protein that's that's not bad that's a
good amount of protein and then also
cheese has a little higher protein um
but it also uh depending on what type of
cheese that you consume because the the
more aged it is uh the higher protein
content and the less carbohydrate
because those enzymes or those bacteria
in the cheese that make these fermented
products like yogurt kefir and cheese
especially tend to um eat up some of the
lactose the milk sugar in there reducing
the sugar so now we have all these
beneficial bacteria we got great protein
and we have some fat as well especially
if it's lowfat cheese but we're not
concerned about the fat because we're
adding our vegetables are very very high
so yogurt might help us but look at it
does have
29% sugar I'm I'm sorry carbohydrate so
that is a bit high so if you're trying
to lose weight you may find that yogurt
might slow you down a little bit but
depends on your metabolism okay if your
metabolism is slow you might have to
eliminate all these high carb things
definitely beans definitely hummus and
definitely yogurt you could probably get
by with cheese though because cheese is
not very high in carb okay but yogurt
and Kefir is um but but nuts would be
okay because look at how low that would
be
133% now let's get into the grains
grains have 15% protein that is like
very very low and look at how much carb
it's 75% carb but the Catch 22 with this
carb it's this is not like vegetable
this is like turning in the sugar very
very fast so grains are very very bad
for weight loss yet they're look at how
low they are in fats so all these lowfat
diet so-called gurus will say it's okay
to consume grains because it's such a
low in fat and have complex
carbohydrates and have whole grain not
refined grain or white bread well it
doesn't matter whole grain still turns
in the sugar faster than sugar some of
these sugars turn affect your blood
sugars and U there's a great book that
you can Wheat Belly that talks about how
whole grain is very very bad advice
so when you're
consuming a diet um a balanced diet the
food pyramid diet um and you have a fat
situation stubborn belly fat or whatever
you you can't do a balanced diet you
can't do those little protein bars that
have you know balanc proteins
carbohydrates and fats why because your
body is out of balance so you really
have to force your body to burn fat by
reducing these carbs as far down to zero
as possible okay especially the ones
that turn the sugar so grains will just
block any chance of losing weight and
that also includes some fruit as well so
we going to keep fruit down as well um
so we have grains we have low fat but
it's so funny how people say well you
can eat you can have all these great
foods but just add grains well that's
enough to block any chance of losing
weight and plus there's very low amounts
of nutrition in grains now yogurt there
there's some great calcium so that's a
little bit higher okay but grains are
low grains are out okay uh fish look at
this 93% protein oh my goodness that is
a very good fat burner and look at how
many carbohydrates zero huge ability to
burn fat but again the principle there's
layers of complexity you have also um
too much protein so you wouldn't want to
necessarily live on protein or have like
12 O per meal because that can also bog
down the liver all the fat burning
hormones that come through the body go
through the liver so we need to keep
that liver opened up and healthy and
then if we're burning fat we better
consume a lot of vegetables because if
you don't all the fat that you are
burning ends up in the liver and it gets
stuck in the liver and you end up with a
fatty liver that's why a lot of the Ain
diet people or the high protein diet
people end up with the fatty liver and
that's why they're bre breath is kind of
toxic and um so we want um to understand
the whole picture so fish look at this
7% fat I mean that's a low uh stress on
your liver and people always say what's
the best proteins for for the body well
we what would be the best protein to to
lessen the stress on your liver fish
would be great Seafood would be even
better so those are very low liver
stress uh proteins
now animal
protein 59% Protein that's pretty high
but look at 0% carb so animal protein
will also help you burn fat but look at
how much higher it is in fat so again if
you're going to do animal protein you
better enhance the vegetables to clean
out that fat but you know what you could
probably get away with if you were to
consume Just Fish because this is low in
protein I'm I'm sorry fat you pretty
much can get away with um eating mostly
fish if there's small amounts of fish
through the day because it's not going
to put stress on your liver or your
pancreas it'll put you in some hardcore
fat burning and then there's different
types of fish too like hbit is higher in
fat this is cod cod is low in fat but of
course it's um you have to make it taste
good all right so now we have
kale 16% protein wow that's actually
more than nuts it's more than hummus and
it's more than grains wow there's
protein in cow what do you know but look
at how high it is in carbohydrate
72% but none of this just turns in the
sugar very fast so it's low glycemic
it's high in fiber and uh it's insoluble
fibers so your digestion is going to um
um not break that down into direct sugar
so um it takes a lot of energy to break
that down so you're going to it's kind
of like you're going to burn more fat
just break it this stuff down and then
of course
15% fat but these are healthy fats these
are omega-3 fats Omega 6 fats so it's
pretty low in fat and so it is you can
see it's screaming high with nutrients
so we have the perfect food right here
kale all right now look at eggs 29%
protein you would think that would be
higher in protein but it's not very high
in protein but it's not very low in
protein very low in carbon
so eggs also are going to help you lose
weight because look at that carb is only
2% and we have a lot of nutrition as
well but it's very high in fat so eggs
are fine but they could stress the liver
a little bit if you're not having enough
vegetable all right so I hope I
clarified some of the confusions about
protein you might want to watch this
several times take some notes um so
apply the information and we will see
you in the next
video
