the number one early sign of dementia
you've never heard about this before in
fact I just recently found out about it
and this involves everyone especially if
you want to prevent the different types
of dementia Alzheimer's Etc I think most
people know that the first symptom of a
heart attack over 50% of the time is
death because there is no symptom and
the same thing with the liver there
really is no symptoms until the later
stages when sometimes it's too late well
guess what the brain is the same thing
it takes decades to develop dementia and
in the meantime there's virtually no
symptoms except one which I'm going to
discuss and this is because the
different organs especially the brain
just keep compensating over a period of
time until they can't compensate anymore
and so the earliest sign of dementia
involves the retina it's nerve tissue
that is literally sticking out of your
skull in your eye socket the retina has
certain cells that pick up information
from the environment and allows you to
see and so they found a very large
correlation between in the retina and
problems in the brain specifically with
the outer layer of the retina and then
you have all sorts of issues with the
eye itself problems with night vision
problems with central vision floaters
light sensitivity issues and a lot of
times people will just you know get a
new set of glasses and they may even
develop something called amalo beta
plaing on the retina itself at the end
of the video and also in the description
I'll tell you what test would pick this
information up you also might notice
problems with detecting different Shades
of Gray or even differentiate different
colors as well they also evaluated
cadavers brains and so they evaluated
the retina with people with cognitive
deficit like a mild version of dementia
and you start having more inflammation
in the nervous system and then things
start to go downhill after that and
another really interesting thing about
the brains of Alzheimer's patients is
they found high levels of a certain
microbe that happens to be living in
your teeth it's actually a pathogen and
they're finding that in the plaing of
the brain if someone has a dental
infection or some type of periodontal
disease you could be leaking out
bacteria that goes into bloodstream that
ends up in the brain I mean we also
found Dental bacteria in the plaing of
our heart as well I have a very
important new solution for all of this
but I just want to take a moment to just
explain why people actually die from
dementia it's usually from some type of
an infection a UTI or maybe lung
infection or in the case of my
mother-in-law who had Alzheimer's it was
a surgery it created so much stress in
the body and after that things just
start going down and down a lot faster
on the other hand sometimes you have a
slow Progressive degeneration of the
brain to the point where a person is in
hospice and they're bedridden and then
they just stop eating and stop drinking
and then that's what kills them let's
talk about what we can do about this and
one of the most important things that
you should focus on is cleaning your
brain if you have a lot of inflammation
and plaing in the brain it's dirty you
can really look at this as like a
dishwasher and they call it the
glymphatic system that cleans the brain
mainly at night that's one of the big
purposes of sleeping is to be able to
detoxify and clean the brain so you wake
up and things are cleaned out and what I
mean by clean the brain is pull out some
of these malformed proteins and the
plaing and rejuvenate the brain anything
that inhibits sleeping increases your
risk for Alzheimer's in fact anything
that inhibits your sleeping less than 6
hours increases your risk for heart
attacks Strokes cancer blood sugar
issues type two diabetes and so if you
have sleep apnea that is a problem and
if you have sleep apnea I'm going to put
a link down below of what to do about it
and you need to get eight or nine hours
and this is based on a book why we sleep
by Dr Matthew Walker fascinating book
even one night of less than seven hours
of sleep you're going to have 50% more
buildup of amalo beta plaing how do we
get more sleep and another factor in
getting quality sleep is the avoidance
of alcohol one cup of alcohol prevents a
significant part of your REM sleep you
might feel like you're sleeping because
it's a sedative but you're not getting
the quality of sleep if you're drinking
several times a week this could be a
huge problem with the quality of sleep
and also in the prevention of
Alzheimer's it can shut down growth
hormone by 50% it's an anti-aging
hormone it helps you lose weight alcohol
is really bad for your brain and we want
to flood the brain with a lot of oxygen
how do we get oxygen in the brain
exercise regular consistent exercise
hands down is one of the most important
things to do to prevent Alzheimer's in
other types of dementia people who are
sedentary do not get the oxygen in the
brain getting oxygen to the brain
lessens something called hypoxia that's
a word that describes lack of oxygen and
with hypoxia you get inflammation when
you exercise you make the brain
healthier you grow brain cells and you
stimulate something called bdnf brain
derived neurotrophic Factor that's like
Miracle Grow for your brain and there's
also a tiny little mechanism deep in the
brain that regulates the rhythm of your
sleep it's called the
supermatic nucleus not that you need to
know that name but that's what it is and
that thing is so important to regulate
the sleep cycles a couple ways to get
that working is during the daylight get
a lot of sun and then start to go to bed
when it gets dark vitamin D in higher
amounts can reset that mechanism I would
recommend taking about 20,000
international units of vitamin D and
then there's also the fuel that you feed
the brain if you're living on
carbohydrates and sugar you're going to
create a starvation on the nerve cells
you really want to put your brain in a
state of ketosis the brain cells love
ketones how do you get into ketosis you
lower your carbohydrate if you have
signs of dementia I would highly
recommend that you take ketones as a
supplement and you also take on a
regular basis MCT oil because MCT oil
can turn into ketones and feed the brain
directly we want to flood that brain
with a lot of ketones as far as
nutrition goes I think out of all the
nutrients nasin is going to be very
important for the brain I would start up
maybe with 50 milligrams for a period of
time then go to 100 milligrams per day
and then eventually up to 500 milligrams
per day you got to do it slowly because
some people can't tolerate the flushing
response I kind of like the flushing
response it's not dangerous it just will
create a vas or dilation effect since
we're on the topic of sleep if you want
to take your sleep to the next level you
should watch this video right here check
it out
