so today we're gonna talk about how to
use egg yolks okay to prevent gall
stones now I know you're saying what are
you kidding me egg yolks that's gonna
cause gall stones right actually not
let's talk about really what causes gall
stones it's a combination of high
cholesterol decreased bowel salts a
decrease in phosphatidylcholine
and by the way this is just a compound
that has choline in it that makes up
your cell walls it's also intimately
involved in keeping cholesterol from
forming into a cholesterol stone which
is a gallstone so this is very very
important and guess what this compound
is in egg yolks out of all the foods its
highest in egg yolks
that's why egg yolks will not cause gall
stones it's also in soybean oil which we
don't want to do because it's GML you
can consume in a grass-fed liver and
peanuts but egg yolks is a good source
that's the connection there are four if
your gall bladder is sluggish and things
aren't moving through that well it can
accumulate in form stone number five if
you have a decreased transit time of
your colon let's see if constipation why
because the gut flora help you recycle
the bile several times when you're
eating so if we get a bio deficiency
that can cause the problem right there
and number six you don't have enough gut
flora let's say you took antibiotics it
increases your risk for getting golf
stones another reason why someone might
not have enough bile salts is they have
high insulin okay because they're on a
high carb diet or they have liver damage
because bile is made in your liver not
it's stored in the gall bladder it's not
made in the gall bladder it's made in
liver and if you don't have the capacity
of liver function you're not going to
have enough bile increases the risk of
getting gall stones okay you can also
have not just feta liver but cirrhosis
of the liver as well and have that same
problem and I already mentioned the gut
flora you don't have enough gut flora
you're gonna actually not gonna have
enough bile so you just have to realize
that gall stones are created by
something and a lot of things can
contribute to these stones there's a
higher incidence of getting gall stones
when you're diabetic why because the
high insulin this is a very important
thing to actually lower to prevent gall
stones you can take bile salts to help
dissolve gall stones or you have the
option of taking phosphatidylcholine by
itself or just getting it from your diet
and if you don't have a gall bladder you
are going to be deficient so you're
gonna need to take bile salts as a
supplement alright guys thanks for
watching so if you're enjoying this
content go ahead and share it with
someone that could really benefit from
it
