all right so this video is in response
to someone that wanted to know why is
the upside of vinegar burning my stomach
it's supposed to help me okay let's just
talk about that normally when a person
has acid reflux GERD which stands for
gastro and Safa Geel reflux disorder
which is a situation where the valve is
not closing and the acid comes up into
the esophagus or you have heartburn
indigestion or bloating when you take
out some vinegar normally that helps a
person but on occasion it can worsen the
situation why is that because either the
person has an ulcer and you put acid on
alter that hurts or they have gastritis
which is inflammation of the stomach or
just inflammation of some part of the
digestive system so you're putting this
acid on an inflamed area you're going to
make it worse now in this situation you
want to avoid apple cider vinegar but I
think taking a little opposite of
vinegar to determine if it makes you
feel better or worse is a good thing
because you can quickly rule out if
potentially you have one of these
situations or if you have low stomach
acid which is the more common situation
because normally the stomach pH should
be between one and three that's very
very acidic and if it's not acidic
enough what happens the food doesn't
digest it becomes incomplete and you
start getting like a bloating
indigestion which is kind of a backup
you're just not breaking down the food
properly and also realizes a side note
you need a strong acidic stomach to even
release the other digestive organs to
that like the release of bile from the
liver the release of certain enzymes
from the pancreas so it all works
together so basically if you take up a
set of vinegar it's gonna make you feel
better or worse if it makes you feel
worse you want to avoid it okay you want
to first heal the ulcer or the gastritis
or the inflammatory condition and what
I'm gonna recommend is chlorophyll okay
you can find a supplement or use
wheatgrass juice powder but the
chlorophyll is a great healer for all
three of these and it does take some
time it does take a series of months
what you really need is more acid but we
can't do that until the stomach heals so
we have to recommend this step first
then this step later down the road when
this is healed up cabbage by the way has
a natural chemical called glutamine
which is really good for peptic ulcers
and inflammatory conditions in
definitely gastritis so cabbage juice is
really beneficial you can get to them in
tablets or you can even get glutamine
and tablets too it's a good healer for
ulcers so a good probiotic is very
important to not only to act as a
defense mechanism against the pathogens
that could cause these and also to add
just more complete digestion in other
parts of the digestive tract one last
point I want to make is that when you
take baking soda for example your
alkalizing the acid and yes it might
make you feel better temporarily but
realize that if you're going to alkalize
the body with either baking soda or
alkali tzer's or whatever like calcium
carbonate you're going to take the
little bit of acid you have left and
weaken that acid and it's going to be
hard to recover because you need a
really acidic strong acid to digest at
the stomach level so this may help you
temporarily but in the long run it's
gonna actually make things worse alright
so thanks for watching and I will see
you in the next video
I'm not sure if you have my app yet dr.
Berg app it's totally free you should
download it okay this is what it looks
like you click it it gives you all sorts
of great resources I have all my YouTube
videos on this out ok and it's regularly
uploading the most recent ones all the
YouTube videos are also converted to
audio versions ok so you can use it when
you're walking exercising driving your
car I have a mini course on there I'll
be putting additional courses I have a
lot of recipes on there this is new and
also PDF resources so there's various
downloads PDFs that you can get as well
and if you wouldn't mind after you
download it check it out give me your
unbiased review and tell me how you like
it
I want to know
