my name is Gary hayatt I am the
chairperson of the Department of Visual
and Performing Arts at Cen State I teach
theater uh and I teach fundraising for
the Arts at Cen State and uh it's quite
a it's quite aob it's a wonderful job
but I want to be healthy to continue
doing what I love that's why I'm
here he said that most people think you
lose weight to get healthy
he said that he believed that people
should get healthy to lose weight and
when I heard that I said wow that's
different and so what they did from
there is they set up a plan for me to
address my body type and it's been great
it's been wonderful I feel better and I
sleep better so and I think my stress
levels are are are more manageable
now I did the yo-yo diet thing I kind of
went on this diet and that diet and and
nothing seemed to really work for me and
uh I would come off and and the real
test was what if I if it didn't work out
I would come off and then I would always
gain more weight than I ever lost and it
seemed like I gained it back so quickly
that I said this this something's not
right so what I love loved about this
plan it's a it's a Wellness Plan and I'm
on this plan uh for life this is this
just what I have to do to be healthy to
do what I love to
do well my other
experiences had been uh a diet and
medicines and all of these kind of get
quick get fixed quick gimmicks and I
need something that's a I'm well I
needed a Wellness Plan and that's what
this has been for me is that there're no
gimmicks uh you you know there things
that you know you should stay away from
they things that you can have and all of
the things that they tell me to eat are
the things that are good for you I was
skeptical but I felt I had nothing to
lose the real goal is getting healthy
it's not losing the weight it's getting
healthy to losing the weight I still
really believe and I now subscribe to
that Mantra that that that is that is
what makes this special and
wonderful the acupress acupressure uh
treatments also are wonderful in terms
of helping you with navigate your stress
levels for your workday usually I come
here for my appointment every other week
and they do the acupressure uh
appointments with me and then I go to
work so it's it's it's a very Rel
relaxing beginning to my day I really
appreciate
that one thing I realized that didn't
realize that stress had a correlation
with weight and so I'm I know that I
have to manage it and that I have to
sleep better and this plan that I'm on
is helping me to do all of those things
so it's it's impacted me um I don't wake
up in the morning anymore feeling tired
