so in this video we're going to talk
about the 11 signs that you don't want
to ignore now being in practice for 29
years
I've run across some of the best
professional procrastinators that you
can ever imagine these guys will
literally have to be dying before they
do anything with their health so I
always made it a policy that I only help
people that want help so let's go ahead
and get into some of the indications of
a much more serious problem okay so if
you have left arm pain okay that could
be a heart problem so you want to get
that checked out could mean that the
heart is going into a cramp and because
the hearts on the left side it can
affect the nerves on that side and it
can shoot right down about chest pain
that can also be a heart problem for
sure it could be a blocked coronary
artery and you want to get that checked
out one of the best tests for the heart
would be something called a C AC test
coronary artery calcification test it's
very very fast it's not that expensive
get checked out this score should be
zero and see what yours is all right
number three slurred speech this could
mean that you are having a stroke or you
just had a stroke and that basically is
a blood clot that's lodged into the
brain somewhere and some artery and it's
stopping circulation in a part of your
brain and the speech centers could be
affected I'm kind of so you want to get
that checked out and also if you have a
symptom of a stroke it's very important
to go to the doctor immediately because
they can do things to reverse the damage
if you get there in time okay number
four when you coughing a blood get that
checked out that is actually a very bad
indicator of a deep problem okay number
five one side of your body is not
working let's say for example you just
noticed the left side of your body is
numb or it's it's paralyzed or you can't
see out of your left eye okay so this
could be a symptom of a stroke get it
checked out as fast as you can okay
six rapid weight loss when you're not
doing a diet you just start losing
weight okay
get it checked out this could
we beat cancer alright number seven
vomiting now vomiting could mean a lot
of different things something you just
ate you could even vomit if you have a
kidney stone or some type of obstruction
but it's usually related to foods but if
there's no connection to foods just get
it checked out it may not be a serious
problem but it could and you just want
to double check on that number eight if
you're getting your entire leg swelling
up especially on the left side that
could be related to heart get it checked
down all right number nine you have this
rash in your body that is growing and
it's becoming bigger and bigger and
bigger okay get that checked out all
right number ten unresolved pain let's
say for example you have some abdominal
pain and it's just persisting no matter
what you do the most important thing to
do is just to get more tests to find out
what it is because you're missing
information maybe you can do an MRI or
something to find out where that's
coming from okay number eleven swollen
glands that will not go away normally
these infections should last anywhere
between ten days to two weeks if it
keeps going on for a week after week get
it checked out all right guys those are
the eleven signs and probably the most
important thing to do is to focus on
bulletproofing yourself so you never
have any of these symptoms at all and
that would be actively creating your
health eating healthy so you're not
living on the edge and potentially being
at risk walking through the desert
blindfolded waiting to walk into a
cactus all right guys thank you so much
for watching hey guys I'm not sure if
you have my app yet dr. Berg app it's
totally free you should download it okay
this is what it looks like you click it
it gives you all sorts of great
resources I have all my YouTube videos
on this app okay and it's regularly
uploading the most recent ones all the
YouTube videos are also converted to
audio versions okay so you can use it
when you're walking exercising driving
your car I have a mini chorus on there
I'll be putting additional courses I
have a lot of recipes on there this is
new and also PDF resources so there's
various downloads PDFs that you can get
as well and if you would
mind after you download it check it out
give me your unbiased review and tell me
how you like it
I want to know
