all right so it's time to talk about the
seven healthy eating hacks not snacks
but actual hacks number one if you go
off the plan get right back on it
because here's the problem
there's a holiday coming up like I don't
know Thanksgiving or Christmas something
like that okay so you go off the program
next day your agreement with yourself as
I get right back on it because the
longer you wait the harder it is to get
back on it because it affects the blood
Sugar's so you want to create the
smallest amount of damage control okay
number that's number one number two keep
keto desserts on hand especially during
the holidays especially if you are
tempted you can probably do a search
online and order them or you can make
them yourself I have a ton of recipes
I'll put a link down below but that way
you're not depriving yourself number
three you should have a plan in advance
to know what you're gonna eat I have a
really cool little piece of software on
the website that allows you to generate
a weekly eating plan you can use that or
just create one yourself but you do want
to plan out the whole week so you
prepare beforehand so you don't have to
worry about it and you just need to
focus on doing the program that's
already been planned out this seems to
work very well as long as you keep it
simple and not make the recipes so
complex because if you don't have a plan
you're susceptible to running out of
food and like oh gosh what do we need
today and just go out to dinner and
maybe eat the wrong thing and before
whatever area or topic you have a
problem with or food that you have a
problem with whether it's salt cravings
craving chips or something like that or
french fries or popcorn whatever study
something about it I have a video on
every possible topic related to food and
kido you just need to watch it or we
watch it again to get more education on
that topic very very important number
five avoid certain environments that
will throw you off don't hang out at the
all you can eat buffet on the weekends
okay don't go in areas where they have
aromas so let's say for example you're
walking through the mall and you know if
you walk downstairs there's the food
court where they have all these smells
that tend to draw you in you need to
avoid the areas that tempt you okay
number six you do the cooking for social
events the worst thing is going to a
social event you know they're not gonna
have anything low-carb and what are you
gonna do right so maybe you control the
location of where you're gonna be eating
maybe have everyone at your house that
way you're actually controlling what
people eat and I really think that the
person that has the most awareness and
knowledge should be in charge of the
food okay not the person that knows
nothing about it they just get everyone
in trouble okay number seven realize
that it is a thousand times easier to
maintain your healthy eating than it is
to get out of a disease nearly every
single day I get an email from one or
two even three people that have a
disease cancer just had one today
someone had cancer and you're like dr.
Berg what do I do
I need help they don't know who to go to
they don't know what to do they're
telling me I wish I would have stuck to
something healthier a long time ago and
as soon as I get this thing handled I'm
gonna stick to a healthy plan the
problem is it's very very difficult to
number one find a doctor that's a good
evaluator medicine is set up to treat
symptoms what's missing in medicine is
they don't really do a good evaluation
and find out the underlying root causes
it's just all about managing the symptom
but it's just so difficult to pull
yourself out of a situation that you're
you're so far in you don't really know
how long it's been there it could have
been there for years and now it's
becoming a problem disease is created
usually from food that's my opinion and
it can also be prevented by eating
certain foods what you eat today will
determine your future health so you just
want to learn from them as
stakes of others and not have to
experience a disease
so in summary it's all about creating
your health each and every day so you
can actually avoid a problem down the
road so I hope this one motivates some
people who sometimes especially during
the holidays they might tend to go off
the program a little too long so maybe
this might motivate you to stick to your
plan a little bit closer thanks for
watching so if you want more knowledge
on how to create a healthy body
subscribe now and get daily
notifications
