so I have an interesting question for
you why can't overweight people lose
weight easily why is it so hard for
someone that has existing fat to lose
weight okay and the answer is they have
an underlying situation or a barrier of
high levels of insulin
it's called insulin resistance check
this out the pancreas that makes insulin
a hormone that's sent through the blood
try to connect to the cell it can't
connect to the cell so it can't get the
feedback back to the pancreas because
there's no communication and the
pancreas then makes more and more and
more insulin in the presence of insulin
you're not going to be able to lose
weight it's a dominating hormone okay
all the fat burning hormones all six fat
burning hormones will not work in the
presence of even a little bit of insulin
okay so if you're exercising you're not
going to lower insulin if you're eating
less that is not the thing that lowers
insulin and even healthier foods will
not lowering insulin what you have to do
is know the triggers and what to do to
lower insulin so the results that you
can achieve by lowering insulin and
fixing this condition are immense not
just for weight loss but for overall
cognitive function for energy level for
quality of sleep by lowering your
inflammation so I have a mini course
with four short little videos that will
teach you how to fix this in lower
insulin and get your body back click the
link below and start the course hey
thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
