so number one sugar can cause
infertility in men
erectile dysfunction
it can cause low
So today we're going to talk about some
surprising side effects of sugar you
probably have never heard before now you
may already know that Sugar causes a
fatty liver belly fat carb Cravings more
hunger problems with your eyes like
glaucoma cataracts problems if your
kidney problems with your arteries like
a thrombosis and we know sugar causes
fatigue anxiety high cholesterol high
triglycerides tooth decay insomnia
frequent urination especially at night
fluid retention high blood pressure and
anxiety so these are the well-known side
effects of eating too much sugar so now
we're going to cover some things that
you probably have never heard before
number one infertility in men it can
definitely affect the sperm count as
well as erectile dysfunction now in
women it can also cause infertility as
in polycystic ovarian syndrome because
excess sugar increases insulin which
then increases the androgens that cause
these problems well as you can see my
daughter-in-law did not have a problem
with infertility because she doesn't
consume sugar all right number three
eating too much sugar can raise insulin
that can increase aldosterone now what
is aldosterone it's that hormone that
causes you to retain both water as well
as salt so this could relate to high
blood pressure edema swelling especially
in your ankles all right number four
eating too much sugar causes candida to
thrive so I'm talking about candida in
your mouth as thrush as well as candida
in your body in fact yeast or candida
lives on sugar so if you don't eat sugar
you actually end up killing off candida
all right next one sugar especially
fructose which by the way table sugar
has like 50 fructose and honey has a lot
of fructose too the type of sugar
fructose which is in so many things
activates certain genes that directly
affect your brain which increases the
risk factor for bipolar depression
dementia Parkinson's and even conditions
where you're confused and you're mixing
up your words so those are epigenetic
effects that can be totally
controlled by just getting the sugar out
of your diet all right number six eating
too much sugar directly affects your
ability to learn and absorb information
so let's say for example you're reading
a book and the information is just not
going in it could be that you just ate
some sugar and you're having a difficult
time absorbing that information all
right number seven increasing sugar
increases a condition called insulin
resistance which mimics a slow
metabolism so even though you might
think you have a slow metabolism it
could be you just have insulin
resistance because you eat too much
sugar all right and number eight sugar
depletes your potassium levels
which directly affect your pulse rate so
we know blood pressure is a problem with
too much sugar but pulse rate two and
number nine eating too much sugar causes
the opposite condition which is
Hypoglycemia low glucose in the blood
now that seems kind of weird right why
would eating too much sugar cause a low
sugar situation in the blood which they
Define as something less than 70
milligrams per deciliter and this is
because of the hormone insulin insulin
comes in there pushes the blood sugar
down and it gives you
hypoglycemia which by the way they treat
with adding more sugar to the diet which
is kind of crazy so if you have
hypoglycemia you're going to be nervous
anxious shaking have anxiety you're
definitely going to crave carbs and
number 10 eating too much sugar will
directly cause you to create cysts on
your body like a baker's cyst or other
types of cysts all right so the next
video that you should check out is what
would happen been if you completely
eliminated sugar for two weeks check it
out we put it right here
right up here
