so I had another question should I avoid
seeds and nuts if I have diverticulitis
okay well first of all what does
diverticulitis
it's a condition where you have
inflammation in your diverticula which
are little use these little pouches and
your colon and this idea that if you
consume seeds or nuts they're going to
kind of lodge in there and irritate it
and create more problem that is a total
myth see the nuts do not create
inflammation in your colon okay they
don't cause diverticulitis
diverticulitis comes from consuming
foods that are very inflammatory like
the grains like the bread the pasta the
cereal the crackers those foods
vegetable oils like corn and soy oil and
your salad dressing highly inflammatory
omega-6 fatty acids of course sugar is
very inflammatory if you have insulin
resistance you're going to have a lot of
inflammation so just by getting on keto
and doing in a minute fasting especially
you can heal the inflammation in your
colon 95% of people that have this have
it in the lower part of the colon the
last part called a sigmoid colon it's in
the left lower area right here and some
foods that are really crucial would be
all the leafy greens which have
chlorophyll chlorophyll is a great
healer of the colon wheatgrass juice
powder also really will help cabbage any
form of cabbage whether it's sauerkraut
or just regular coleslaw or cabbage has
certain things in there that are really
good for the colon okay it's good for
acid reflux as well fermented vegetables
are really important like pickles
sauerkraut kimchi really important to
provide the right food for the microbes
that will also help you because a lot of
times this condition happens after you
take antibiotics you wipe out all the
good bacteria and then you have all
these inflammatory conditions so you
have to build that back up alright
thanks for watching hey some curious
comment below and tell me what you think
about this video
