hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about two opposing hormones
serotonin and cortisol
okay these kind of do the opposites
cortisol is a stress hormone we need it
to cope with stress but then serotonin
is the anti stress hormone gives you the
state of well-being calmness so here's
here's some things that can trigger
let's start with cortisol right here
overtraining when you're exercising okay
doing too much and not letting yourself
recover will elevate cortisol stress in
general mental stress physical stress
worry losses all this will activate in
cortisol negativity you know watching
the wrong TV programs the news being
around people that are negative that can
really wear you down and activate
cortisol stimulants too much of like
coffee or certain appetite suppressors
which are stimulants diet pills too much
chocolate that can also stimulate
cortisol injury actually will increase
cortisol surgery's if you ever looked at
someone who had a series of surgeries
over a period of time it really wears
out the adrenals because when you get
surgery the adrenal glands are still
activated so you're asleep but the
adrenal glands are still going that's
one of the reasons why they have to give
you a potassium IV because you dump a
lot of potassium because the adrenals
get so stressed so cortisol will elevate
after a series of surgeries okay sugar
will definitely activate cortisol and
then cortisol will activate high levels
of sugar and then increase insulin as
well so they both work together and then
insomnia so if you're not sleeping Korso
will start to increase you'll get hungry
you'll feel stressed out so that's
cortisol okay now how do we increase
serotonin number one get quality sleep
get more sleep get sufficient sleep it's
probably one of the biggest things to
counter the cortisol is the sleep that's
when you heal Sun will increase
serotonin and vitamin D fun having fun
will increase serotonin exercise okay
but you have to make sure you don't over
train so it has to have enough recovery
it has to be enough but not too much for
your fitness level okay music so you can
exercise and have fun in the Sun you can
listen to music exercise and have you
fun right so they all can tend to fit
together but listen to music can
increase serotonin laughter laugh while
you're listening to music and while
you're exercising how about that just
combine these all together
B vitamins especially
niacin which actually turns in the
tryptophan which tryptophan itself as a
protein must be taken an empty stomach
will actually increase your serotonin as
well
90% of all your serotonin works within
your digestive system to help the
peristalsis or the pumping action and
make mucus so if there's digestive
problems IBS irritable bowel syndrome
any type of constipation that can
greatly inhibit how you feel because of
this hormone serotonin isn't altered so
really the intermittent fasting is
really good to increase serotonin
because you're not eating you're giving
your digestive system a chance to reset
okay and you're cutting out sugar so the
combination of a lot of videos that I've
done in the past stress anti stress
techniques really will help you
understand what to do to actually
counter this but I would say the big
ones are to get more sleep do the right
amount of exercise without overtraining
change your environment so get rid of
all the negativity as much as you can do
acupressure on the old injuries and
change the diet so you don't have too
much sugar and you'll be able to shift
more to serotonin and less cortisol
alright thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press this
little button down below okay thanks
