have you ever wondered why some people
lose weight when they experience stress
yet other people gain weight when they
go through stress we're gonna talk about
exactly why that is there's two hormones
involved one is cortisol and the other
is insulin insulin is the hormone that
converts glucose into fat it will store
the excess glucose as fat okay cortisol
is a stress hormone it's activated by
stress and what that does is it
mobilizes glucose it will increase blood
sugar okay it'll break down the stored
glucose and the liver and the muscles
and it also converts protein and fat
into glucose but here's the big point
acute stress or short-term stress
inhibits insulin it lowers insulin so
you have the situation we have all this
glucose in the blood so the body can use
it because you're being chased by the
tiger because if you had high insulin
that would not be good for survival
because it would lower your fuel that
you needed to get away from the attacker
or the lion that's chasing you so short
term acute stress it decreases insulin
okay so that means that you would lose
weight because insulin is not increased
but long-term chronic stress it will
increase insulin and this is why some
people gain weight with core salt
it all depends on what's happening with
insulin now if someone takes prednisone
which is a synthetic version of cortisol
they will definitely gain weight and I
noticed too when people are chronically
stressed mentally they will gain weight
eventually because what happens they're
generating mobilizing so much glucose
and they're not using that glucose
because it's all a mental stress they're
not physically using up the glucose they
will tend to get fat because the insulin
starts to increase because the body also
does not want a lot of sugar in the
blood so it gets it out of there and it
gets stored as fat and as a side note
it's always very important for those
people who go through a lot of mental
stress
exercise on a regular basis not only is
that good for fitness but it's also good
to keep the sugar burned off from the
spike from the cortisol all right so I
hope that answered the question
and I will see you in the next video so
if you want to get notified with all my
content click the notification bell next
to subscribed
