[Music]
what about if we walk
this we walk into the
wind that might be better okay let's uh
let's go this way yeah this
wind boy this windiest day to film I
tell you you know you go to the doctor
and they do all these tests and
everything comes out normal they do a
blood test and they say you're healthy
yeah you're you're not sleeping you're
exhausted you have blood sugar problems
you crave everything can't sleep at
night so because of the problem in in
healthcare right now is we we look at
everything as a separate thing they
don't look at the whole body and try to
find what it's out of all the things
that's wrong what is that one thing that
needs to be handled and improved yeah
you go around with this wrong diagnosis
that you're healthy and he or she will
say well if you just lost some
weight then all these problems go away
is absolutely not true you have to get
your health back in before you lose
weight the weight is there as a
potential energy it's stored energy it's
a protective mechanism so as a person
develops more stress they start holding
on to more energy and we call that
potential energy you know people really
are not fat they just to have they have
a little bit too much potential energy
all I'm trying to do is teach you the
physiology and Common Sense about your
body and so there are four body types so
we have adrenal
thyroid ovary and
liver but you can't help a woman while
those books and never to
help but there ain't no
psychological philosophy that's ever
going to get you through cuz with the
job and the house and the kids and the
spouse you never leave
all right so I want to show you
something about these body types uh this
would be the first body type I'm going
to talk about this is the um thyroid
body type if you take a look at what's
happening the shape is weight all over
not in anyone location uh we have hair
loss we have loose skin right here and
right here we have the outside of the
eyebrows falling off right there we have
thinning of the hair we have dry skin we
have loose skin these body types crave
breads pasta stal crackers biscuit
waffles pancakes muffins sodas alcohol
Mad Dog 2020 all of the carbohydrate
family and they like sourdough bread you
know it's interesting there's not a lot
of nutrition in sourdough bread um
there's not a lot of nutrition any of
the things that people crave and that's
why they keep craving them so the
nutrients solve the craving not
necessarily the calorie so this
particular body type will like more of
the starch and sweet Foods uh they have
cold feet e they're sluggish they're
tired despite how many hours of sleep
they get they're exhausted they might
even be a little bit um apathetic or
depressed they can't absorb vitamins so
their vitamin absorption is very poor so
they're taking all these vitamins and
they don't really see any change in
their overall health so that would be
thyroid next body type would be the
adrenal body type now this one is
probably the most common this one is a
sagging belly we call it the pendulus
abdomen because it's like a pendant that
hangs and sags they might even get a
buffalo hump back here round face um and
they think that they need to do more
situps um but none millions of sit-ups
will not flatten that belly because it's
coming from a hormone called cortisol
what's happening is that cortisol which
is a destructive hormone is eating up
the protein on the legs and the butt and
putting it in the stomach as fat so if
you ever watch people climb stairs their
their knees or their legs are really
heavy um that body type should not be
exercising at all why because they are
in stress mode why the adrenal gland is
the stress gland I'm just going to show
you right here so if you have the
kidney adrenals are right on top so
they're right right in here that's where
the adrenals are right there and they're
on top of the kidney and that's the one
that pumps out the
cortisol cortisol which tends to to put
the fat around the belly so
also the adrenal body type will create
uh cravings for salty foods chocolate uh
crunchy cheesy things uh they'll have
more pain in the body why because the
steroids of the body the prazone shots
that people get for pain are all adrenal
hormones adrenal hormones are
anti-inflammatory that's why you get
inflammation if you don't have enough of
them and they get sinus problems
allergies that's the nature of the
adrenal they can't absorb calcium
so they got tight calves cramping in the
calves tight shoulders despite hours of
massage they still get tight the
question is where does all that calcium
go it goes on top of the joints as
arthritis on top of the Bersa as burtis
on top of the heel is a heel spur or
underneath the fascia planter fasciitis
or fibromyalgia pain all over so they
have old injuries that just are stiff
with the the hamstrings get tired
so their flexibility goes down and their
posture goes down so all the flexor
muscles of the body come involved with
that body
type other than that they do quite well
actually now let's talk about the next
body type this is the ovary body type
look where the weight is saddle bags
cellulite right in the heavy little
Pooch below the belly button right from
here all the way down here it's it's
higher above the belly button here it's
lower here it's all over menstrual cycle
issues ovarian issues hot flashes they
crave uh creamy things like uh milk
products uh Dairy ice cream sour cream
cream cheese they their body needs
calcium in fact and they're eating all
this uh the wrong foods and so they're
they have problems with cyclic problems
that are connected to the menstrual
cycle they should avoid soy and
estrogen um so that would be ovary body
type and then over here we have the
liver body type now take a look at the
difference between that
belly and that belly and this belly this
is lower this is
sagging and this guy is the guy in the
beach with the speedo pot belly Beer Gut
why because beer destroys the liver the
liver is located right here and it's
sometimes leaking fluid into the belly
right here so if you take the person and
you actually have their hand on the
belly and tap it they'll feel a ripple
sometimes I'm not saying it's always
fluid but it can be f
um but you can see it's almost like a
protruding belly right here the liver um
sometimes um will refer pain to the
right shoulder right here so sometimes
they have right shoulder problems or
rotator cuff they think but it's really
a referral I had um liver problem right
stroll of pain for a long time I didn't
know what it was so the liver body type
they get grouchy in the morning um they
usually lose that last hour sleep so
they get up an hour before the alarm
clock
the adrenal body type the best sleep is
a half hour before the alarm clock goes
off so that would be the difference
between those two this person cannot
feel refreshed they they're always
tired this person just gets Moody that
time of the month but this person is
Grouchy in the morning they might have
skin issues uh a lot of liver problems
are skin issues and it comes out to the
skin you brown spots little red dots
risis eczema uh scratching they have
digestive problems a lot of bloating and
things like that they crave the fried
foods um what happens is the liver can't
process these fats especially the good
fats omega-3 fatty acids and they'll
crave any fat like deep fried catfish
with tartar sauce so they want that fat
but it's the worst thing to consume
don't put these people on a high protein
diet not good this body type needs more
protein this needs less they do very
well with the cruciferous vegetables
that would be kale broccoli brussels
sprouts that type of thing sometimes
their back is real stiff uh back here um
they have problems with arthritis um but
they always have this issue with um um
little whites of the eyes have a little
kind of a yellow or dirty or bloodshot
eyes and um sometimes they have kind of
a a musty uh bad breath that's because
the digestive system doesn't work right
so that would be the characteristics of
the four body types and just going to
get give you a little information about
all four of those those types
