so today I'm going to talk about some of
the other benefits of coffee that go
beyond just waking you up in the morning
in other words I'm going to give you
some really important reasons to drink
coffee that being said I'm not
recommending coffee if it gives you
anxiety it increases your heart rate and
if it prevents you from sleeping and I'm
not recommending large amounts of coffee
just one cup a day I am the human guinea
pig for drinking way too much coffee in
college I drank pots of coffee and it
really burned out my adrenals because
too much coffee can increased cortisol
and adrenaline so why am I recommending
coffee in the first place well there's
some different chemicals in the coffee
itself as well as this one chemical
called caffeine and the benefits of
coffee come from both caffeine and these
other chemicals and just so you know
caffeine is a phyto chemical okay it
comes from Plants It's actually an
insecticide and it's in 30 plants but
the question is how can an insecticide
be good for us well sometimes a little
poison or a little stress can actually
create benefits in our body so what is
coffee really it's just a fermented
Coffee Bean that means that they're
interacting with a microb to enhance
something about that food I want to talk
about these other benefits other than
the one that most people know caffeine
inhibits a certain compound called
adenosine that keeps us awake it
normally helps us go to sleep it makes
us tired tired well by inhibiting that
chemical caffeine will wake you up but
let's get into some of the other things
that coffee can do for you it can give
you mental acuity it can help you focus
it can actually help you actually even
learn a little bit better it also speeds
up the rate of metabolism it also helps
your blood sugars especially if you add
some MCT oil or butter to the coffee to
make it Bulletproof Coffee there's some
data that shows that it can decrease
increase your risk of getting dementia
and decrease certain symptoms related to
Parkinson's disease and even Alzheimer's
it has certain properties that can
decrease your risk of getting gall
stones and that's because it increases
the production of bile and the flow of
bile it also has properties to help
prevent a kidney stone there's data to
show that it has anti- cancer properties
which is interesting and no I don't
think just drinking more coffee is going
to get rid of your cancer it has
anti-inflammatory properties hepat
protection properties it's basically
protection against your liver there's
certain things in coffee like
polyphenols that help feed your
microbiome there's a condition called
postural hypotension basically you stand
up and your blood pressure drops right
you feel dizzy coffee can help that if I
drink too much coffee more than one cup
and later in the day I won't be able to
sleep that well so what I do is I have
the one cup of coffee do I put cream in
it yes I do do I put sugar in it no I
don't and I don't use any sweeteners
even alternative sugar alcohols in my
coffee coffee also helps apparently with
exercise
performance increasing cardiac output
and delaying soreness in your muscles
because apparently the neurotransmitters
that it activates helps to vasod dilate
your lungs also coffee can help decrease
the symptoms of being at a high altitude
so some people have problems with that
well coffee can help that and I think
that has to do with the sympathetic
nervous system activation more than
anything else which is really the
strength of how you can adapt to stress
coffee can
increase mitochondrial biogenesis now
what is that basically increases the
number of mitochondria in your body
coffee also has the ability to increase
stomach acid to help you digest now
there's some other researchers I looked
at that talked about if you combine
certain things with coffee there's an
enhanced effect so for example if you
combine alcohol with coffee apparently
you'll have less Jitters okay you'll
feel less jittery if you smoke or take
tobacco with coffee apparently the
nicotine helps clear out the caffeine a
little faster
if you take certain medications for a
headache or pain the caffeine can help
enhance the benefits so this is why
anytime I drink coffee I also smoke a
cigarette take a little shot of whiskey
and take my pain medication and of
course I hope you understand now my dry
sense of humor I am completely being
sarcastic and even birth control pills
which personally I do not take can
extend the halflife of caffeine which
means that the caffeine will stay in
your body longer if you're taking birth
control pills now for those of you that
decided that you're going to start
drinking coffee you probably need to
know how to
neutralize the side effects of coffee
and for that I put this video up right
here check it
out
