great thank you very much good welcome
so how many of you have been helped with
keto and I F just raise your hand
pretty much everyone right how many of
you ever tried to help someone without
the full knowledge of something or you
have partial information or bad
information and end up not really
helping them yeah I've done that so your
help is dependent on the quality of your
solutions so today it's about increasing
your ability to help and help more so we
have a situation situation is 65% of the
population is either pre-diabetic or
diabetic that's crazy I would imagine
it's a lot higher for insulin resistance
it's probably like 90% four billion
prescriptions given out every single
year that's 13 drugs for every man woman
and child insane three point four
trillion dollars cost of health care one
trillion is the thousand billion dollars
insane the problem with health care is
that there's really no health but health
is missing unfortunately and medicine
has become the management of symptoms
using medications and so I have a
question can you actually create health
without an eating plan that's healthy
you can't do it right that's really
what's missing and in medicine is they
don't they're not using the correct
eating they omit that and that is the
big issue so I want to actually touch on
science you know we try to find the
truth so we go to studies we do
nutritional research we try to evaluate
there's a couple problems I want to just
bring up number one the interpretation
of the study is very difficult how many
of you have a hard time reading some of
the scientific research studies out
there it's in it's in a new language so
you have to then get second or
third-hand information from some
interpretation from someone else and
that could lead to a whole bunch
problems so research data a lot of times
it's altered it's manipulated and the
industry 75% of the studies in journal
and journals are basically sponsored by
Big Pharma how many of you didn't know
that yeah and then the the studies that
our government funded are also called
partnered with Big Pharma so basically
you as the taxpayer you actually end up
paying for the research for drug
companies which they mark up a little
bit big margins so but then people say
well you know I have insurance that pays
for my medication but of course that's a
little bit high - right like one or two
three thousand dollars a month so it's
really gotten out of control and Linda
lotterman I just wanted to bring up
Linda was a clinical psychologist worked
in I think Stanford was your professor
was at Stanford okay got it
so Linda's been practiced teaching for
over 20 years right so you basically got
out of the whole system because she saw
so much corruption in research and
medication so now she fights the abuses
of you know ect and things like that
so well done
Lind I just want to ask you how many
kids are being put on drugs now this is
why I drink on the weekends no I don't
insane so there's just there's a real
big problem with research
I'm not against research is that in
order to interpret it you have to know
the language you have to know some basic
physiology and a lot of people don't
spend the time to be able to do that so
they get it secondhand and it's been
altered so I just wanted to bring that
up because there's this whole thing with
though what's in the literature what's
much better is to focus on experience
you personally experiencing it if you
have the correct knowledge and you apply
it and you experience it then you have
this certainty it's Cassandra in the
room where's Cassandra she around here
Cassandra maybe she's a little bit late
I wanted to show you look at her eyes
you see how puffy they are well over 300
pounds she I want to show you what she
looks like now incredible this is an
example of someone that was a patient
long ago before I had all the correct
data with eating and I couldn't help her
she what didn't really get help until
recently it probably about six months
ago I contact her because I was thinking
about her got her on the program and I
wanted to show you what she looks like
she'll probably come a little bit later
here's another guy Steven are you in the
room from Canada there he is back there
Steven weighed 600 pounds
[Applause]
so he I think it's like 242 48 now
amazing now I interviewed him after
three years of having this weight loss
off so he's holding it he's like
maintaining so 600 pounds so if anyone
came up to him and said you know well
keto crazes creates problems long-term
it doesn't work he has a certainty
because he actually has experience so
that's really an important thing that's
missing I think people don't rely on
their own experience because sometimes
you have to tweak it a little bit to you
so once you have the experience then you
don't really have to rely on so many
studies right so why why do we have all
these problems what's really underneath
it there's a common thread the essence
of what we're going to be talking about
this weekend revolves around one thing
okay and I'm going to clear clarify what
the definition of what this thing is
because it's an incomplete definition of
insulin so high insulin is behind
probably the majority of chronic health
problems so let's just kind of go
through it insulin lowers blood sugar
most people know that so what is it
where does it go when it lowers blood
sugar well your body uses it your cells
use it it gets stored as sugar and then
it gets stored as fat so insulin is a
storage hormone it's an energy storage
hormone it also helps you absorb
nutrients but a lot of people don't
realize it actually prevents fat burning
in the presence of insulin the enzyme
that dissolves fat is completely
inactivated you can't burn fat now just
that one piece of data would be very
important if you're trying to lose
weight right yet I can evaluate any diet
and tell you what which one's going to
work based on that one point is it raise
insulin or lower insulin so insulin is a
real key factor and whether you store or
prevent the way to burn fat inactivate
the enzyme is you just lower insulin
that's really the heart of keto
what makes keto as Kido is the lowering
insulin and by lowering the carbs of
course
now when you put on medication doctor
put you in it form and whatever and he
lowers the blood sugar where does that
blood sugar go tis it evaporate it kind
of gets I needed a Logan can you come
occur so we're gonna demonstrate where
it goes all right Logan Logan is two
from Fusion lien website he's the big
Quito guy you probably saw him on
YouTube so we're gonna demonstrate in
this suitcase here and Logan I have some
fat here or that you're gonna kind of
fill into that suitcase so just go ahead
this is the fat cell this is actually
fat and he's going to basically it's
being converted from sugar and he's
going to actually just fill that
suitcase okay so you just try to get all
that stuff in there this is what happens
when you keep eating too many carbs now
in college I lived with two other guys
in a house and it was a typical college
experience we weren't the most healthy
and we weren't the most organized and so
my two roommates decided that to save
time we went out and bought a very large
garbage can so that we would have to
take out the trash very often so we
bought this 7-eleven garbage Canada's
must have been this big so then we could
take it out less but it actually started
to stink and then we would put all the
dishes in the pantry start building it
up this is actually what's happening to
our bodies it's spilling over I'll keep
trying keep trying to cram that in there
yeah we're gonna try that for the next
hour so you might want to sit on it so
the fat cells get to a point where they
actually get saturated and so you can't
cram any more fat in a fat cell so where
does it go it spills off into the other
organs it goes into the liver it goes
around the organs it's called visceral
fat
yeah that goes out there so this is kind
of a demonstration of exactly what
happens to our bodies now how do you
know if you have high insulin just go
ahead and look down right now and if you
see see your stomach you have high
insulin because that's the place where
it goes
thank you very much appreciate and stick
around because I'm gonna need you the
history of insulin been around for a
couple billion years snails clams use
insulin to inject their prey to make
them sluggish yeah I'm serious
drop drop put them unconscious it's kind
of what we're doing right now right with
insulin you had Alzheimer's dementia and
usually become unconscious force in the
20s we psychiatrists use insulin shock
therapy
some of you never heard about that
before but they would inject someone
with about 53 EPS like injections of
insulin over a period of time and you
would literally put people in a coma
because it drops the blood sugar down
that was in the 20s I think from 20 to
30 that's what they used they would wake
up fat so insulin basically makes you
unconscious if there's too much going on
and of course now they use electric
shock therapy right Linda so it's just
really insane insane insulin will not
let you use the enzyme called hormone
sensitive lipase to unlock the fat so
here you are you have this huge tanker
truck you have all this fuel you have a
small gas tank you're unable to tap in
to your major fuel source because
insolence to high insulin is the switch
it's low it's you can actually tap into
fat fuel keto is all about tapping into
the fat fuel and you could have nice
level blood sugars here's a picture of
what Logan demonstrated right here fat
cells hypertrophic out of the side there
we go
there it is so the problem is back then
we didn't really eat us frequently now
you can see all you can eat buffets
growing up in Wisconsin in the Midwest
we had a place called farm and feast it
was an all-you-can-eat buffet farm and
feast that's what they call it and you'd
go in there we build there very often
and just you know feast I don't
understand how why we need meant that
much food an average per light average
person their life lifespan consumes 52
tons of food that's a lot if you're
overweight it's an additional dump truck
full so the side effect of too much
insulin is very broad you get tired
after you eat feels like you have sand
in the eyes I had that that was a
hypoglycemic reaction I remember driving
across town in my eyes we get sticky and
I had real serious low blood sugar
problems sensitivity to light loss of
collagen plateau weight dementia urinary
frequency cravings for carbs anxiety
belly inflammation polycystic ovarian
will you have the facial hair decreased
libido fatty liver sets you up for
cancer diabetes of course heart disease
stroke because of the clotting a high
cholesterol but other than that it's
totally fine
now some of other speakers are going to
go more into depth with other conditions
but I wanted to say that your your brain
basically shrinks with high levels of
insulin and also glucose kidney damage
so insulin destroys the vascular system
to the nervous system that's why you get
things like peripheral neuropathy in the
bottom of the feet in the hands when we
talk about the next lecture of nutrition
we're going to talk about how to undo
that the VI is very sensitive to blood
sugar issues with coma that's pressure
in the eye cataracts that's an opaque in
your your lens we also have diabetic
retinopathy which destroys the nerve the
retina in the back there you have part
of your brain sticking out into your eye
it destroys that nerve all sorts of
things check this out most of the top
groups of medications anti-inflammatory
medications which by the way are total
one hundred six billion dollars a year
we have psychiatric medications this
comes in second diabetic medications
anti hypertension cholesterol lowering
medications dementia all of these are
from side effects from high sugar or a
high insulin incredible can you imagine
if we actually just plug in some healthy
keto I have
BAM probably save a lot many of the
reasons why we die are related to high
insulin as well heart to cancer of
course outro genic that's just you know
mistakes made by medicine stroke
Alzheimer's diabetes it's right up there
so insulin lowers blood glucose it
blocks fat burning and it actually
causes you to store fat those are the
three things that you want to actually
remember chronic insulin elevation what
triggers it here we have Logan in the
house again alright
so an average American consumes you can
come over here
and fifty pounds of sugar a year so once
you bring it up here don't you just yeah
yeah good luck on that
don't hurt yourself yeah just put that
right here so this is a hundred pounds
yeah give me another fifty this is how
much the average person now how many of
you don't consume a lot of sugar rage
again yeah I think a lot of people are
doing more than 150 pounds this will be
represents three pounds of what what we
should be consuming but this sugar is
actually can come from fat or protein
you don't have to eat sugar so three
pounds versus 150 pounds now if you look
at the difference between these two it's
pretty darn obvious when you see it
right I mean it's what is it the
American Heart Association is
recommending over 300 grams of carbs a
day I mean that's like the American diet
I mean my American Heart Association
American Diabetes Association I mean
this is like literally out of control
here we go my plate I wanted to mention
thank you very much
appreciate it you can leave that you can
leave it there
okay so this is my plate this is what's
recommended and promoted they you want
fruit you can do a fruit juice you can
do some orange juice you can do canned
fruit you can do dried fruit vegetables
you can do v8 canned corn tomatoes or
iceberg lettuce but you need at least
two and a half cups this is what's
interesting grains so they're
recommending six to seven ounces of
grains per day but half of it needs to
be whole grains
okay whole grains like in whole grains
there's the certification label right
there Whole Grains
here's another one whole grains
certification you have to pay seven
hundred and fifty thousand dollars to
get this cert to call it whole grains
so you have this situation where you you
basically they're recommending at least
six to seven slices of bread a day or
pancakes four cups of cereal or
twenty-one cups of popcorn or you can do
corn bread there we go it's
heart-healthy this is what's interesting
this is if you look at these label it
says ten grams of sugar per serving
right but if you look a little lower
there's another category that says other
carbohydrates 17 grams so I looked it up
and like this is how they get away with
kind of like shocking people of how much
sugar you have carbohydrates then you
have sugar then you have other
carbohydrates so that's basically about
17 grams of sugar per 1/3 of a cup of
circle 17 grams incredible you see that
little I think you could see it from
there so diabetes is not a disease of
abnormal glucose it's a symptom of
abnormal glucose they make this really
mysterious thing where it no one can
understand it snacking is a big trigger
healthy snacking is very unhealthy
because every time you eat you trigger
insulin a huge problem I personally did
not know the data about healthy snacking
probably several years ago it was in
guidance physiology I apparently missed
it and I thought it was okay to snack it
was in my first book so I'm sorry for
those of you that read that I was
consuming healthy peanuts and I was
doing the apples with peanut butter and
I got to be like 211 I was 211 pounds so
once I got the data the correct data I
applied it I dropped down to 180 just
like that BAM so the healthy snacking is
really unhealthy
the amount of calories compared from
1970 to now have increased a little bit
but not from your meals from snacking so
if you go to grocery store I mean you
have all these snacks it's quite
extensive this is interesting before you
can even become a pre-diabetic insulin
resistance is brewing in the oven for
many many many years could be like up to
10 to 12 even 20 years before you had
developed pre-diabetes so to demonstrate
this I need keto connect where are they
there they are
[Applause]
so I we use their cookbook a lot they
have a great cookbook so I really
appreciate all the so okay so we want to
do is I'm gonna these are normal
earplugs they haven't been used and
we're gonna let you use those and why
don't you mad Stan over here right there
okay
Matt is going to be the insulin receptor
good okay
alright you are gonna be the pancreas
okay so go ahead and put those in your
ear yeah she's the beta cell in the
pancreas you always wanted to be that
right yeah are you good okay good so
okay so now the pancreas she's gonna
basically say lower the blood sugar
yeah so to say lower the blood sugar
good okay good so now what do you do
when Matt ignores you
lower the blood sugar lower the blood
sugar good now after about an hour of
this
I'm sure Matt never ignored you as he
was looking at the computer
I'm listening honey what happens is
she's gonna get tired right so she's
gonna kind of like give up a little bit
this is when the blood sugars start
going up because what happens insulin
resistance is basically the receptors
are not really receiving anymore
so that means there's no return
communication to turn off this shouting
so the shouting of volume is putting a
lot of insulin into the system so an
average person with insulin resistance
has five to seven times more insulin
than a normal person why because there's
no turn off there's no acknowledgment so
it's very dangerous not to a omit the
acknowledgement of your spouse would you
agree so it's really it's really
important so this is what's happening in
our body so what so start shouting so we
have a let's see on the slide there
whoops
we have insulin resistance this is
called insulin resistance okay you may
get hypoglycemia because the sugars is
the insulin is going high it's pushing
down the blood sugar that might happen
if you have weak adrenals or a liver
problem or it might just go with high
sugar eventually after she gets tired
she's like oh my gosh I can't do this
anymore now we have situation when
insulin goes low now we have the blood
sugar start going up because we don't
have enough insulin to lower the blood
sugar make sense so now we got
pre-diabetes so thank you very much
thank you very much and you can keep
those
so what happens is you get the insulin
resistance pre-diabetes and then right
before that when you even before you get
pre-diabetes you have something called
metabolic syndrome usually you have the
usually high blood pressure high
cholesterol you have all the symptoms
but your blood sugar is normal normal
blood sugar is what medically they're
looking at to really tell you of a
problem but that's later on the chain
the thing they never tests for is the
high insulin there's a test home iír and
you can do it post eating Homa ir you
write that down and that test can
determine if your insulin is high but
you were never tested so they actually
missed the boat on this one little
important point high insulin occurs
before way before you get high blood
sugar so they missed this promise you
have all these symptoms and they could
be psychosomatic cuz you're irritable
all the time because you might have
hypoglycemia so then eventually you get
metabolic syndrome and you have high
blood pressure which by the way to give
you like diuretics you have high
cholesterol they'll give you statins
both of those medications have a side
effect of increasing or worsening
insulin resistance they get you off salt
when you go to most all diet you
increase your risk for insulin
resistance so all the medications cause
side effects now we're going to get to
this a little bit but the B vitamin
especially b1 protects your body from
the complications from high sugar and
when you take metformin one of the big
side effects is a depletion of b1
thymine that is supposed to help you
prevent the the something called
acidosis like lactic acidosis which is a
side effect from that so what happens is
when you take the metformin you're
basically gonna be depleting b1 which
protects the cell against all this
damage now you get the complication so
it's it's just a real bad situation
we'll get more into that but I just
wanted to show you the mechanism so we
have all these things
and I think I've given you notes on a
lot of this already so I'm gonna just
kind of bust through this so we got
diabetes type 2 that's what it is very
simply all right
why Aikido if' because all we're doing
is we're matching the environment that
our bodies are used to back before we
you know I started eating six meals a
day
so Kido just matches the environment
that our body is used to in frequent
eating healthy foods what is healthy
Kido healthy Kido is basically making
sure that your all your nutrients are
satisfied using high-quality nutrients
because classical Kido is not
necessarily it might help you lose
weight but it's not necessarily always
healthy of the ingredients that they use
for epilepsy with kids and the research
way back then is using all sorts of you
know even unhealthy soy products and
things like that so we're not doing that
but some of the opposition against Kido
is going to be using the data from that
they're not going to actually use the
data from healthy Kido now why don't
they do the research because no one's
gonna fund it who's gonna pay for that
so we're left with just doing it through
experience here's a soy formula well
that's a problem because it's GMO so
that's the big issue so healthy carbs is
keeping your carbs between 20 grams and
50 grams a day we want moderate protein
we want three to six ounces per meal
ideally it's gonna vary and I also want
people to experiment on their own bodies
to see how you deal some people need
more protein like Logan he's 22 is a
fast metabolism
he's not gonna probably do three grams
he's probably like eight ounces so it
really depends I my body does really
well on eight ounces of protein a day
when I do that I'm great if I do more
than that I don't feel that great so you
have to experiment on that and this is
the problem with people like well helmet
how many grams how many calories well
I'll give you some guidelines you just
have to tweak it and see what works for
you the fat I'm gonna get more into that
in the next presentation but
seventy to eighty percent of your total
calories you might think wow that's a
lot of fat well you're gonna find out
it's actually not as high as you think
I also recommend the vegetables I'll
tell you why the next presentation but
that's that's where you can get your
final nutrients you can get your
vitamins you can actually get your fiber
to feed your microbes because you really
don't need fiber but your microbes do
and they give you great things in
exchange here's an example of one meal a
day it gets a little complex when you
start introducing in a minute fast in a
minute fasting but you want to kind of
let your body tell you how much you eat
how many of you are doing one meal a day
raise your hand quite a few how many do
two meals today okay how many do three
meals a day okay I'm going to do a six
meals a day good
I've been watching the videos okay so
this is kind of an example I just wanted
to kind of show you it actually looks
good it tastes good it's not bad and
you're not gonna be hungry how do you
know if you're actually it's working
well your your cravings gonna go away
for sure your hungers gonna go away if
you crave and you're hungry we know
you're not into it yet you're not into
ketosis yet of course there's a great
test and we have keto a mojo around here
I think they're outside there they are
so that's a great way to evaluate it's a
great test I'm going to talk more about
that but in a minute fasting is really
interesting because within a minute
fasting your body goes into this wild
thing where it switches these genes to
then start growing brain cells how many
of you could use a couple brain cells
your body then starts making more
mitochondria that's the energy factory
of the cells I mean that's just you grow
a brain
now that's incredible your growth
hormone dramatically spikes that's the
anti-aging growth hormone preserves
protein so you're not gonna lose your
muscle mass the difference between
fasting and starvation is fasting
depletes your glycogen reserves and you
get into fat-burning starvation is you
deplete your fat reserves and now you're
using your organs and muscle as fuel
that's the difference so we're not
starving and what's really interesting
your hunger goes away when you do this
it feels really good you can [ __ ]
tumor growth within a minute fasting you
can get rid of inflammatory conditions
and by the way the inflammatory
conditions are the top the medications
that treat that are the top of the food
chain that's like most of the money and
medication is on inflammation eat adjust
intermittent fasting is like the thing
that handles that stem cells spike when
you do get a minute fasting stem cells
incredible I mean that's like
mind-blowing that you can actually grow
like as
you age your stem cells go down and you
can actually enhance your stem cells by
doing prolonged fasting we're going to
talk about that tomorrow morning how do
how to do prolonged fasting occasionally
at otha G is your body is a
self-cleaning oven it's cleaning up all
the old proteins and recycling them to
new proteins and cleaning up all the
microbes the virus is the bacteria if
you want to help your immune system
fasting is the key when you're sick you
should be fasting the more sick you are
the more you should fast an animal when
it gets sick goes into fast e loses the
appetite same thing with us so you
should not eat when you're sick if you
want to get rid of jetlag fasting is the
best way to do it fasting will increase
your stress resistance so people say
well fasting is stressful no actually it
improves your ability to tolerate crazy
people I mean sorry stress
at Apogee this is a picture that kind of
shows you exactly what it is pretty
simple right so how do you do it
basically really simple you have three
meals a day start off no snacking add
more fat to the meal to go longer then
you slowly push your breakfast
towards the lunch as you feel like you
can do it and if you're not hungry don't
eat especially in the morning go longer
and longer into the point where you're
you you can just do a lunch with nice
about these conventions is we're going
to just do fasting and not eat all day
so we can say about money so we got then
we end up with two meals today you've
got two meals a day and that works
really good so now you can fast for a
period of time and most people can do
that very easily and then you want to
start shortening your window closer and
closer till you get like four hours and
then maybe a lot of you are doing one
meal a day I think one meal a day is
very healthy for the majority of
population especially if you get to the
age of 40 or 50 some day I'm going to
get to that point because I'm only like
39 so then you get one meal a day you
would think you would be like starving
no no Steven the guy who lost so much
way to use 600 pounds he does one meal a
day
he's totally satisfied he's feeling
great he has energy your cognitive
function your mood improves incredible
anyway we're gonna have the next peeper
speaker come up I want to thank you for
this introduction and we'll talk to you
soon
[Applause]
you
