hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about the carbajal ex only solution okay
if you're a carbo holic you are addicted
to carbohydrates okay this video is for
you and this means that you crave carbs
daily the question is what is an
addiction versus a habit okay an
addiction is where you're completely out
of control you cannot say no okay then
if you do try to say no the body just
makes you want it more so it's like the
more you can't have it the more you want
it so a habit is something that you can
say no okay because it's just kind of a
routine thing you get into but an
addiction you can't say no so chances
are you could be addicted to
carbohydrates and there's a hormone
that's driving this okay it's insulin
chances are you don't know what that
hormone is because if you really did you
wouldn't even have this addiction so
this video is about helping understand
this a little bit more because I want
you to extract yourself look at this
problem from a bird's eye view so you
can kind of see all the pieces and get
out of the trap because you are in a
trap this is a physical problem it's not
that you have weak willpower or you have
low discipline it's a physical problem
at the cellular level where your body is
running the show okay it's completely
out of control you have no future
thought of consequences logically it
doesn't help to understand that because
you just want it and you're gonna eat it
okay so in the cell you have this little
key it's like the chef that feeds the
cell that's called insulin and it kind
of goes into the cell and it opens up
the door to allow the fuel or sugar to
go into the cell but the problem is the
more you do that the more you get what's
called insulin resistance where the
insulin doesn't work anymore okay so it
doesn't work doesn't open the door the
sugar it doesn't get in the cell and now
you're craving sugar okay
and more and more more and the body
makes more and more insulin because it's
not connecting so now you have this
massive amount of insulin really hungry
cells craving is out of control so the
real problem you have is insulin
resistance okay because the insulin
doesn't connect anymore
the way you got into this mess is by
consuming too many carbs and maybe
eating too frequently so now this is
what's happening the other thing that's
happening is you're getting a spike of
beta endorphins every time you consume
sugar and beta endorphins are chemicals
in your body that are 30 times stronger
than morphine for pain and stress think
about when you're craving these carbs or
you're stressed out whatever and then
you eat them Oh instant stress relief
you feel better because you stimulate
beta endorphins even when you're in pain
you eat sugar you feel better
temporarily for like a minute and you
also increase dopamine this is the
pleasure hormone that is stimulated when
you take drugs as well so this is really
involved in a lot of addictions it's
also part of the brain that deals with
reward okay the problem is that you you
get this little spike in in dopamine and
then it drops and you get a rebound
effect where you get even more stress
and more pain more cravings down the
road and then you keep doing this over a
period of time and then you lose the
effect of dopamine and bathe endorphins
and now nothing works okay so now how to
get out of the trap what do you do what
we want to do is first of all understand
what's happening and we want to heal
insulin resistance okay and we want to
do this easy we want to do this
gradually and we want to use a strategy
so I'm gonna recommend you start
consuming something called keto bombs
okay what is a keto bomb it's a kind of
a sweet cookie of some sort that does
not affect insulin but it tastes like
the cookies that you've been consuming
but it doesn't have the effect so you
make them with alternative sweeteners
I'll put a link down below for recipes
you keep them in the freezer and they're
made from fat and that is very very
important too because that's going to
satisfy you so you have this little
sweet cookie you start eating these okay
but you also have to start consuming a
lot more nutrients and I put a link down
below of exactly what diet you should do
but the point is that unless you do
foods that are very high in nutrients
you won't
ever really heal insulin resistance
because you need nutrients to do that
it's the nutrients that also protect the
cell against high levels of sugar so
it's a real key factor vitamin b1 is
essential potassium is essential so
you're gonna have foods that are higher
in those amounts I put a link down below
for that so if you combine high nutrient
dense foods with these keto bombs okay
so that way you never feel deprived that
is the strategy just going to start
pulling you out of this thing you're
going to have a less and less insulin
resistance now this is going to take
between three days to seven days to
maybe even a little bit longer and you
can start getting a grip on this it's
gonna get better and better and better
and then you're gonna get all the junk
out of the house of course you're going
to make it easy to do this so that is
really the only solution I don't know of
any other solution that's going to pull
someone out of the situation other than
this right here alright thanks for
watching
hey guys so there's a whole bunch of
people that really need this information
so press the share button and let's get
it way out there
