there are five foods that you need to
know about to improve your Sleep Quality
this is one of those videos that you
want to save and keep watching over and
over just to remind yourself of these
key things to help you sleep I
personally had a sleep problem extremely
bad for well over a decade and I wish I
would have known what I'm going to tell
you right now the big thing about sleep
is to optimize a hormone called
melatonin melatonin is a hormone that
helps you go to sleep and get into some
of these deep restful waves of sleep
sleep more importantly than boosting
melatonin it's important to know how to
avoid things that reduce your melatonin
the first thing has to do with your
temperature in your room if you're going
to bed and your temperature is
75° fahr or warmer you're going to have
a significantly lowered melatonin level
as well as a lowered REM level the
quality of sleep is going to be really
crappy the best temperature to optimize
melatonin between 60 and 69° F with the
optimum perfect number at 65° F if your
room is at that temperature your
melatonin will be optimized even your
body's core temperature which should be
98.6 between 12:00 and 5:00 your core
temperature goes down between 1 and
2° people that have insomnia don't have
that mechanism where their body gets
cooler by 1 to 2° a lot of you watching
are doing inmin fasting and you probably
watched my videos in the past where I
told you to get up in the morning skip
your breakfast have your first meal at
12 and your last meal at 6 but here's my
conclusion on that I think initially
it's very good to do that especially if
you're trying to lose weight and you're
trying to correct insulin resistance
because here you are you fasted all
night might as well ride the wave go as
long as you can and then have your first
meal but after you do it for a period of
time let's say you do this for over a
year or even six months and you kind of
correct this insulin resistance you may
want to experiment to have your first
meal in the morning and your second meal
at lunch and maybe not even have a
dinner because one thing that will
disrupt your sleep is sleeping on a very
large meal what I've been doing recently
and it seems to work really good is to
have the two meals in the first part of
the day this also uh gives you a little
more energy through the day not at night
so why would you want to have a large
meal in the evening which you're just
going to sleep on this next Point has to
do with blue light if we look at the
spectrum of light part of that spectrum
is the blue light that is the wave that
you want to filter out in the evening
why because blue light inhibits or
suppresses that sleep hormone melatonin
that helps you go to sleep probably the
worst is the uh flipping through the
social media on your cell phone before
you go to bed there is a big difference
between the TV blue light and closeup
cell phone blue light the blue light in
your cell phone is much stronger so if
you are going to watch TV at night
that's fine but just turn the lights out
around the TV so you can darken things
and if you have to be on your cell phone
you can wear these blue light filtered
glasses you have to realize that blue
light not only affects melatonin it kind
of wakes you up and blue light also
messes with your eyes it can create
damage in the eyes so just be aware of
blue light turn the lights down a little
bit as it gets later in the day another
way to build up your melatonin is
through exposing yourself to the actual
Sun during the day the vitamin D from
the Sun can also help indirectly
increase your melatonin and your sleep
cycles but I tell you if you have sleep
apnea or you have jet leg or you're on
rotational shifts you should be
consuming vitamin D as well because
vitamin D is really important in kind of
reestablishing those circadian waves now
there's one more point about cell phones
there's something called EMF
electromagnetic fields that come off
this it's like invisible radiation just
as a very side note I will do a full
video on this but this is the device
that I use it's the trifield so you can
turn this on and start testing the
exposure to
various things to see what is giving you
all these EMF waves that could greatly
inhibit your sleep I have tested my
entire house right I go through the
computer I go through the area where I'm
sleeping the walls that are close to my
bed to make sure there was no uh extra
frequencies that were affecting me and I
found several areas that were really
messing me up and one was just in the
back wall where my head was on the
headboard the wires were crossed so I
had had electrician come in there and
fix that and that created a huge
Improvement in my arhythmia that I had
started getting palpitations in my heart
and I felt like when I went to sleep it
was like my heart was like working
harder and it was those EMF waves
amazing there's a few more things that
inhibit melatonin alcohol caffeine
nicotine medications especially the
anti-depressants and also a high carb
diet will inhibit the melatonin and if
you exercise like three hours before you
go to sleep all right now let's get to
the five foods that can help you
increase uh tant the first food we're
going to talk about is tart cherries
okay now there was two different studies
that I looked at one was tart cherry
juice like 1 ounce before bed and the
other one was just consuming tart
cherries uh twice a day tart cherries
there actually is melatonin in there
there's also something called tryptophan
tryptophan turns into serotonin which
then turns into melatonin apparently
giving some people 84 more minutes of
sleep in a study that was done with
people over age 50 number two is kiwis
consuming two kiwis a day actually
increase serotonin that's that precursor
to melatonin after 4 weeks of consuming
kiwis there was a significant
Improvement in quality of sleep length
of sleep waking up feeling refreshed and
speed of going to Sleep Number Three
fatty fish like salmon tuna and trout
all three of these can help increase
melatonin number four kefir Kefir is
like yogurt but it has even more
microbes it survives the stomach uh
acids much better and don't get the
flavored one get the unflavored whole
milk grass-fed whether you do you know
from goats milk sheep milk so you want
to get the Keir and you can blend that
with things rich in polyphenols like
berries I like the blueberry sometimes
I'll do raspberry or BlackBerry and when
you drink it you're feeding your
microbiome polyphenols which they're
going to thank you for by helping you
sleep the last food that I'm going to
recommend is sauerkraut now the microbes
in raw sauerkraut can help you sleep
greatly the Cabbage also has trypan it
has things to help your gut it also
increases something called Gaba Gaba is
a uh kind of a neurotransmitter that
calms you down it's going to help you
sleep and as we age our Gaba goes down
sauerkraut has certain properties to
help you reduce stress and cortisol
sauerkraut also has vitamin C that's
been associated with better sleep and
lastly don't forget about your breathing
while you're sleeping breathe in slowly
and breathe out slowly through your nose
so just by focusing on the breathing can
kind of pull you out of this sympathetic
stress state so I have videos on that as
well in fact that might be a really good
one to watch right now I'll put it up
right here check it out but
