so I'm not sure if you know this or not
that internment of fasting can
supercharge your gut microbes when you
put bacteria on a fast or mice or fruit
flies or bugs they live a lot longer you
see an increased resistance to oxidative
stress and xenobiotic stress this is
exposure to chemicals like in
chemotherapy for example if someone goes
through chemotherapy and they're fasting
the microbes which make up a lot of the
immune system can survive longer when
you do fasting you increase diversity of
microbes that's cool you also increase
tolerance to bad bacteria
it also will restore intestinal
epithelium which is the lining of your
colon and I already touched on they live
longer as well and when you're doing
fasting you starve off the food the
sugar for yeast and Candida so you kill
off the bad population the pathogenic
microbes and you help the good
population and these microbes do a lot
for you they help recycle it increase
your bile acids which help you digest
fats and extract that sample vitamins
omega-3 fats they help make butyrate
which is a healthy fat that helps your
blood Sugar's okay so it'll help insulin
resistance it feeds your colon cells the
fuel that gives them energy and by the
way fiber converts to butyrate if you go
on a diet that's low in fiber but say
carnivore diet people always want to
know well what's gonna happen to my
microbes long term well we don't know
there's not a lot of studies out there
there's some people experimenting right
now and what they're finding is there's
shifts from one population of microbes
to a completely different set of
microbes you're getting less
fermentation which means that you're
gonna have less acids potentially that
could be an issue but we don't know yet
we do know that if someone has a history
of microbial imbalance SIBO which is
small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
inflammatory conditions was about they
do very well
without a lot of vegetables
but microbes I'll make branched-chain
amino acids they make the amino acids to
help you build neurotransmitters they
help you make vitamins and get rid of
toxins and decrease inflammation so what
we want to do is you want to support
these microbes and one way to do it is
intermittent fasting so if you're
enjoying this content go ahead and share
it with someone that could really
benefit from it
