did you realize that a lack of quality
sleep can worsen insulin resistance and
and some resistance can affect your
sleep as well but if you have poor sleep
your blood sugars will be off you'll
have high levels of insulin and also
even shortens your life span poor sleep
actually increases your risk of even
heart attacks as well why is that
because it increases cortisol that is
the stress hormone from your adrenals
it's activated through the what's called
a sympathetic nervous system which is
the flatter fight it's the stress mode
and when you're in that mode you release
glucose thereby increasing blood sugars
increasing insulin and that's what's
happening so what I would recommend as
far as a diet to improve your sleep you
want foods high in potassium the
vegetables again right we want potassium
calcium magnesium these three minerals
are physiological tranquilizers they're
things that calm you down you can take
electrolytes with these as well but
these three are very very important in
just causing the body to turn off so you
can sleep walking long walking is really
good for sleep and incentive resistance
by the way as well it reduces stress in
a minute fasting Kido is essential and
what will happen is that this improves
you'll start absorbing more of these
minerals and B vitamins and your sleep
will be better just from that all right
thanks for watching hey tell me what you
think about this video go ahead and
comment below and give me your feedback
