let's talk about how a vitamin D
deficiency could affect your teeth now
this mainly occurs when your baby
just before your teeth are coming in and
this condition is basically rickets of
the teeth
now rickets is a vitamin D deficiency
and because rickets affect bone it can
affect your teeth as well so let's go
through this number one enamel
hypoplasia now what does that mean it
means that the enamel or the protective
strong coating around the teeth is not
developing correctly so it's either
thinned or even in some cases absent
that can really increase the risk of
that tooth getting a cavity you can
develop white spots and a yellow
coloring on the tooth little pits on the
teeth or grooves that can lead to
additional cavities and also
sensitivities to cold and Heat number
two missing teeth which by the way is
very very common and these people had no
idea this was simply a vitamin D
deficiency and number three delayed
teeth so the teeth are not coming in
very fast
so apparently vitamin D has a huge
connection between the enamel on your
teeth if the teeth are gonna come in and
when the teeth are gonna come in and the
reason I talk a lot about vitamin D is
because I believe it's probably the most
important vitamin it's not really even a
vitamin it's a hormone and it does so
many things it regulates calcium it
works also with vitamin k2 because
vitamin D increases the calcium in the
blood by 20 times guess what you need
vitamin k2 you take that calcium that's
in the blood or in the joints or in soft
tissues and drive it into the bone and
the teeth so vitamin k2 is very very
important in teeth as well when I was a
small child I used to crave butter I
mean I could literally eat an entire
pound of butter in one sitting
and I would try to get a lot of butter
but my parents were like what are you
eating all that butter for right it's
gonna might have too much cholesterol
and clog your arteries but guess what
butter is loaded with k2
and that's really what I needed and it
could be why I had pretty much cavities
in every single tooth in my head but a
vitamin D deficiency also relates to low
back pain so if you have lower back pain
or any pain in the body or any type of
inflammation take some vitamin D it
really really works I would recommend
20,000 I use per day and make sure you
add with that 200 micrograms of k2 okay
so the ratio is for every 10,000 IU's of
d3 you need 100 micrograms of k2 that's
the the ratios and also vitamin D is
essential in your immune system it's an
immune modulator nearly every autoimmune
condition is deficient in vitamin D
vitamin D deficiencies can set you up
for getting viral infections bacterial
infections definitely the flu and also
loss of bone osteopenia osteoporosis you
need d3 and k2 together so in summary I
wanted just to emphasize the importance
of vitamin D and how it works
and number two identify these three
things that could occur if you have
children it's a vitamin D deficiency and
if you have these issues right now and
you're older it could mean that you were
deficient as a child and you could still
be deficient now thanks for watching
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know
hey that runs
