so today I want to talk about chapped
lips okay one of the worst things you
can do is actually taking a lip balm or
chapstick because a lot of times the
ingredients contain alcohol or some
solvent or mineral oil that pulls oil
out of your skin around your lips and
then you need more of it and then you
put it on it dries it out same thing
with the hand creams as well and
sometimes they put wax in there so
you're putting this wax on your lips and
trying to create moisture but let's talk
about what's behind this situation it's
a vitamin b2 deficiency when you're low
in riboflavin okay your lips will dry
out eventually you can get cracked
corners of your mouth through here
because b2 is an antimicrobial vitamin
you can then become infected with
Candida and it can turn red okay and
then that can create fissures little
cuts on the side of your mouth but
button b2 is a coat enzyme b2 has one
function of breaking down fats making
sure that your skin is lubricated okay
so what's happening is just not enough
of this this coenzyme this activator for
the protein that does that action and
then you end up with dry lips so what
are the foods that have b2 eggs leafy
greens nuts dairy meats well happy to
fish has b2 but really if they're
deficient it usually is coming from
another factor they're taking birth
control pills which will definitely
cause a b2 deficiency they might be a
vegan in restricting certain foods that
could create that but this is a big
thing right here refined foods will
deplete a lot of them B - in fact it's
mainly going to be the refined grains
and the refined sugars now if you're new
to my channel you need to click down
below in the description of this diet
called healthy keto okay and in a minute
fasting if you're new most of you
already know about that but if you're
new to the channel you need to learn how
to do that and that way you don't have
to be deficient in these B vitamins
anymore
a lot of people that get on keto okay
and they get off the grains they notice
their skin is no longer dry they notice
that the lips are no longer cracked
anymore so if you were curious about
what causes this it's a b2 deficiency
thanks for watching if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
