today we're going to talk about seven
fruits that have the potential to kill
cancer how does a fruit or a plant ever
come up with this chemical to kill
cancer since that plant or fruit doesn't
normally get cancer like humans get we
will also answer the question of the
sugar in fruits right because people
might know that fruits are high in sugar
and cancer loves sugar all right so
let's first dive into number one berries
but there's two specific berries that
have more cancer fighting potential than
other berries and that would be the
blueberry and the Blackberry because
they have a lot more of this thing
called
anthocyanins that has all sorts of
interesting properties one being the
inhibiting of cancer growth okay now
anthocyanins also feed your gut microbes
like 80% of your immune system is in
your gut microbiome so your gut microbes
love to eat these plant-based chemicals
you strengthen them they become more
diverse and they increase in number
there's some pretty great incredible
research on anthos anthon's decreasing
breast cancer colon cancer and prostate
cancer now I will say they're
observational studies but still the
research is pretty strong if you can
just imagine like oh yeah we just
discovered that you can actually help
inhibit cancer by eating healthier right
who's going to fund that and that goes
right up against Pharmaceutical
companies it's not going to happen
there's just so many other things that
go Way Beyond just cancer we're talking
about anti-inflammatory antimicrobial
all right so let's go to number two
citrus fruits right this is lemon limes
grapefruit not only are they loaded with
vitamin C which helps your immune system
but they're loaded with flavonoids one
being the detoxification of cancer
causing agents so in other words it
strengthens the liver's ability to turn
these carcinogens into harmless
particles so if you regularly consume
citrus fruits whether it's also like
lemon in the water things like that you
may decrease your risk for certain types
of cancer especially of the digestive
system next one is pomegranates
pomegranates are rich in a certain
nutrient called alic acid it also has
anti-cancer properties these compounds
work over time to protect your D DNA
from damage you have to realize that a
cancer cell came from a normal cell
cancer really is a normal cell that has
damage that then has to survive and so
it starts to morph into some other type
of metabolism there's a lot of other
phytonutrients in pomegranates that do a
lot of different things as well decrease
inflammation decrease oxidative stress
all right the next one is grapes now
what are grapes known for well the
phytonutrient called r ver trol
Resveratrol is known to help decrease
aging and one of the reasons why someone
can extend their age is they're not
dying from certain things so resveratol
is a very thoroughly researched uh
phytonutrient that has all sorts of
properties one being a superhero
anti-cancer effect that can bulletproof
your cells from experiencing excessive
amounts of stress that can then cause
the triggering of the cancer the next
one on the list is tomatoes yes tomatoes
are really a fruit even though you might
have thought it was a vegetable tomatoes
are loaded with with something called
lopine now you actually can increase the
amount of lopine if you cook the Tomato
as in tomato sauce now I have a huge
Garden of tomatoes all different kinds
and because I'm experimenting on
different type of tomatoes I have dark
purple ones the green and yellow ones I
have all different types and those
colors represent different pigments
different phytonutrients so I'm going to
experiment on this and see which ones I
like as far as taste see which ones are
not as destroyed by insects and bugs and
then also I'm going to send some to the
lab to see what the heck is in these
Tomatoes all right next one avocados
first thing that avocados have
glutathione that's a super powerful
antioxidant that can protect your cells
against what's called carcinogens which
are things that cause cancer the more
glutathion you can consume from actual
food the better the other thing that
avocado have are certain phytonutrients
that specifically Target cancer stem
cells and those are the cells that are
not turned into a cancer cell yet but
they're going to so if you can slow
those down you get at the root of Cancer
all right the last one the list is
olives yes an olive is a fruit as well
olives have something called alop pan
and another one called hydroxy tyrosol
both protect you against the growth of
cancer cells olives are like a natural
Shield they protect the body from the
inside out another cool thing about
olives is that these pH nutrients
increase something called
apoptosis when the cell is sick it
naturally commits suicide to protect the
whole body so the the phytonutrient in
olives can help cause the cancer cell to
commit suicide so that's a really good
thing all right so now let's talk about
how a fruit actually developed these
compounds in the first place these
plants have have developed certain
compounds to help them survive as a
defense mechanism against the stress
from UV radiation pathogens viruses
other bacteria they can't run away from
anything so they have to develop all
these compounds to teach whoever eats
them a lesson so these anti-cancer
plant-based chemicals also inhibit
certain enzymes some of the
phytonutrients also increase what's
called autophagy what happens is it
causes your your body to start eating
damaged cells and then turn those into
new proteins and also some of the
plant-based chemicals that kill insects
create a very mild short-term stress in
our body that then causes our body to
compensate and become stronger think
about this if a child never gets sick
they won't have an immune system and
having the body learn from that and
become stronger it's not good to
eliminate all stress these plant-based
chemicals are not necessarily just
killing or dissolving this cancer
they're getting rid of the things that
turn into cancer the inflammation
they're supporting the gut microb around
the cancer and so even if there's more
sugar in the fruit the different phytal
nutrients with the fiber itself all
buffer a lot of that sugar so it's not
like eating a candy bar at all so I
really think that food should be our
medicine unfortunately the medical
industry does not look at food as
medicine and it's just bizarre to me to
think that you can get health by taking
a poison I'm sorry a medication
currently I'm involved in doing research
on cancer with a group out of Europe and
we published several amazing studies on
cancer using these natural compounds in
Plants because they have virtually no
side effects as chemo does have massive
side effects that's the problem with
trying to address cancer to kill it off
you need to use something in the body
that does not have the toxic effects so
check it out down below and I will see
you in the next video
