[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
that first speaker you know very well
dr. Eric thanks to you that I've been
successful in Aikido
everybody should know about this this
should be policy America needs to know
so it's been great I was expecting it to
be pretty awesome and sexy control my my
past that just the quality of people
here so down Earth Summit it's awesome
credible thank you so much for caring a
lot of people taking that time to learn
research to share the knowledge that
you've given us this summit has been
incredible I feel like it's very
important to stay up to date on the most
relevant information having to do with
health and weight loss that's what I
looked like only four months ago and
this has honestly been the number one
event that I have ever been to we had to
really think through this I'm John with
kids well we are gonna adopt you
and the the the van will be out in the
front waiting for you we get more down
at the convention we're taking your home
you guys are just awesome awesome
[Applause]
[Music]
