so if you have diabetes type 2 and you
want to lose weight a lot faster this
video is for you okay what is type 2
diabetes
it's a condition where you have high
blood glucose and all this sugar is then
being triggered by this hormone right
here insulin insulin responds to the
extra sugar and it's going to put this
in storage as fat okay
now this book textbook of medical
physiology by Gaiden all right
we're at page 927 that's what it says
all aspects of fat metabolism are
greatly enhanced in the absence of
insulin if you want to lose weight you
must reduce insulin it's that simple so
insulin is basically a lock that keeps
the fat from going away now if we look
at the mistakes that most people make
not knowing this information and they're
trying to lose weight and they're
diabetic they're going after the low
calories lowering your calories does not
lower insulin and because they're a
low-calorie diet they're gonna have to
eat multiple times through the day that
will actually raise insulin not lower it
and then they do low-fat lean protein
you may not know this but there's
something called an insulin index okay
and if we compare lean protein with
fatty protein lean protein especially
low fat or no fat protein spikes insulin
the protein that has the most fat is the
lowest on the insulin index so you don't
want to do low fat or lean protein I'll
get more into the next slide weighing
yourself frequently is a problem because
when I show you the next slide what to
do to reduce insulin a much better test
would be to measure your waist because
of the location of where you're going to
lose inches is going to be right around
the waist your waist is a direct
indicator of how much insulin you have
in your body so you reduce insulin and
you
stomach shrink so you want to measure
your waist and go by that more than
weight especially after you've lost all
the water weight because once you reduce
insulin you're gonna dump a lot of
fluids so you'll have this weight loss
that goes down then it will Plateau
realize that the initial weight was just
water loss the actual fat burning
process occurs a little bit later as you
your system gets a little bit healthier
so instead of wearing yourself
frequently measure your waist at the
belly button this one moderation this is
probably the stupidest advice that I've
ever heard because when you take all the
different macro calories protein
carbohydrates and fats and you reduce
all of them to a moderate level you
really are not going to actually lower
insulin you want to decrease only those
foods that trigger insulin and not the
other ones alright and here's one that I
always hear well I pretty much eat
whatever I want because I exercise okay
realize that exercise only handles 15%
of your weight okay diet is 85% of the
success all right so now if you want to
speed up weight loss here's what we're
gonna do 10 things to lower insulin
alright this will really work for you
you bring your carbs below 20 grams per
day this is really really important and
I put a link down below so you can get a
printout of exactly what foods to eat so
that way you can understand what this
means
number two apple cider vinegar can also
help something called insulin resistance
and it can help lower insulin so you
take two tablespoons and a big glass of
water drink that once or twice a day
number three moderate amount of protein
this is where you can get into the
moderation right here your protein but
do not go lean do not go low-fat why
because the leaner you go the higher it
spikes
insulin protein in large quantities has
potential to increase insulin so we want
to keep it moderate we don't want to
keep it too low just keep it moderate
all right number four these are the
three nutrients that have the most
effect
on insulin okay chromium that helps the
cells of the pancreas produce less
insulin zinc very very very very
important in the production of insulin
if you were to take zinc your body would
need less insulin and you could probably
find a supplement both of these and then
for this one you want to get nutritional
yeast vitamin b1 vital because vitamin
b1 helps the metabolism of sugar and
it's going to help the metabolism within
the little energy factories that help
you burn the fat vitamin D I recommend
that you get more Sun if you could if
you can't vitamin D as a supplement d3
be very very important to improve the
access of insulin it helps reduce
insulin and it will help your blood
Sugar's extra sleep okay at least eight
hours people that actually get six hours
or less tend to have higher risk of
diabetes okay and their appetite goes up
so a little bit of sleep and if you
can't sleep try to get a nap more sleep
will speed up the recovery number seven
in a minute fasting okay here's the rule
of thumb you don't want to eat unless
you're hungry okay don't eat when you're
not hungry
okay so many people do that especially
at night there they're not even hungry
they just graze they just eat for the
sake because it's a habit when you start
reducing your carbs what's gonna happen
your body is gonna start switching over
to fat-burning okay when you're burning
fat it's a more efficient fuel your
blood Sugar's are gonna be better your
hunger is going to go away and so here's
the thing if you're not hungry for that
breakfast do not eat it okay in the
download below you'll learn step-by-step
on how to do in a minute fasting this is
very very very important I'm gonna jump
down to here number nine before I go to
a decreasing stress okay long walks
there's an acupressure technique you can
learn it I put it down below and a link
to actually reduce stress to enhance
your sleep so many people can't sleep
because there
body won't relax or turn off and also
this right here high-intensity interval
training if you're over the age of 40
and your recovery is not as great I'm
gonna recommend you doing this once
twice per week okay this high-intensity
workout for about 40 minutes this is
very very powerful to spike growth
hormone which actually will help your
blood Sugar's tremendously and then
lastly fiber but not from a fiber
supplement not from grains from veggies
okay here's the thing you can't digest
the fiber the fiber acts as food for
your microbes and they convert that
fiber into what's called butyric acid
which then does two things it feeds the
cells of the colon and it feeds the
cells of the colon giving your body
energy okay and it also helps insulin
resistance it actually lowers insulin
now one little side note what we're
trying to do is put you in ketosis
ketones are an alternative fuel there's
three types of ketones
one is called beta hydroxy butyrate well
it just so happens that this fiber with
the help of microbes convert into a type
of ketone and it's butyrate so butyrate
is very similar to beta hydroxy butyrate
and both of those compounds can greatly
help regulate your insulin levels go
ahead and click down below and enjoy
your faster weight loss program if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
