hi so in this video we're going to talk
about why someone could actually have
low cortisol symptoms yet on a blood
test or a saliva test they have high
levels of cortisol how can that be it's
a bit confusing so many people have
symptoms of low and high together and
they're confused
typically symptoms with low cortisol
include inflammation why because
cortisol is one of the most powerful
anti-inflammatory hormones so if you
don't have enough of it you end up with
inflammatory conditions arthritis
autoimmune etc and this is why they get
a lot of viruses they have a poor immune
system so they're gonna get sick
frequently they might have skin color
changes like vitiligo or their skin just
looks a little bit darker salt cravings
okay Sall symptoms with below and with
high cortisol belly fat high blood
pressure allergies
pitching to insomnia thin legs no but
all gut acid reflux
okay the pre-diabetic or are they
developed diabetes think about when
someone actually is injected with
prednisone one of the side effects is
sometimes they get diabetes from that
why because high levels of cortisol
mobilize a tremendous amount of sugar
okay in the body okay so there's a
there's a condition called cortisol
resistance very similar to insulin
resistance where you have the gland the
adrenal gland that makes cortisol
sending this hormone to the blood it
connects to the receptor but the
receptor is downgraded it's resistive
it's blocked it's not accepting that
hormone and then what happens is we
don't get the return communication
telling the the gland to turn off so we
have a dream which only has an on switch
no off switch massive flood of cortisol
your body will protect itself by not
letting this cortisol in the cell so we
have certain parts of the body that are
completely deprived of cortisol and
other parts of the body
which we have
way too much cortisol okay and this is
why you can have a combination of both
but what's really happening is you have
too much cortisol that's making the the
receptor ineffective at absorbing this
cortisol so we were left with chronic
inflammation we're left with maybe a
viral infection that won't go away and
it's usually these people have chronic
fatigue syndrome they have asthma they
have chronic skin inflammatory
conditions they have a lot of skin
issues a lot of gut issues a lot of
inflammation other than that they're
perfectly fine all right so I hope that
sort out the confusion but now the
question is what do you do I already
created a nice long video on what to do
in a stress webinar I put a link down
below and that will walk you through
step by step what you should do if you
have an overactive adrenal gland all
right thanks for watching so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis how about that
