let's talk about the top thing that can
stop your ability to lose your
midsection your belly fat and you're
probably thinking it's sugar right or
carbs but there's something else that's
uh of equal magnitude in preventing you
from losing your belly fat so let's say
for example you're at the gym you're
doing exercise you're doing sit-ups and
this midsection just does not come off
no matter what and when I go to the gym
I do see a lot of people exercising for
months without much loss and there's
also people on keto and people doing
intermittent fasting that still just
cannot lose that belly So today we're
going to talk about this really
important barrier in getting your
stomach flat but warning you may
actually not like what I'm about to tell
you in fact you may click off after
hearing this but realize I'm going to
give you some good news I'm going to
give you a solution to this I hate when
someone gives you a video of bad news
bad things happening in the world but
they then don't give you a solution so
what am I talking about
I'm talking about
alcohol
specifically wine A lot of people are
drinking wine yet they're eating healthy
and they're doing keto and they're doing
fasting but they still just cannot lose
their midsection a lot of times they'll
hear the concept that you know pure
alcohol is not a carb so therefore it's
keto friendly because ketosis is all
about lowering your carbohydrates
or maybe they've heard that there's such
a thing as keto friendly wine because
there's no residual sugars in the wine
because a lot of times wine actually has
residual sugars you know small amounts
but they still have sugar and that also
includes a category of mixed drinks with
added sugar or beer that has you know
hidden sugars but typically if we look
at pure alcohol it's not a carb it's not
a sugar it's something else
it doesn't even necessarily increase
your blood sugars or even insulin
directly
indirectly it creates very severe
insulin resistance but not directly you
know I was traveling recently and uh I
was at the airport and I needed to get
some water and all they had is a bar so
I went to the bar and I asked for some
water
he says you sure you don't want to drink
I said no I'm good come on you you only
live once go ahead have a drink you know
you work hard you play hard so I think
in a social setting it's a it's a bit
more difficult to say now you know and
you see these commercials where people
are drinking alcohol and beer and wine
and they all look so healthy they should
probably show what a heavy drinker looks
like when he or she drinks alcohol
probably not the picture of health so
what is the problem with drinking
alcohol like wine for your belly
well it all has to do with this thing
called the liver the liver cells called
hepatocytes treat alcohol like a poison
so they have to get rid of it and
there's a couple different things that
it does it um initially turns it into a
more reactive more poisonous thing which
I'm not going to get into the names of
it but it actually goes through this
process to try to get rid of alcohol and
the effect of this toxicity of alcohol
on the hepatocyte the liver cell is that
it injures the liver cells it creates
trauma and it can kill the liver cells
and in this process this biochemical
breakdown you develop fat on that liver
cell the hepatocyte which then starts
turning your liver into a fatty liver
with that also comes a lot of
inflammation
and scarring as a byproduct okay and if
that keeps going for a period of time
you can develop cirrhosis and then that
increases your risk of getting liver
cancer and all sorts of other issues the
other problem with alcohol is it greatly
increases your estrogen in men okay and
then at the same time it lowers your
testosterone and you probably have heard
of the benefits of drinking alcohol just
in moderation
recently they found that was just a
marketing thing put out by industry in
fact they found no benefits of drinking
any amount of alcohol at all the other
problem with alcohol is that it's an
empty calorie that's right alcohol has
calories now if you look at the quantity
of calories in a gram okay like in a
carbohydrate you have like four calories
per gram in protein you have four
calories per gram and a fat you have
nine calories per gram
with alcohol you have seven calories per
gram so it's almost as much as fat
calories and it's not nutrient dense
calories it's empty calories which means
it actually has to utilize certain
nutrients to metabolize it so it'll use
up certain nutrients like B1 folate
other B vitamins
um zinc copper things like that
so alcohol depletes these nutrients
especially B1 so the more alcohol or
wine that you drink the less B1 you're
going to have and that creates all sorts
of other side issues like anxiety worry
excessive thinking when you're trying to
go to bed at night nervous tension
restless leg syndrome and just Plano
fatigue as well as a hangover now fifty
percent of the population drinks alcohol
okay so chances are you're in that
category and five percent of that fifty
percent are heavy Drinkers and so this
video is just all about increasing the
awareness primarily focusing on your
belly because as that liver becomes more
fat
that that then has to then go somewhere
so it spills off into around the organs
as what's called ectopic fat and then in
between the organs as visceral fat and
that's why the belly starts expanding
and if you're doing the ketogenic diet
or you're doing intermittent fasting and
you're drinking alcohol on the weekends
whatever it's going to be really hard if
not impossible to get rid of this belly
fat because of what happens to the liver
after you drink alcohol you have this
effect where it blocks the ability to
oxidize or burn fat for a period of time
a lot longer than you might think so
let's say for example you had a couple
glasses of wine don't expect to burn fat
for probably 48 to 72 hours after that
episode so let's say for example you
don't drink on a daily basis you just
drink every three days that alcohol
really affects the brain cognitive wise
mood wise if affects the endocrine
system the hormone system I already
mentioned blurring of testosterone
increasing estrogen it also affects your
gut okay the gut microbiome which has a
whole bunch of other issues connected
with that
it affects the heart it creates a lot of
negative things what should you be doing
well realize the effects of alcohol and
maybe you just want to stop it all
together especially if you want to get
rid of this belly okay if you can't do
that
because of these Cravings you have take
a look at the real reason why you are
drinking is it to reduce stress
is it more for social situations well
just avoid those environments where you
keep getting yourself into you know
don't gather where other people are
drinking find some friends that are
non-drinkers don't keep alcohol in the
house find some other ways to reduce
stress there's a lot of things like
certain herbs and like lemon balm tea is
a good one ashwagandha herb is another
good one B1 is one of the best things
for stress reduction try to find a
natural one and I found recently that if
you take it right before bed boy does it
help your sleep as well and you'll just
go right to sleep and then you'll wake
up and you'll feel really refreshed
and especially if you have been drinking
alcohol or especially wine you're going
to find that it's going to fulfill a
deficiency and you're just going to feel
a lot better within minutes usually the
other thing you can do if you just can't
give up the alcohol is to dilute the
alcohol with maybe sparkling water for
example in your wine just fill it up
with water so you have half and half so
now you're drinking at the amount which
has half of the negative effects the
other thing you can do is to take milk
thistle before you go to this social
activity where you're you know you're
going to be drinking wine what's so
interesting about milk thistle is that
milk thistle protects the liver against
poisons okay Tylenol poisoning snake
bites
poisoning from mushrooms it's a very
unique natural herb that can also help
if someone has cirrhosis or inflammation
in the liver or a fatty liver and the
last solution I'm going to recommend is
Kombucha Tea try to find one with the
least amount of sugars but Kombucha tea
has this interesting
texture uh feel like it's a carbonated
beverage similar to beer it's kind of
thick acidic and it gives you a nice
relaxed feeling and it even has a little
bit of alcohol in it a very tiny amount
but it's a good
um kind of a transitional product off
alcohol so just go ahead and get some
Kombucha tea and use that as your
substitute so now that we covered
the wine and alcohol situation there are
some other things to also help you get
rid of your belly fat and if you haven't
seen this popular video I put it up
right here check it out
