what is going on now with bird flu is
very close to an exact replay of what
happened with Co egg prices are not
something that is random it's something
else and you have to follow the money
today we're going to talk about what's
really behind the scarcity of eggs the
price I'm interviewing Clayton Baker MD
doctor of internal medicine for over 25
years Doc it's pleasure to meet you now
you have some amazing insights to this
bird flu which is a bit of a day ja Vu
of a Playbook that I think just happened
recently I wanted to bring you on
because maybe you can kind of give us
the simple version of what potentially
could be going on as far as could this
be something that is accidental or maybe
manufactured yes well thanks for having
me very much I appreciate the
opportunity to be here and to speak and
thanks for taking time to read my
article if we just use basic pattern
recognition skills we can see that what
is going on now with bird flu is very
close to an exact replay of what
happened with covid what we see is a
several step process by which people
intentionally are creating fear and
creating a pandemic or a attempting to
create a pandemic um in order to obtain
some kind of control over us um this is
clearly what happened in with covid as
you know even the CIA has admitted now
that the virus came out of the lab in
Wuhan that it was an engineered virus
around 2012 or somewhere about
thereabouts was found in a cave of bats
in China and was brought to the lab and
was manipulated for several years to
essentially weaponize it late in 2019
that virus was released whether it was
intentional or unintentional it remains
unclear but it definitely came out of
the lab they allowed the world military
games which is an Olympic type event to
take place in Wuhan China of all places
brought all kind of people from all over
the world um allowed it to spread and
then by early 2020 it was um declared to
be this pandemic we had all of these
civil rights uh violations locking us
down not allowing us to earn a living in
the name of protecting us from this
virus they have a countermeasure and the
countermeasure is to develop these
vaccines they could compel us they could
kind of coers us into taking these
highly profitable and turns out quite
toxic vaccines for what reason um
because they would make a lot of money
and because they would exert uh control
over us to continue to take these
vaccines in the future so now let's fast
forward to what's happening right now
with the bird flu there are multiple
Labs that have taken a previously
naturally occurring
h5n1 um bird flu they've been
manipulating in the lab doing gain of
function which means trying to make it
more transmissible and more virulent and
in fact they're very aggressively trying
to get it to jump species which is
there's no good reason to do this two of
The prominent labs in the United States
that are doing this are the southeast
poultry research laboratory which is
owned and operated by our own USDA is
doing this crazy research in Athens
Georgia and it's almost certain that
this is the location by which the
current um circulating clade as they
call it of this virus uh leaked out of
now whether it leaked out intentionally
or unintentionally I don't know but
we're pretty confident that's where it
came from and Peter molik and Nick huler
and some other people have done some
incredible work to trace incredible
detective work to trace this down
they've published it and no one's even
bothered to try and refute it of course
our FDA is now claiming that they're
doing all they can to contain this where
when in fact they they almost certainly
leaked the virus out I don't know
whether it was intentional or not the
other uh lab and there's multiple Labs
that do this type of gain of function
research on bird flu that's really
implicated in this is at University
Wisconsin veterinary school there's a
guy a Japanese national by the name of
yoshihiro kawaoka he's been there for
many years funded by all kinds of
sources he's funded by NIH he's funded
by Gates that Foundation does all kinds
of of just really ill-advised stuff
President Obama back in 2014 put a
temporary ban on gain of fun and
research in the United States some of
the people that blew the whistle on you
wouldn't believe Paul offet who's one of
the big apologists for vaccines was one
of the people who was so alarmed by what
this guy kaloku was doing that even he
blew the whistle on him Anthony fouchi
found a way around this largely by
Outsourcing the stuff to China for the
the Corona virus work and and to some
extent just ignoring Obama's ban but
that's how bad these gain of function
people are now you've got these leaked
lab manipulated viruses that are out
there and fortunately what we're seeing
in the population uh is not as bad as
they're advertising birds that are
getting sick occasional cows that are
getting the virus as well although the
cows don't get very sick I'm not aware
of any there may be some but I'm not
aware of any cow deaths and 67 human
beings in North America in the last
couple years have gotten this and for
the overwhelming majority of them it's
been conjunc divid it's been pink there
was one report of a person who died in
Louisiana with the bird flu they would
not go so far as to say that the person
died of the bird flu although some of
the media Outlets claimed that but that
has not been stated they are encouraging
the farmers to do willy-nilly PCR
testing on their flocks if they test
positive what they're doing is mass
slaughtering the entire flock if so much
as one bird test positive for the
illness a PCR test which has a lot of
false positives they have one positive
they will kill the entire flock some of
these Farms have millions of chickens
correct correct so they can kill
hundreds of thousands maybe millions of
birds at once because of one or two
positive PCR tests that's why and this
is important for for listeners to know
that's why we have a shortage the
shortage is not because the birds are
dying of the bird flu the shortage is
because they're being Mass slaughtered
if there's even one or two uh or small
number of positive tests have you heard
anything about this happening in smaller
backyard uh Farms people having chickens
in their backyards is that occurring in
that environment at all or is it just
mainly the industrial chicken farms it's
an excellent question I don't have a
definitive answer but what I would say
is that supposedly this individual that
got extremely sick in Louisiana caught
it from their backyard chicken farm
however the the what's causing the price
of eggs to go up is this ridiculous
policy of slaughtering whole flocks when
you have one or few positive tests and
of course they to just to show you how
dishonest the whole process is they call
it calling well you can look the
definition of calling in the dictionary
it has nothing to do with Mass Slaughter
Mass Slaughter is the opposite of
calling that's how dishonest this
process is and according to the sources
I've heard from uh we've spent our
taxpayer dollars over
1.25 billion to fund this Mass Slaughter
of these animals so we are paying with
our own tax dollars to kill these
animals to drive up food prices to make
a shortage of eggs and this is driving
this whole thing not the the flu itself
basically the farmers get paid for that
loss from the taxpayers correct so the
the farmers have a perverse incentive
and I don't blame the farmers because
the farmers are caught between a rock
and a hard place they've got the the
government coming in and telling them we
need to test your birds but don't worry
if they test positive we'll pay to kill
them and we'll pay you at least market
price maybe more in order to solve the
problem what it's doing is is art
artificially creating a shortage it's
artificially creating uh fear it's
artificially creating a crisis instead
of locking us all down and holding us
hostage physically or metaphorically
until we accept the human vaccines what
they're doing instead is they're
destroying important element of our food
supply unless we allow them to mass
vaccinate all these birds so that's
really the agenda is they want to mass
vaccinate now entire Farms that's that's
really what they want to do there's no
other way around it because right before
before um Trump took office what did
they do they gave a conditional um
approval to zotis which is a very large
animal vaccine company couple days
before Trump was inaugurated the Biden
Administration gave a
590 million Grant to our old friends
madna to start developing mr& based
Technologies for bird
flue so you you know so again what does
it come down to we come down to it just
like with a big payoff for madna to
force us all to accept mRNA vaccines
what do we really need to do to to stop
this what are some things that uh need
to happen we need to acknowledge what's
going on um this is not a bunch of
well-meaning scientists trying to Stamp
Out disease this is a criminal
Enterprise this is basically a a
protection racket you know nice little
farm you got there it'd be a shame if
anything were to happen to it don't
worry we'll protect it you know and then
we pay you off to do whatever we want
with it if Paul offet could figure it
out in 2012 and Barack Obama could
figure out in 2014 why on Earth after
all this we've been put through in covid
are we not realizing it right now this
gain of function research has to stop
you know I've said in other places you
know you don't save Tokyo by creating
Godzilla you know and this is what they
are doing they're saying we're going to
create Godzilla so we can create a
vaccine against Godzilla what on Earth
are we doing here unfortunately you
can't speak freely about certain topics
but I think things are going to change
primary target needs to be shutting down
these G of function laps immediately
because uh it's like why do we need
those it's like it's you're producing
weapons that are Against Humanity it is
completely criminal and insane to the
end degree so many people are embedded
in this to some extent or another and I
think some people that are low to
midlevel don't realize exactly why
they're doing what they're doing they
believe that what they're being told to
do is appropriate um I'll tell you just
a funny story um one of the people who
is a placeholder at HHS or rather the
CDC right now he was the former State
Health commissioner in Maine during
covid so very much in in line with the
lockdowns and all that kind of stuff one
of the things that's stated on the CDC
website is that he was involved back
earlier in his career with bird flu
mitigation in Cambodia now of course
Cambodia is a relatively poor country in
southeast Asia where supposedly these
viruses originate the current
recommendations in Cambodia where about
95% of chickens are owned by Family
Farms you know maybe 50 to 100 chickens
maximum is if your bird gets sick you
separate the bird from the rest of the
flock preferably you sacrifice that
animal don't eat it wash your hands
common sense one solution too is to have
a lot more small farms and start buying
eggs from smaller farms uh your local
farmers markets find a local farmer
because um that way we we keep things
not so um centralized where all of our
eggs are in one basket s to speak yes I
agree I'll tell you though one thing is
is that this is interesting I agree with
you 100% recently in England which of
course is a UK is just an absolute mess
in so many different ways but UK is
trying to force people I don't know
exactly where it's at right now but uh
to force people to register any home
home poultry that they have and the um
the National Association for veterinary
medicine which is highly beholden to
Pharma um is has put out a release
recently that you know uh small family
um poultry Holdings may be a risk to
Public Health so don't think that
they're not going to come after your
your backyard chickens it's you can't
run and hide from this so we have to
take action we have to make sure that
these people are stopped I really
appreciate you doing work consolidating
all this information and making it uh
easy to understand and for those of you
watching spread this video out to your
friends and family because we need to
get the word out so we don't go into
this Mass agreement that this is what we
want we want to we want to change and
I'm really adamant about making sure
this data goes right into the new
Administration so they can do something
about it thank you so much Dr Baker I
really appreciate you coming on and uh
we'll stay in touch and we'll um we'll
collaborate very soon very good thanks
for having me I appreciate it absolutely
