hey guys this short video I want to talk
about what causes excessive yawning you
know you see these people just yawning
for no reason like they're not really
tired or could be you're tired but it's
really the most common cause is low
hemoglobin because you have low iron
okay and iron is needed to build uh
hemoglobin now the Animal uh sources
will give you the best form of iron okay
the plant version has to be converted um
but you would get it in or like grass
said liver okay I personally I can't
stand liver okay I can't eat it some
people like it if you like it consume
some and you'll probably get enough iron
from just from that or or other organ
Meats um red
meat uh Seafood oysters are loaded with
iron eggs especially the yolk has iron
in it molasses if you're not trying to
lose weight a little bit of molasses has
a good amount of iron and that's one
cause Okay number two it could be that
your pH generally in the blood is a
little bit too acid okay you might have
acid Doses and um if that's the case
that's a pH issue and you're not
releasing you're like sighing frequently
it's more like a sigh than a yawn so in
that case you need some calcium citrate
or calcium uh magnesium a little bit of
calcium it'll actually help to normaliz
your pH and you'll start to stop yawning
okay that's a rule Nob brainer and you
would get acidosis if you were on
ketogenic diet diet over a long period
of time you could get that it's a slight
issue but it's easily handled just means
you need a little bit more calcium now
the other reason could be your stomach
acids are not acidic enough so how would
you know that they're not acidic well if
you're getting indigestion heartburn
acid reflux or gird if that's the case
then we need to add alider vinegar or
ban hydrochloride to acidify you so you
can then absorb these minerals like iron
so just the stomach if the stomach is
not acidic enough you're not going to
absorb iron too well and that's why even
gastric bypass patients they have a low
iron count because they they don't have
enough acid to pull it in their body
okay so those are the three causes of
excessive yawning put your comments
below hey if you're enjoying my videos
press the Subscribe button below and I
will keep you updated on the future
events thank you so much
