so I want to talk about nutrients and
doing ohm and do you need to supplement
are you gonna be okay
let's just cover some points on this the
first thing you need to know is you're
usually going on one meal a day at about
23 hours right of fasting that's really
really beneficial for many reasons
but when you do in a minute fasting it
we helps you recycle nutrients so you
don't need the same rdas as when you're
eating frequently so you do need less so
you don't have to worry about having
4700 milligrams of potassium you can
probably get by with maybe 3000 or even
a little bit less but it is true that
you are gonna be eating less calories
because there's no way you're gonna be
doing the same amount of calories for 3
meals as you are one meal so you are
reducing calories but the fat that
you're burning is making up for the lost
calories but not necessarily in
nutrients there are some nutrients like
vitamin D that get released from your
fat and even vitamin A but typically
when you reduce calories you just have
to make sure that you're taking all your
nutrients so this topic really depends
on the type of food that you're eating
and the quality of food that you're
eating it really does so let's just kind
of go through these vitamins vitamin A
pretty easy to get you can get the pre
vitamin A is beta carotene from
vegetables but it has to be converted
very few people can convert enough
beta-carotene to retinol the active form
so it's highly recommended that you do
straight retinol from animal products
you can get vitamin A from egg yolks
fish a lot of other fatty foods have it
okay then we have vitamin D where you
can get that from the Sun but if there's
not Sun you're gonna have to get it from
other places it's in mushrooms it's also
in dairy but it's also in fish in cod
liver oil
what's cool about cod liver oil it has a
nice vitamin A and vitamin D split okay
and it also has omega-3 so you can kill
three birds with one stone actually four
birds
because you have DHA EPA vitamin A and
vitamin D all in one thing so you could
you know get some condiment pills then
we have vitamin E you can give out a
mini firm certain vegetables salad nuts
and seeds okay
also olive oil other oils because it's a
fat soluble vitamin but let's say for
example you want to target a certain
problem like hot flashes or you want to
help your muscles repair after exercise
and you would take more vitamin E from a
supplement make sure you get a balance
between tocotrienols and tocopherols not
the synthetic version okay vitamin k1
very easy to get from salads and greens
it's in dark leafy greens vitamin k2
more difficult to get for most people
but it is in egg yolks liver certain
cheese's certain grass-fed meats it's in
dairy dairy products so this one here a
lot of people are taking this as an
extra supplement because they're trying
to keep their arteries clean of calcium
and their joints clean because it
mobilizes calcium out of the soft
tissues your body does make a little bit
of this we can convert K 1 2 K 2 MK 4
version
not even your micros but some of your
cells can do it it's a smaller amount
then we get vitamin C if you're doing
sauerkraut you're gonna get a lot of
vitamin C bell peppers have a lot of
vitamin C certain vegetables have
vitamin C so this is not hard to get if
you're doing that but if you're not
doing any vegetables you're doing
carnivore diet you just have to look at
what foods you can eat to get vitamin C
and that's a whole different topic okay
vitamin b-complex I'm gonna recommend
nutritional yeast you can get other B's
and the other foods b6 is easy to get b5
is easy to get b1 actually is in pork
it's in other foods but let's say you
don't do pork and you do to certain
foods you just have to know that when
you're doing keto the B vitamins are
very
so I recommend nutritional yeast try to
find a version that is non fortified
okay then we have minerals there's a lot
of minerals out there that you have like
the classic electrolytes you have
magnesium calcium potassium chloride so
we need these minerals and I do
recommend I'm going to electrolyte
powder because it is hard to get the
minerals you can get the minerals from
the vegetables but maybe not all the
potassium if you're doing oh man because
you're doing this massive salad but of
course you don't need as much so you may
be okay with that it really depends
calcium can come from certain leafy
greens but also but mainly it comes from
dairy okay so if you're doing dairy you
you may get enough calcium our bodies
don't rid a lot of calcium they rid a
lot of potassium so we don't need as
much calcium as we do like magnesium
which comes from leafy greens by the way
and potassium which also comes from
leafy greens the trace minerals honestly
those are not as easy to get because our
soils are so depleted especially like
iodine and zinc okay and a lot of people
are deficient in zinc in fact two
billion people on this planet are
deficient in zinc so whether you're
taking sea kelp that's a good way or a
plant-based trace mineral I think that
would be a really good thing to add on
oh man we talked about the omega-3 cod
liver oil you can also do like pre
omega-3 like in walnuts for example has
ala you can take that fat but has to be
converted so it's it's not a 100% it's a
much lesser amount you can do also flax
seeds chia seeds but I mean that's
usually not in a person's diet on a
regular basis amino acids it's very easy
to get this on a healthy keto plan a
nomad so you don't have to take
additional protein because you're
getting enough when you're doing one
meal a day it's not a bad idea to
consume you a little bit more protein
than three to six ounces so maybe do
seven maybe even eight ounces okay
okay so now we have fatty acids
well keto is higher than that so you
should be okay on that especially if
you're doing healthy fats so I think the
the ones that are important to add to
your diet we do the trace minerals some
minerals B vitamins and maybe the cod
liver oil I think at the bare minimum
that would be a good thing to do alright
thanks for watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg com
it's right on the front page I put a
link down below download it it's free
check it out
