check out my blood vitamin D levels from
11 years ago
21.1 I mean that number is so low that
puts me at risk for autoimmune diseases
Cancer all sorts of health problems at
that time of my life I had so much
inflammation my back my neck my joints
little did I know it was just low
vitamin D there's a really good chance
that you personally are low in vitamin D
and you might not even know it I did my
DNA test and if you look through my
genes I have a big problem with all the
inflammatory genes if I don't do the
right things or I'm eating the wrong
things my body will just fill up with
inflammation people that have genetics
that are more pro-inflammatory have more
of a heightened immune system and it's
ready to fight things off on the
negative side they might have a lot of
chronic inflammation more susceptibility
of getting an autoimmune disease but
they're more protected against
cancer I know in my family there's not
much cancer which is a good thing but
there's a lot of inflammation so in the
flip side of that people that take
things that suppress immune system like
prednizone or go through a lot of stress
chemotherapy are more prone to cancer
because it blunts the immune system let
me get back to the topic vitamin D in
your blood that they test is inactive it
is not the vitamin D that actually is
doing all the work inside the cells some
people make the assumption that oh my
vitamin D is normal in the blood so it
must be normal in the cells when in fact
there's another piece of the puzzle that
you need to know about and that is
vitamin D resistance think of it like
this here we have the receptors for
vitamin D and then we have the vitamin D
you have to add a lot of force to get it
to work that's called vitamin D
resistance how does one get vitamin D
resistance a genetic problem could be
one way you have vitamin D resistance
lime disease certain infections
downgrade the vitamin D receptor as a
survival mechanism if you're low in
magnesium which the majority of the
population is deficient or if you're
deficient in zinc or vitamin K2 you're
going to have difficulty allowing
vitamin D to work because vitamin D is
dependent on these other nutrients the
more cortisol that you have flowing
through your bloodstream the less
vitamin D will work the more body
problems you have whether it's diabetes
or obesity the less vitamin D will work
even the color of your skin if your
Skin's darker you're going to have a
hard time absorbing vitamin D3 let me go
on to the next interesting topic about
vitamin D that has to do with the rdas
the amounts of vitamin D that are
recommended on a daily basis to prevent
problems the recommendation of The
Institute of medicine states that we
need about 600 IUS of vitamin D3 very
very tiny amounts that 600 iuse of
vitamin D that it's recommended really
should be 8,8 95 international units
every single day the rdas for vitamin D
should be more than 10x more not a lot
of people are doing that they're taking
like maybe like 800 a th000 2,000 at the
very most there's actually a lot of
research in the relationship between
vitamin D in your immune system and if
someone is low in Vitamin D it really
puts them at risk for all sorts of
problems especially viral infections and
there's even data that people with
tumors and can cancer have low vitamin D
and if you understand the relationship
between vitamin D and immune system it
all makes sense vitamin D is involved in
10% of all of our genes we have like
25,000 genes one of the most exciting
areas of research involving vitamin D is
with autoimmune diseases and this is
very relevant because autoimmune
diseases are the number one world
problem right now way above heart
disease as well as cancer there was a
doctor from Brazil Dr kbre started to
treat certain patients with high doses
of vitamin D3 with amazing results I
personally talked to another doctor that
uses high doses of vitamin D3 and this
doctor has over 900 video testimonials
of autoimmune diseases relating to
everything from Ms to Serious autoimmune
skin disorders there's an eye doctor in
Germany an optomologist who wrote a book
about using high doses of vitamin D3 for
glucoma and other ey related problems of
all sorts of different autoimmune
diseases the pharmacological basis of
Therapeutics fourth edition talks about
vitamin D resistance which I don't know
in 1972 if they recognize how common
vitamin D resistance is but back then
they talked about it the Curative dosage
of the vitamin D may be as high as
50,000 iuse to
500,000 I use every single day then it
goes on the same that in 1940 an
interesting case of rickets required a
Curative dosage of 1 million units and
we're
recommending 600 IUS is that going to do
anything for your immune system I talked
to the Pioneer researcher Dr Bruce
Hollis about vitamin D3 and he told me
that if you have positive good outcomes
with vitamin D they don't want to
publish it and I said why he said
because it competes with big Pharma when
you have something that's so inexpensive
or free from the Sun I mean who's going
to want to take the drugs if you can get
it free what about toxicity it's not the
actual vitamin D It's What vitamin D
does to calcium taking vitamin D
actually opens the doors in the
intestine to absorb more calcium but the
problem is the high levels of calcium in
people that are taking very large
dosages that don't have vitamin D
resistance the data that I found is that
you would have to take hundreds of
thousands of vitamin D3 or months to
produce this calcemic situation which is
high calcium in the blood there's all
sorts of things that you can do to lower
that risk one thing that Dr coimbre
talks about is that he just tells you
not to consume any calcium and go on a
low calcium diet so that's the strategy
problem is that when I read through some
of the reviews of patients that went to
see him there was some problem with
osteoporosis because when you're
completely eliminating calcium it could
start affecting the bone other doctors
who got train from him kind of altered
that protocol and part of the
recommendation is yeah they'll tell them
not to actually take calcium from
supplements but they won't restrict it
from the diet they will recommend cheese
and dairy and things like that they also
recommend taking something that
regulates calcium and that is magnesium
when you take magnesium you offset or
you decrease the risk for this also if
you drink 2 and 1 12 lers of fluid every
day you can reduce the risk of getting
kidney stones and then if you have an
autoimmune disease you can work with a
doctor to have them check your calcium
in your blood and they can also check
other things like the parathyroid
hormone if you have a autoimmune disease
I do recommend that you work with a
doctor and I will put a link down below
of people who got trained by Dr Co and
then you can do your own research on
this I haven't interviewed these doctors
I don't know anything about them but at
least it will give you a starting point
of doing your own research to figure
this out the last point I want to talk
about is what would you give give a
child if the child is under one year old
they should be taking a th000 IUS of
vitamin D3 every day a mother who is
breastfeeding a trial this is very very
important should be taking at least
8,000 to 10,000 IUS of vitamin D3 breast
milk is not very high in vitamin D
unless the mother is taking a good
amount of vitamin D3 and when a child is
over 1 years old they should be taking
3,000 I use of vitamin D3 teenagers to
young adults to adults they should be
taking between 8,000 to 10,000 IUS of
vitamin D3 every single day or getting
it from the Sun if you have even the
slightest concern that 10,000 I use is
toxic The Institute of medicine stated
and I will put that link down below the
intake of 10,000 iuse of vitamin D3 was
supported as no observed Adverse Events
concentration AKA there's no toxicity
levels at 10,000 iuse and this is by the
Institute of medicine okay I'm not just
making this up now you know a little bit
more about my problems in relationship
to vitamin D and a much greater
Awareness on the importance of vitamin D
that you're not probably going to get by
doing a search on Google Now if you
haven't seen my interview with Dr Hollis
I'll put that up right here check it out
