hi guys I had another question from
someone that wanted to know why is
having high blood sugars bad for us okay
it's really two main reasons with a lot
of secondary reasons - one is that and
I'm gonna start with number 2 micro
hemorrhaging of the vessels are
basically tiny little leaks okay like
your your blood vessels are leaking
blood so what's gonna happen is your
body's gonna then try to patch it up
with a type of protein called fibrin so
you can have high levels of fiber gin
when your sugars are high and that's
what what gives you sticky blood okay if
from that you get clots clots in the
arteries which create a stroke hardening
of the arteries high blood pressure
because you lose the elasticity and then
loss of vision where you have the retina
being destroyed you also get cirrhosis
of the liver so we get micro hemorrhage
and then the Fabra Djinn and number
three you can get a fatty liver so I had
this guy come in one day and I had him
lay on the table and I'm chucking him
and he told me his hands and his legs
just got completely dead they're numb he
can't even feel them and but he's not
really concerned about that because when
he sits up and he could just kind of tap
it and it comes back to life so I says
what are you eating okay so not only
does he eat pancakes every morning but
he consumes an entire glass of syrup
okay he puts all the syrup on there high
fructose corn syrup and that's just his
breakfast I don't want to tell you what
his lunch and dinner is it's just pure
sugar and this guy was a pre-diabetic
and he wasn't even interested in
changing his diet he would kind of come
in just for some relief with his back
about six months later I go in my office
I opened the door and there is with his
sister with these dark glasses on with a
little cane completely blind okay micro
hemorrhage Fabra gin because he didn't
take care of his high sugars so here's a
situation that can be totally avoided if
he would have done something about it
three things get rid of this sugar two
in a minute fasting and if you have any
of these symptoms start taking an enzyme
called Sarah pet taste at about a
hundred and fifty thousand I
that will clean up some of the scar
tissue that's in the arteries alright
thanks for watching
hey thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
