hey guys someone asked a question they
wonder now if can I do the ketosis
without a gallbladder okay one thing you
to know is on occasion people do grow a
gall bladder back okay they can regrow
in some situations especially if they
when they do the surgery they don't take
all of it out there could be a remnant
type gall bladder there okay but the
point is that if you don't have a gall
bladder you have to realize that in a
ketogenic diet 75% of your calories are
coming from fat okay and the other thing
you know is that the gall bladder the
purpose of the gall bladder is to store
and concentrate bile now let's back up
what is bile bile is the detergent that
dissolves the fats and the grease it's
kind of like you wash your hands from
grease
well the detergent that you wash your
hands with is kind of like similar to
bile so it breaks down fats in the
digestive system okay so if you don't
have a gallbladder you're going to just
have a little tube from your liver to
the small intestine and it's going to
trickle down but not necessarily at the
right time because when you eat food
that's when your goal butter contracts
and squeezes out a good amount of
concentrated by 20x it concentrates the
bowel by 20 times more so all that
concentrate about comes in there
dissolves the fat so now we have a
situation where you just have a
trickling you have less bile coming into
the digestive system okay so one thing
is a possibility that you can run out
second thing you just might not have
enough of it okay now what happens the
bile combines also with the enzymes from
the pancreas especially lipase so BIOS
those two break down fat to small
particles but then the lipase is an
enzyme comes in there breaks it down
into even smaller particles for the
absorption so we can have a situation
where you have incomplete fat digestion
deficiency in fat soluble vitamins like
vitamin A for the eyes of skin
vitamin D for the bones vitamin E
vitamin k2 that regulates calcium things
like that so those are some consequences
from that so one of the things that you
may want to use and people want to know
what what supplement is I would use the
goal but a formula for people that don't
have a goal butter and a lot of people
with the gallbladder take it but this
basically gives you more purified bile
salts so that way when you're eating you
have enough bile to make this digestion
complete you don't need to take it with
every single meal but at least with one
meal just to get some more bile in there
that would be helpful
especially if you start seeing symptoms
of fat soluble vitamin deficiency
symptoms like vitamin A deficiency
vitamin D things like that or even just
like your skin start drying out your
hair is drying out your stool is
floating then we need more bile so the
answer is yes you should do a ketogenic
diet with intermittent fasting because
most of your calories are coming from
fat you may want to supplement with the
bile salts just to give you a boost but
definitely check out to make sure you're
not deficient in any of the fat soluble
vitamins as time goes on thanks for
watching hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
