hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the number one confusion
every single person who is struggling
with weight has okay it boils down to
this one confusion it's basically a word
that is not fully understood this one
word because within that definition
gives you the secret of losing weight
okay so and that word is insulin okay so
you may know this already if you've been
watching my videos but if you new to my
videos okay you may know that insulin is
related to diabetes you might know that
it lowers a blood sugar okay and you may
even know that it's a main fat storing
hormone so it makes your fat get bigger
converts carbohydrates into fat but
here's what most people don't know this
very important vital additional function
which is it insulin prevents fat from
being released and burned okay so I'm
going to show you guidance physiology
page 927 says insulin inhibits the
action of hormone sensitive lipase what
does that mean well there's all when you
burn fat the way that fat is burned and
released it's through an enzyme okay and
it's the name of it is called hormone
sensitive lipase lipase being a fat
enzyme and insulin inhibits okay it
blocks the action of this enzyme so
basically it prevents you from losing
fat so what does all this mean it means
that all you have to focus on is your
primary goal if you want to lose weight
is to lower insulin not counting
calories or drinking more water or
exercising harder thinking and that's
going to lower insulin or lowering the
fat calories in your diet no you need to
focus on lowering insulin to a normal
level and nearly every single overweight
person has high levels of insulin okay
but they're never tested
their doctor will actually test the
blood sugars but they don't check the
fasting insulin because if they did they
would probably find that to be too high
so every way people have higher amounts
of insulin and that is the most
important thing to focus on is to
normalize that so if you're new to my
channel I put a link down below of a
mini little free course that you can
take to learn how to lower and normalize
insulin check it out so I hope you're
coming to the keto Health Summit coming
up in October so I want to quickly
comment on what we're gonna do that's
different from other conventions okay
the problem with these other conventions
is they give you information over a load
okay it's so much data that you're
basically swimming in a sea of
information we're going to do things
very differently we're only going to
cover the most important things that
make a huge difference now there are
three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory and concentration
that's going to blow you away and number
two I'm going to show you how to
increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism if you've
dyed it for a long time and everything
is kind of just really slow I'm going to
show you how to get complete control
over your metabolism so you can
literally turn up the dial as high as
you want and control as much weight as
you want to lose and these three things
are just a tiny bit of what you're going
to learn in the summit so click the link
below get signed up and I will see you
in October
