hey guys we did it we hit a million
subscribers wow this is amazing I wanted
to personally create a little video to
thank you okay from the bottom of my
heart um as of yesterday February 4th
2018 we finally hit a million
subscribers so you know YouTube has been
an amazing platform to engage with you
to connect with people all over the
world so I just wanted to personally
thank you for subscri subcribing for
sharing for spreading the word for uh
making comments not only do we have a
million subscribers but we have a
million very cool subscribers you guys
are great you're hilarious you're
intelligent you're kind and I just
wanted to thank you so I really hope
these videos have been helpful to you
and I just want to thank you for letting
me help you not everyone lets you help
them I'm sure you know people who you
try to help and they don't they reject
your help so you guys are letting me
help you and I really appreciate that so
as a celebration for hitting 1 million
subscribers I'm going to do a giveaway
we're going to give away 25 keto kits if
you don't know what that is it's a
combination of my bigger book the
smaller book nutritional use tablets the
lemon wheatgrass powder the uh
electrolyte powder all in a kit so we're
going to give away 25 keto kits this
week so here's how it's going to work
all you have to do is share a post on
something that I helped you with okay
you watch the video you learned
something and you got a result just
share your post a before and after
picture um your story anything okay and
then type in the text #d drberg D RB r g
so we can find you on social media and
pick a winner now if you wanted to
create a YouTube video on your success
just send it to
reviews drberg.com so we can add it to
the equation okay so again share your
success with something that I helped you
with type in the text #d drberg no dot
or anything it says D RB e r g and we
will select a winner in a week so again
thank you so much I really appreciate
you guys I'll see you in the next video
