hey guys today we're gonna talk about
protein in Quito I'm gonna clarify a
confusion that keeps coming up over and
over and over again okay so this is a
clarification on this one point okay and
that is this I've been recommending
three to six ounces on average a protein
per meal okay
but people know no is that the actual
weight of the meat or the fish or the
egg or is that the protein in the meat
chicken or fish or egg okay so when I
talk about 3 to 6 ounces I'm talking
about the actual weight of the whole
product as steak lamb chicken or
whatever okay take a look at this so
let's say for example we have six ounces
of whole chicken that's only going to
give us 56 grams of protein 6 ounces of
steak is 52 grams and then lamb we have
46 grams these are all the same amounts
pork six ounces of pork is 44 grams 6
ounces of salmon is 44 grams so you can
see that they all vary they're not the
same and then we have six ounces of
lobster is 32 grams of protein and then
we have four eggs which is 28 grams of
protein
okay so generally speaking one ounce of
any of these protein weighs about 28
grams but it has on average about
between 7 to 8 grams of protein in that
total amount so you can see that they're
not the same did you get that so I just
wanted to kind of really clarify this
one point so this amount is not the
actual protein in their product it's the
amount of that meat or fish or egg okay
so the last thing people want to know is
how much protein do you need that varies
depending on your metabolism your size
your age how much stress that you're
going through how many body problems you
have your ability to digest that protein
I would recommend experimenting okay so
in one meal you just do three ounces see
how you feel next meal you do six ounces
see how you feel
sometimes people need a little bit more
on average I find that I need about four
ounces of protein per meal to feel
really really good and I'm talking about
energy strength endurance that type of
thing
alright thanks for watching if you're
liking this content please subscribe now
and I will actually keep you updated on
future videos
