so I wanted to answer the question will
lemon water kick you out of ketosis okay
this is a common question well the
benefit of lemon water is this it will
decrease uric acid to prevent gout and
uric acid kidney stones and also the sit
rates in the lemon will neutralize
something called oxalates which can come
from spinach certain cruciferous
vegetables certain foods to prevent
another source of kidney stones but one
ounce of lemon juice is only 2 grams of
carbs now think about it you're allowed
20 to 50 grams per day so it only gives
you a very small amount of carb so even
though it may kick you out just a little
tiny bit your body will go right back in
so really the benefit of lemon juice is
huge with very little problem with carps
now if you're trying to get your vitamin
C from lemon juice only if you consume
lemons will you get vitamin C because in
the bottles that you buy they pasteurize
it and that pretty much kills all the
vitamin C but there's other benefits of
lemon juice okay so that's what I'm
going to recommend so no worries and
continue to consume your lemon water
hey you know what I just wanted to say
thank you for watching these videos you
made it this far I appreciate your
attention and your precious time
