so in this video I'm going to talk about
another hidden cause of diabetes that
you might not be aware of that you need
to be aware of and that is excessive
amounts of iron I mean it's kind of
surprising you would think iron will be
very beneficial to the body but the
problem with iron it's very difficult to
eliminate and a lot of people have too
much and there's even a genetic
condition called hemochromatosis which
is an iron overload disease which the
body just cannot eliminate iron so akise
building up and the problem with iron is
it's very oxidizing it's if you can kind
of look at it like it rusting out your
cells well anytime you have that effect
you're gonna have a lot of inflammation
and with the inflammation comes a big
spike in insulin resistance so this
condition hemochromatosis has a huge
link to diabetes as a side effect not to
mention a fatty liver cirrhosis because
iron apparently accumulates in the
pancreas in the actual cells that make
insulin so the more iron you have the
more destruction you have to the beta
cell and then you have a big problem
with insulin itself so where does this
iron come from well one big problem is
the fortification of foods primarily in
the u.s. in Canada and the UK other
parts of the world they don't fortify as
much and in many cases they don't
fortify at all and there's also date
coincidence of increasing fortification
of iron and also other synthetic
vitamins in 1984 baby formulas and if
you look on the graph on this you see
this date coincidence of people getting
fatter right after that point now I
don't think it's the source of this
problem but it's definitely a
contributing factor for sure now 1983
the FDA increased the iron amount in
flour products by 20 milligrams per
pound and this is another day
coincidence of the spike in obesity so
the question is what do we do about this
well there's a couple things you can do
number one don't consume fortified foods
number two consume less red meat if you
have a problem with too much iron and I
put a link down below to learn about
what that means personally I do consume
quite a bit of red meat I don't have a
problem with iron but this would be
targeted for those people who do there
are some other things you can do to help
pull this iron out they call it
chelation there's something called IP 6
which is phytic acid and that helps to
chelate iron as well as something called
EBT a what you could do is because these
pull out other minerals too you can take
this on empty stomach several hours
later you can take the minerals that you
want on your body like potassium
magnesium so you can actually not
deplete all your minerals also donating
blood gets rid of the iron if you feel
really good when you donate blood
chances are you have too much iron and
and the other thing is you want to avoid
supplements when iron make sure that you
do not consume a multi vitamin mineral
with added iron unless it's in a form
that's really easy to digest and that
would be a form like liver like
grass-fed liver if you're anemic but
other than that I don't recommend
supplements that have this fortification
of iron alright thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
