there are five critical warning signs
that you should never ignore a lot of
people have one of these five symptoms
and they're normalizing them and I'm
here to tell you that you don't want to
ignore these five signs because you can
usually do something about it if you
catch it in time far too often when you
go to the doctor they just basically
treat your symptom what's causing your
high blood pressure could be this or
that here just take this medication high
cholesterol take this medication
arthritis take this medication I am more
interested to find the underlying root
cause so I don't have to take medication
the rest of my life so let's start with
number one chronic fatigue you could be
fatigued chronically from so many things
if you have anemia that could be either
low B12 or iron I was chronically
fatigued for many many years and I was
taking tons and tons of vitamins
thinking that's going to help me I'd be
driving down the street with my wife and
say honey honey let's go over there
there's a they might be able to help me
in this like health food store and I'd
be asking them maybe I need this vitamin
or that vitamin I'm here to tell you
that the vitamins will not work for
various symptoms unless you correct the
diet there's a basic diet that I
recommend that will handle a lot of
problems to the point where you might
not need any vitamins at all it wasn't
until I started having protein for
breakfast that I really had this
realization that wow that's the protein
that I needed that just totally woke me
up another cause of of chronic fatigue
is low vitamin B1 if you're deficient in
B1 you're going to have a lot of racing
of the Mind thinking about problems
before you go to bed Restless like
syndrome you're going to have a lot of
nervous energy chronic fatigue could
come from a tick bite this microorganism
in these ticks they downgrade your
vitamin D receptors very sneaky leaving
you with the inability to use vitamin D3
if you have a liver disease heart
disease autoimmune disease that's
involving a lot of
inflammation and then let's say for
example you've checked all these things
and nothing is working there is a small
rare chance that it could be something
more serious possibly cancer probably
not but you can always get an assessment
to rule that out number two sudden
weight loss it could be any number of
things it could be
hyperthyroidism and that can actually
speed up the thyroid and cause you to
lose weight also type 1 diabetes
can cause weight loss a disease with
your adrenal glands where they're kind
of shutting down called Addison's
disease also could cause you to lose
weight parasites can cause you to lose
weight number three persistent weakness
this could be Iron you could be anemic
it could also be as simple as not having
enough sodium low sodium will cause
weakness but you can also be weak if
you're low in magnesium vitamin E
and then pottassium deficiency can also
make you weak number four chronic
diarrhea mostly uh diarrhea comes from
food poisoning or eating something that
your body disagreed with it could also
be low zinc one of the symptoms is
diarrhea I think a common reason for a
lot of diarrhea is side effect for
medication so you want to look at that
as well and a lot of people have
irritable bowel syndrome and they're
doing a lot of grains and the grains are
just Terri up their colon they're
getting diarrhea from that but I think a
big one especially if you travel
overseas somewhere getting a parasite
that can create diarrhea in which case
when you get back you need to take a
probiotic a strong one for a long time
to fix that problem and then number five
is persistent stomach or abdomen pain I
would start eating better and then get
rid of the junk food okay that should
handle
95% of the problem right there if it
doesn't suspect other reasons which
could be coming from a gall stone or a
kidney stone and you won't be able to
tell the difference unless they do an
ultrasound or some other test and so a
kidney stone too is not always felt in
the back part it could be felt in the
front as well there's another condition
called small intestinal bacteria
overgrowth where the microbes are in the
small intestine not the large the
solution is to do intermittent fasting
garlic and some ban hydroch chloride but
this is all generated from being very
very sick with the abdomen you could
have like appendicitis you could have a
parasite I mean it could be cancer rare
it could be an ulcer or gallbladder
sludge which is actually more common
than you think the bile starts to
thicken in the tubes and cause backup in
the pancreas and can even create
inflammation of the pancreas called
pancreatitis in which case the remedy is
tudka that will thin the body
give you a tremendous amount of relief
don't ignore these symptoms I had such a
low IQ on the area of nutrition and food
and diet and it's very ironic that I
went to the exact opposite extreme
focusing most of my time now on studying
this topic if a doctor diagnos you and
says it's all in your head ignore them
and go to another doctor and realize
when someone gives you prescription or
even a remedy for something like this
you have to question is this really
correct the underlying cause or is this
suppressing in a symptom that will keep
the problem there longer
