[Music]
hey guys I have a very interesting
follow up from a video we did before on
Stephen Ozma and this guy started out
600 pounds okay I'm having a video up I
mean a picture up right now we're gonna
look at the progression of where he came
from where he is now because people
wanted to know
is he still maintaining his way how was
he doing so I think it's been like 3
years now right oh yeah
3 years of Socktober 6 since I started
awesome first of all they're not gonna
believe that you were 600 pounds right
exactly
but you were 600 pounds yeah 610 yeah
Wow
let me just can I just recap on your how
you got that big because you know like
you weren't born 600 pounds how did you
end up being 600 pounds um just I was I
was always like 375 most of my life and
then I kind of quit working at a really
physical job and I moved to a city and I
had a more sedentary job and it's this
slowly kind of crept on and crept on
over about a 8-year period 10 year
period and the problem was I got so big
then I was like oh I'm gonna try
tomorrow and then 3 4 years later you
know it just it just happened and then
all of a sudden I made a decision to
start and then I lost and capped it off
and it's I've tried like yeah as I told
you before trying to lose it all those
other ways it never worked you know
until I started Aikido and it's probably
been you know the best thing I've ever
done and it's been pretty easy actually
to do it and you also did in a minute
fasting - right I've been doing
intermittent fasting now for a year and
3 months I have one meal a day I'm a 23
while I may be 23 and a half I have one
meal a day and that's it
okay yeah so so here you are 600 pounds
it seems to me that if you're 600 pounds
literally I can't imagine how your knees
would feel walking going up stairs going
on an airport singing in a plane like
times it's just like a whole different
different experience I can't imagine
what was it like
it was tough like I was for 600 pounds I
was fairly mobile but like going up and
down stairs it was tough going into
sitting in a booth summer if it was a
booth instead of a chair or chairs with
arms and then of course the plane I had
to have the arm up and then it's the
poor guy sitting beside me right so it
was tough everything you kind of had to
plan out your your challenge right it
was everything was logistics or she
couldn't sit there be there it was tough
what did you ever notice people looking
at you pointing to you or anything like
that that was probably my worst one that
can supermarkets you know everybody
would look at you and they were kind of
sneer but it was a little kids they
would like point to their moms like look
how fat that boy look how fat that man
is mom and then of course their moms to
be embarrassed but there was a lot of
that because you didn't really realize
how big you were until you see picture
you're standing beside somebody else and
then you don't when you're that big you
don't think well I'm not that big that's
not that bad so I wanna I want to dig
into what you just said there because I
suspected that you haven't really
confronted or face yourself in the
mirror you're probably going around
thinking okay you know you're probably
not looking at the mirror yourself
inspecting right now no no it's when you
get beside somebody and then somebody
points out then you're like okay I gotta
take a look at this and then you kind of
brush it off and there's lots of denial
when you're that big it's like
everything else like oh I don't have a
problem I don't have and then you
actually really do that's just amazing
cuz I did have one gal she was very
large and she the reason what got her to
change as she saw a shadow of herself
and she didn't recognize a shadow I'm
like I mean don't you look in the mirror
like she didn't happen just didn't see
it just kind of block that out so wow I
always knew it was there but I was like
oh yeah tomorrow I can get on it
tomorrow start I can do it tomorrow and
but then you kind of get into routine as
like tomorrow turns into a month turns
into six months turns into a year yeah
and you know it's always a tough thing
because you've tried like I tried like
all the JT craves the diet standards
like all the stuff I could possibly read
that you know the low fat stuff it never
worked I could last maybe a week or two
and then I couldn't do it and as I told
you before is Joe Rogan that's how I
kind of got on
kyoya's watch his podcast and it was
something intriguing and then I kind of
got onto Jimmy Moore I got on to you and
I did my research for like a month like
I found out the beginning September and
I started doing my research I got onto
you and then Stephanie this three you
basically got me started and then I
started doing keto and then once I
started it was just the most amazing
thing and it was easy and I could stay
on it you know one month turned into two
months to three months and I started
sleeping you know the weight started
coming off and it was pretty pretty easy
so easy because you you weren't hungry
or because you could eat fatty foods I
wasn't hungry the biggest thing was the
first two three weeks yeah I had you
know the keto flu or I was going through
the withdrawals it was a little tough
but then after that I was you know
eating the three meals a day I was
having the bacon the eggs you know I was
eating pretty good food so it was really
easy and I was dropping weight pretty
good but my problem at the beginning was
I was reading too many books really you
know up to fat have all this fat I was
taking MCT oil and I was adding all that
stuff on and it was then after about
probably six months I wasn't losing that
much well I was losing weight but not as
much as I thought it was should be
that's right I told you I reached out to
Tristan then you just had on and I
actually hired him as my keto coach and
he basically turned me around and said
hey cut out all that extra fat that mc2
I'll just eat natural food have that the
fat in your hamburger you know start
cutting some of your meals down don't do
what they're seeing just get really
simple and eat whole food so once I did
that that's when I really shot down like
I shot down real then I stole it again
and I started watching you and you
started talking about internet fasting
that's where I started you know a year
and a half ago May and then I really
jumped my last big done because I was
having a little bit of problems again
with the three meals a day you know
doing here the two meals a day then I
really got down an intimate fasting and
I've been doing that now for a year and
a half and I wouldn't do one mill and I
I couldn't even eat two meals a day now
it's so easy and like traveling and
going to friends I have one meal a day
and sometimes they don't eat that meal
if I'm too busy
and I go two days how much how much do
you weigh now I'm down to 248 it's been
kind of a weird year I was 264 last year
in our interview I got down to 248 but I
dropped a couple close sizing and waist
sizes but I'm actually I have a scale
that imma keep an eye on my like you
know my body fat and my muscle
I gained 18 pounds of muscle on this
last year so it's kind of a it's been a
weird year I haven't lost like a ton of
weight but I'm still happy I lost you
know down to 248 but I've actually put
on a lot of muscle so I always wanted to
get down at 225 but I think I'm gonna
kind of be in this area this 242 248 I
do have a few more pounds Liz but it
hasn't slowing down for me but I keep
going up through my muscle every month
I'm doing 2 pounds to a pound of muscle
because I've been working out five days
a week doing a lot of weights Wow so
this whole thing about weight near the
end kind of gotta throw it aside go on
your clothing size like that's a big one
for me I went from a 3x now I'm down to
an extra-large 2x depends are closed I
went from a 40 38 waist ill at 36 38 and
just the whole shape of your body has
changed so you know everybody's worried
about the scale I don't you know in this
last year I just don't really care about
it I kind of know I feel clothing size
but I'm gaining weight I know it's kind
of funny we're all trying to lose weight
but I'm gaining I'm getting the right
kind of weight in muscle yeah did they
ever do an ultrasound or any type of
test that that you detected a fatty
liver back then I know I've never did
any tests I'm actually going my doctor
right now of my cholesterol my LDLs a
little high and I keep trying he's
trying to put me back on statins but my
HDL super high so I've talked him into
sending me to a cardiologist to get
those tests that we talked about to get
that done so I'm actually just in the
process of gonna go to a cardiologist
who can in Canada here can run those
tests we don't we have free medical here
so my doctor's gonna send me to
cardiologist to get attempts for the LDL
because I don't know
want to go on statins you know you know
I I'm in really good health now and I
know what you've explained it many times
so is a lot of people you know I have
like a 1.57 HDL and my LDL is four point
seven he's concerned I'm like I'm not
worried about it I'm like is it which
size is it he's like oh I can't tell you
because the tests that I do I can't do
it so I got to go to a cardiologist
he'll run those other blood tests that
the lifted chest or whatever those are
called so I don't yeah we do so you know
no we're gonna we were just talking to
Dave Feldman is the cholesterol guru
he's coming to the summit and he's gonna
be we're just going through how we're
gonna educate people on this because
it's a good point that keeps coming up
and I think it comes up because we're
obviously in in um you know brainwashed
into thinking cholesterol is bad but
here's some really interesting this
observations on cholesterol and and why
it might be high when you're keto it's
basically has to do with energy delivery
it's that's all it has to do with
there's nothing to do with anything else
but I just just got from Iver Cummings
who's also coming this research thing
that he sent me that totally concludes
that LDL cholesterol and total
cholesterol do not in any way shape or
form contribute to heart disease heart
attacks zero and so I have this paper
I'm gonna release it at release it at
the summit so well it didn't help us
here my doctor there was just an article
put out a probably on face book on all
the news that some big cardiologists
said that keto is terrible for us and
we're all gonna have heart attacks so he
brought that article up to me I said I'm
not going on statins I've been off it
forever
I've never felt better you know he's a
little dip formula with your age and
when you we do the 10 here you're you're
at the 10% risk I'm like I'll take my
chances then he's like how about we go
into an agreement I'll send you the
cardiologist let him decide so that's
how I said okay if you want to send me
to another specialist yeah because they
don't believe that I've lost all this
weight
in this time I actually had to show my
doctor pictures doesn't know how I've
done it he doesn't know how I eat once a
day he still can you know the doctors
are confused and yeah you know they're
on the old way so yeah the the more
educated they are the more educated they
are in the wrong information the more
the harder is to unfix their fixed ideas
and it's it's almost like that's why I
like working with younger doctors
doctors that are more open and there's
quite a few of them is a huge movement
of Doc's that are actually going into
more Quito so okay so now I have a
question like when you were when you
weighed 600 pounds did you have a
tremendous amount of food or did you
have a moderate amount of food but it
was mainly carbohydrates well what did
you eat ah I eat a lot of sandwiches I
was big into the breads and the deli
meats and then pizza and chips okay I
think that quite a bit but I didn't eat
a lot during the day what my worst thing
is I would get home from work and then I
would have way too much I never was big
into sugar so yeah I was I was a carb
guy you know they had to work sweets the
pizza I'm single I'm not married so I
would order food in or I would go buy
the stuff I liked and yeah I eat too
much because it was a comfort thing as
icky the worst thing was for me is like
you're working in you're busy and I'm
just and you get home and you really
crave that and you want it so you want
so bad so you eat it but after you're
done eating to say that Pizza you feel
so shitty you're so down it's like that
whole mood side in crash like I know I
should have done this I should have went
to the gym I'm no tomorrow I'm not gonna
have this pizza and I went on that
battle for two years three years and
people have used to tell me you're
depressed but I didn't think I was the
best sons get up every day going to work
they're like you know you need to
smarten up so there's but my biggest
issue that I was having near the end my
I had water attention in my lower legs
and I died is probably my biggest
problem and too nowadays since I had
such bad water retention in my lower
legs they you know they would swell they
were like the redness I do have a skin
issue from that so my skin is fairly
weak so if I actually bump my
and my skin kind of peels like an onion
and there's nothing really we can do
about it it heals but I do have a little
bit after all of a sudden I have the
skin but I also have my lower shins
where I had the water retention that
skins never really gonna come back I've
been told because of just the water
attention and your skin down there so
that was my worst thing and still I do
have quite a bit of a skin issue still
because you know I was in a deck so now
it's never gonna go away I've been to a
couple Plastic Surgeons they tell me the
operations are huge like you know
they're gonna do like the upside down
tea cut it like it's like you're out for
six weeks they have drains in for me I'm
happy with what I look like I do have
the skin but hey it's a reminder to
never get back there right I'm not gonna
go do it it's $100,000 I have to do five
operations there's five different
operations to get rid of all the skin
and then you have all the scars I met an
age now I'm happy I'm not gonna do it
cuz I don't want to be out for two years
no and it's a major operation so at the
end of the day it doesn't bother me you
know I've been happy with it I kept had
this full year to go back and forth I've
seen some specialists and you know I
don't want to do that it's it's a pretty
major operation yeah yeah I could
imagine that well the positive note when
you're doing in a minute fasting like
you are that will improve some of it
over time yeah if you could actually do
periodic prolonged fasting let's let's
say like every few months you go to 72
hours what will happen is like you're
you'll you'll see even more change for
the skin because the amount of recycling
of the damaged proteins your body will
start sucking some of that back so that
will improve if you wanted to do that
yeah I do that like without even trying
because sometimes I go home or I'm on a
trip somewhere and there's no food I
like all this it's you know it gets to
be eight o'clock at night and I haven't
ate that day oh the skipping go to the
next night and eight o'clock you know to
me I can go and I can go that far people
don't you know and I still work oh the
thing is I do pretty good like I do 45
minutes a pretty hard way today and I do
at least 35 minutes of cardio I do you
know cardio I do that five days a week
and you know I'm getting little bit
older but like I've had really good
gains and I'm only I checked out my
protein because you guys are always
asking me I'm doing about 50 grams a day
of protein between you know my hamburger
and say it's some cheese on it I do that
every day I kind of beat on a type of
guy that has five days we've had a ton
of the same ish meal what I have
increased though is my salad I used to
have a smaller square cell and now I
have the one big one so and I'm doing
more of a power greens I was always
eating kale now I'm doing one called an
organic power mix it's just got arugula
spinach kale and some chars in it and I
have one of those everyday religiously
Lions so that's what I eat I you know
pretty simple if I go to a restaurant
you'll have a Caesar salad or a
hamburger no bun but you know I'm down
to one meal at a half-hour a day and you
know I you know a couple times a day
twice a day which I didn't even feel
good so you know because you're opening
an event or something but 99% of the
time I'm down to one meal half hour the
15 minutes it takes me to eat that meal
and that's all I have it and that's at
the end of the day I don't interfere I
don't eat in the morning I don't eat to
like 7:30 8 o'clock at night after my
old day is done because I don't have
time and you know I've never felt better
I guess probably the the biggest thing I
can tell people is intermittent fasting
is probably the only secret to this
whole to this whole like business that
we do but it takes a little bit of
determination and it takes a little bit
of skill but once you get on it and your
grocery bill goes down like I spend next
nothing on money and food like people go
out and they order all this stuff and I
you know I I I don't spend more than a
hundred $125 a month on food and I'm I'm
6 foot tall I'm 47 years old and I eat a
pretty nice meal every day I don't know
so incredible incredible this is this is
good data an average person who's not
overweight in their lifetime
Toomes 56 tons of food and I'm talking
about the guy that's doing three meals
two snacks so I think I think we're
bodies really don't need as much as food
as we think but the cool thing is like
you're not doing low calories per se
you're actually having just roti
you're having a good meal yeah so
everyone says like hawking of the same
kind of stuff so i'll do two hamburger
patties that I make you know by hand and
I cook those at kind of mash them up
then I put some shredded cheese on it I
put some I use Frank's hot sauce and
then I put my spices on and have that on
top I put that back in the microwave
melt the cheese on top I have that last
so I have my big salad first I put my
spices on there add my olive oil mix
dressing I eat that first I'm feeling
pretty full after that salad and then I
have my nice tasty hot meal at the end
and I'm full and I'm always satisfied in
everyone's like how can you be the same
thing every day just about well by the
time you go to eat your meal at you know
after 23 hours it looks pretty good to
you yes they see and that's all you need
because I know I need to have that salad
I need to have the nutrients and I
actually enjoy the salad for some reason
like why don't you cook like broccoli
why don't you just like to me doing all
those extra recipes you might get in a
habit of eating too much and you don't
really need it tell me that's really
that's all right
I'm a sink I'm a single guy I didn't
don't have time to sit there and cook
all these fancy they make keto meals and
the biggest thing that I've had this
last year to go on besides this I've
actually inspired quite a few people
that I know probably 10 to 15 Wow that
have done keto in the last year and I
don't really preach to them about you
know I tell them kind of how to start
out they ask me a lot of questions and
I've had people lose over a hundred
pounds sixty-five pounds
they've never done better but people
don't believe me like my sister I was
just back home and she's been trying for
a year on Weight Watchers she's lost 5
pounds over the whole year I was home a
month ago and she's already down just
about 15 pounds she cannot believe it
and she's eating food that she never
would have ate on Weight Watchers and
now her other friends in her little
Weight Watchers group they're trying to
Iquitos so they kind of put Weight
Watchers aside and getting on keto
because you know for girls this little
tougher but I just but their problem is
they're eating a little too much the
beginning so I said why do you have to
have two for meatballs have two
meatballs I try to see everybody just
start cutting back your food
you can't just be open on keto to eat
five hamburgers ten pieces of bacon
salad you have to have portion control
and you don't need a left food you'll
feel fine so I didn't yeah I think I
think especially when you're doing in a
minute fasting like I tell people to do
it together in initial stages they know
they're not gonna go for a period of
time with eating and the mental thought
is like oh my I better eat as much as I
can because I'm not gonna survive I'm
like and then I'll listen you do it and
I'm like well I'm okay with this but the
problem is if you eat too much you're
gonna be so freaking stuffed you're
gonna feel comfortable you you can have
a decent meal because think about it
what you're burning is you're burning
also your own fat and that's part of the
meal between the meals any look big one
that people don't discuss enough is the
insulin when you eat a a meal I try to
tell this to the people that I've helped
there's a credit people reach out to me
if you eat food you're I always telling
you have four to five hours after you
even put a bite full of know like you
know absolute just fat your insulins
gonna go up so you can't lose weight so
if you think you can eat this and have
another you know fat bomb or another
snack you're never gonna lose weight you
have to like my success runs like how
did you lose 340 pounds in two years
well I found a solution you need that a
whole bit of time where there's no food
in your body where that's how you lose
this weight you only meet that one meal
a day but I tell people don't go crazy
maybe do an eight hour eating window do
and then go down to a six hour and then
get down to a four hour and then if you
can't get really good get down to that
half hour just have one meal a day and
you you have to get rid of that insulin
in your body you're never gonna lose
weight it's a huge one yeah tonight I'm
doing a webinar on in a minute fasting
we're going to talk about a couple
things
related to what you just said which is
how much your insulin can within 24
hours of fasting your insulin drops by
70% so you drop in this insulin that is
the switch that allows you to now tap
into your own fat
get rid of inflammation and like even
like the swelling in your ankles that
was from all the starches and stuff it
was basically a severe probably a
vitamin b1 deficiency and that the heart
was working harder where but the other
thing is the diff when you when people
do keto sometimes they don't do enough
vegetables and this is what happens
they'll do well because they're dropping
insulin but then they'll plateau and one
of the reasons is because they don't
have the diversity of microbes in the
gut to make things like butyric acid and
these other things that help you take
you to one step further they'll they
help you with your blood sugars they
help with digestion I mean even
overweight people have a completely
different profile of microbes than
thinner people so I'm on the same
wavelength is what you're talking about
since salad is the probably the most
important like and I'm trying to get my
people that I'm kind of coaching helping
out I'm like you need to eat this big
salad first they're like I take five
white folds and I'm full I'm like just
trust me need it and eat it more it'll
be the best thing for you because the
protein is what I need for muscles and
it's giving me my little taste but I
actually enjoy the bigger salad and I
switched out about six months ago and
I've had better success I'm feeling way
more satiated satisfied and having
double the salad and it you know it just
helps more and like everyone's like cool
you know your guts feel better your mood
feels better and it's weird doubling the
salad not the protein the protein
actually makes me feel worse then
doubling that salad and I mix I was
always straight on kale for so long but
it's hard to find straight organic kale
salads yeah she cut it stuff so I they
have this thing called I found a really
good one power greens and it's got
everything in it I've been happy on that
I still take a little bit of my vitamin
regimen see I still do my potassium and
my magnesium and my multivitamins and a
few of those I do that every day but you
know the secret is and I still got some
fat to lose but you know the really
weird thing in this last year is I've
seen some people I go home and I've only
lost 14 pounds us last year ish but
they're like holy God you got skinny
like they've really noticed it for some
reason
I haven't lost a lot of weight I lost
way more weight in the past but this
last year
I'm cuz I've gone down in sizes but I've
gained some muscle people are really
starting to notice now that you're
skinnier than the normal person I've
never had that in the past I guess you
would say there's a lot of people
noticing now even guys at work I haven't
seen in a two weeks or like quite you're
looking skinnier and only I may be a
loss like a powder it's kind of a weird
one you know that sort of been seeing a
lot of it this year a lot of a lot more
people have noticed I've lost a lot less
weight this year but you're kind of
shifting your body I don't know what it
is it's that it's become position a
couple things that happened with your
liver has to your body has to eat up all
that fat from the liver and even the
pancreas before you can truly get rid of
insulin resistance so you have a lot of
metabolic things happening internally
that are probably a priority it's like
rebuilding protein structures cellular
protein apparatuses versus just dumping
the excess energy which is fat so your
body has its own priority of what it
does and as long as you're shrinking
you're feeling good don't take it as a
loss one point I want to bring up with
the protein which I'm in a total
agreement this is one thing we're going
to talk about at the summit is that I'm
not going to kind of get off into two to
tactical but too much protein actually
makes your life a little bit shorter
because you're actually it puts a lot of
waste into the liver and things like
that yeah so people actually live longer
if they have the right amount of protein
not nothingjust
and in the formula dye use now which is
basically like I knew you like your size
probably about 50 50 55 grams of protein
per day which is yeah that's just like
that's eight ounces okay so per day and
if you have that much and don't go crazy
with too much you actually live longer
and especially new internment
fascinating you live a lot longer so
it's
really important especially with
longevity let's see what that big thing
that everybody tells me and so like if
you're working out you you know you
should be gaining muscle like I you know
kept track because there's some comments
made last year on your thing they're
like well if you're doing this and this
but I really kept track of the muscle
and I have gained quite a bit of muscle
it should I know because I'm getting way
stronger but you don't need a lot of
this food and I have a lot of energy I
work all day you know I work around home
you know and then I go to the gym every
night and I still got I come home from
the gym I'm more energized like if I
don't tell myself I got to eat I
probably forget about it cuz I'm even
more pumped after working out so this
whole thing of you need all this food
for energy you need all this other stuff
once you get yourself converted over and
you can stick to the intimate fasting
like I just put a scare so you know the
biggest thing I've been finding and all
these articles that are coming out
against us and say I think sugar
companies are after us I think the carb
companies are after us I think the
doctors at risk I keep saying no my
doctor keeps telling me to go on statins
I'm like no way like you know so the
threat to a very large industry and I'm
surprised we don't actually hear more
because think about how much money is
tied in with carbs oh it's hard you go
to a supermarket like I try to ruler I
try and find a few things I'm trying to
you know I test take people shopping to
show them how to read stuff and how to
do stuff and you know this is a tough
one out there that's me I'm a simple
kind of guy like I'll tell people if you
want really good success long-term is
stay simple find a few good things you
like and stay simple don't go to these
keto books sorry P no people and have
all these elaborate meals cuz you're
gonna end up eating too much you don't
know your portion size and you're gonna
eat too much yeah good point
very good point yeah I agree I'll keep
it simple I mean what I eat I mean I'm
like I throw some salad in a bowl
I'll have today I'll be having a
hamburger and maybe it's some nuts
that's it that's all I'm doing so it's
like dr. burr once you create a video
I'm like it's too boring it's just you
so I'm the exact same way I get that
from my family and my friends endow me
they just shake their head at me and
like I am worse
despite that I had ever been satisfied
with the meal I have and I'm excited to
eat that meal there's no issue about
being bored anymore
now now I know it's a great way well
Stephen I really appreciate you doing
this follow-up because now people can
see that no you didn't gain the weight
back
you're continuously progress it is
working versus the Biggest Loser program
which you know that doesn't really work
well do another one a year later here
and how great it's gonna do you know
it's like I'm having more success this
last year I've enjoyed this this last
year more than I've ever enjoyed
anything because I've been at a smaller
size my workouts again better I can I'll
tell people I can shop close on a
regular rack I can you know I can fit in
any seat I don't worry like you said at
the beginning I don't worry about a
booth I'm like let's go sit let's get on
that plane see that's all fly economy
you know right so it's you know and I'm
traveling a lot more you know
socializing more so the whole thing of
where I was three years ago almost dead
to where I am now and then the life
ahead of me that I have and especially
then I'm at fasting yeah you know mrs.
Soto this is so huge well done Stephen
so thank thanks yeah thank you thank you
