hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about fasting BDNF and hippocampus okay
let's just define some terms here BDNF
brain-derived neurotrophic factor okay
I'll explain what it is but first I just
want to talk about the basic neuron the
brain cell
we have dendrites over here which are
like the receptors so like the ears okay
and the information is transmitted to
the cell body and then it's sent out
through the accident so the axon is the
communicator it's the ice like the mouth
okay so the axon does the talking and
the dendrites do the listening so we
have this whole communication thing
going on okay and it communicates to the
dendrites on the next neuron so we have
this entire communication going from one
nerve cell to the next nerve cell so
fasting increases something called
neural plasticity which basically gets
the nerves in communication now if
you've ever been to a restaurant you'll
observe this with couples that are
completely out of communication they're
sitting there they're eating they
haven't said a word to each other okay
and then you look around two other
couples that they're in communication
okay so it's much better in the brain if
the cells are talking to each other in
listening that's the foundation of
health in fact all disease relates to a
lack of communication in the body so
when you have a decrease in B D and F
you have neuro degeneration you
eventually get diabetes you have
increased inflammation your LDL
increases you worsen MS which is an
autoimmune disorder so fasting has the
ability to get your cells to start
talking again number two it increases
neurogenesis which is the making of new
neurons so not only do we have this
neurons talking but we have more
production of new neurons being created
and number three this compound can
repair the DNA of neurons in fact that's
going to protect against certain
mutations which actually can develop
into cancer and other diseases so even
though fasting can spike BDNF aerobic
exercise can also improve it as well
vitamin D can increase it omega-3 fatty
acids can increase it going on a keto
diet and producing ketones can improve
it you're automatically going to lower
your calories without creating a
nutritional deficiency because your body
will start to adapt and your
requirements for nutrients won't be as
much if you're doing frequent meals I
would highly recommend not to do the
typical low calorie diet where you see
people doing you know eating every hour
through the day just keeping your
calories low because you're going to be
creating a lot of spikes in insulin
every time you eat not to mention
probably nutritional deficiencies so you
do fasting eat less frequently and eat a
little bit bigger meal that's what I'm
going to recommend now the combination
of having your neurons communicate
better listen better and making neurons
and repairing DNA mainly occur in a
structure called the hippocampus of the
brain now there's not a lot known about
the hippocampus but we do know it's
related to these things right here if
you improve at BO campus okay you can
improve memory you can improve your
ability to learn you can improve your
mood you can improve your spatial
navigation so let's say for example
you're trying to drive across town and
you're trying to find out where
something is if you have a good
hippocampus you can find it quite easily
and you may not even need a GPS okay and
also it can increase something called an
inhibitory control well what is that
well this is your ability and your
strength to say no to certain stimulus
is okay so let's say for example you see
a chocolate cake can you resist that so
your strength at resisting things that
aren't good for you okay that's called
inhibitory control some people cannot do
that as you improve the hippocampus
through fasting you'll be able to have
more willpower and you'll have the
ability to be less addicted to certain
things alright guys thanks so much for
watching and if you're new to them in of
fasting and you want to know more I
created a little summary sheet of how to
do it healthily down below check it out
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications daily
notifications that sounds
weird well I'll just remind you on a
daily basis how about that
