so are you on the keto ish diet now I
know this might be shocking but someone
actually put a comment calling me the
keto police can you believe that well I
just wanna let you know that's the last
half that I want to wear I am NOT the
keto police I want to be the keto
teacher to show you how to do keto
correctly but you have people that are
perfect with keto very consistent to
doing a combination of high-quality and
nutrient-dense foods low carb they're
doing in a minute fasting correctly and
then over here you have people that are
do keto on the weekends and they pretty
much eat whatever they want during the
weekdays that's called the five and two
and you got other people doing dirty
keto which basically is low quality
foods but they're generally keeping the
same format low carb moderate protein
high fat so you might see them at
7-eleven they're eating whatever foods
but within the framework of keto and
then you got the people doing lazy keto
which they're not really looking at
quantities of calories they're pretty
much just eating when they're hungry and
then they just eat as much as they want
but they are keeping the carbs low which
is good okay and you have people that
are eating correctly but they have that
cheat day in there or maybe a cheat meal
and then you got people that are eating
correctly for the most part but they
allow some bad stuff occasionally so I
have a question for you
where would you fit yourself on the
scale 1 to 10 okay so go ahead and
comment below and just to see where the
numbers fall but I like to look at
healthy keto and I F as tools to change
your body okay so you just have the
quality of food grass-fed things like
that pasture-raised eggs the nutrients
and then you have lowering of the carb
lowering of the insulin which creates
all sorts of benefits internment fasting
can really dramatically increase your
ketones and create amazing health
benefits so it really depends on what
kind of health situation you want to
change how much weight do you want to
lose and how fast you want to get there
I think most people can do in a minute
fasting most people can do fairly low
carb and
keep the fat high in the moderate
protein but there is a weakness with
certain carbs and also wine and things
like that that people tend to really
enjoy they want to do that and I also
think that for the most part people can
do quality foods but maybe not enough
vegetables so I really think there's
three goals in mind when you're doing
this ok
number one do you have a present time
body problem do you need to get your
body out of trouble ok do you have an
inflammatory condition do you have a lot
of weight to lose okay if you do then
you should probably do it pretty strict
ok ok number two the goal should also be
to create new habits to do it to the
point where it's not hard you groove it
in it becomes second nature you know
exactly what to eat you don't have to
count anything because it's become a
habit
ok a lot of people have a habit of
snacking at night for example or eating
the wrong food or they get into this
social situation where the habits kind
of shift okay well if you have a new
habit then you won't have to do that and
the third thing and I think this is very
very important and vital building a
health reserve so what does this mean it
means you're creating so much health you
have such an abundance of health you
don't have to be perfect all the time
you can go off the program when you want
to you get right back on because you're
thinking of it like a tool it's not
something that if you go off you have to
feel guilty about
you know you created enough health
reserve that you can go off when you
want to but you understand the effects
and you're willing to experience some of
those and this is probably the most
important thing to build up this health
reserve so you're bulletproof down the
road and you have the flexibility not to
be always perfect alright see you next
video so if you want to get notified
with all my content click the
notification bell next to subscribed
