all right this is pretty cool I'm going
to show you how to make your own Vitamin
D supplements using mushrooms now
mushrooms are normally grown in the dark
and the only light they see is some
fluorescent light when they're either
being uh picked or processed and
mushrooms have uh very insignificant
amounts of vitamin D unless you expose
that mushroom to ultraviolet
light and there's some very cool
research on exposing these mushrooms to
light and boosting the vitamin D levels
to levels far greater than the rdas you
can boost the vitamin D and mushrooms to
levels of 5,000 international units to
46,000 international units and Beyond
and so in this video I'm going to to
show you exactly how to do it you can
use oyster mushrooms uh shitake mataki
or button mushrooms and there's other
mushrooms you can use as well and when
they did the research and exposed uh
mushrooms to light they found that if
you exposed the gills the little ridges
underneath the cap you get the maximum
conversion to vitamin D now because the
button mushrooms don't have those little
gills uh we're going to cut them or
slice them lengthwise to expose more
surface area to create a similar effect
now I will say that the type of vitamin
D mushrooms have is vitamin D2 and so
it's a slightly different version of
vitamin D and it's not as bioavailable
and it has a shorter um halflife but
that's okay because you're going to be
boosting the levels of vitamin D uh at a
really good range so the amount of
absorption you're going to get is going
to be pretty good I'm also going to
recommend that you consume your
mushrooms with some type of fat like
butter saut√©ing your mushrooms simply
because vitamin D absorption is
increased when you add a fat since
vitamin D is a fat cable vitamin but
mushrooms have some pretty good
nutrients it has a really good range of
B vitamins it has selenium zinc copper
it has the vitamin C complex and it has
potassium and many other nutrients and
they're great on keto because they're
lown net carb all right so this is how
you're going to do it you number one
you're going to obtain mushrooms either
from the store or finding them in the
woods or you're going to grow them
yourself like I did recently but I
recommend the shitake matake oyster or
the button mushroom now in order to have
this mushroom create this conversion and
Spike the vitamin D you're going to need
uh ultraviolet B light and unfortunately
you're not going to see much of that in
the winter or you're living at certain
latitudes in parts of the world in the
north so I'm going to recommend that you
do this during the summer months but you
can also do it in the winter using a UV
light so if it's summer June July August
so what you're G to do is you're going
to take your mushrooms face up you're
going to take the stems off so the gills
are pointing upward and the app is
towards this sheet like a cookie sheet
for example so you want to take the
stems out because the stems don't really
give you much vitamin D but the gills do
so this is mainly for the shitake the
mitake or the oyster because the button
mushroom doesn't have the gills if
you're going to use the button mushroom
I would slice them lengthwise okay so
you're going to lay them down on a
cookie sheet and you're going to put
these mushrooms out in the sun okay
between 10 o'clock in the morning to 6 o
in the early evening that will give you
8 hours of exposure to Prime sun which
is exposure to UV B radiation so at 6
o'clock you're going to take this tray
back into the house maybe you cover it
you want to make sure there's not a lot
of moisture because you're trying to
sundry these
mushrooms then the next day day two
you're going to bring them back out in
the sun and do the same procedure expose
them to this bright Sun between 10:00 in
the morning to 6:00 in the evening then
you're going to bring them back into the
house and hopefully they're completely
dried out the way that you know that
they're dried out is you can just snap
them in half and they should be pretty
crisp if they're still soggy then you
might need to use a dehydrator to
completely dry them so once they're
completely dry which they normally
should be out in the sun after two days
you want to put them in a glass jar and
seal the lid I also recommend putting a
little bit of uh just rice at the bottom
maybe about this thick just to help you
absorb the moisture because moisture
reactivates the mushrooms and we're
trying to put them in a dry state to
dehydrate them so they'll last up to a
year so once you get them in this glass
container um now you preserve them for a
good amount of time but they found that
if you actually keep drying these
mushrooms out in the sun day three four
five the level of vitamin D goes down
dramatically so you only want to do this
for two days now if it's not during
summertime you can buy a UV light and do
the same exact procedure but check this
out 100 grams which is like roughly one
cup of shitake mushrooms can give you up
to
46,000 IUS of vitamin
D2 I mean that is
incredible now when you use a a light
that has UV B radiation and you expose
shitake mushrooms for 18 hours now I
hope you're sitting down for this you
could potentially boost the vitamin D2
that's well over 200,000 IUS of vitamin
D this is mind-blowing but that's the
potential conversion if you did do that
and let's say for example you didn't eat
a cup let's say you ate just a small
amount that'll give you a tremendous
amount of vitamin D and you made this V
vamin D in your own home now if you do
this procedure to button mushrooms
you'll get a little bit less you'll get
about 20,000 I use now in other studies
U they're just using mushrooms that are
not drying out they'll expose just fresh
mushrooms in the Sun for between 15 and
120 minutes and they'll get levels
between 600 IUS to up to 5,000 IUS just
from a shorter period of time
and this is without exposing the gills
it's just putting the mushrooms out in
the sun so the whole point and the whole
concept of this is to expose mushroom to
the Sun or some light that has UVB
radiation so now that you know how to
make your own vitamin
D2 the next thing is to understand fully
the benefits of vitamin D and I put that
video up right here check it out
