so today we're gonna talk about how to
get rid of bloating and abdominal
distension
alright the major source of bloating in
your gut is microbial fermentation now
what does that mean fermentation
fermentation is simply the chemical
breakdown of a carbohydrate by a microbe
and the microbes are releasing enzymes
to help break down carbohydrates
specifically fiber but also other
carbohydrates and sugars too but these
microbes have the ability to break down
fiber
whereas our bodies do not have the
ability to do that
so these microbes can break down these
undigestible fibers and turn them into
some interesting things one as it turns
it into a small chain fatty acids so
these microbes are turning fibre into a
type of fat very interesting also lactic
acid also methane ok methane gas and
hydrogen gas which by the way this is
very explosive long time ago they use
mannitol and some type of device to help
certain people with constipation
apparently there's been situations of
intra-abdominal explosions with somehow
sparking some of these gases and
creating a terrible effect so now they
don't use the mannitol in that device
anymore thank goodness okay co2 is
another by-product and then nitrogen gas
and by the way these gases right here
have no odor but this one does hydrogen
sulfide and there's several other gases
too that will produce a very bad odor an
average person actually produces between
200 and 2,000 milliliters of gas every
single day from this process so one of
the enzymes that these microbes make is
called cellulase to break down cellulose
because that's a fiber so anytime that
says ace that means it's an enzyme so in
this case an enzyme is something that
actually breaks something down and most
of this process of fermentation happens
in the large bowel but if you have a
condition where the micro
directory in your small intestine it's
called SIBO small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth then you're gonna have a big
problem because you're gonna get
fermentation in the wrong place and that
can create a lot of abdominal distension
so there's a couple things you need to
do if you have a lot of bloating
first of all adjust your carbohydrates
and when I'm talking about carbohydrates
I'm talking about it adjust or eliminate
like certain things like fruit garlic
onions fruit asparagus milk has lactose
in it and so does yogurt you just need
to avoid these right here and there are
other vegetables as well that you need
to avoid when I put a link down below
for more data on that if you have this
problem but these are a must so I just
would avoid these things right here so
you want to adjust the carbs and adjust
the fiber so maybe you don't want to
consume the large quantities especially
if you have this happening in your small
intestine okay because it's gonna
overload the system so you might want to
cut back on the fiber and see where your
body is comfortable but what's
interesting is these microbes will adapt
to almost any environment so as you
change your diet these microbes will
adapt to that and they'll grow and
you'll get a more diversified family of
microbes just to adapt to what you're
eating so over time you'll get less gas
and I also forgot to mention beans of
course that's sort of a given but I do
want to mention that that crates that
can create a lot of gas
next thing is add a good probiotic if
you add more microbes you can get more
help to digest some of this fiber you
have a more complete digestion and you
have less gas now when you consume
things like fennel and ginger and anise
and peppermint these help reduce
abdominal distension and help release
the gas because they relax the colon and
the little sphincters which are valves
so there's less pressure in your
abdominal area it doesn't get rid of the
gas by dissolving it it just allows the
gas to pass the next and the last thing
which is very important is to acidify
the stomach
either with apple cider vinegar or a
betaine how to chloride that'll just
improve the digestion in the stomach
area so then the small intestine doesn't
have to work so hard as well as the
large intestine alright thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
video
and if you haven't already subscribed
click the red button below and that
little Bell icon so you can be notified
of all the new videos that I'm gonna be
releasing and I have some very cool and
interesting videos coming up in the next
coming weeks plus in addition to that
you'll be notified of the live Q&A
sessions that I'm going to be doing
throughout the week and you don't want
to miss those as well so stay tuned for
more great content
