hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about the fifth body type what is
the fifth body
type well you have the adrenal which is
high levels of cortisol that's a stress
hormone you have the thyroid body type
which is low levels of thyroid hormone
T4 or T3 okay that gives an overall
weight gain in the entire body this one
is more of a sagging
belly then we have the ovary type that's
like a pear shape it's heavier around
the hips the thighs the lower butt that
is high levels of
estrogen okay then we have the liver
which is more of a protruding basketball
belly that is uh liver damage and then
you're going to have low growth hormone
okay and what's the fifth the pancreas
High insulin that's insulin
resistance okay now this is what's
confusing a lot of people are a mixed
body type and they have various symptoms
but there's a much easier way to figure
out your primary body type but more than
that the primary cause of your body type
okay the trigger for example the body
shape for the
adrenal can look identical to the
pancreas body shape but because from two
different things this is stress
triggered let's say you had surgery you
had trauma you had an accident you had a
divorce you had years of being in a very
stressful situation and then you got fat
because of high
cortisol okay that could be the trigger
for your adrenal body type or let's say
you ate a lot of
sugar or refine carbs and ate a lot of
uh frequent meals that could also uh
give the same adrenal body type
appearance sagging belly weight in the
midsection so just by looking at the
outside of the body you can't really
tell what what's causing the problem
could it be stress related could be food
related so let's take the liver body
type what could cause that fatty liver
curosis inflammation of the liver like a
hepatitis which could come from a virus
this could come from being an alcoholic
but you can also have nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease which comes from
insulin so this can give you this body
shape right
here okay and then as far as the OV body
type this usually comes from
environmental estrogen like the
chemicals and the GMO Foods uh the
pesticides insecticides herbicides it
could come from birth control pills or
something in the environment that mimics
estrogen that then gives you this shape
right here then we have the thyroid body
type which is Wake gain all over but
this is usually secondary to high levels
of estrogen which can then lower the
thyroid
or you can have liver damage and then
the thyroid can't convert T4 to T3 so it
could come primarily from the liver and
cause the thyroid issue so really the
question is when did you start becoming
this certain shape and have these
certain symptoms and what happened just
before that event and that's going to
tell you like the more important thing
that goes beyond the body types of the
trigger so you can undo it was it a
stressful situation was it a surgery was
was it a divorce whatever was it a sugar
situation in which case you're going to
you know fix the diet get the basics in
um was it some chemical environment end
called endocrine disruptors that you
need to start consuming a lot more
cruciferous to clean that up or was it
alcohol in which case you have to stop
drinking alcohol was it a certain
medication let's say you're on steroids
there I have certain videos and what to
do if you been on steroids how to
reverse that damage or was it coming
from a virus a virus can destroy the
liver it could also mess with the
thyroid so you really want to think
Beyond just the body types now cortisol
estrogen and
Insulin are the three fat making
hormones they're dominating hormones in
the presence of any one of these you're
going to nullify and block all the fat
burning hormones okay one of the fat
burning hormones would be T4 T3 that's
the thyroid hormone another big one
would be human growth hormone so if
these are too high these will be
suppressed so that's why the thyroid and
the adrenal are usually secondary to
these other ones does that make sense
because these are dominating now out of
these three this one insulin is the most
dominating so in reality this would
probably be the most uh common body type
but you could also look like this you
could look like this you can even look
like that because of the influence of
insulin on these other glands so in
summary just isolate when your problem
started okay with your body shape and
these other symptoms and try to find out
what triggered it was it stress was it
diet was it something in the environment
was it alcohol was there medication was
there an infection and that will give
you the clue to reverse and undo your
specific body body
type hey if you enjoyed this video press
subscribe and I will definitely keep you
updated
