hi Dr Berg here in this video I want to
I want to show you what's behind all
these diets I have pretty much every
diet book on the planet this is a list
this is the stack all goes all the way
down and I have another Warehouse or a
library filled with these books and I've
studied these extensively and this is
what I found they're very incomplete
they work when you're on them they don't
work when you stop and you gain the
weight back now in your 20s chances are
you can pretty much do any diet and lose
weight but as you age something happens
30s 40s 50s something shifts and what
shifts is your hormones so the hormones
start going lower and lower and lower
and you actually have hormones that burn
fat okay there's six of them that burn
fat and you have three of them that make
fat all right now let's just take the
evolution of a diet it started out low
fat
okay just then the assumption that if
you actually ate less fat you would be
less fat right makes logical sense but
it didn't work like that especially in
relationship between these hormones
because fat is neutral it doesn't
increase these or it doesn't decrease it
does no has no effect on them the effect
it does have is it messes with your
liver so if you have too much fat it
blocks a liver that's then would block
the ability to burn fat because all the
fat goes through the liver so but a on
fat is totally fine butter is totally
fine but just don't do the deep fried
catfish now I wanted to gain weight in
high school so I started eating more fat
thinking I would gain more weight but I
started losing more weight so the point
is that fat is neutral okay and they
found that it didn't really work lowfat
diets don't really work and then the
next step was the low calorie
diet okay the problem with low calories
is it actually creates a little bit of a
starvation in your body and one of the
fat making hormones is a stress hormone
called cortisol the belly fat hormone so
low calorie diets actually increase
belly fat and they starve you of the
nutrients they create nutritional
deficiencies because you're cutting the
calories and you're cutting the
nutrients you see the problem So Cal low
calores might work when you're 20 but
not when you get older in fact they ruin
your metabolism and some of you already
know that you've already done that and
because your body adapts the whole
hormones
compensate I developed a program um
several years ago I spent $150,000 to
create this software to do this one
thing and that is to evaluate diets and
Foods based on nutrients I wanted to
know what diets have the most nutrients
and you can fill it out and find out
what what you ate and then it'll
evaluate compare what you should eat uh
to get your nutrients versus what you're
eating now and it it graphs all these
things and I found that most people are
not even close to getting their basic
nutrients and which are the rdas you can
go to the usk website and look up rdas
which is basically the basic requirement
of nutrients that you need to eat every
single day and um the top three diets on
the planet Jenny Craig Weight Watchers
and neutr system all have very low
nutrients which is shocking because
those diets are very popular but I find
a lot of people um don't do well with
them because they don't they you crave
you crave so many foods and some of the
prepackaged Foods um have a lot of cheap
soy in them and soy increases one of the
fat making hormones called
estrogen so again we're actually
contributed to more problems with the
hormones because cellulite is made from
estrogen all right so we have a problem
with that and then we went to the
high protein diets right the Ain diet
and now that's the first the start of
trying to influence the hormones because
it does influence one of the fat burning
hormones called glucagon the problem is
that it only stimulates one what about
the other five okay they're ignored and
the thing is too is if you actually eat
too much protein it could increase
insulin so there's there's a lot of
other information about this that's
incomplete so high protein diets may
work if your liver is really really
healthy but it's not a long-term
solution because who's going to eat what
about the other uh other parts of the
other uh foods that you're supposed to
eat because our whole philosophy is to
get healthy and at the heart of getting
healthy is nutrients in the calories in
the food well protein has some and has
amino acids but it doesn't have a lot of
vitamins and minerals so you're going to
end up creating deficiencies on this
over a period of time I had a lady she
lost her hair after she did a high
protein diet and she was wearing a wig
and the problem is she was getting
married and her future husband had no
idea she was completely bald and by the
way we did help her so now the fourth
diet and the current diet that's being
promoted now is called the um low carb
diet now low carbs basically uh do
influence hormones uh you're decreasing
insulin okay so that's good but again
very incomplete because it's only
affecting one of the fat burning or the
one the fat making hormones it decreases
insulin and then it caus your body to
burn fat but the challenge is is this
there's more to the story let's say you
had just you ate perfect for breakfast
okay and then lunch you ate a great meal
you exercise perfectly and then for
dinner you ate great and then right
before bed you have 1 o of the wrong
thing 1 oz of carb will actually
completely and utterly nullify and
cancel out every single one of those fat
burning hormones that are triggered by
those Foods you ate just
previously and that's why this whole
concept of everything moderation doesn't
work or um um you know portion control
doesn't work with this I mean you look
at some of the foods that these people
are recommending in these diets it's a
total scam because they're they says oh
yeah you can have anything you want just
a smaller amount it's low glycemic it's
it's too much sugar it's too much
carbohydrate to really lose weight
especially if you get into your 30s 40s
and 50s I'm telling you the only time it
works is probably if you're very very
young because just because your
metabolism is that much better and the
hormone are that much
better so low low carb diets have some
workability but what you want to do is
you want to influence all of the
hormones I wrote a book okay seven
principles of fat burning this is not a
diet book this is an educational book
and most of you already have it and if
you already have it I want you to study
chapter nine I go through all the
triggers because here's the thing we
want you to be able to differentiate
what's going to work what's not going to
work based on your knowledge your
lifestyle changes lifestyle change
involves an educational step so you want
to be able to look at foods and know in
advance if it's going to work based on
these principles of the hormones that's
why I wrote a principal book Because
unless you're educated you're
susceptible to the wrong thing over and
over and over again and it's amazing how
many people they'll go for the uh B12
shots or they'll go to the fenine which
is a a booster well I'll tell you one
thing the old you get the more burnt out
your hormones are the more burnt out
your metabolism is and the more you do
those stimulants you're just going to
destroy your metabolism even more a lot
of the exercise programs on TV for
example are really good again if you're
younger but as you get older they're
basically going to overtrain you because
they're not looking at the recovery too
so I'm just here to tell you that you
can lose the weight but by doing it
correctly you have to understand this
and you have have to focus on the
hormones so thank you very much and I
will see you in the next video
