hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about why ketosis doesn't necessarily
cause weight loss okay now to understand
this a little bit more let's just talk
about what ketosis is it's basically the
state of making ketones which are a
byproduct of fat burning so when fat is
being burned the byproduct of that is
ketones and when you're in ketosis your
body is primarily using ketones instead
of glucose all right so that's what that
is so to get into ketosis it's necessary
to lower your carbohydrates but if
you're consuming 10,000 calories a day
or you're consuming large quantities of
food you're still going to actually have
ketones
but the ketones are coming from the
dietary fat being burned not your own
fat and that's why you're not going to
see a lot of weight loss but it's very
difficult to gain weight on a low-carb
ketogenic diet especially if you're
doing in a minute fasting in fact I
don't know of anyone who got fat or
obese on high fats if they kept their
carbs lowered so the essence of low
carbs will definitely hormonal II stop
you from gaining weight but you may not
lose weight but if your dietary calories
are a bit too high that's what your
body's going to be turning into ketones
not your own body's fat so to lose
weight on a ketogenic diet it's
necessary to keep the carbs low keep
your proteins moderate not too high and
adjust the fats to your metabolism not
too much I put a link down below of a
video to explain that more in detail so
I want to know what you're interested in
as far as a future video click the link
down below and share some ideas I want
to hear
