hi it's dr. Berg here in this video
we're going to talk about something
called endometriosis okay what is this
it's basically a situation in a female
body where you have extra tissue that's
growing outside the uterus or on the
fallopian tubes around the ovaries it's
causing pain inflammation infertility
all sorts of problems with the menstrual
cycle now if you type this up and try to
find the cause it's always going to be
unknown cause but the the female
reproductive tissue is very highly
sensitive to hormones specifically
estrogen this is an estrogen dominant
problem it's too much estrogen so
everything that you do needs to be in
the area of lowering the estrogen
naturally there's three things I'm going
to recommend number one your diet must
be organic both in the area of meats and
cheeses as well as vegetables why
because the chemicals that they spray on
the vegetables the stuff that they feed
the animals has GMO and they have
pesticides insecticides and all that
stuff mimics estrogen okay the other
thing this is a side note you definitely
want to cut down the sugars too because
sugar can greatly exaggerate the
production of estrogen number two
cruciferous vegetables why because the
cruciferous vegetables like kale and
broccoli and Brussels sprouts and bok
choy all are anti osteogenic they they
don't actually lower your total estrogen
what they do is they lower the bad and
they increase the good so they help
balance estrogen so there's even a
concentrated type of cruciferous called
dim you can look do some research into
that number three iodine
this is very very important I like to
recommend this source of iodine from sea
kelp a really good organic sea kelp you
want it from a clean ocean but iodine
decreases estrogen in the receptor cells
so it's really good for estrogen
dominance it's also good for cysts in
the ovary fibrocystic breast menstrual
cycle estrogen dominance so this one's
really really key and sometimes you have
to increase it a little bit more that's
than what's recommended
so the
only time you wouldn't want to take
iodine is if you have a hyper thyroid
condition okay other than that you can
take it make sure it's in the morning
because it tends to wake you up and it
gives you energy and you don't want to
have that affect your sleep all right go
ahead and apply these three things and
let me know how you do thanks for
watching hey if you're interested in
finding out the underlying cause of your
body issues click the link below and
take the evaluation quiz
