hey guys recently on my live show I
talked about lectins and in the immune
system and I wanted to just elaborate on
that a little bit now what is a lectin
okay well lectins are large protein
molecules made by plants plants are
chemical factories and plants have
evolved over time and defended
themselves against insects and other
predators by creating elect ins okay
there's other things that they used to
but lectins are one of them and so when
the plant or you consumes electon it can
create issues with your digestive tract
and it can create inflammation because
what it does is it attaches to the gut
lining and it can make a hole through it
okay so if you took your small intestine
and spread it out it would be the size
of a tennis court okay so there's a huge
surface area but only a one self
thickness so these lectins have the
ability to make a whole thread okay so
the problem is this leakiness in your
gut allows other proteins to go through
okay
the immune system is on the other side
it's going to attack it and create
antibodies it's going to be involved in
a lot of inflammatory conditions and
even autoimmune conditions whether it's
Hashimoto's lupus rheumatoid arthritis
MS and there's a whole list of them so
the point of this video is this if you
have an autoimmune condition or you have
some chronic inflammatory condition and
you're doing keto and in a minute
fasting okay but you still are not
getting relief you may want to consume
foods low in lectins so let's talk about
the ones that are high of course you
wouldn't be eating this but we is very
high gluten is electon okay and we know
that this tears up the intestines and
creates all sorts of problems corn is
high soy legumes definitely peanuts but
what you may not realize is tomato
squash primarily the seeds potato which
you wouldn't be eating if you're on keto
eggplant peppers okay the nightshades so
there's a whole list of additional foods
that
I would recommend avoid consuming
because they're high in lectins
if you have an autoimmune condition
because you just may find that it
reduces your inflammatory State now also
realize that vegetables that are
fermented have less lectins so there are
things that you can do to lessen the
amount but I put a link down below of a
more of a complete list of lectins from
high to low so you can see if this can
help you alright guys thanks for
watching so I want to thank you for
being here and watching my videos if you
haven't already subscribed go ahead and
do so so you can stay informed of future
videos
