hey guys in this video I'm gonna talk
about iron and why you should not be
taking iron if you get sick okay well
first of all iron is needed in the body
for many different reasons one reason
would be to feed good and bad bacteria
pathogens need iron to thrive and grow
so they can't exist without iron there
are exceptions some microbes can consume
a manganese instead of iron like the
microbe in lime but most microbes need
the iron what happens when your body
starts getting sick and your
inflammation goes up is that your body
starts storing iron in ferritin which is
a protein bound iron resource so it
basically hides the iron from the
pathogens the bad bacteria and bad
microbes so they can't get it and that's
one defense mechanism that our our
bodies have the host to protect against
pathogens so you will find that your
plasma or your blood iron will drop some
people might even become anemic because
of this reason but the point is that you
don't want to take extra iron when
you're feeling rundown or sick okay just
for this reason so there's certain
supplements that you want to avoid read
the label don't take a supplement that
has iron and then for example the
fortification of certain foods with iron
which you're probably not consuming I'm
talking about the grains enriched flour
products okay you're probably not doing
that if you're watching my videos but if
you are realize that that could be
making things worse so I just wanted to
give you this interesting link between
the pathogen inflammation and iron
thanks for watching
hey so if you haven't done so please
press subscribe now that way you can be
aware of all the new content that I'm
putting out on a regular basis
