hey guys I'm back in we're going to talk
about pH this question keeps coming up
over and over and over and I just wanted
to do one video on this very specific
point okay is having an alkaline pH
healthier or not okay so let's talk
about this the first thing you to know
is that your body has many different
fluids okay and each of those different
fluids have a different pH your whole
body is not one pH your entire body
should not be alkaline for example or
acid for example the stomach is very
acid the large intestine is very acid
and the urine is acid now one of the
reasons why the body has different PHS
is to activate enzymes for example the
stomach being very very acidic between
one and three will activate this enzyme
called pepsin which is a very powerful
protein enzyme that breaks down proteins
now in the large intestine you have acid
to help prevent the overgrowth of
certain unfriendly microbes okay like
lactic acid is produced to help kill off
certain microbes and the urine is acid
to also prevent microbes from growing as
well now if we alkalis the fluids in
these areas of the body we're gonna
create a lot of problems now the idea
that the body should be alkaline really
stems from the blood okay so if we
reword this question is having an
alkaline blood pH healthier that would
be yes because the blood has a very
narrow tight pH between 7.35 and 7.45 if
we look at the pH 7 being neutral
anything lower is acid anything higher
is alkaline and when we go from a 7 to
an 8 it's not just by one it's by a
power of 10 so 8 is 10 times more
alkaline than 7
now the other confusion that I see all
the time is thinking you need to eat
only a certain food that's in a certain
pH to correct your pH that's not true
for example yes you have vegetables are
out
but you also have essential fatty acids
like in omega-3 fatty acids that people
consume and that's in a lot of different
foods those are acids and then you have
amino acids those are proteins acid
sugar is also acid by the way now to
make sure you maintain the very specific
pH is that the body needs in certain
body fluids you just need to eat healthy
you don't need to necessarily eat more
of a certain acidic food or alkaline
food you just need to eat healthy that's
what will put your ph in that range
because I see so many problems when
people start consuming like baking soda
or using the machine to make alkaline
water and they start diluting these
acids right here and then you're going
to inhibit certain enzymes for digestion
you're going to inhibit the protective
mechanism against microbes and start
growing unfriendly microbes in helping
feeding mold or Candida or a fungus so
that is a huge problem all right so I
hope that cleared up some confusions so
the next time if someone says that you
need to alkalize the body ask them what
specific part of the body are you
talking about hey I appreciate your
attention and if you're enjoying these
videos go ahead and subscribe and I will
definitely keep you updated on future
events live events and webinars that
we're going to do very soon
