alright guys you definitely want to have
some broccoli sprouts in your diet maybe
a couple times a week I'm gonna tell you
why broccoli sprouts by far has more
sulfur Fame which I'm going to get to in
a second then any food on the planet and
the amazing thing about this plant-based
chemical is that it inhibits breast and
prostate cancer and tumors significantly
I mean even John Hopkins University try
to get the patents on broccoli sprouts
at one time I think went to the Supreme
Court and they actually ended up not
getting the patents and they kind of
dropped it right there
but sulforaphane is one of the most
widely studied phytonutrients especially
as it relates to anti-cancer properties
it's actually a defense mechanism of
plants so of another microbe or bug ate
the plant it would die because it's
toxic to microbes now some people are
sensitive to certain plants that I have
high levels of this and of course they
should not consume it but for the
majority of population it's totally fine
there's just one drawback if you consume
large quantities and I'm talking about
pounds of cruciferous vegetables or
sprouts it can deplete your iodine but
if you take seek help you will replace
it and you can counter that but the
major benefit is that it can kill cancer
stem cells it helps you detoxify things
that cause cancer carcinogens in the
liver that's called phase 1 phase 2
detoxification it also acts as a very
powerful antioxidant to you know get rid
of free radical damage this is why it
has significant improvement in
decreasing risk for cardiovascular
disease decreasing risk of diabetes
decreasing the risk of neurodegenerative
diseases and even autism so you can get
sulforaphane in all the cruciferous
vegetables like kale broccoli cabbage
but broccoli sprouts has the most
concentration radish is pretty high as
well now if you consume it raw you'll
have 10 times more sulfur Fame than if
you cooked it of course you can steam it
slightly and that only reduces it by 10%
and because breast cancer is the most
common type of cancer
and prostate is also very common you
want to start consuming things like this
in your diet on a regular basis and
broccoli sprouts can give you a very
potent dosage of sulforaphane
alright thanks for watching so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
