hey it's me again in this video we're
going to talk about another example of
evaluation again evaluation is analyzing
the data to come up with a reason why
something is the way it is um it's Sol
it's the technology of solving problems
I think it's one of the biggest thing
that's missing in healthcare and it's
the most valuable thing because if you
don't have a good evaluator you solve
the wrong problem you treat the symptom
which just makes the problem persist or
camouflage the problem um so let's just
take a look at this 59-year-old female
she works swing shift uh can't sleep
craves sweets neck stiff not satisfied
after meals pre-diabetic allergy sleep
apnea she bloats constipation
indigestion acid reflux low tolerance of
stress low vam D level weak legs when
she climbs or does incline ulcer she had
a history of an ulcer excessive thinking
analyzing so this is a very uh
it just jumps right out is she has a lot
of adrenal symptoms so right there we're
going to write adrenal so let's just
take a look at if they all relate to
adrenal or if not now working swing
shift is going to totally disrupt her
sleep cycles um our bodies are not
designed to rotate the sleeping they're
designed to help you go to uh help you
sleep or make you go to sleep when it
gets dark out and wake up when it gets
light so if you're working against
gravity that can really throw off your
internal clock so over years of night uh
night you know working at night it's
going to throw you off your your Circa
in rhythms which allow you to get in
sleep so that could be what created the
stress on the adrenal I'm not sure sweet
Cravings the
hormone one of the hormones that the
adrenal gland makes is called um
cortisol another name for cortisol which
is a stress hormone is
glucocorticoids gluco meaning sweet it's
because it regulates blood sugars so uh
a lot of
diabetics are diabetics because of the
adrenal
overacting but this could be adrenal and
then look at she's a pre-diabetic so we
know it's adrenal other symptoms are
adrenal would be um stiffness and
inflammation because all of the
anti-inflammatories are controlled by
the adrenals think about what they give
you for pain they inject you with a
steroid shot what's a steroid an prazone
those are anti-inflammatories that's
adrenal hormones also allergies are
adrenal because some of the treatments
um involve epipens that's epinephrine
that's adrenaline well why why would
that fix an allergy because there's
something related with allergies to
adrenal uh if you take the adrenal
glands out of dogs in different
experiments they all end up with
allergies so why wouldn't we just take
that and use that and try to improve the
adrenal to see if we can improve the
allergies and a lot of allergies occur
after you know years of stress as well
um but there's other causes sleep apnea
that is really not a sleep problem it's
a sinus swelling in the back of the
nasal
ferial uh area behind the pallet back
there um there's a nerve that controls
that and it's comes out of the brain
stem and it's the 10th cranial nerve and
that can be influenced by high levels of
adrenal stress so Bingo right there
that's adrenal too not satisfied after
meals one thing that this would be is is
a gallbladder problem but think about it
the gallbladder is influenced when you
have high stress that will shut down the
bile recycling of bile on the
gallbladder and give you these symptoms
right here okay so even know this could
be a low bile if we look deeper it could
be an adrenal issue because the adrenal
could cause that again we're trying to
pull a string and see how far we can go
back indigestion that is
really low stomach acids that's low acid
in the stomach and again one of the
characteristic things of adrenal do
relate to that in a way that you have
alkalosis so when your body is too
alkaline what can cause it is high level
of adrenal um hormones cortisol um
there's this huge myth going around that
everyone is too acid well maybe they
their urine is but I'm talking about the
blood if that blood becomes excessively
too alkaline and you can read this in
the physiology books on the adrenal High
cortisol I'm not just coming up with
this for no reason and your body is too
alkaline a lot of things will happen
you'll get indigestion you won't be able
to transport minerals that's why you'll
get cramps in your legs you'll have
breathing problems at night you'll crave
salt at night um
and allergies just from being alkaline
and that's why some of the remedies back
in the 30s for allergies was to take
something called ammonium chloride
ammonium chloride is an acidifier that
they used to use as a binder in allergy
medications and they took it out that
was the active ingredient so ammonium
chloride um is not a harmful thing you
can take it and to acidify your pH and
rid
allergies one of the ways you know
you're excessively to alkaline is if you
consume like citrus orange or grapefruit
or even lemon an hour later you will
have pain in your joints that would be a
good indicator of alkaline too you're
too alkaline you can't really tell by
your urine or saliva if your blood is
too alkaline and the problem if you take
the blood out of the um the blood vessel
and test the pH it gets exposed to
oxygen so fast it it's very difficult to
test for an alkaline blood you have to
really use these other indicators
but Citrus oxidizes it breaks down and
it goes very very alkaline so when you
drink any type of citrus it's actually
even though it's a citric acid it turns
into an alkaline substance wors
worsening this state right here and the
point I'm making is I'm just trying to
give you the background of what can
happen with adrenal with your pH and how
that can relate to this as well and even
oxygen um all right so now we have that
can explain in digestion because you're
going to have a your you're going to
lose your stomach acids in the uh as
well uh and then acid reflex is really
um that's a caused by not enough acid
because if you don't have enough acid
you won't be able to close that valve
that that separates your stomach from
your esophagus and because you need a
really strong acid and if that's not
there you'll get acid reflex so really
acid reflex is not enough acid and the
way to fix it is to take an acid not to
take an antioxidant so if you take an
acid like theane hydrochloride that will
help that but the fact is that this is
one of the symptoms of adrenal too not
just you know not enough acid so if we
go deeper I think most of these symptoms
that this person has is adrenal adrenal
adrenal right down the list so that's
the most likely thing that we're going
to support low tolerance of stress
that's adrenal low vitamin D that's
adrenal symptom weak legs climbing
that's definitely adrenal because it
affects the lower extremities ulcer
that's a symptom of adrenal excessive
thinking adrenal so
it's classic adrenal so I'm going to go
with that and see if she gets better if
you if she supports adrenal and it
doesn't work then we have to relook at
things but I like to go with the most
likely logical thing that makes Common
Sense I'll see you in the next video
