now someone had a question on one of my
comments relating to bugs because a
recent report says insects are the
future of food bugs for dinner eating
insects they want us to all eat bugs by
2050 because of the rise of population
will be roughly about maybe 9 billion
people on this planet so how we're going
to feed them I mean everyone knows this
fact because the climate change and beef
is not sustainable we need to find other
sources of food I like to say my life
mission is a bug that tastes like bacon
and yes they even say the grass-fed
regenerative farming type agriculture
needs to go because of all the cow
burping and the methane and what that
does to the environment because that's
the big problem and one of the big
solutions would be the bugs because
they're so high in protein and they're
so nutrient dense well let's do a little
breakdown of this topic because if we
take 100 gr of these bugs in this 100 G
we have about 12 G of actual protein and
there's about five G of fat 5 G of carbs
little iron little tiny bit of fat but
is 12 G enough for our bod's uh actually
no if we do the math and look at the
actual number of crickets that we're
going to have to eat to get close to
this protein we're going to have to 4X
that that's a nice big bucket of
crickets but for a lot of people they're
going to need to eight times that figure
every single day to get their protein
amount I guess we can mash them up and
put them into pizzas and with all these
other different flavorings we can put
them and burgers sweeten them and that
might be a solution but what about the
cost uh it's going to be quite expensive
right but they can bring the cost down
by feeding the Crickets you know cheaper
materials like maybe corn soy beet sugar
something like that the problem with
that is the nutrition comes down you
know and then the protein level comes
down and that's one little issue quite
expensive to have healthy insects to eat
okay number two we're going to have to
get everyone to give up their
traditional cultural foods and that
might take some work I think that the
first bite is the hardest and then after
that people go wow they that's tastes
pretty good oh the crunch number three
and this is probably the biggest one
when you compare an insect with beef
it's not the same for anyone to say that
it's identical they're lying through
their teeth it's not even close and I'm
not just talking about the protein I'm
talking about the quality of protein I'm
talking about the nutrition all these
other are factors that is in beef that
is not in crickets so don't buy into
that it's the same thing number four
insects carry pathogens so there's one
study in 2019 that evaluated uh quite a
few Cricut Farms that were developing
edible crickets and 81% of them had
parasites 30% were potentially
pathogenic there's also a higher
incidence of worms and crickets and
viruses and bacteria and funguses then
we have the safety studies right we have
to do all that then we're going to have
to probably heat and cook these insects
to kill off the microbes but then we're
also going to kill off a lot of the
nutrition as well there's this
unregulated field of using pesticides on
these insects so you can use different
chemicals to kind of manage uh some of
these other um factors that are can be
growing in these uh bugs then the next
thing is that if someone has an allergy
to shellfish okay because there's a
similar protein involved chances are
they'll also have an allergy to bugs if
they start consuming them and then the
next factor is that these bugs have this
exoskeleton it's like bones outside
their body and the main compound in
there is called kiten it's an
anti-nutrient it's not digested by our
microbiome and it also blocks vitamin A
and vitamin E and so this is just
another negative and so now we're doing
another human pilot experiment that will
put people in bugs and then see what
happens after yours my viewpoint on the
future of food being bugs does not look
like it's going to happen there are too
many negative points about this now if
you want to know what I think you should
be eating right now to regain your
health and be super healthy I think it's
probably the most healthy food that you
can eat it's right here check it
out
