today we're going to talk about vitamin
B6 deficiency symptoms that you've never
heard before now the data I'm going to
share with you is out of this book right
here one of my favorite books laboratory
evaluations for integrative and
functional medicine it's amazing because
it covers every aspect of nutrition uh
in depth so I've tore this book up many
times so it's fantastic now what's
interesting about B6 is that if you look
this up they will tell you it's very
rare to have a deficiency and they never
talk about this idea of subclinical
deficiencies of nutrients instead they
focus on these major deficiency symptoms
but this is going to be interesting
topic let me just kind of go through it
most people might know that if you're
deficient in B6 you'll typically have
rashes around your nose you might have
cracks or rashes around your mouth uh
you might even get pink eye as a symptom
you can get
anemia as well as neurological problems
which involves numbness in the bottom of
your hands and your feet which typically
come from a B1 deficiency but also from
a B6 deficiency some people might know
that you can get depressed if you're
deficient in B6 but today I want to talk
about all the other problems that you
can end up with if you're low in B6 but
first let me just kind of give you some
interesting information about B6 vitamin
B6 is involved in
over40 different enzyme Pathways so you
can imagine how broadly this vitamin
extends into our bodily functions and
yes there are toxicity symptoms but
typically B6 is a water soluable vitamin
so you would have to consume over a,
milligrams of B6 to have some problems
now typically there are no side effects
if you're taking less than 200
milligrams per day but the side effects
start going up um if you get over a
thousand and the main side effect will
be neurological issues like neuropathy
so neuropathy can come from a deficiency
of B6 and too much B6 but rarely do I
know anyone taking over you know 200
milligrams per day now the other
interesting thing about B6 deficiencies
is it can be used as an indicator for
inflammation status it's highly
correlated for C-reactive protein which
is an inflammatory biomarker and people
especially with gut inflammation
IBS have low levels of B6 and when
people talk about B6 um they're really
talking about a collection of a group of
different compounds that are precursors
to the active form of B6 and the active
form is uh p5p I won't get into the long
name you don't need to know that but
when you see the form p5p that is the
active form um the other forms are like
precursors that have to turn into this
active form and the food to achieve the
best bioavailability of B6 would be from
Beef Pork Fish and Chicken Dairy and
eggs are not the best source and even
plant-based B6 is not the best source so
here are the symptoms that very few
people know about that are related to a
B6 deficiency I just mentioned
inflammation so let's put that on the
top of the list so inflammation
especially of the gut could be related
to a B6 deficiency number two uh B6
helps control polyunsaturated fatty
acids those are the ones that I always
tell people to avoid like from corn oil
soy oil canola cotton seed oil things
like that and also if you're consuming a
lot of these oils and you can't
metabolize it because you don't have
enough B6 Um this can lead to the
dermatitis rashes that I mentioned uh
when I first talked about this number
three B6 is intimately involved in
making
neurotransmitters like serotonin
dopamine and you can imagine all the
symptoms that can occur from having
deficiency of neurotransmitters so in
other words B6 is necessary to make all
of these neurotransmitters so it can
affect your mood it can affect uh having
addictions it can affect your general
state of just um nerve Communication
number four B6 is involved in the
conversion from something called ala to
DHA now what is that walnuts have a good
amount of ala which is a precursor to
the active form of the omega-3 fatty
acid so let's say for example
you don't consume a lot of fish or fish
oils or cod oil and you're doing a lot
of walnuts thinking that you're getting
all the um necessary precursors to make
your omega-3 fatty acid well without B6
you might not be able to convert this as
well and this could lead to more
inflammation all right the next one
number five uh B6 is necessary to make
selenium work now selenium is involved
in a lot of other things from making
glutathione uh to involved in converting
your thyroid hormones from the inactive
to the active so you can see indirectly
that B6 deficiency could lead to all
sorts of other deficiencies related to a
lack of selenium doing its work in
different enzymes number six B6 is
necessary to convert tryptophan into
niin number seven B6 is necessary in a
lot of different things related to amino
acids one of the things that can occur
as a problem is alopecia hair loss
because you don't have enough B6 in
another study I found that B6 is
intimately involved in an enzyme that if
you're deficient you can have a higher
risk of getting seizures if you know
anyone who has seizures you should make
sure they're consuming more B6 another
thing that B6 is needed for is lowering
homocysteine which can affect your heart
in a negative way typically um people
might know to reduce your homosysteine
you take enough B12 and folate but B6 is
also necessary as well let's say
someone's deficient in B6 and they also
have a problem with their gut microbiome
they're greatly more susceptible to
having autism than if they just had a B6
deficiency and they had good microbes in
other words there's this whole gut brain
interaction that um can influence
symptoms of autism
especially if you're deficient in B6
does it all come from diet actually not
a portion of this B6 comes from your own
microbiome in the large intestine making
B6 just like it makes a lot of other B
vitamins so this relates to one of the
reasons why people are deficient in B6
when they take antibiotics especially
for things like TB because of this lack
of B6 anyway I would just recommend if
if you know anyone with autism make sure
they're taking the active form of B6
p5p as well as taking a good probiotic
and just to give you a little more
information about that B6 helps regulate
or suppress gut pathogens so those are
the symptoms but how are people
deficient well eating too many processed
foods also taking diuretics certain
medications like high blood pressure
medication can create a deficiency
taking certain antibiotics ICS also
being on birth control pills drinking
alcohol if you're pregnant or lactating
also smoking creates a deficiency
certain herbicides as in glyphosate in
all the GMO foods and even taking high
levels of an herb called Geno Boba can
create a deficiency but you'd have to
take quite a bit of that compound now
because of the sensoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that cannot put on YouTube unfortunately
so to make sure you have full access of
all my information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other
side
