hey guys had another question about
developing bad breath on a ketogenic
program call it dragon breath right well
it kind of smells like ammonia ammonia
comes from nitrogen nitrogen comes from
protein so this is simply that the
person is consuming too much protein so
all you have to do lower your protein
now I recommend between three and six
ounces of protein per meal so if you
have bad breath and you're at six ounces
go to three and it should clear right up
okay if you're doing eight go down to
six just reduce your protein now you may
need to add more outside of vinegar so I
have a product called digest formula
that combines apple cider vinegar with
betaine hydrochloride just to help
someone digest more protein because the
symptom of undigested protein is gas
bloating indigestion and it could also
lead to this problem right here so but
if you're consuming a lot of protein cut
it down and this problem should go away
another reason why it might not is
because your kidneys or your liver need
some improvement let's say they're
malfunctioning and they're not optimum
you might want to focus on improving
those and there's different remedies
that you can take I'll put some links
down below but over time when you
dookied Oh in a minute fasting that
should improve kidney function it should
definitely improve liver function
especially if you're consuming enough
vegetables okay all right thanks for
watching hey before you go definitely
sign up for my free keto course I put a
link down below it's on messenger in
Facebook but it will give you all the
basics it's very quick it's like three
or four videos and it's free check it
out
