so today we're gonna talk about the best
foods for stress okay let's start with
what foods that lower stress okay
chocolate now I'm talking about
sugar-free chocolate not the regular
chocolate with sugar but there's a
certain chemical in chocolate that
reduces stress so that's one thing I
don't recommend consuming chocolate and
the later half of the day because it's
going to possibly keep it from sleeping
because it does have something that is
similar to caffeine it's not actual
caffeine but it's similar so if you're
gonna have a little bit maybe in the
late morning okay
nutritional yeast why because of the B
vitamins specifically b1 will really
help lower stress this is a really a
good one right here you can get them in
tablets or just get it in a powder you
can put it on your food celery celery
has a chemical that helps lower blood
pressure it helps you sleep it helps you
feel calmer so celery is really good you
can also put nut butters on the celery
good idea
okay a fermented drink called kombucha
tea if you haven't heard about this get
the one that has no more than two grams
of sugar that's great to consume in the
evening when you're trying to wind down
its your alcohol replacement it gives a
calming effect on the nervous system so
kombucha tea is really good for reducing
stress I would not recommend consuming
more than a half of a bottle at any one
time because it's very acidic it's very
thick and if I has a texture of beer
because if you have too much you could
shift your pH over to being too acidic
and your pulse rate will start going
higher and higher and higher so just
take a half a glass and sip it just like
you're drinking alcohol or wine when
you're really not and it will it'll calm
you and you'll feel good and then we
have bacon okay now I'm talking about
the high quality bacon you can get from
the farmers market I'm not talking about
processed bacon Oscar Mayer type bacon
any pork by the way is loaded with b1 b1
lower stress and you can also have
chocolate covered bacon right well I've
never had that but I've hear people
actually consume them egg yolks
okay our eggs in general the whole egg
why because
certain hormones specifically cortisol
that help you do a stress are made from
cholesterol fat so egg yolks are really
helpful in that area plus egg yolks have
a lot of other nutritional properties
like choline for example which helps
with the nervous system and relaxation
in general asparagus which is also high
in b12 help lower stress and it's also
going to be a really good fiber for your
friendly microbes which actually will
also produce chemicals to help you feel
calm pecans are one of the best nuts for
stress they have a certain chemical I'm
not going to give you the long names but
it's really good to help reduce stress
and of course if you actually have
chocolate-covered pecans coarse sugar
free that would be a great dessert after
you eat butter everything tastes better
with butter but butter has cholesterol
that is a precursor for cortisol that
will help in making those hormones
because one thing that you don't want to
do is do a low-fat diet because you're
starving off the hormones that help
counter stress especially when you're
actually sick or you're stressed out
it's best that you consume more fat not
sugar because this list of the foods
that will increase stress in your body
number one sugar sugar it will deplete
your B vitamins it depletes calcium
magnesium and your stress will go up of
course you're gonna feel better when you
consume sugar for about a minute but
then your blood sugars crash and you're
gonna feel worse any of the refined
grains again it will deplete certain B
vitamins and stress you out probably
five to ten to twenty minutes later
starch is the same thing if you're doing
rice you're gonna feel great when you
consume it but then an hour later you're
gonna actually have a crash with your
blood sugar so when you have low blood
sugars you're gonna have more anxiety
you're going to be irritable and so
these right here will create that effect
alright alcohol now of course a lot of
people are consuming a lot of alcohol
and it has the appearance e of reducing
stress but it's kind of a trap because
it will deplete certain nutrients that
will
prestress a day later or two days later
because alcohol in general is notorious
for depleting your B vitamins so one cup
of coffee is not going to be a big
problem but if you're consuming a lot of
coffee like I did in college your stress
will go up and again I already mentioned
this but low-fat diets can also increase
anxiety and stress it's because that is
needed as a precursor for certain
hormones to help counter stress alright
thanks for watching if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
