[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hi hello there you go Hey so uh we have
another recipe today and I love this
recipe especially if you like crunchy
things if you like chips this is a chip
alternative mhm it's a crackery depends
uh how you thick you cut the the onion
in this recipe it can be a little more
bread-like little thicker cracker the
way I did it today it's an onion bread
right cracker well today it's really
like an onion C cracker they're so thin
do you see how thin those are super thin
it's uh four ingredients throw
everything in the food processor put it
now you do need a dehydrator or you can
do it in an oven with the door open but
I say if you're into it get a food
dehydrator you're going to love it I
love food dehydrators yeah if if you
like onions you'll love this it's really
good it's very salty I like the salt and
sweet the onion is kind of sweet mhm
it's about the sugar it's
addicting um the only reason I don't
like making these is because by the time
I have done the dishes um most of it's
gone my family
has yeah cuz it's so good that's the
problem Karen if you make it so good
people will eat it that's the problem
wasn't so good we wouldn't eat it well I
would like you to have that problem too
you're going to love these onion
crackers onion bread if it's thicker
[Music]
um
[Music]
a
[Music]
so it's been a while since you've seen
Charlie and I'm a big Charlie Advocate
got slightly bigger I always want to
have him in these he's gotten a little
bigger he's like he's like a sheep dog
see how awesome he is remember the days
Charlie click the link below he's too
big he's just too big he's a handful for
all you Charlie fans he wants to get on
the table and do a dance but anyway just
wanted you to know Charlie's doing great
he's growing by the minute by the minute
that's the Charlie
update hey guys I just recently did a
survey and I found out the number one
thing that you want is to know what to
eat okay you want examples of meals so I
created a series of recipes that you can
get which basically show you how to
combine the foods in the right portions
to do ketogenic and imminent fasting
they're totally free all you need to do
is click the link below and sign up
