you know in school we were taught you
must use ice when you have acute
injuries because there's blood flow
there's swelling and you want to reduce
inflammation
sounds logical everyone knows it's true
you do the rice protocol right rest ice
compression and elevation but i do know
working in the healthcare profession for
30 years
that there are so many things that were
supposedly true and everyone knows that
they're true
end up being completely
false and i could not find any evidence
at all that shows that using ice for
acute injuries improves your recovery or
gets you back to our normal state now it
is true that ice does help decrease pain
okay and it probably reduces
inflammation because it creates a
vasoconstriction
effect it pushes blood out of an area
that is inflamed but do we want to
reduce the inflammation that's the
question
is this inflammation pathological is it
a negative thing that we need to get rid
of well maybe in a chronic state but not
an acute state you see inflammation is
such a fundamental part of healing we
have increase of immune cells
macrophages to help clean up the area we
have an increase of oxygen
blood that carries nutrients and and
hormones like insulin growth factor
number one so you have this incredibly
complex coordinated
effect of your body trying to heal an
area and then people start doing things
that stop the healing process and
applying ice actually inhibits recovery
it slows down the repair process it
delays normal function now applying cold
therapy does decrease pain but at the
expense of inhibiting recovery and also
when people take medications like nsaids
those actually slow the repair as well
because they get rid of inflammation and
so the key to repair is not to reduce
inflammation prematurely i mean the same
thing goes with a lot of other things in
the body if you have a fever for example
your body is trying to heat up to kill
off the virus or if you start sneezing
your body is trying to eliminate
something that's in your nasal passages
but i do remember in school that we were
taught okay that you definitely use this
rice protocol on all acute injuries and
then if something is chronic you use
heat now to use heat on an acute injury
probably not because that's going to
actually add more swelling and
inflammation and pain now another
question is this does rest improve your
recovery and the answer is
no it does not it actually slows your
recovery because your lymphatic system
doesn't have a pump and it requires
motion to push things out of it and so
the more you rest the less recovery
you're going to get in the lymphatic
system we have a lot of waste going on
after an acute injury so the question is
what do you do for acute injuries well
you put motion as much as you can into
that joint okay or that air of your body
now of course if it's fractured you
don't want to put motion into the area
but if it's strained or sprained you
want to put a passive range of motion or
sometimes active range of motion
depending on the severity more motion
will activate more lymph and more
circulation and it will speed up your
recovery all right number two
a really good therapy is infrared
therapy this is just putting a light
into a certain body area and this has
been a proven to increase the recovery
of an injury can dramatically decrease
pain as well now i want to skip to
number four okay vitamin d vitamin d is
a natural thing that can greatly
support
your immune system and if you have any
inflammation at all or pain i would
recommend a higher dosage of vitamin d
like 40 000 iu's
probably every day for maybe a whole
week and you'll find out very quickly
that you'll shorten the recovery time
now this is what i want to talk about
right now manual therapy opposite side
now what does that mean manual therapy
opposite side this is a very interesting
technique it's counter-intuitive
i use it in the practice for many years
i trained doctors to use it so basically
if you injure your right
ankle for example you would use manual
therapy on your left ankle you always
work on the opposite side now at first
it sounds kind of weird and you're like
wait that's not going to do anything but
go ahead and try it you will find it
will work all the nerves on the right
side of the body are connected to the
left side of the body through the spinal
column and when you work on the left
side of the body it affects the right
side of the body because it's on the
same
circuit and these neurological circuits
are embedded in your muscles to allow
things to be coordinated so you can walk
and you can perform certain motions and
so even on the right side of your body
where you have uh the bicep right the
bicep contracts in order for this to
contract the opposite muscle needs to be
inhibited right so if there's an acute
injury on this side you would
manually work on the opposite side and
what i mean by manual therapy it could
be anything from a trigger point therapy
to massage or any type of stimulation
but the next time you injure yourself
you need to try this out to see for
yourself
because even if you were using a hammer
right and you hit your thumb on the left
side
and you started to massage the right
thumb you would notice a dramatic
decrease in pain okay so just remember
anytime you hurt on one side of the body
stimulate the exact opposite mirror
image side now it also works in another
way okay so if your
back is hurting okay you can also work
on the front part of the abdominal area
right here now the next most important
video for you to watch since we're
talking about pain
is on referral pain okay this is a very
important video if you haven't seen it i
put it up right here check it out
