one aspirin a day might not keep your
doctor away if you're taking an aspirin
a day you need to watch this video there
was a new study out recently I put a
link down below from the New England
Journal of Medicine randomized
double-blinded placebo-controlled trial
where they took 50% of a large group of
people and gave them a hundred
milligrams of aspirin and compare that
to the 50 percent who took the placebo
and this is over five years and this is
what they found
taking one aspirin a day provides no
significant health benefits this is huge
because the amount of people taking
aspirin even if they don't have a
problem as a preventive thing if it's
not going to create any significant
health benefits why take it especially
because of number two it showed
increased risk of hemorrhage that's
bleeding internally okay and number
three it showed a higher all cause
mortality so this is something that you
need to read and then show your doctor
I'm not telling you to come off the
aspirin I'm just telling you that you
need to research this and really make
the best choice based on your health if
you have to take aspirin for some reason
I would highly recommend doing other
things to protect your kidney in your
liver with milk thistle it's a really
good natural thing and has basically no
side effects and it's liver protective
choline is in the family of the B
vitamins another really good natural
thing to take to protect the liver
skullcap really good for inflammation
and a very powerful antioxidant and it
will also support healthy liver function
but the main thing to do especially if
you have inflammation and start doing in
a minute fasting so I put a link down
below if you don't know anything about
it but that would be a really smart
thing to do
problem with aspirin is it depletes
vitamin C vitamin E folic acid zinc and
even melatonin which is a real key
hormone that your body makes to help you
go to sleep at night
aspirin increases the risk of liver
problems a kidney dysfunction cataracts
erectile dysfunction in ulcers other
than that it's totally fine and I'm
being very sarcastic but seriously click
the link below and do your own research
to see it
it's the best thing for you to do thanks
for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
