hey guys I'm back in today we're going
to answer the question is exercise
really a must for keto ok well first
let's talk about weight loss diet like
an a healthy keto plan contributes to
85% of your progress with weight loss ok
and exercise is only going to give you
15% so it's a very small percentage but
there is benefit in to doing exercise to
actually hit your goal
however exercise has a lot of other
benefits alright number one it will
increase oxygen okay to your brain to
your heart throughout the entire body
that's kind of important it decreases
stress it'll increase your fitness okay
your dexterity your performance if
you're doing a specific type of sport
alright number four tone it's gonna be
really hard to get tone if you're not
exercising alright number five is one of
the most important points and that is
overcoming atrophy if you're female and
you're going through menopause you
probably experienced this thing called
atrophy it looks like fat but it's
really a loss of muscle so many women as
they're going through menopause
experience atrophy due to the adrenals
not backing up the ovaries if the
adrenals are overworking and they're
already tired going in the menopause
they have this spike in cortisol and
cortisol is a very catabolic hormone in
other words it breaks down muscle
protein mainly in the thighs and the
butt and it converts that into fat
around your gut a lot of times this
appearance of cellulite is really not
cellulite it's actually a loss of muscle
protein so you're gonna have to exercise
over a period of probably a couple years
to reverse that it's important to know
that because if you think it's just fat
and you're doing the die over and over
you're gonna be very frustrated because
you're not going to see any change so
you have to actively work those muscles
over and over over a period of time and
because the adrenals are involved your
recovery is is very very important too
so when you exercise you go through a
certain duration of exercise and a
certain intensity in a certain recovery
so if you have an adrenal problem you're
going through menopause the key is to
keep your duration or time of exercise
very short
your intensity very high and your
recovery very long okay so that's the
pattern that you want to follow versus
getting on the treadmill for a long
period of time
moderate intensity short recovery so
you're not going to see any change with
that so it's also important not to over
train so if you're working out like once
a week to start out is actually really
good and then twice a week not even
three times a week unless your recovery
is really really good so I just wanted
to bring this point up right here so
it's impossible to get muscle mass if
you're not exercising so if you're
trying to put on muscle mass exercise is
going to be essential blood sugar
improvements exercise helps insulin
resistance so that's another benefit
alright number eight exercise helps
sleep I know when I exercise I sleep so
much better alright number nine joints
flexibility getting rid of stiffness
vital I know between the ages of 25 and
43 I did not work out much myself and I
got really really stiff I neglected that
exercise and now that I'm 44 you know
implementing exercises really helped my
flexibility and I'm being totally
sarcastic because I'm 54 I've been
exercising for a bit of time okay so
number 10 blood flow in general so not
just exercise but all the nutrients in
your blood you're going to push that
through the body you're gonna push it
through the kidney through the liver
through the brain to the heart so that's
a benefit and lastly cardiovascular
benefit the heart is a muscle so if
you're working it you are going to
exercise it it's going to improve now I
know this might be hard to believe but
some people actually have a resistance
to exercise that they don't even like it
in fact they might hate it okay for
those people
I recommend walking maybe they like
dancing so that would be something they
can do hiking is a really good exercise
and I think for most people hiring a
personal trainer is a necessity because
a personal trainer can really push you a
lot further than you can push yourself
alright guys thanks for watching
hey guys real quick I have a new healthy
keto eating plan for you just go to dr.
Berg comm it's right on the front page I
put a link down below download it it's
free check it out
