let's talk about the worst protein in
the entire world one day I was at Whole
Foods I was really hungry you should
never shop when you're really hungry and
I was looking in the deli area and they
had some small little chicken wings so I
I ordered those they look really good uh
I noticed that they all looked like they
were the same shape though but I didn't
think much of it at the time and uh so
I'm driving home I'm eating these
chicken wings and I'm like wow these are
really good and it's almost too good and
yes I did wonder why there's no bones in
these chicken maybe I thought they were
like boneless chicken wings and uh
anyway I got home and I looked in the
mirror my eyes were completely
bloodshot I started feeling sick
extremely tired nauseous I went to bed I
slept for like three hours I woke up
feeling
drunk I called Whole Foods and I said
what were in those chicken wings well
those were plant-based chicken wings
made with a type of protein called
textured vegetable protein AKA textured
soy protein that is the worst protein a
human could eat from my viewpoint and of
course the vegetable they're using is
soy now sometimes they use cotton seed
as the vegetable I didn't know cotton
was a vegetable and I don't know of many
people eating cotton but in 1960 they
invented this prote protein okay because
they had to figure out what to do with
all the waste from the seed oils that
they were making so they had a great
idea let's turn this into protein and
we'll sell it as food and now it's in
veggie burgers it's in fake meat
products fake hot dog products it's in
cereals it's in kids lunches it's in a
lot of different things it is an ultra
processed ingredient the word processed
means to remove okay when you Ultra
process something you severely remove
things from it so they're taking the oil
from the soybean they're taking the
nutrients they're taking the fiber from
it they're heating it they're putting
chemicals solvents like
hexane which by the way is in gasoline
and then you might ask yourself like how
do they pull the hexane out of there do
they use another chemical do they leave
some of the residue in there well
there's no long-term safety studies
there's no upper limit that the FDA is
put on hexane in your food I mean if
there's a condition called chronic
hexane toxicity well that's mainly uh if
you inhale it but what if you're
ingesting it all the time especially
since almost oneir of our calories are
seed oils this product is something that
has a very unique weird shape to it it
has all these holes in it and apparently
it'll absorb three times its weight in
liquid so it basic basically acts as a
super sponge and over 95% of it is GMO
in nature when you eat protein it has a
lot of things in it it has vitamins and
minerals and all sorts of things uh so
when you're eating this thing that's
only a protein what happens when you eat
it it has to Rob nutrients from your
liver and so this relates to a similar
product called soy protein isets so
that's number two that's almost the
worst prot protein but I think this uh
textured vegetable protein is even lower
than that but with this soy protein
isolates I mean that's like in like
cheese seral infant formulas and that
too extracts nutrients from your liver
from your tissues in practice there was
a diet that people went on was really
popular called Ideal Protein and the
type of protein that they use was not
ideal it was this soy protein isolate
and I noticed this a high percentage of
people on that diet had a lot of
problems with the liver had a lot of
problems with the the gallbladder and
when you turn a soybean into this soy
protein isolate the next step is to
acidify it and then you're adding bleach
to take the color out and then the
deodorizers and it is also in the
category of ultr process food there's
something else I want to share with you
called protein poisoning another name
for that would be rabbit starvation if
someone is out in the wilderness and
they consume just rabbit meat which is
extremely lean there's like hardly any
fat it's just like pure protein they can
get pretty sick okay they can start
developing uh fatigue diarrhea and even
die and so anytime you're eating just
like a pure protein powder realize that
you're going to create stress on the
body especially if there's Not Key
nutrients in there especially the fat
cable nutrients so when you're eating
this just pure protein without these
other factors you're going to be
extracting and depleting fat soluble
nutrients also when you're using high
heat with these amino acids from soy
you're creating toxins as well and one
of the toxins has an effect on the
kidney where it can enlarge the kidney
cell itself that's called lysinoalanine
and also there's different uh versions
of this process soy you have something
called hydroly soy that's a little bit
different that's a flavor enhancer okay
and what they do with that is they take
these long uh protein chains and they
cut them down so they're shorter and
that's used mainly for a flavor enhancer
in Asia they consume a lot of soy but
usually it's not all GMO and it's
fermented now that you learn the worst
protein in the world let's talk about
the healthiest protein in the world and
that video is right here check it out
