hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about calcium deficiencies now I
put a link down below so you can see
calcium excesses as well because so many
people have too much calcium it's
locking up the soft tissues and creating
all sorts of issues so watch that one
too but if you're deficient in calcium
these are the symptoms number one
insomnia specifically early morning
insomnia let's say you get up an hour
before the alarm clock boom you need
some calcium so calcium will allow you
to go a little bit longer and that's
because calcium is needed to make
tryptophan to make melatonin so it's not
just about calcium in the muscle itself
relaxing you it's about your hormones
okay uh muscle cramps okay so that's one
common symptom so I recommend um calcium
lactate or calcium citrate not a not a
it's very easy to find brittle nails
tooth decay bone loss and red purple
spots they could be really small or they
can be bigger why because calcium is
involved in the clotting of blood just
like Vitamin K is okay then tetany
that's a little twitching right through
in here but many times it's not the
calcium it's your two alkaline and
you're not able to transport the calcium
and it becomes unavailable to you so you
get these little Twitches you know
different parts of your body it's called
tetany um there's more symptoms but
these are the main ones pins and needle
around the mouth and the lips or on your
your hands and your feet which could
also be a u a diabetic symptom as well
so they can mimic each other okay now
what are the causes
hypoparathyroidism now not
hypothyroidism it's the parathyroid
there's two there's four little glands
behind the thyroid they're really tiny
and they're like the the size of a seed
of a a rice a grain of rice and um when
it's low it can actually affect the
calcium when it's high it raises calcium
and it will steal it from the bone uh
kidney damage can cause a Calcium
deficiency um calcium channel blockers
that's what you would take if you have
high blood pressure because that blocks
calcium um anti acids which dry up all
the acid in your stomach giving you low
stomach acids you need a really acidic
stomach to absorb minerals specifically
calcium so that could be you know why
you're deficient vomiting or diarrhea
because you're losing fluids
um excessive magnesium so let's say
you're taking the uh remedy called C
which is magnesium and you're taking it
but you're not adding the calcium in
there that can create an imbalance
because calcium and magnesium work
together uh then we have low vitamin D
right let's say for example you don't
it's not in your diet or you're not
getting the Sun or your gallbladder is
missing or you don't have enough bile
because your gallbladder is congested
you can't absorb the fat Cal vitamins so
that's another common reason uh low
stomach acids and then alkalosis which
basically your pH of your blood is just
overly too alkaline and that can come
from adrenal stress and high cortisol
okay the best foods for calcium would be
grass-fed dairy uh cheese I do a lot of
cheese um you get a lot of calcium from
that greens leafy greens spinach bok
choy kale is loaded with calcium nuts
seeds fish sardines and it's a lot of
other Foods as well well if you're going
to take a supplement I would go for the
calcium lactate if you can't find that
go with the citrate calcium citrate but
do not go for the calcium carbonate
that's like chewing on cement um it's
just chewing on this wall right here
it's just not going to be absorbed too
well um uh it's like chewing on rocks
all right so share your comments below
thanks for
watching where am I going with this
press the Subscribe
button forgot last part and I'm going to
see you next time am I going to I
will press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
