today we're to talk about how to finally
get your spouse on board with keto
what you have to realize is there are
many many different viewpoints and your
spouse might not have the same viewpoint
as you and so when you're trying to do
the version of healthy keto that I
recommend they could be mentally
rejecting it so the first thing is to
find out from their viewpoint what they
want to handle is it weight loss is it
inflammation is that more energy is it
more focus because keto can give them
all of that and that's what you focus on
and the next thing you need to realize
is that you must keep it very easy for
them to implement so they can have a win
so they can have some success so you
might not want to jump right in to the
healthy keto version you want to make it
so easy and comfortable with the foods
that they're used to eating but just
without the carbs if we look at the
difference between healthy keto and
dirty keto the macros are exactly the
same it's low carb moderate protein high
fat what really gets people into ketosis
and produces the weight loss results is
the low carb so this is the most
important thing right here so if you are
going to go to Burger King for example
and have a bunless burger with bacon and
no ketchup no fries no shake and you had
a diet coke that would be considered
dirty keto versus healthy keto you know
you're doing organic vegetables
grass-fed beef for example an avocado so
basically there are different levels of
keto like a whole spectrum from one
point to the other over here very low
nutrients but then over here we're
focusing on the nutrient-dense foods and
I'd like to take people where they're at
their awareness their educational level
which probably is over here in
relationship to food and then slowly
start to bring them over here as they
get results not before over here they
might not be interested in intermittent
fasting it might be too overwhelming
okay over here we want to add in a
minute fasting because the common
it is deadly powerful over here we're
not recommending a lot of vegetables
because they're not used to it
over here seven to ten cups but the key
is keeping the carbohydrates low we're
not really focusing on the type of food
have them be okay with eating
conventional meats and proteins and fats
but eventually we want to switch them
over to organic wild-caught grass-fed
farm raised over here is fine even fast
food is okay just make sure that they
keep their carbs really low eventually
we want to get them over here buying
food from the farmers market and the
health food store it after trying this
and it completely does not work try
giving them cash five thousand dollars
works fine but ten thousand works even
better if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
