today we're going to talk about how to
get rid of asthma symptoms okay it's a
very very powerful and uh exciting
technique that you're going to learn if
you have asthma but it can also be good
for people that are in stress people
that have hay fever people who snore
people who have sleep
apnea and even people that cannot sleep
now this is based on this book right
here called close your mouth developed
by professor bouto and it's called the
bco breathing method extremely powerful
if you have asthma now before I get into
it I need to give you a little
background on how this works simply
because it's very counterintuitive so
you have to kind of understand some
Basics so if we take a healthy normal
person versus an asthmatic person the
average breaths per minute in a normal
person is between like 10 and 12 breaths
per minute but an asthmatic is 15 to 20
breaths per minute okay so they're
breathing more frequently each breath of
a normal person as far as quantity of
air is about 500 milliliters okay
compare that to an asmatic it's 700
milliliters to one liter of
air and in a normal healthy person the
volume of air per minute is about 5 to
six liters compared to an asthmatic it's
10 to 15 L of air and that's the volume
of air per per minute so you can see an
asthmatic is consuming a lot more air
than a normal healthy person now here's
the counterintuitive part
CO2 okay is normally considered a waste
gas right we breathe it out we try to
get rid of it but CO2 is actually more
important than oxygen okay or shall I
say it's just as important but if you
have asthma it's actually more important
now to understand why you have to
understand this it's called the bore
effect the bore effect is an
observation by I think it was a Dr bore
that The Binding of oxygen in your blood
okay in the hemoglobin is dependent on
co2 carbon dioxide okay in other words
CO2 cannot stick to hemoglobin in your
blood it can't be carried it can't go
into the blood unless you have enough
CO2 now that's a pretty interesting
piece of data that I didn't know until
recently all right so here's the next
piece of the puzzle breathing a volume
of air greater than normal does not
increase the amount of oxygen in your
blood now that's another
counterintuitive piece of data so when
you're trying to breathe more than
normal you're not actually getting more
air into the blood and the blood is
already saturated at a saturation rate
of between 90 and
98% so when you're trying to breathe in
more air than normal you are actually
lowering the CO2 and remember we talked
about this you lower CO2 and then the
oxygen cannot bind in the blood and this
is why when people hyperventilate okay
they actually pass out because they're
getting less oxygen why because they're
getting less CO2 to be able to bind the
oxygen to the
hemoglobin so the more air the less
oxygen is delivered all right so you got
that concept let it sink in if it's not
sinking in watch this part again because
it's going to be important for this next
part and one little side note uh when
you breathe roughly about 75% of the
oxygen that's in the air that you
breathe is exhaled when you're breathing
let's go into the next part all right so
the less CO2 you have the more the
Airways are constricted so if you're an
asmatic and you just can't get enough
air realize you don't have enough CO2 so
CO2 the so-called waste gas actually
relaxes your smooth muscle okay in your
lungs it relaxes your lungs it actually
helps you breathe so what is the real
problem with
asthma over
breathing okay what do you normally see
in an asthmatic they're usually trying
to get more air right they're
suffocating they're constantly trying to
get more air and when they over breathe
they lock up the oxygen ability to bind
in the hemoglobin so it makes it worse
okay and this also would make sense too
if you look at it from the Viewpoint of
stress when you're stressed you're
trying to breathe more you're trying to
get more air right and where are you
breathing from your lungs your
chest you're breathing like this and all
that extra breathing is locking up and
shutting down your oxygen and you're
using more of your sympathetic nervous
system it's called the flight or fight
you're not in a calm State now this
relates to a quick story um a while ago
I went to lunch with a patient I had a
long time ago and uh we were at lunch we
were talking and all of a sudden she was
like I can't breathe I can't breathe
some food got stuck in her throat and
I'm like okay how do I do the heck
maneuver so I had her get up and I
started to do it and it didn't work and
everyone was sitting around they weren't
really helping and they were just kind
of just they were kind of like I was
surprised that someone didn't call 911
but I started getting nervous because it
wasn't working so I saw her face turning
red and she's like what am I going to do
and luckily I came up with this idea I
said okay calm down just relax I had her
sit in a chair I started to kind of
massage her neck and just don't try to
fight it just relax and then bam she
started to breathe again okay why
because when you're in flight or fight
mode when you're in stress mode
everything gets constricted okay
including your lungs including your
throat so if you're an asthmatic you
definitely want to relax but the more
over breathing you do the less you're
going to get oxygen into the blood the
more you're going to have things like
sleep apnea asthma hay fever and even
nasal congestion so this is the
technique okay and it's really
simple instead of breathing fast you
want to start slowing down your breath
okay instead of you know trying to sigh
and get more oxygen okay or gasp for air
you want to just start breathing in a
very regular way and a very gentle way
through your nose not your mouth okay
and some people find it very helpful to
just put some tape on their mouth when
they go to sleep at night so they can
start practicing breathing through their
nose so you really want to get to a
state where your breathing is very
silent it's very soft not so it's
noticeable so even if you're laying down
trying to rest and you can hear yourself
breathing you don't want that you want
to breathe so it's completely quiet and
very very soft very gentle so the air
that's coming through your nose is very
very light and it's coming out through
the nose very very light you don't don't
want to breathe with your upper chest
you want to focus on breathing through
the stomach okay so you can pull your
diaphragm down the diaphragm is inovated
by the vagus nerve which is all
parasympathetic nerve control so the
autonomic nervous system is both
voluntary and involuntary in other words
you can control your autonomic nervous
system through this type of breathing
you can take yourself out of this
sympathetic overdrive or flight or fight
mode just by calming down your breath
focusing on the breath coming through
your
sinuses very slowly and gently and
coming back into your sinesis and no
longer breathing through your chest
breathing through your stomach now the
first thing you want to do before you do
anything is you want to measure how long
you can hold your breath okay
comfortably so this is called the
comfortable breath hold time or CP all
right now if you can only hold your
breath 10 seconds or less then you have
a severe situation okay you have severe
asthma but if you can hold your breath
between 11 and 20 seconds uh it's not as
severe but you're going to probably have
many symptoms related to asthma if you
can hold your breath between 21 and 40
seconds you're going to have less
symptoms and if you can hold your breath
over 40 seconds without that strong urge
you're going to have absolutely no
symptoms related to asthma so the
symptoms of asthma are directly related
to your ability to hold your breath
comfortably so guess what the goal is to
get at this level right here and to be
able to maintain that for at least six
months to really make sure that your
condition is in remission of course we
can never say cure but we can say it's
in remission so the question is is
holding your breath the actual Technique
No it's just an indicator or a tool that
you can use to figure out if you're
progressing okay or not right this is
the exercise right here you're just
actively slowing your breath down you're
breathing through your nose you're
breathing through your
diaphragm and you are when you're
resting at night you're having the air
go in very slowly through the sinuses
and out through the nose so as you
monitor this CP or comfortable breath
hold time you're going to notice that
you're going to be able to hold your
breath longer and longer and for every
increase of 5 Seconds you're just going
to feel better and better and better so
what is this technique doing it's
increasing the concentration of
CO2 and something else when you breathe
very very gently through your sones
you're also increasing another very very
therapeutic gas called nitric oxide
which relaxes the sinuses okay and
you're going to find when you do this
that your sinuses are going to start to
open up they're going to relax you're
going to breathe better through your
sinuses and when you check this
breathing whole time where you're
holding your breath um I recommend that
you just plug your nose so that way it's
easier to hold your breath so very
simply start breathing through your nose
make sure your breathing is very gentle
and very calm home never hear your
breath when you're resting make it very
very silent slow your breath down as
much as possible because you're going to
allow the CO2 to help the oxygen bind
with your hemoglobin and use the
diaphragm to help you breathe not your
chest you can even put your hand on your
chest and your stomach to practice that
as well now the other really cool thing
about this is that you're going to find
your stress level is going to
dramatically DEC increase your ability
to sleep is going to greatly improve and
everything connected with that going to
improve as well so I'll put some more
information about videos you can watch
to get more data on this as well as a
link to the book but if you haven't seen
my acupressure technique on how to
extract stress from your body that would
be the next step check it out right here
