hey guys in this video I'm going to talk
about one of the functions of
cholesterol that rarely gets any notice
or attention and that is this
cholesterol is an antioxidant okay so it
it's against oxidation which basically
means it's involved in a reparative
function it acts as a band-aid now
cluster there's a lot of other things
like it can it's a precursor for
hormones especially sex hormones
testosterone estrogen and even stress
hormones like cortisol it also helps
make vitamin D bile to help you digest
it helps bind microbes but it's a very
powerful antioxidant and your body makes
three times the amount of cholesterol
that you get from your diet so when
you're consuming egg yolks animal
protein fish and seafood your body is
actually making three times as much okay
and it needs it for this very important
repair action because if we take a look
at so-called bad cholesterol which is
really not bad cholesterol
it's a low-density lipoprotein it's
really a little ship that carries some
cholesterol in it and it also carries
triglycerides for energy and fat soluble
vitamins and other things but it's going
to float around and one of the functions
is going to be there so when the
receptor for LDL in the lining of the
artery needs some help
it will reach up with a hand and grab
some of that cholesterol to help in the
repair
so cholesterol really acts as a
firefighter it's not the fire it's the
firefighter that's trying to put out the
fire so there's always a reason why
cholesterol is going to bind with your
arteries and that's usually because
there's oxidation right now the question
is what causes oxidation okay that would
cause the cholesterol to come in there
well number one vegetable oils corn
canola soy oil that's pretty much
everything this is very inflammatory to
your arteries and to your body
iron the type of iron that they
fortified grains with and refined grains
and it's not the
type of iron that you want to put in
your body it's very oxidizing of course
you shouldn't have to worry about that
because you're not consuming grains if
you're watching my videos okay sugar
okay refined grains trans fats and
smoking all of these things can create a
little hole in the artery damage to
cause the need for cholesterol to build
up so I hope this shifted your viewpoint
from cholesterol being some type of evil
dangerous thing to something that
actually really can help you
the key is avoiding these things right
here so you don't have the need for
cholesterol to come and repair anything
alright thanks for watching
hey guys I want to talk about these two
books right here okay I want to explain
it this book right here is a very short
book it explains why to do keto and how
to do it it's filled with pictures you
can get through this in 45 minutes
real quick just very important to know
the details the basics of how to do it
now this book the new body type guide
should have been called be on keto
because I rarely find someone that has
just a weight problem they usually have
a lot of other body problems and in this
book I cover all the reasons why keto
and intermittent fasting might not work
for you we go into the body types we go
into inflammation we go into stress
hardcore and what to do about it so if
you want to maximize your results you
definitely want to get this one right
here okay so my goal is to get you to do
keto correctly what I mean by that is do
it healthily
it's called healthy ketosis so we can
avoid all the issues that happen with
transitioning the fat burning keto flu
kita fatigue keto rash kidney stones
gout etc and right now on my website if
you get this you get this at no extra
cost I put a link down below check it
out
