hey guys today we're gonna talk about
the ultimate keto food you got it
cauliflower now what's cool about
cauliflower is its low carb and it
tastes like a potato
it's very starchy but it doesn't have
the starch in it with 1.4 grams of fiber
giving you a net carb of 1.2 grams so
one cup is like a little over one gram
of carbohydrates so it's perfect now
there's a couple additional things that
are really good about cauliflower that
go beyond just being low-carb it has a
lot of vitamins b1 b2 b3 b5 b6 b9 that's
folate which is very very important it
has a lot of vitamin C vitamin E k1 a
lot of minerals trace minerals
especially manganese which is good as an
antioxidant and in addition to this it
has some pretty serious phytonutrients
in fact all the cruciferous vegetables
are high in phytonutrients now what are
phytonutrients a mainly act as
specialized antioxidants that help in
the turning on and turning off of
certain genes and the maintenance of
your DNA now there's many different ways
you can prepare a cauliflower the one
that I like is the pizza crusts okay I'm
gonna put a link down below on a pizza
that is made with cauliflower crust it's
really delicious
you can also get these at the store
kabosh is a company that sells
cauliflower crust this is what it looks
like right here and they have different
crust as well they have a spinach pizza
crust pumpkin zucchini crust for like a
dessert how about this one chocolate
zucchini crust and then we have our kale
pizza crust and just regular cauliflower
crust what's really important when you
get a crust is to look on the label and
just make sure it has cauliflower in it
because sometimes they'll slip in things
like tapioca starch or dextran and some
other things that are not keto friendly
kabosh is a good company there's others
you can check them out I'll put a link
down below and then we have our
cauliflower rice okay and you can get
this at any grocery store now it's
becoming more popular and it tastes
almost
culture rice which is very starchy but
without the starch it's all fiber so
this is a really good recipe I'll put
some links down below of some additional
things you can check it out now one
thing to remember when you're cooking
cauliflower is the more you cook it the
more nutrients you destroy three minutes
of boiling equals ten minutes of
steaming so if you were to steam it for
like five minutes
you would actually preserve a lot more
nutrients and even boiling it for you
know two minutes now the best way to
preserve your nutrients is just to saute
it and even though you cook it for a
long time you're still getting some
nutrients but one big benefit is it's a
low carb food and you also get the fiber
and sometimes when I go to certain
restaurants I will find that they will
have the entire head of the cauliflower
roasted with cheese on the menu and I'll
order and I'll pretty much eat the whole
thing anyway there's a lot of ways to
care cauliflower I'm gonna put some
links down below check it out it's the
ultimate keto food thanks for watching
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
