hey me again we're going to talk about
PABA today what is that para amino
benzoic acid so most people know this as
a B vitamin but really it's a pre B
vitamin in other words it takes public
to make folic acid so it's not really a
true B vitamin kind of kind of a
precursor it's actually called a non
essential vitamin because you don't need
it from your diet your body can make it
but in actuality it's not really your
body that makes it it's the microbes in
the gut that naked so if you've had
antibiotics in the past and you
destroyed certain microbes it could be
that you're deficient in Papa this
vitamin is used to make folic acid but
you can also get it from organ meats
from dairy from eggs vegetables and from
mushrooms so what are some of the
benefits of pava well number one it's
really good for skin tone it makes your
skin soft it protects your skin against
the ultraviolet radiation from the Sun
that's probably why you see in these
suntan lotion there's PABA
and lastly it's good for vitiligo which
is the loss of pigment in your skin
thanks for watching hey you probably
already subscribed but if you haven't
press this little button down below and
I will keep you updated
