hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about the difference between the
glycemic index and the glycemic load I
don't know if you ever heard about this
one probably this one but a lot of
people have not heard about this one but
there's two different factors here we
want to talk about especially when we're
dealing with glycemic which means the
sugar the glycemic index is how fast
that carbohydrate is digested or broken
down into the blood and then how much
power that has to raise the blood sugar
okay
and the speed at which it raises the
blood sugar whereas the glycemic load is
a little different it's the concentrated
amount of carbohydrate or the amount of
carbohydrate in the food so let me kind
of give you an example a carrot a raw
carrot is on the glycemic index 91 right
now 55 or less is low 56 to 69 is
moderate over 70 is high so coordinator
this scale but carrot would be high
because it's 91 okay the glycemic load
10 is low or 10 or less as low 10 to 20
is moderate greater than 20 is high so
if you look at a raw carrot 91 is pretty
high on the glycemic index but look at
the glycemic load it has a factor of 1
so what we're doing with the glycemic
load is deducting all the fiber it's
very fibrous right so this is not going
to influence your blood Sugar's nearly
as much as most other foods so let's
kind of go through candy bar okay a
typical candy bar is 68 so that's some
borderline and pretty high and that's a
half a candy bar glycemic load is 23 so
it's still high jellybeans 78 for a 1
ounce and mount of jellybeans glycemic
load is 22 again high there's not a lot
of fiber and jelly beans corn bread to
110 that's pretty high it's off the
charts
that's 160 gram piece of cornbread
glycemic index of 31 that's pretty high
grape nut okay that's 75 for a half of a
cup glycemic load is 31 is pretty high
you wouldn't think that Grape Nuts would
be that high as a cereal but it's pretty
high
potato 104 for a one large potato it's a
36 glycemic load that's pretty high
carrot 91 1 so that would be fine look
at corn 55 on the glycemic index but 62
on the glycemic load so this is the
worst thing you could possibly eat is
corn especially with related to your
blood sugars now what I want you to do
is I want you to type down the food that
you loved and ate as a child that was a
carbohydrate that wasn't too good for
you okay mine was combination between
Reese's peanut butter cups and Doritos
and pizza so what was yours I'm curious
all right talk to you later
hi guys listen I want to thank you so
much for your wonderful comments and I
want to ask you if you wouldn't mind
giving me your review on Google I put a
link down below I'd really appreciate it
and thank you in advance
