so is your appetite going away you're
not hunger anymore and you're on keto
you're doing in a minute fasting but you
feel weak this video is for you one of
the best indicators to know that you're
in ketosis is the hunger goes away you
lose your appetite but at the same time
you should have energy so if you feel
weak or tired its most likely related to
nutrient deficiencies now relating to
weakness it could be three different
things you could have muscle weakness
which could be a deficiency of vitamin E
okay in which case you need to consume
maybe some seeds nuts leafy greens or
even take vitamin E but make sure if
you're taking vitamin E it's the whole
complex so you want the Dakar oils and
the tocotrienols okay together in a
complex you don't want to get synthetic
alpha tocopheryl for example also it
could be low sodium okay because you
need more sea salt when you do keto and
in a minute fasting and the low sodium
is probably more common than vitamin E
so don't forget to take more salt at
least one teaspoon per day you just salt
your food and that should do it you can
even get sea salt tablets take them as
well and that should handle the weakness
and the muscle now if you have brain fog
most likely there's an insulin
resistance problem and it's taking a
while for your body to adapt to ketosis
especially if you're a diabetic or a
pre-diabetic a lot of people have
insulin resistance and it really messes
up the brain and it takes a while for a
person to adapt in which case you can
speed up the process by giving the brain
ketones there could be a situation in
the blood-brain barrier in which you
have insulin resistance so what
determines how much ketone feeds the
brain is how much ketone is in your
blood so if you're having a transition
period that's taking a bit too long you
could just take some MCT oil to get pure
keytones right up to the brain real fast
and handle the brain fog because the
machinery is already in place you just
need to bump up to ketones
and then over time as your body adapts
to ketosis because you're you're getting
rid of this and an insulin resistance
you will need less and less of it over
time now vitamin D will also help brain
fog as well there's certain parts of the
brain that need vitamin D and if you're
deficient it can create brain fog as
well as insomnia then we get to just
fatigue overall fatigue that is usually
going to boil down to a vitamin b1
deficiency or a b5 deficiency now if
you're watching my videos or reading my
books
you already know nutritional yeast is
probably the best source of your B
vitamins and you can just take some and
that will help you another cause of a
Teague would be low potassium you need
potassium to generate energy now you
could also need magnesium as well
because magnesium actually will help
increase the ATP in the mitochondria
which is energy factory but the
electrolytes in general specifically
potassium and sometimes magnesium will
help energy and this could be because
you just don't take electrolyte so
you're not consuming enough vegetable
okay so this is why you might be weak
now there's another situation let's say
you're not in ketosis okay you're not
doing it correct but you're trying to do
it
but you're not even in ketosis you
haven't used the urine testing strips to
see if you're in ketosis or even the
blood test so a loss of appetite by
itself could be a symptom of several
things so it could be a negative thing
especially if you're not in ketosis
it could be a magnesium deficiency b12
deficiency
iron deficiency vitamin D deficiency or
an infection usually viral in nature so
a simple way to differentiate is just to
get a test to see if you're in ketosis
and if you're not maybe you want to
check some of these things right here
but definitely isolate which problem you
have and address it based on these right
here thanks for watching
hey if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
