so I wanted to create a little video on
six things that can potentially lower
your child's IQ now a lot of information
is associated on what the female is
exposed to or consuming right before and
during the pregnancy okay like a lack of
iodine can drop the IQ by twelve point
four points so either as a trace mineral
so it's vital that a woman who's
pregnant consume trace minerals to make
sure that the growing fetus has
everything it needs to develop into a
healthy body number two not being
breastfed can also affect the cognitive
function okay when a child is fed infant
formula filled with all these chemicals
and sugars that has huge effects on the
growing brain even down here we talked
about high sugar diets well high sugar
creates insulin resistance which can
affect hypoglycemia and even cause the
brain to be a little bit smaller than it
should be so
breastfeeding is very very important
minimally six months but up to two years
or longer would be good all right number
three childhood diabetes type one okay
that has huge effects on the development
of a growing brain and it has effects of
the cognitive function as well we've
already talked about insulin resistance
and hypoglycemia
but diabetes in general can definitely
affect the IQ now I'm going to put some
links down below on what I think that's
causing diabetes type 1 which is
autoimmune you can check that out later
but this can actually affect the IQ
number for lowered b12 b12 is essential
in the development of the central
nervous system and just the nervous
system in general so if there's not
enough b12 that you can affect the
cognitive function okay so number six
exposure to certain chemicals
specifically phalates
okay and that can really affect the
cognitive function especially IQ okay so
this would be in certain plastic
containers that you're going to hold
your food in you put the food that's hot
in there that heat melts on the plastic
it goes in the food it's also in
cosmetics it's in soaps shampoo it's in
skin moisturizers
so we just need to be aware of what our
children are exposed to and also what
you're exposed to if you're actually
pregnant so one of the best things to do
is make sure that you're taking the
trace minerals make sure you take the B
vitamins okay
get on a healthy keto plan low sugars a
lot of high nutrient-dense foods and
that way we can maximize the
intelligence and the cognitive function
of your children so I hope you're coming
to the keto health summit coming up in
October so I want to quickly comment on
what we're gonna do that's different
from other conventions okay the problem
with these other conventions is they
give you information over a load okay
it's so much data that you're basically
swimming in a sea of information we're
going to do things very differently
we're only going to cover the most
important things that make a huge
difference now there are three very
powerful strategies that we're going to
be talking about at the summit that you
will not find and any of my youtube
videos number one is on memory I'm going
to be showing you something very cool to
dramatically increase your memory and
concentration that's going to blow you
away
and number two I'm going to show you how
to increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism if you've
dyed it for a long time and everything
is kind of just really slow I'm going to
show you how to get complete control
over your metabolism so you can
literally turn up the dial as high as
you want and control as much weight as
you want to lose and these three things
are just a tiny bit of what you're going
to learn in the summit so click the link
below get signed up and I will see you
in October
