hello dr. Burks here in this video we're
going to talk about saturated fats and
insulin resistance okay so a lot of
times when you see in the news or on
YouTube videos there's a certain group
of people that are really pushing that
saturated fats are the cause of diabetes
problems with insulin sensitivity and
insulin resistance so I just want to
talk about some of the studies that are
out there that are so-called ER they're
using as proof so check this out
there's five really high quality studies
that we're done that compare consuming
saturated fats to unsaturated fats and
four of the five studies showed
absolutely no difference at all in any
difference in relating to infant
sensitivity or insulin resistance okay
now the fifth study called the can you
study and that's the one that's most
cited most used in this argument they
use butter and margarine okay as their
saturated fat and it showed that it was
almost statistically significant and
like being almost pregnant so if you're
almost pregnant does that mean you're
pregnant
so almost is not proof that consuming
cetera defense will lead to diabetes
okay so you can pretty much invalidate
that study and they pretty much omit all
these other four studies and now there's
other studies too that were more of a
trial and especially the large European
lit the gene random controlled diet
trial and they found that when you
consume saturated fats that had no
effect on insulin sensitivity after 12
weeks so I think the bottom line is
number one latias does you have to pay
for its pay like 32 dollars or $35 per
study no one's going to do that number
two even if they have this studies it's
almost in Latin for most people they
can't understand they can't really read
it because there's too many big words
and they don't have the time so they
depend on other people who give you
secondhand data on their interpretation
of the study which they can just pretty
much say anything
so the next time you hear this on the
news that oh it's saturated fats are bad
pull the string and find out who told
you that word that come from get this
steady and if you're nervous about it
pay for the study it it out read it or
have someone that is credible translate
it for you thanks for watching hi guys
hey listen I created a pretty amazing
evaluation quiz down below that actually
analyzes your symptoms to find the cause
the root cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause
so take the quiz now and we'll send you
report
