now there are six mistakes that you can
make when you develop a viral infection
and you're going to actually address it
or treat it that I want to talk about
because when you start getting sick
especially a viral infection you want to
make sure that you can maybe fight it
off initially so it doesn't develop into
a full-blown infection and if you have
the infection you want a very quick
recovery you don't want something that's
going to last a very long time so this
video is going to be very important all
right number one stopping a fever too
quickly there's this impulse to want to
get rid of your fever especially if a
child has fever well did you realize
that by getting rid of the fever you're
going to prolong the duration of the
infection you have to realize what that
fever is there for very very important
it is there to help reduce the spreading
of the virus that's right like if it's
in your sinuses down into the lungs it
can actually inhibit the spreading from
the lungs throughout the rest of the
body it can reduce the reproduction of
the virus it helps inhibit the virus
going into the cell it reduces something
called il6 which is a requirement for
the virus to survive and on top of that
The Fever increases your
T killer cells which is everything to do
with killing of viruses as well as
killing off cancer in fact when you
start getting a fever I would recommend
do things to keep really really warm to
help enhance that fever you know when
you're actually sleeping just wear more
clothes have more blankets take a hot
bath take a hot shower stay really
really warm viruses hate heat all right
number two taking an antibiotic for a
virus it doesn't work antibiotics only
work for bacterial infections not
viruses not fungal infections not
candida only for bacterial infections
and the problem when you take an
antibiotic there's some slight minor
complications and I'm being very
sarcastic because there are a lot of
side effects the big one being you know
when you take an antibiotic you're not
going to fully kill off everything right
those microbes that survive become
stronger
they start resisting that antibiotic
they learn from that stress and now the
next time you use an antibiotic it
doesn't work anymore and then you get
sick and you have another infection
another infection so over time these
antibiotics become less and less
effective not to mention all the other
side effects so when you have a virus
infection antibiotics don't work and if
for some reason you have to take an
antibiotic make sure you also take a
probiotic at the exact same time so you
can actually kind of preserve your own
microbes to some extent I mean the
reason we're even bringing this up is
because literally like 50 percent of all
antibiotics are prescribed unnecessarily
also if you take antibiotics you end up
with a severe B1 deficiency which
creates all sorts of issues now the next
one is just the kind of concept of
avoiding over sanitation and this has to
do with something called the hygiene
hype hypothesis mainly for kids that are
living in a very super clean environment
they tend to get more allergies they
tend to get sick more often simply
because they don't develop an immune
system you have to realize that
especially early on when you get an
infection as a child
that's the training of your immune
system so sometimes we have this
Obsession to keep everything so sterile
and clean and sanitized well that can
inhibit your immune system as well
especially if you are sanitizing your
hands or your your skin you actually are
wiping off all the good bacteria that
live on your skin as well I mean this
also can relate to
facial cleansing creams and scrubs and
all this work to kind of clean your skin
whether you have acne or whatever you're
just stripping off all these friendly
bacteria and you end up with rashes on
your skin and the skin is not as healthy
all right number four detoxifying when
you run down or you're getting sick you
don't want to do a detox you don't want
to take things that detoxify you because
that's going to weaken your system
you're going to actually probably even
get sick just from that I've been
completely you know without symptoms
right I had no infections and then I
took some remedy to detoxify myself and
I ended up with a full-blown infection
now what is going on with that
when you detox sometimes incorrectly you
release a lot of crud and stuff and
you're it creates an immune reaction and
you can even be sick just from that not
to mention you can weaken the immune
system and activate latent viruses that
are dormant so the point is when you're
sick you want to nurture that situation
you don't want to start doing any type
of detoxification and even doing a detox
in general I have videos on that there's
the right way to do it but you want to
do it so you don't get sick so you want
to learn from the mistakes of others
including me and I mean I I was sick in
bed for two weeks unnecessarily by just
doing a detox and this also relates to
the next one number five uh you doing
like a shotgun effect
on your immune system like taking every
single known remedy demand for an
infection just tons of stuff you're
going to overdo it you don't need to do
that yeah even sometimes when they have
like um a sinus infection they'll start
doing colloidal silver as a nasal rinse
and then they'll add hydrogen peroxide
and then they'll add other things like
garlic it's going to irritate your
tissues so you got to really be careful
not to overdo it I have videos on this
of what to do probably the three
Essentials would be zinc a natural form
of vitamin C
and vitamin D and also apple cider
vinegar is a nice one as well because
apple cider vinegar stimulates the
phagocytes so it can stimulate the
immune system to kind of clean things up
and number six and I've seen this
mistake quite frequently as
trying to suppress the immune system
when it's trying to work right away so
there's a lot of medications that
suppress a cough or suppress mucus right
the cough and the mucus is there to get
rid of the virus so you start
suppressing things you push them deeper
into the tissues and now
you have the infection longer so
anything that can actually help get rid
of mucus and help it drain or even
improve a productive cough would be a
good thing there's another point about
cortisol
and even sometimes people have to take
prednisone when they're sick prednisone
is a synthetic cortisol and cortisol
which is a stress hormone suppresses the
immune system big time it basically
makes your immune system paralyzed it
lowers white blood cells what am I
talking about I'm talking about anything
that stresses you out when you're going
through a viral infection or even a
bacterial infection
boy that is a big problem that's
probably the biggest problem in fact
there probably wasn't a time that you
got sick that you didn't have some
stress event that occurred just before
that so it's very very important to keep
your stress to a minimum get plenty of
rest take hot baths nurture your body
but I just wanted to create this video
to increase your awareness on these key
factors now there's a lot of other
things that you need to know about the
immune system and if you haven't seen
this a very important immune video I put
it up right here check it out
