hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're going to do a little bit for and
after so I have this lovely client right
here and what we're going to do is we're
going to get rid of her pain in her
right heel so now once you walk tell me
if you can actually walk because I saw
look at your hop around
I can walk as long as I wear this strap
on my knee it stabilizes my knees so
that I don't have so much pain in my
heel I can't put weight on got it full
weight can you just stand right now just
so we can see that just see what happens
yeah so that's about it okay ten being
real bad zero being no pain give me a
number
Lisa six okay privacy so so this the
first thing we do is we're going to work
on her heel pain now I already did a
history and I know she has a lot of
digestive issues they were better but
they're not perfect and the first thing
that I always look for anytime you have
pain on the right side which she does
back here is the gallbladder why because
the gallbladder liver can enlarge rotate
these vertebrates out of place not okay
so let's just first rule that out to see
if that's true or not so it was a six so
I'm going to actually have her lay on
her back with her right here okay so I'm
just going to press gingerly around the
gallbladder
and so I'm going light I'm watching
eyeballs to make sure they're not
bulging out not too much but I'm just
kind of loosening up the tension we're
not pressing sore spot we're not
actually right on the gallbladder around
the soft tissue around the gallbladder
which connected the gallbladder because
the hip bone connects it to the thigh
bone the thigh bone connects to the
something of them so as we press in here
we're kind of like getting all that
slide out just it's draining right now
and what I'm doing is I'm taking
pressure of all these nerves that
connect to the upper part the lower part
the whole thing and the thing is that
what she told me was that when she eats
it's not just bloating it's pain in the
stomach so automatically that means that
she doesn't have enough stomach acid
have you taken the episode of vinegar
Plus tells us just started it how many
to take with a meal she needs like five
per meal just before the meal probably
for two or three days then go down to
four and then go down to three and price
day at three for a while because if she
doesn't have enough stomach acid not
only is she going to have a problem with
digestion especially meat which she
can't digest meat but she's not going to
absorb minerals like calcium and guess
what it's going to happen she's going to
get cramps in the calves in the legs and
the feet and what happens she'll over
stretch those muscles when she exercises
and tear the heck out of those muscles
so what I'm doing now might give her
some temporary relief but I'm thinking
we better fix the stomach all I'm
looking for is some improvement does
this improve it and if it does then we
know it's digestion we can just focus on
that because so many pain syndromes are
referred from some other place because
when you step in a dog's tail where's
you bark sorry okay so I just did a
little bit on the gallbladder and
I'm gonna have you stand back up and the
skin up and just time those are six what
is it up now
it's like gone wow I haven't walked on
it but it's walking a little bit but not
too far cuz just walk a little bit there
I don't have to walk that far just
walking my heel is all I needed
it's gone okay cool good have a seat
