hi guys I'm back today I have a special
guest Aaron and Aaron used to be a
client of mine way back and so she's
living in the area and I just wanted to
pull her in for an interview on your
history a little bit and we won't get
into the details but I want to give you
a little summary because this is a
perfect example of just how stress can
affect your body right yes yeah so we're
gonna talk about stress we're going to
talk about the Kino diet we'll talk
about in a minute fasting so you know
thumbnail sketch I'm just gonna try to
go through it okay so you've been going
through the you were in flight or flight
mode your whole life right like that's
the stress mode so you're just pushing
those adrenals going goes way back been
through a lot of stress emotional stress
physical stress - or just mainly
emotional as well okay in the gym
pushing at high-intensity interval
training yeah okay so she's been going
through that and just the num a series
of events that occurred over time that
started burning her out and then
affecting her sleep all right I mean
there was I mean it's been a while since
you slept yes I mean just pushing
pushing and I had a similar thing where
I didn't sleep there was like 12 years I
didn't sleep and then I mean there was
nights that I I needn't say point min I
don't know
that ever happened to you you didn't
sleep at all it was no I didn't have
insomnia okay I had that pulse all the
time kind of adrenaline yeah and I would
sleep for an hour at a time I got that
one over there did you hear it I lost in
your ear tell me or just like in your I
could just feel it okay so that's
adrenaline that's adrenalin cuz your
adrenals are located right above the
kidneys and they there's a inside of the
adrenals and there's an outside the
outside is all gland the inside us all
nerve so the inside makes adrenaline the
outside makes cortisol which is a stress
hormone so this is a book sivir the
cyclop√¶dia for endocrinology we'll just
on page 84 this is not what you look
like but I'm just showing you all the
effects of cortisol so I'm just gonna go
to go through them increased neural
excitability in your brain it's like
just extremely kind of excessive
thinking thinking analyzing everything
to death I've ever had that you know I
yes okay
it can affect a lot of other things too
which in her case I don't think it's
affecting as much like this can this
situation right here but I know it's
affecting your sleep your sleep for sure
your focus your mood and also your your
cognitive function I think it's like
sensory overload but anyway that that's
what Cora still does and you've had
cortisol test and they were high like
they're really high all day long so you
had a you know relationship stress is
multiple and then you were traveling
back and forth around the country like
what five hours one way back and forth
so jet lag right you had a nap and then
you had job stress where you're working
like without any break for a long period
of time so you push your adrenals and
then you said have a baby on top of that
and so a way before that okay so you had
that and then you know that takes a
tremendous amount of stress having a kid
so you had that and then not sleeping
and then you sometimes get into mode
where you might go into a chocolate
thing for a while right for a couple
years ago last year or the year where I
had the where I was working nonstop and
needed to just keep going and needed a
little bit of joy in my life right get a
lot of pleasure there it comes in the
package because chocolate doesn't
necessarily have caffeine it has
theobromine which is a different
chemical which is a stimulant
so also even earlier you've had
stimulants too you know growing up so we
have all this stimulation which is
basically foot on gas pill forever right
and now the brake pad is broken so you
can't just go to bed at 10:00
thirty and just go right out and sleep
for the next seven or eight hours right
right I wake up feeling like wow I'm
normal so that's what we're gonna talk
about let's see what else did I miss
just one thing you have to know they're
just kind of pushing pushing pushing
pushing now last year you did do the
keto diet for like three months
mm-hmm but what happens it's like
there's so much stress that you didn't
have an appetite so you would probably
not eat and then you would have like a
small meal that maybe it wasn't
nutrient-dense or maybe it was but it
probably wasn't enough to have all the
nutrients and then you would end up
eating a lot of nuts right like seventy
percent of your diet would be like
Brussels sprouts and then I'd be full
and then it would be at three hours
later a macadamia nuts Ron and that's
about all I could hand it home for the
day Wow
okay so this is good this is good
background just super super high level
of cortisol and how old are you right
now 42 42 okay and the good thing is
like I think that you're you've survived
like more than other people
I think so because from that much stress
I mean the average person would probably
be like just really ragged so it seems
like you're kind of coping but inside
you're not coping as nice as you want
I've been coping my whole life right now
I'm kind of and then I burned out and
then I took a year to try to kill myself
and I'm much better but I'm still having
that pulse that night my appetite has
come back sorry I'm eating more
well-rounded meals but be I'm still
wakened at night by that that pulse and
I'm trying to figure out what that is
okay it used to be a fast adrenaline and
then sometimes it's a slow heavy pulse
so that's not sure okay
so we're dealing with a situation we're
trying to get her to recover that's
really you're you're gonna be your mono
recovery to recover you have to turn be
able to turn off
recovery is all about turning off it's
like the off switch her off switch is
broken we're gonna we're gonna fix it
but and that has to do with sleep so I
think sleep is going to be the thing
that that you have to put a lot of your
energy into and yours you know that so
the thing is like how do we do that
there's a couple things we have to avoid
stimulants you know things that
stimulate you like the worst you drink
coffee now no I haven't drank coffee in
years okay that's good alcohol good I do
have those fat bombs though and those
have sugar-free chocolate but I think
there are still just enough stimulants
yeah yeah like right now I probably I
would not recommend you even doing
chocolate right now the point is I think
you you try to take some you have some
different brands there's the gummies
right here but you know you just have to
read the labels and it has high fructose
corn syrup so we want a source that
doesn't have glycerin you want a source
that is just pure oil high quality
because that oil has some interesting
properties for chronic pain and stress
and inflammation and if you take too
much it can kind of have a different
effect so you want to go slow but it
tends to affect certain genes so I was
like at least 1200 genes that it affects
in your body that has a lot to do with
downgrading pain and inflammation that's
kind of it helps to rejuvenate certain
parts of your brain it works on dopamine
centers it's it's really good for people
that are have chronic inflammatory
conditions autoimmune migraine headaches
and I think it's good for the adrenals
so I'm gonna suggest you get some that
is just pure oil taking small amounts
just once a day for a while and
gradually increase it but typically
people that are in your situation tend
to take I don't know if maybe I'm maybe
incorrect them wrong but like they'll
take like oh if a little is good I'll
take a lot more like I'm just gonna take
a sledgehammer approach to it and just
take a little too much I don't know is
that true or enough um I tried one gummy
um
and I was reluctant to try it because I
everyone has told me once you tried it's
gonna knock you out and your to fall
asleep and for three hours but I I tried
one and I felt relaxed after twenty
minutes and two hours later I needed
another so um it was just having you
know when your nerves are so frantically
split for so many hairs of and not
sleeping you know it's it's kind of
feels like a curing of the nerves when
you take something that calms you that
way
right so there about a week after I was
just doing one or two gummies a day I
just I had a day where I was really
feeling stressed out and I was taking it
on the hour and that was too much and
then that was making me very agitated
yeah that was just to hide yeah it's
hardly thing even when you're feeling
like it is you like want to just take
more to really fix it fast but you have
to kind of go slow and just so you know
if you didn't catch that these gummy
bears are the you know CBD oil
it's the hemp oil in there so there's
too many other things in there like it
could also be some of these other
chemicals I thought it was because of
the sugar yes I thought I was a agitated
because of the sugar because I don't put
that type of sugar into my body right
but then it could also have been that
too much dosing right we don't know for
sure but we're gonna go back to the
basics and we know are you familiar with
the the autonomic nervous system yes
okay the parasympathetics the
parasympathetic nervous system is the
opposite of the sympathetic which is the
flatter fight and so that's the area we
need to strengthen the parasympathetic
nervous system there's really two
minerals we actually treat I'm sorry
there's three nutrients that are vital
to restore the parasympathetic you know
what they are yeah okay
one is b1 number one is B 1 so B 1 is
what you need to be taken like a lot
like definitely not synthetic but you
need something
real natural version of that do you have
a sensitivity to yeast like in bird
bruising stories nutritional idea okay
so I'm gonna show you well and I'll put
it down the video to a natural source
would be one that's not East where they
did because if you're we don't want you
reacting to the east but you need a I
have a multi-vitamin it's a liquid and
it has b1 in it a couple hundred
thousand a couple hundred percent yeah
if it's a couple higher percent its
synthetic you don't want that one okay
because the synthetics are higher
potency and me they give you the the the
boost but the act is a stimulant they
don't not a natural okay like I have um
I have something but I'm not going to
give it to you because it's it's called
mitochondria energy the problem with
that it has a natural B in there which
by the way is like super high quality
and it's unfortunately that the
ingredient is very expensive but I also
put the nutritional yeast in there so
that you might react to that so you need
this that straight b1 with a complex
that's not least related and I'll put a
link down below of several references or
sources that you can get but b1 what it
does it works on the pathways of your
metabolism and it actually there's
receptors for b1 in the brain especially
the amygdala the amygdala is like the
adrenals in the brain it will probably
give you the most relief out of any
remedy that you can take you're gonna
feel like someone just kind of gave you
a relief and it's gonna help your sleep
it helps the cognitive function it also
helps increase your tolerance to insane
people I'm sorry so if you can't handle
like a lot of screaming kids for more
than eight hours in a daycare center I'm
just being psych asked then you need b1
but be one actually calms the adrenals
down that's like the most important
thing and sugar and stress and cortisol
depletes your b1 mm-hmm this is why I
wanted a ketogenic diet so that we get
to the next mineral which is or the
nutrient which is potassium
um that is you need a lot of potassium
potassium is a physiological
tranquilizer it really it puts the brake
pads on it relaxes the nervous system if
you're deficient in potassium the heart
rate goes up the pulse rate you feel
that pounding have a low pulse no pulse
my resting pulse is like 90 over 60
that's 60 so the other day it was 100
over 56 you mean your blood pressure my
blood pressure and so that the pulse is
like 60 I think you work out that a lot
right in about a year but has your pulse
rate blood pressure husband love for a
long time yes see when you are in the
fitness use a personal trainer massage
therapist you are going to have a low
pulse rate and blood pressure I don't
think that's related to that I think
it's just you've been maintaining that I
think also in your new job which you're
it's more sedentary and you have didn't
get a chance to work out the reason you
you felt worse is because you couldn't
release that stress with exercise
because you feel better when you
exercise yes yeah typically now it's
kind of I'm making progress
starting slowly I'm walking I'm not
doing the high intensity exercises that
I used to do that I'm used to that I
wasn't used to so it's a work in
progress and so that's that brings up a
good point one thing is like long walks
like an hour a day like in nature that
would be the idea of see mm-hmm save a
lot of space mmm not in one little
cubicle room so then we have magnesium
magnesium is right there with potassium
magnesium it's a relaxer that would be
very important if you take too much
calcium that stimulates the sympathetic
nervous system we don't want to do that
so I mean you could take calcium with
like magnesium and calcium together but
be careful about taking too much calcium
then I'll just like create that spike in
adrenaline we want to go the other way
so b1 so that's there gonna be really
important I mean aside from dark leafy
veggies how else do you well it's
a lot of different foods it's in it's in
you know animal proteins it's an eggs
it's in sunflower seeds and I wouldn't
even worry necessarily about trying to
eat fruits high in that nutrient I would
focus on getting the stress down
avoiding sugar and refined carbs that's
like the most important thing and then
also take a supplement that is a a
natural b1 that's non yeast related
that's gonna help you and that's what
you're gonna give us at that I'm gonna
actually just give you a reference I'm
just to try to find it because there's I
want you to take mine that you can't
because there's no nutritional yeast or
else that would really help you because
I put a there's it's in a blend of a
food concentrate it's like a lot of cool
stuff in there okay so that's really
important let's talk about your your
meal like what you ate yesterday let's
go three days back
well I my favorite restaurants are sweet
we've chopped and the con quit didn't so
I eat salads with you know various
things in them all the time but I still
I get full after one salad and I eat too
many nuts okay I don't eat a lot of meat
I'm so I don't know if that's a good
thing or a bad thing
um do you do eggs I do okay so yeah you
don't even I mean if you're getting your
protein and your I think you're gonna be
fine with that so you can do and eggs
you get your b12 that's the key as well
you need to be 12 I think also do you
feel bloated with nuts no okay good so
you're one of the lucky ones so that's
good
so you're already salad now that's good
so you're you're kind of doing keto but
I would say that maybe do you feel like
you need to increase your protein a
little bit more I mean probably okay I'm
probably do I and I just I need more
greens okay so you know
I'll go for three days in a row and I'll
have you know twelve one name not talked
up I have a lot of grease and then I
don't want to eat them like on the
fourth day okay okay go ahead
so it's or I'll go for a week
of eating very clean like that and then
I'll just get sick of it and you know
when you get sick of it it's totally
okay to switch gears and just do maybe
do squash or steam those for a while and
then go back to it you don't have to do
greens every single day but you just you
know I recommend the vegetables just
because we could you need a potassium a
keep high but if your body says you know
I had enough then switched gears so we
have that alright so then do you do eggs
every day not every day okay so do you
like seafood
okay so seafood would be good maybe
shrimp I like shrimp occasionally too I
switch it up and you don't have to do me
you can do seafood fish salmon I do meat
looks just that you know I don't need a
lot of it I probably have meat like last
night I had some steak and onions okay
good but it was a little bit of steak
totally fine it's totally fine I think
you're do you snack during the day I use
hacker sometime I'm trying to stay
within the the window of eating but the
intermittent fasting so I might eat
three times in a window and then I may
not eat three or four times okay well it
sounds to me that you are you're getting
closer to the ideal situation because
you've been recently doing that right
because you've been watching some videos
right well and then last year it was
like one or two meals a day but it
wasn't even a meal that's right so I'm
trying to get more nutrients into my
body yeah and this is just a good point
because if she was depleted from not
getting enough nutrients and then she
does intermittent fasting without doing
healthy keto she
gonna deplete these nutrients and she's
gonna go downhill so that's why it's
important to do them together a new
concept for some people because they
just don't they'll do one or the other
like they're both important thing mm-hmm
all right so that's one thing and then
also from now on you have to every
single relationship you get into you
have them sign a contract and then after
you have them fill out a huge survey to
find out who you're dealing with because
they're certain personality types that
can suck your energy or you know stress
you out so that's one thing it's because
the thing is like there's just a we want
to look not just physical stress like
all the different stress you're trying
to cope with that I think you're doing a
great job right now you're you figure
things out and so let's just focus now
on your physical body and get that
really squared away I'm gonna show you a
technique that you can do yourself that
you can extract stress from your body
because I think you have a residue of
stress that's just lingering that won't
tend it won't go away and it's a pulsing
right so what we're gonna do is we're
gonna go downstairs right now there's a
little office there and I'm gonna use
that to show you this technique sound
good okay okay good seeing it and
actually see you probably in a second
cuz we're gonna walk down there well
okay now we're here and so it all
started when you're six years old now
I'm skidding
earlier right so what we're gonna do is
we're gonna show you a technique some of
you already have seen this technique
when you watch the stress webinar that I
did but basically it's kind of like
visceral massage it's massage to the
adrenal glands the adrenal glands are on
top of the kidney they're right in the
abdomen and the high the higher part of
the abdomen right here and so what
happens is the adrenals tend to overwork
creating a tremendous amount of
attention and stress in the abdomen so
when you're stressed that's why your
stomach is so tight so what you could do
is you could manually kind of work it
out massage these knots and help release
stress and it helps sleep I've done this
for many many years and I'm going to
show
you how to do it and there's also a lot
of acupressure points that travel up
through these these areas too so you you
can work on those as well so her ribcage
is right here her hips are right here so
we're just gonna kind of massage let's
say draw a line down the center here and
off the midline about an inch over here
an inch on there we're gonna work on
these these these pathways through here
so the first thing I'm going to do is
I'm gonna just kind of press in here and
hold this point and you're gonna you can
do this to yourself but I want to just
kind of walk you through so because I'm
not you and I can't feel what's going on
there's you're looking for like tension
and like a stress point tell me if it's
right there yeah I found this dress
point so I'm just taking my thumb and
she would do this to herself and kind of
massage this point right through in here
what I'm doing um I'm not actually
pressing on the adrenals because the
three noes are on top of the kidney
they're like almost in the back but I'm
working on the soft tissue that is
around this area and there's there's all
sorts of nerve bundles they're called
plexus like a giver so here the solar
plexus there's all these nerve bundles
here and you're you're basically
relaxing them and many many people when
I do this end up falling asleep right
after I do it so it's very relaxing I
mean you massage your muscles but you
don't really work on the organ points
and I'm just kind of going in there and
I'm gonna put a link down below to get a
more in-depth concept of exactly where
these points are because I have a stress
webinar that explains it more but I'm
just showing you how to do this right
here so I'm on this point so this is
something you'd want to do before you go
to bed probably for about 20 minutes
because
here's the thing when you go to bed at
night or you're waking up at 2 or 3 or 4
if you were just to scan your body what
part of your body is revved up and won't
turn off
oh my ha ha right mm okay so the chest
it's like kind of it's going going going
right well the adrenaline from the
adrenals in the cortisol goes right to
the heart and that keeps it going
because of the stress the part of the
nervous system that's involved a flutter
fight it's called the sympathetics
guesser that's located in your adrenals
and in your back but it's in your
adrenals too
so now I'm gonna work out I'm gonna work
down a little bit sometimes I work up
this case I'm gonna work down and just
see if there's any points through here
that is that sore right here not too bad
okay we're looking for tender spots it's
not tender don't press on it but the
thing is I think trying to find it you
have to kind of go the side how about
there yeah so this is about one inch
above her hip bone it's called iliac
crest the bones right here and then come
right in right off the midline
there's one spot there now is there
anything happening with your ability to
relax right now yeah right now I'm
relaxed are you relaxing more are you
feel okay so you're feeling more relaxed
okay that's good that means it's working
so many times when I was in the clinic
and I tried this mixing you know the
person's sawing logs they're snoring and
I'm working on them and I'm like I don't
want to wake them up so I'll leave in
the room for like three hours and I'll
come back and now one of these I'm gonna
work on the opposite side because you
want to get both sides there that one's
not too bad is it is it is it yeah so
the other other side the left sides not
to that so let's go up through here how
about there I feel the pressure but not
like them yeah point better it was
you're gonna find everyone's gonna have
one spot that's gonna be more tender
than others and that's the area you're
gonna work on her case it's the right
lower
how about there okay how about there now
that's your bad so now I want you to try
to find the what spot on the left side
just so I know that you can find it if
you find it okay good now go lower
should be a lower spot see it should be
right should be right here right there
okay so this is what you'd want to do
every night before she goes to bed for
about 20 minutes she can have her hands
and she's gonna press this point you're
gonna hold it in the sauce that area you
can do it with the massage tool don't do
it with a knife and just so you press in
there and you just work out that not
what's gonna happen is that part of her
body is gonna relax more and more and
more and more to the point where she can
drift off into a sleep where she's been
sleeping through the whole night what
we're trying to do is we're trying to
chill out the adrenals so that cortisol
and the adrenaline starts going down and
we're manually working at one thing
that's interesting about the adrenal it
doesn't have an off switch
doesn't have parasympathetic control it
only has sympathetic innervation which
is the on switch and that's what that's
why people can't turn off because it's
kind of like the accumulation effective
stress it builds up that just kind of
leaves them wired because our bodies
were not designed to go through that
much mental stress without the physical
relief of that so like you can go and
exercise and get rid of stress but
sometimes you don't so that builds up in
it it just keeps your adrenals on on all
the time sometimes you can't right right
so that's what I want to show you guys
in this video so if you personally have
any stress go ahead and do this and I
hope it helps you thanks for watching
so if you've personally benefited from
the information that I put on my videos
I would love to actually see your
success story - I put a link down below
so you can upload your before and after
pictures with your story
