hey guys I'm back and I created a
three-part series on magnesium and
calcium a very fascinating topic I'm
gonna start out with the basics and
we're gonna focus on magnesium in this
video so magnesium is involved in over
300 enzymes enzymes are those proteins
that do to work in the body and they
help the body in its chemistry so
magnesium is a mineral that is a co
helper in a lot of different things
protein synthesis which basically making
protein hair nails muscle energy
production so magnesium is like the
spark plug that allows energy to be
created in the mitochondria that's the
energy factor of the cell it's also
involved in bone muscle nerve and
glucose carbohydrate metabolism you need
magnesium so if you're deficient in
magnesium you get cramps those cramps
could be in your back and your legs and
your calves it could be even the
arteries and this is why if you're
deficient in magnesium you can have high
blood pressure and your arteries become
stiff when you're low in magnesium you
increase the risk of getting diabetes
why because magnesium is involved in
regulating insulin and preventing
insulin resistance okay it keeps insulin
check so if you're low in magnesium
insulin resistance is worse okay in fact
if you take magnesium you'll improve
insulin resistance to a certain degree
okay
kidney dysfunction you need magnesium to
make sure the kidney functions normally
if you're deficient in magnesium you can
develop arrhythmias which is an abnormal
heart rhythm mitral valve prolapse if
you're deficient insomnia increased
stress and anxiety and fatigue okay now
how do you become deficient in magnesium
one it's from the diet you're not
consuming enough greens okay at the
heart of deep leafy green vegetables you
have chlorophyll and magnesium is the
mineral involved in the chlorophyll
molecule it's very similar in chemistry
to blood in blood you have iron and in
chlorophyll you have magnesium
okay so when you have too much calcium
in the body you can create a magnesium
deficiency and if you have instant
resistance you're gonna be deficient
magnesium because you can't absorb these
minerals so your glucose will stay a
little bit higher now when you consume
refined foods especially refined
carbohydrates you created a magnesium
deficiency and of course eating junk
food and drinking alcohol and sodas will
also deplete you of magnesium if you
have GI problems whether it's an ulcer
or scar tissue in your gut or IBS you
won't be able to absorb as much
magnesium if you had a gastric bypass
you won't be able to absorb as much
magnesium also if you're on medications
to lower acids or prevent the production
of acid as in anti acids that alone will
prevent the absorption of magnesium all
right in the next video part 2 we're
going to talk about the relationship
between magnesium and calcium and
magnesium and potassium so if you want
more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications daily notifications that
sounds weird well I'll just remind you
on a daily basis about that
