hey Dr Burg here in this video we're
going to talk about kind of a discovery
that I made well I'm not going to even
call it a discovery I'm going to call it
an observation that I made with the
adrenal that I think is quite
significant
so I'm reading this book called siba
Encyclopedia of Endocrinology by Dr
Frank neter he's an MD and it's a really
great book because it gives you all the
physiology of the different uh glands in
the body the different hormones in the
body and on page
j4 it's talking about the actions of the
adrenal hormones and if it's out of
balance or it's dysfunctional all the
different effects that could be created
from this one little adrenal issue and
I'm just kind of kind of read through
these conditions on this one page all
from the effect of high levels of
cortisol okay that's that's the main
adrenal hormones number one you're going
to have insomnia you're going to not
sleep number two you're going to
excessively think 24/7 you're going to
have possibly allergies you're going to
have acne you're going to have belly fat
you can have blood sugar problems even
diabetes you can have low vitamin D
levels acid reflux ulcers
osteoporosis
osteopenia high blood pressure high
cholesterol
arthritis
Alzheimer's the Lis of goes on and on
and on now what I find is that almost
everyone out there has a lot of these
problems and they're all being treated
separately with
medications it's my personal opinion
that these conditions are really the
effects of long-term stress in the body
so they're really stress effects but
they're treated as diseases and that's
why they never can get better when you
go to the doctor and you ask them what
the cause of these things are a lot of
times you get well it's probably genetic
they don't really know they don't really
tell you but go get this book and show
them siba it's volume four Encyclopedia
of
Endocrinology Frank neter I'll list it
down below so you can get it but this is
quite interesting that almost all these
conditions really stem from a high level
of corol which is
really a stress effect and if you end up
treating these separately what what's
going to happen is you're going to
continue the problems longer you're
going to stay in medication you're going
to keep taking it and then you're also
going to camouflage the real
issue so again what I'm going to
recommend is instead of treating these
separately try and experiment with
yourself and try to start to do things
to improve the function of the adrenal
rather than treat the symptom improve
the health of the adrenal you can do it
with eating you you can do it with
walking and exercise you can do it with
ACU pressure you can do it with massage
but the point is
that yes these could be nutritional
deficiencies but they can also be the
effects of stress on the body that is
left as an impression on the body uh
that's different than a nutritional
deficiency nutrition will help it
especially like B vitamins but the other
point is that you want to extract stress
from the body and do things pull stress
out I would say the big problem with
people with stress nowadays is being in
environments with stressful people it's
at work it's at home do something to
change that that would be a huge huge
thing and the reason I mentioned that is
because I see people that travel on a
vacation away
from work whatever and all of a sudden
they start their their condition starts
healing they start losing weight despite
their diet so it's just another thing to
look at that goes beyond just treating
symptoms with medication all
right hope this help I'll see you in the
next video
