today we're going to talk about a couple
things number one
the single biggest destroyer of your
immune system and number two what can
you do to strengthen your immune system
so strong that you can get through
anything your immune system is immune to
pathogens viruses bacteria yeast fungus
candida things like that but to do that
you have to understand a little bit
about the immune system but it's
actually not a bad thing to get sick
okay that's just your immune system
responding to a pathogen so many people
um when they get sick they get freaked
out to think oh my gosh my immune system
is not working no it is working it's
fighting things off the problem comes in
when your immune system can't handle it
or the infection goes on too long or you
end up with all sorts of residual side
effects from this infection but the fact
that your body is responding to
something is a normal response you want
that and this is how you develop an
immune system over time this is why they
call it the required immune system which
is one part of the immune system you
have the immune system that you're born
with called the innate immune system
that your mother gave you but then you
have this other system that you have to
develop over time by being exposed to
certain pathogens so let's first start
with uh co-morbidities right those are
all the things that can make you
susceptible to having more problems if
you get sick the biggest thing that
would be high blood pressure believe it
or not then you have heart disease
diabetes which also includes problems
like insulin resistance
obesity COPD then you have HIV which is
a really big problem you have immune
deficiency you have you don't have your
full immune system there
um unfortunately so you also have like
cancer and autoimmune disease
inflammatory conditions you have liver
problems kidney problems all of these
things can lead to really poor outcomes
if you get sick yet a lot of those
conditions I just mentioned are
connected to the consumption of sugar
carbohydrates and this is why even
consuming sugar has a huge dampening
effect on your immune system now the
other thing I want to mention is your
microbiome your friendly bacteria in
your gut and throughout your body what
type of influence are these microbes
over your immune system well just so
happens it's a huge influence over your
immune system some people claim that
it's up to 70 to 80 percent of your
immune system but it's hard to know that
for sure we do know that when you lose
the microbiome like after an antibiotic
boy you are really susceptible to having
all sorts of secondary infections and
you have a definite lowered immune
system and so the microbiome is really
vital
in keeping your immune system strong and
also helping you and it's pretty
interesting that it's not even part of
your body it's these other entities
these microbes that are working for you
and especially when you get an
autoimmune diseases right there's a huge
correlation between gut issues and
autoimmune issues and an autoimmune
issue is definitely immune related so
your own cells your white blood cells
work together with these microbes that
are friendly and they both give you
immune support and the next thing I want
to talk about is the three nutrients
that are vital to keep your immune
system strong and you have zinc okay
which is very important involved in
hundreds of different enzymatic
reactions but if you're low in zinc you
have thymus which is like your training
camp for your white blood cells starts
to shrink in atrophy so we desperately
need enough zinc also zinc is involved
in the quantity of your white blood
cells as as well as the weapons that
your white blood cells create to kill
off pathogens and you can easily get
zinc from beef salmon and definitely
Seafood oysters
but you become deficient in zinc when
you eat like foods with phytic acid like
the grains for example that would be the
breads the pastas of cereal crackers Etc
now vitamin C is another really
important vitamin and I would recommend
taking it from a food-based form you can
get it from many different foods but
leafy greens sauerkraut has tons of
vitamin C vitamin C will decrease the
duration of an infection it helps to arm
the white blood cells the resources it
needs in fact your white blood cells
have like a hundred times more vitamin C
than your blood so your defenses need
this vitamin C for a lot of different
functions to fight off pathogens and you
have a lord resistance against pathogens
also there's this condition called
phagocytosis where your immune system
gobbles up and eats pathogens right it
needs vitamin C to do that job so
vitamin C is very very important but the
most important nutrient out of all of
them is the next one one which is
vitamin D vitamin D is like the key
thing that modulates an immune reaction
so if your immune system is overreacting
vitamin D will kind of put the fire out
like in a cytokine storm where your
immune system is out of control vitamin
D can put the fire out in a vitamin D
deficiency you are very susceptible to
getting sick this is why people get more
infections during the winter months
because there's not enough Sun out and
if you're deficient in vitamin D your
susceptibility to getting autoimmune
diseases goes way up so the sun will
give you vitamin D okay cod liver oil
salmon but it's really hard to get
vitamin D from your food now there's
something else I want to share but I'm
going to tell you this without telling
you all of it but you can read between
the lines there's a
fairly recent study that was published
in June 5th 2022 right that's this year
called adverse effects of fill in the
blank vaccine
and measures to prevent them okay I'm
just going to tell you two lines from
this paper okay you can read the rest
down below
but this study showed that immune
function among vaccinated individuals
eight months after the administration of
two doses of fill in the blank vaccine
was lower than among unvaccinated
individuals
these findings were more pronounced in
older individuals and individuals with
pre-existing conditions so vaccines can
weaken your immune system as well and
let me just add one more line to that
according to the Europeans medicines
agency's recommendations
frequent fill in the blank booster shots
could adversely affect the immune system
and may not be feasible now normally I
don't talk about that topic for various
reasons but I will say that this paper
came out with some hardcore data and you
should check it out all right so now
let's talk about the biggest thing that
can destroy your immune system okay
and the answer is a very certain type of
stress called bereavement hands down out
of all the stresses someone can
experience
a loss of a loved one is at the top of
the list most the study on this topic
relates to what it does to your immune
system it basically shuts down the
immune system it also elevates cortisol
which causes a paralysis of your immune
system literally when cortisol is raised
up your immune system goes into shock
mode it just doesn't work anymore in
practice
nearly a hundred percent of the people
that I've talked to with autoimmune
diseases
and chronic immune problems always had
some type of loss that occurred just
before that event but you have other
stresses as well you can have loss of a
job loss of money bankruptcy you can be
in various stressful situations that can
create a similar type effect on your
cortisol so if you're interested in
trying to keep your immune system as
strong as possible you must do things to
reduce your stress as much as possible
so let me just go through the list
really quickly on what I would recommend
number one
do whatever you can to handle your
stress if you had a major loss then you
have to literally spend a lot of time
you know walking through Parks getting
into nature just getting your attention
off um that loss
um I've done extensive videos on what to
do you have to work on your adrenals
ashwagandha is important vitamin B1 is
vital and lots of it as well number two
sleep right the more sleep you get the
less stress you're going to have the
less cortisol you'll have so sleep is
very very important then the next thing
is that vitamin D
vitamin C and zinc as far as Vitamin D
especially through the winter months I
would take as a maintenance dosage 10
000 IUS of vitamin D3 okay I would take
at least 50 milligrams of zinc
I would also take Vitamin C I wouldn't
take just the minimum I would probably
take two or three hundred milligrams
of vitamin C per day and make sure that
it's a natural version now if you're
getting enough greens then you don't
need to necessarily add a lot of vitamin
C if you're getting beef if you're
getting Seafood shellfish you don't
really need to add zinc if you're
getting enough sun outside you don't
necessarily have to add D but during the
winter months it's difficult all right
number four get on the ketogenic diet
why because just getting off sugar will
greatly help your immune system and
decrease
high blood pressure the Obesity the
visceral fat the inflammation the fatty
liver diabetes the kidney problems and
other liver problems and then the next
thing is fasting fasting by itself can
greatly strengthen your immune system if
you did a three-day fast okay you're
literally on your way to creating a new
immune system so if you could do that
occasionally it would be the best thing
for your immune system all right number
six is getting exposure to Sun not just
from vitamin D but from another
wavelength called infrared which builds
up your melatonin which can greatly help
your immune system as well as help your
sleep and number seven eat foods that
can build up your microbiome like
sauerkraut fermented vegetables pickles
or take a probiotic especially during
the winter to help strengthen your
immune system because those microbes are
a big influence over your immune system
now if you haven't seen this video on
getting rid of stress you should check
it out it's pretty pretty awesome and
very comprehensive I put it up right
here
