okay guys so in the last video I put the
link down below uh for knee pain I
showed you how to get rid of knee pain a
lot of you had amazing results and you
didn't even believe it until you did it
okay but I left off a really important
little end part of it so that's why
we're doing another video now just to
recap if you haven't seen the video if
he hurts on this knee you're going to
work on the opposite muscles that are
attached to the knee on the opposite
side okay if he hurts on this knee
you're going to work on these muscles
over here okay watch the video just so
you know how what I'm talking about
because there's a whole electrical
circuit that this side's connect to this
side the hip Bon's connected to the
thigh bone Etc right so you can work on
one part and infect another part now the
thing is that the only time this won't
work is if there's an actual tear in
which case you're going to have to get
surgery but let's just say he doesn't
have a tear there's no damage he just
has pain and and you want to clear it up
and on this knee so you would
massage the thigh muscle okay so we're
going to just come in here and really
work the thigh muscle up into the hip
we're going to work the opposite
side the outer part of his leg this is
called the tens fasal
Lata and the ilot tibial band there's a
muscle up here tens flash Lata and
you're going to work all that out up
into the hip and again definitely watch
the other video cuz I go into a little
bit more and I show you how to do it on
yourself and then you would work on the
insides right here
okay and you're going to probably get
80% results but now the question is what
do you do if it's not 100% let's say you
still have some residue right so you've
done the technique and then what you're
going to do is you're going to um
reassess it and see where it hurts
you're going to find that the Pain's
going to be improved but he still might
hurt on the outside or the front part or
the inside or even the back part okay so
what do you do if that happens all you
do is you isolate where it is and you do
the mirror image okay more so if he says
wow it feels better but it still hurts
on the outside then I I work on the
outside of this leg the muscles up into
his hip more okay so I'm going to work
on these muscles right here and if I
work on this side it mirrors this side
and this side will start feeling better
he'll feel more circulation he'll just
feel um less pain but if it hurts on the
front
then you're going to work on the front
of this muscle up into the hip right up
into the hip and you're going to find
knots that are going to be really sore
and that means you're on the right spot
and the more I do the front part here
the more this is going to feel better
now let's say it's the inside right this
is where people have the like the medial
meniscus tears and things hopefully the
person doesn't have that so if it hurts
on this side you would work on this
muscle these are the adductors these
things hurt like hell so go light so you
would work up into the hip and if you
were to do this to yourself you can use
a massage tool an end of a brush just
don't use a machete when you're doing
that so we come up into here and we work
on these muscles and you're going to see
all this pain just kind of clear right
up and then the third fourth thing is if
it hurts underneath in the back part
then you would work on the back part of
the knee you can have the person lay
down work on the hamstring or if it's
yourself you can get a tennis ball get a
massage tool and work the very bottom
back part of this knee and there's a
muscle called The poal Underneath the
knee it'll hurt like you know what and
we just work on that that back part
because it mirrors the where the pain is
okay so does that make sense everything
you have to basically you just want to
work on the mirror image of everything
and you'll get rid of that pain okay one
last little trick little secret you got
to promise not to tell anyone this one
because this is pretty cool
um and the way the electrical circuits
work this
shoulder handle uh is connected to the
hip this shoulder is connected to that
hip this elbow is connected to the knee
this wrist is to the ankle so you can
actually affect one thing and create
another thing and the only thing I was
going to show you on this for the knee
is that if the person has knee pain
let's say it's on this side right here
right you can actually
stretch the shoulder and relieve the
knee pain again it's it's all about
neurology and you have to do this you
can do this by yourself you can hang on
something and stretch this okay to
handle even the hip and knee and that
side and the opposite side or I like to
just take it like this relax your arm
relax it let it go let it go let it go
okay let it go let it go have it all
relaxed and we just stretch the arm up
just relax stretch relax stretch and
you're stretching all these muscles
right through in here you're going to
put relief into the knee and the hip on
the opposite side okay you can even
massage up underneath that shoulder and
work on this shoulder to help the hip
and the knee on the opposite side and
even down into the elbow you can work on
that so again these are just little
tricks uh that I've done on clients that
are they're quite amazed to relieve pain
and um go ahead and try them and uh put
your comments down below and tell me how
it worked press it forget it forget it
I'm done
press the Subscribe button and I will
keep you updated on the future events
