okay so today we're going to talk about
fatty liver and bile salts okay here's
the problem when you have a fatty liver
you will not be able to make the amount
of bile salts that your body really
needs bile is needed to help break down
fats and dispose of cholesterol okay so
I'm talking about healthy things like
extracting essential fatty acids omega-3
DHA fats for the brain you need bile to
do that you need vile to break down fats
in in to extract vitamin A vitamin E
vitamin D vitamin k2 so without bile you
can't get those benefits bio also breaks
down cholesterol to prevent stones okay
so the less bowel you have the more
concentrated the cholesterol and the
more stones that your body can generate
so with a fatty liver the capacity for
the liver to work is a lot less and the
liver cells are the cells that make bile
so the couple of things that make a
fatty liver the big one is alcohol but
there's also a type of fatty liver
called non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
and 20% of the population has this
condition there's a way that you'd know
you have it you can do an ultrasound but
a much easier way is just to look down
at your belly if you have a belly you
have a fatty liver okay
or if you have back fat you have a fatty
liver even people that don't have a gut
also many times will have a fatty liver
they called it skinny fat where they're
eating a lot of sugar and a lot of junk
food and they're just developing a fatty
liver they're more likely to get
diabetes than a gut because just the way
that their metabolism works but this
condition usually comes from high
amounts of insulin okay because insulin
is causing the carbs to be converted
into fat in the liver an especially
fructose but you might say well I don't
consume fructose or fruit only sucrose
while sucrose is half glucose and half
fructose so you're getting it that way
or GABA nectar is like 90% fructose so
it's really really dead
with this fatty liver situation also
when you get a fatty liver that can
actually cause insulin resistance and
trigger your body to make more insulin
just from having that so it's kind of a
insulin will cause the fatty liver and
the Fen liver will cause higher amounts
of insulin by developing a condition
called insulin resistance so normally
the liver will produce about 350
milligrams of bile every single day so
the more concentrated your liver is with
fat the less you're going to produce the
other problem is that a fatty liver will
decrease thyroid function because you
need the liver and you also need bile to
help convert the inactive form of
thyroid t4 to the active form which is
t3 and without that function you can
actually have a hypothyroid condition
the other problem is that without enough
bile you may have an overgrowth of bad
bacteria because there's a relationship
between bile and your microbes you can
even develop a condition called small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth in which
there's too much bacteria growing up
into the small intestines because one of
the things that bile will do is it will
kill the bad bacteria and keep the
microbes in check so you can see that a
fatty liver can greatly affect your body
just by not producing the amount of bile
salts that you really need hey guys so
there's a whole bunch of people that
really need this information so press
the share button and let's get it way
out there
