so today I want to talk about the
anti-aging benefits of using olive oil
there's an interesting study I'll post
down below that exposes someone's blood
to damaging hydrogen peroxide it's a
very powerful oxidizing agent with and
without olive oil now when you expose
anything to hydrogen peroxide you're
gonna get oxidation but apparently olive
oil has a phenol which is a final
nutrient it's a very powerful
antioxidant so the results of the study
showed significant reduction and
oxidative damage to someone's DNA as you
age your genes become more damaged you
become more susceptible to getting
damaged and you have less repair and the
actual length of your chromosomes get a
little bit shorter there's something
called telomeres which is a protein that
kind of protects the end of your genes
so when these become shorter there seems
to be a very big relationship between
your longevity okay
shorter telomeres means you don't live
as long and that makes sense because the
more damage you have to your genes or
breaks and your genes the more diseases
you're gonna have now phenols are a very
powerful antioxidant that can counter or
neutralize oxidants okay what's an
oxidant well the original definition was
exposing something to oxygen and you're
losing an electron okay so a free
radical is an unpaired electron if you
take an atom and you have let's say two
electrons and let's say it's spinning
it's going to be very very symmetrical
and it's going to be very stable but if
you're getting rid of an electron and
you only have one electron apparently
the atom now doesn't spin that well and
get out of control and it's going to be
looking for other electrons to stabilize
itself so it's going to rob and steal
electrons from other tissues in the
nearby area and there's millions of
these things so you can see that these
free radicals are very damaging to
tissues okay for example when you expose
oxygen to iron you get rust okay it's
very excited well that's what happens
inside your body
your body makes oxidants and you get
them from the environment okay and your
body also makes antioxidants and you can
get those from your food but the phenols
which is a final nutrient in the olive
oil is very protective against your DNA
especially in the mitochondria
now why is that well what's unique about
the mitochondria is that it has its own
DNA okay so you have the DNA inside the
nucleus in all the cells then you have
this external mitochondria that has its
own DNA it uses the DNA from nucleus as
well but it also has the ability to make
its own DNA and there is some type of
communication between the two but the
fact that you have mitochondria with DNA
that is outside this highly protective
vault this nucleus of the cell makes the
DNA very susceptible to becoming damaged
especially from oxidation and in the
mitochondria that's where you have the
energy Factory so you have all this
oxygen and fuel being burned up there's
get a lot more oxidation free radicals
in that area and many chronic diseases
including cancer originate in the
mitochondria probably for that reason
now here's the big problem most of the
oils out there I'm talking about
vegetable oils are not antioxidants okay
there are oxidants they create damage to
the body and I'm talking about soy oil
corn oil cottonseed oil canola but olive
oil is definitely the opposite of that
it's an antioxidant it gives
anti-inflammatory properties so
definitely use olive oil in your salad
make sure it's extra virgin thanks for
watching if you're liking this content
please subscribe now and I will actually
keep you updated on future videos
