so I have a lot of videos in button p1
and I'm gonna put some links down below
if you don't know what it does but if
you're deficient and b1 not only are you
gonna have problems with your memory but
you're gonna have a lot of stress in the
body heart issues edema fatigue
what's a condition called lactic
acidosis where your breathing is
affected restless leg syndrome and you
can have all sorts of dangerous
consequences just from that alone
because of its importance I want to talk
about all the different ways you can
become deficient that go beyond just a
diet let's just go through them number
one consuming refined carbohydrates as
in breads pasta cereal crackers biscuits
things like that because the more
refined that carbohydrate is the more be
one you need to metabolize that
carbohydrate and this is why they
enriched those grain products with
synthetic b1 alcohol is a real big one
okay the more alcohol you drink the more
deficient b1 you're going to be stress
high levels of cortisol will deplete a
vitamin b1 and of course sugar having
high blood sugar from consuming sugar
and that's why diabetics are nearly
always deficient in b1 and they have
complications of peripheral neuropathy
because anything related to inflammation
of the nerve destruction of the myelin
sheath around the nerve you want to look
for in b1 deficiency in addition to that
you can also have problems with the
nerves and other parts of the body that
are affected like the inner ear so you
might have hearing loss ringing in the
ear you might have problems with the
nerve to the eye the retina for example
as in diabetic retinopathy which you
could go blind from that vitamin b1
protects the nerves against the damage
of the high-sugar then we have gastric
bypass so if you alter either the
stomach or the small intestine you limit
the absorption of vitamin b1 vomiting
will create a deficiency of b1 having an
infection will deplete your b1
antibiotics like in flagyl or cipro will
deplete your b1 diuretics will do it and
as a side now diuretics will deplete all
the water
soluble vitamins not just beat complex
but vitamin C as well in addition to the
minerals like potassium metformin will
deplete vitamin b1 increasing your
chances of getting lactic acidosis
what's interesting about metformin is
they have a blackbox warning that one of
the side effects on taking metformin is
lactic acidosis because it could be
deadly even though it's rare but that
comes from the v1 deficiency you can
actually get rid of lactic acidosis
within 24 hours just by taking diming
genetic defects that affect the
transportation of b1 if you have that
condition it's rare but you can have it
that can cause a deficiency as well
white rice and that's refined carb but
specifically white rice you can lead to
something called berry berry which is a
severe b1 deficiency and it can create
so many conditions especially with
certain parts of the brain there's a
condition involving a b1 deficiency in
the brain which targets the mammillary
bodies where the mammillary bodies
actually start shrinking and there's a
connection between that brain structure
and producing new memories so if you
find that you could remember the old
stuff but new things are difficult that
could be that situation like say for
example you can't remember what you ate
three days ago or where you put your
keys and one last point I always
recommend keep taking b1 in its natural
form and unfortified nutritional yeast
is a good source and if you take it
you're going to notice that your stress
goes down and you might just start
having more energy because b1 is
intimately involved in helping you make
energy alright thanks for watching
so if you're enjoying this content go
ahead and share it with someone that
could really benefit from it
