well don't let your age be an excuse for
what you can or can't do that's Betty
Kendall's motto as nine new storytellers
Cheryl prein and Ann hers tell us Betty
isn't about talk she's all action and
that has made her a bit of a celebrity
in her
community Young At Heritage Eagle band
is 60 they call it a senior housing and
golf
Residence Life moves at a relaxed pace
for most people and then there's Betty
Kindle Betty breaks all the molds around
here everybody wants to meet her and
talk to her and is a big deal because of
it well I became a
celebrity and I've not been one before
well I can't quite say that Betty
started acquiring things for the Kendall
Museum as she calls it oh here's some
more when she was young by Heritage
Eagle Ben
standards would you like Freestyle first
or butterfly
her competitive swimming career started
at age
60 I think I must have gotten some fish
jeans when I watched her and she came
out and told me how old she was I was
just
flabbergasted this is a woman who does
not look or swim like her
age Betty is
90 even as this breast cancer survivor
is recovering from a about with skin
cancer she is focused she's strong I
placed in everything and she is
competitive I was the only ringer in
that
heat the record books for the senior
games are full of Betty's name some of
her times blowing past swimmers 20 years
younger these have rotted that so old
they are none older that she knows of I
don't think they're out
there somebody said why are there not
more people competing she was telling me
in the 85 to 90 bracket and she said
well if they're not here consider the
alternative Betty is not done yet I'd be
the young kid on the Block in the next
group wouldn't it be great if she set
the hundred
record before it's all said and done
she'll have even more fans around here
Cheryl preheim 9
News pretty inspiring Betty is in
training for next year's Senior Games in
the 90 to 94 year-old age group she
knows she may very well be the only
swimmer no one has broken her records
this year and by the way Betty Kendall
was in college before the butterfly
stroke was even invented in fact a
college classmate was the one who came
up with it
