so today we're gonna talk about the
connection between allergies and
something going wrong in your stomach
but it has to do with losing the acidity
of the acid in your stomach
normally the pH in the stomach should be
between 1 and 3 that's extremely acid in
fact it's a million times more acid than
your blood and the purpose of this acid
is number one to help you digest protein
and by the way to have a true allergy
there must be a protein involved and
when you have undigested protein that
goes down into the digestive system and
if you have at the same time leaky gut
it goes right in and your immune system
starts tagging it in appropriately and
creating a hypersensitivity creating
analogy number two it the acid helps
sterilize microbes okay I'm talking
viruses bacteria yeast fungus Candida so
if you're consuming some of these
microbes in the food that you're eating
they should be dealt with at the stomach
level and not allowed to go deeper
through the system where they can create
all sorts of problems all right number
three it helps you absorb minerals and
we need minerals for so many different
chemical reactions in the body but if
you can't absorb calcium magnesium
selenium zinc copper iron your immune
system will suffer and that alone can
increase the susceptibility to getting
allergies and even asthma so if you
really look up the data on low stomach
acids one of the terms you're gonna run
up against is called hypo chloride riah
okay and you're gonna see a bunch of
symptoms that can occur from having low
stomach acids one is gas indigestion
burping bloating and right here
allergies okay cause effect a deficiency
of b12 increase Candida and then we have
some a condition called SIBO small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth where
the microbes are growing in the small
intestine instead of a large intestine
and if your pH is too weak if your acid
levels are too high too alkaline then
it's going to be really hard to kill off
the microbes
that could be invading and start growing
into the small intestine and also acid
reflux okay these are all the symptoms
of low stomach acid here are some causes
number one hypothyroidism number two a
low salt diet why
sodium chloride chloride is needed to
make hydrochloric acid antibiotics and
an acid also gastric by-pass can creates
a situation because you're altering the
the volume of the stomach and then have
something called h pylori which is a
microbial infection which can inhibit
gastric acids and low amounts of vitamin
b3 so all of these have the potential to
weaken the acid or create a deficiency
of acid in your stomach now one test you
can do to determine your ph of your
stomach is the heidelburgh test now when
I was practicing in my clinic there was
a test that we would do involving taking
a little capsule with a string on it
okay and you'd have the person swallow
this capsule with some water and you
would hold the string outside the mouth
and it would actually go all the way
down to the stomach
and we'd have them lay on their right
side for about 15 minutes and then we
pull up the string and then we would
actually identify the ph of the little
capsule okay so we can determine that
and quite a few people who have these
symptoms right here did not we're not
even close to having a ph of one two
three they were like a four or even a
five which is interesting now I couldn't
find this test anymore I don't know
where to get it so a much easier way to
do this would be simply actually it's
even a lot cheaper to just to take the
remedies to assume you have this and see
if your allergies improve okay
what are the two remedies betaine
hydrochloride and apple cider vinegar
these two remedies will help you acidify
the stomach to reestablish the normal pH
that you should have between one and
three now in this video I'm not going to
get into dosages or how long you have to
take it because I don't know your
situation so go ahead and just read the
directions on the label and just go with
that right now
but the
point is that if your allergies are
being triggered by this situation and
you take these you're gonna feel some
relief all right thanks for watching
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
