hey guys today we're gonna talk about
food allergies I had another question
from someone that is doing keto but they
wanted to know should they do anything
different if they have food allergies
well a lot of people have food allergies
and they don't even know it instead they
have these other digestive inflammatory
conditions Crohn's IBS ulcerative
colitis diverticulitis these really are
related to food allergies the largest
part of your immune system is located in
the gut right around the intestinal
tract and when you have an immune
problem you get inflammation so there's
a whole series of things that can occur
in the digestive tract that can
eventually lead to developing autoimmune
diseases okay where your body attacks
itself it sounds crazy but you actually
it keeps the inflammation there because
your body's doing this self attack so
medically speaking what they do is they
give you prednisone which it has a lot
of side effects it gets rid of
inflammation but it comes with a package
so there's two things I'm going to
recommend if you have food allergies or
you have any one of these conditions
number one I recommend that you get a
food allergy test find out what foods
you're allergic to and avoid them now
it's going to take 10 to 30 days to
decrease the antibodies to start seeing
some really really good improvement so
just because you avoid a food doesn't
instantly mean you're gonna feel better
it might take two three maybe even four
weeks before you're you're really doing
a lot better number two you want to do
things to increase the repair and then
of course as soon as you start feeling
better don't start eating that thing
okay you want to avoid it for a period
of time but what you want to do to
really increase the repair is do
intermittent fasting in a minute fasting
will not only drop your inflammation in
your gut because there's nothing there
to trigger it but it'll also increase
stem cells if you do periodic prolonged
fasting so let's say every week you do a
longer fast or every month you do a
longer fast that will be very beneficial
to increase the stem cells that actually
can start healing the gut in building up
your immune system
and very frequently I have people that
have these conditions and you just want
to know what to do and no one's really
telling him that they're related to food
triggers if you eliminate the thing
that's triggering them these conditions
improve dramatically so what are the
common food allergies well dairy would
be a big one
eggs gluten and other grains nuts
peanuts which are legumes shellfish and
soy the first thing you could probably
do right off the bat is just avoid dairy
and nuts
very very common allergies and all of a
sudden you start feeling better and
better and better and then you go get
tests and you find out oh yep you were
allergic to one of those or both of them
so there you go the two things you need
to do if you have food allergies or any
one of these all right thanks for
watching so to prevent me from running
at a Content I have a new survey I want
to find out what you are interested in
so please fill it out the links down
below
