hi guys here's the question can men
really go through menopause well of
course because it says men right there
right well actually they can it's called
male menopause or andropause in fact one
of my clients who is a male he was the
main guy in my area medical doctor who
did all the hysterectomies and his main
symptom was hot flashes
so yes men can have hot flashes night
sweats and they go through this whole
shift in hormones where they get a
depression memory loss libido Goes Down
and what's happening as their estrogen
is going up - and their testosterone is
going down and if you have this entire
circuitry going on in the brain you have
these tiny little pre-program computer
chips in your hypothalamus and the one
that controls the thermostat which is
the heating and sweating and heart rate
is up in the brain in the hypothalamus
it's called the preoptic nuclei not that
you need to know that that's the one
that is on a whole circuitry in the
pituitary down to the gonads and it goes
in a whole cyclic on/off switch
mechanism so when this system gets
altered it can create hot flashes in men
even in women as well and because this
thing controls the temperature and the
sweating and the pulse rate okay and
it's on a timing mechanism as well so
here's what they need to do they need to
increase testosterone by lowering
estrogen you don't need to like boost
estrogen with a hormone or anything you
don't need to do that it's a Matt a
matter of lowering the estrogen and that
will naturally bring up the testosterone
okay and the and you guessed it the
vegetable that will do it are all the
cruciferous like the kale the broccoli
the brussel sprouts
those are must to start consuming those
in larger amounts than you might be used
to
and then stinging nettle root is another
good remedy that they should take one
product that I have that has those two
and a lot more is called estrogen
balance a lot of times people think this
is for just for females
it's for men too because if you have too
much estrogen they'll get you know large
breast tissue prostate enlargement even
hair loss so cruciferous there's
something in there called dim di M and
dim is a concentrated cruciferous blend
that is you'd have to consume 2 pounds
of cruciferous to have one pill so that
would be a good remedy for the
menopausal changes in men and women as
well but I just wanted to bring out the
point that this is a real thing and it's
really just too much estrogen and low
testosterone and it's because of the
circuitry is off in the endocrine system
alright go ahead and apply this and put
your comments below you know I'm just
wanted to take a moment out to thank you
for your amazing feedback that you guys
are giving me it's just mind-blowing the
successes the wins I created a link down
below so you can actually type out your
full success story and if you have a
before-and-after with weight loss that
would be awesome if you don't have a
success with ways but other things just
put an image of yourself and your
personal success story and I would love
to read it and also share it with others
so I want to just thank you in advance
for doing that but there's a link down
below fill it out I can't wait to read
it
