so hey everyone we have another great
interview by Johnnie so hey Johnny
welcome to the interview thank you thank
you Dr B great you're when you're you're
actually calling from California so um I
want to know about your history your
past what type of problems that you were
having was it weight was it other health
issues can you tell us a little bit
about that yeah I mean uh growing up I
always struggled with weight uh it was
most
growing up in a Hispanic household I was
always introduced to high fats or a lot
of carbohydrate foods and um I was
constantly eating all the time no
control and I reached the point in my
life at a young age I was about 14 that
I was extremely overweight and uh I
decided to make a change I started uh
working out but I I would always reach a
plateau when I mean a plateaus I would
uh lose certain amount of weight but
after that I would know what to do and I
struggled with that problem for
about about 7even years after until I
was like about 21 till I got introduced
into uh intermittent fasting wow so how
old are you right now I'm
26 so you got introduced to intermittent
fasting and then um tell me like was
that the turning point that you started
to improve or tell us what
happened yeah um I got introduced to
intermittent fasting and um I I started
introducing also different workouts to
my lifestyle started doing weight
training along with uh high-intensity
workouts and that was Paramount in my
weight loss Journey but it wasn't until
I ran into your videos that I actually
started getting even better results
because I would I I was still getting
results as far as getting strength and
uh conditioning but I wasn't getting any
results as far as uh getting abs or
physical appearance uh uh if that makes
any sense uh but once I got introduced
to intermittent to your videos and got
intoduced to the whole ketogenic diet
that's when I saw the biggest
improvements in my body that's awesome
so you combined both of them together
did you find that um um like initially
when you do the interent fasting were
you just doing a little bit too many
carbs yes I would do intermittent
fasting all day I would fast for about
20 hours and then I would eat a a large
meal I would have like chip Fil-A I
would have Burgers I would eat anything
something with super high carbs I would
sometimes have pizza and then I would
just Spike my insulin all the way up and
I would crash I would fall asleep go
wake up uh fast again all day and then
do the same thing over and over so I was
still I would get energy throughout the
day but as soon as I would eat I I was
done for the day I wouldn't get any more
energy and I was my results were also
Plateau so this is a good point everyone
when you do in minute fasting and you
eat junk foods and I know some people
get offended because they say well you
know I'm eating healthy junk Foods or
I'm eating healthy foods and they what
they consider healthy maybe might be
healthy but it could be the wrong type
of foods it could be just too high in
carbs you combine the two and you could
really create some serious effects like
in your aftershot so you did you find
that you started uh losing more on your
midsection when you did that yes um as
as um when I started the ketogenic diet
or just yeah uh yes I I would I uh I
would fast all day and then combined
with the high fat most of my calories
were from from fat uh that's when I
started shredding the the stubborn fat
from my midsection and what took me
three months to get I was getting
results in about a month so this this is
a great example like you would think
that if you eat fat you're going to get
fat but that's not what happened right
wow it's amazing it's it's actually
really amazing and people don't believe
it because it sounds too good to be true
but you need to try it hey when I was uh
when I was about I think uh 18 I tried
to gain weight because I was too thin at
that age and so I went to the grocery
store I remember starting to eat more
fat I was eating like whole milk and
fatty cheese and butter and I started
losing more weight I'm like what's you
know it actually caused me to lose
weight I didn't connect the dots at the
time but I have personal reality on that
so so tell me um what is your uh how
many times are you eating a day right
now right now um I'm eating once twice a
day I'll eat in the morning okay and
then I'll eat at the afternoon I'll do
like at 6:00 in the morning and then
I'll do 600 in the evening awesome and
are you hungry in the morning uh yes
okay at first I wasn't I was eating I
was I was eating three times a day and I
shortened it okay down at 2: I was not
hungry in the morning but now I started
getting appetite in the morning and I I
just eat went hungry but it's and now
that I've figured it out it's in the
morning and at night for me that's awes
that's what works for me do you um and
then give me an example of what you
would have for breakfast I'll have about
three strips of bacon organic bacon or
the uh grass bacon and about two eggs
and I also have a s of ground beef
sometimes with avocado I usually have
pretty large meals I have a full of
avocado too uh so I have avocado ground
beef bacon and eggs wow that's awesome
and then what do you have for uh dinner
for dinner I'll usually do uh ground
beef sour cream avocado and a bit of
salsa like a taco Bol type of thing good
now do you do any salad with that I do
do salads but I also do uh I have your
cruciferous Foods I have it here okay if
you can see it and I supplement with
this as well these are really good
awesome awesome yeah those are uh those
are some seriously concentrated uh like
like garlic turmeric and kale and radish
and everything um so what what uh um
your workouts how how many workouts do
you do a week I do about six six I work
out six times a six times a week okay
and then do you uh switch it up or is it
kind of the same
workout I switch it up I like to do a
high-intensity interval training okay so
uh I'll do some of that at the gym or
sometimes I'll go out for a run or I'll
do cycling some swimming I don't like to
uh just stick to one thing I like to
keep my body guessing that's what works
for me do because if I stay at the gym
just lifting weights or something I kind
of tend to get bored and that's when I
start reaching the plateaus yeah totally
got it do you have um any personal
training or you just are you able to
push yourself and do it uh fortunately I
I I am able to push myself uh but I do
seek other uh experts whenever the time
comes and I need help then I go and out
for help right that's great most people
probably need either a class or they
need a personal trainer to push them
just because they're never going to push
themselves to the degree that they need
to push themselves um and then if when
they do work out you know they're sore
for like a week and a half so then they
over train to keep working out on top of
soreness um and then how long is your
workout I usually keep on between uh 30
to uh an hour 30 minutes to an hour
awesome depending yes that's awesome now
when you started to get cut and lean are
people like looking at you just like wow
what are you doing are they reacting in
any way or yes uh I get a lot of
questions sometimes just what kind of
diet are you on or what supplements do I
take how much protein do I drink do I
drink a lot of protein shakes uh the
typical you know do I eat 10 meals a day
do I snack in between and a lot of
people are pretty surprised when I tell
them I'm doing the ketogenic diet and
they they're just shocked pretty
much and they're they're probably a
little confused confused of like how
could that work right yeah right but I
mean to understand that you kind of have
to know a little bit of physiology to
actually understand and actually do it a
lot of people won't do it they're just
too skeptical about it in my opinion I
I'll give you one little tiny tip just
from working with just so many people uh
I never ever ever ever ever tell people
like what I'm doing or
recommending um just because I'm going
to I'm going to give them a big word
that they're going to be confus and then
they go blank in their mind like
everything from that point on is a
confusion just like if I were to talk to
you right now and say uh hey Johnny um
we're going to take the cycop pentanal
peran hydropen anrin and and then we're
going to take deep and Broad
implications pathogenesis and like if I
keep going now you're just going to be
like falling asleep so um so I I won't
give many big words I won't even mention
ketosis because I don't even know what
it is I don't I won't even mention
fasting because they're going to go what
so I'll say if you really want to know
go watch the video so they can get all
the picture cuz I just learn
like like all a you get in a situation
where they're like well that doesn't
make sense cuz I heard this and I'm like
yeah that's the last place I want to go
right and a lot of these people or I
mean that I've encountered haven't tried
many different diets so they they kind
of just stick to the one siiz fits all
mentality and they they're stubborn to
that no well you have to eat six times
day you have to snack in between and all
sorts of things but they don't they
don't try my mentality is I give every
I've tried many diets and that's how I
learn I mean that's how you you pretty
much learn you have to try the thing and
see how your body reacts to it and uh
fortunately the ketogenic diet has been
very very well very well for me it's
amazing I mean uh I guess what we're
running up is just fixed ideas
especially in the areas of weight loss
because you have a lot
of um opinions out there that people
pick up and they actually use that as
their principle and then I come along
and tell them the opposite and they
become more confused so I realize I have
to kind of almost um clear up their past
confusions and in a way that doesn't
make them too wrong um you know mainly
it's like okay so is what you're doing
now working uh no okay do you want to
try something else oh you do okay then
then come with me let me show you but
it's a
yeah that's awesome well I'm I'm
impressed your before and afters are
amazing so um than you so you've done
really
well awesome so I want to thank you for
your feedback uh I think it's going to
give uh other people some ideas of what
to do and it's going to give them you
know more hope that they're going to be
on the right track so we're going to
send this out there and uh get great
comments and then um we'll stay in touch
all sounds good Dr brick thank you
you're welcome okay have a good day
thanks you too sure
