hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about how bad cholesterol LDL can
actually make you live longer if you're
concerned about your cholesterol if you
have a problem with cholesterol this
video is very important to you there has
been a new analysis of earlier studies
okay but I'm really curious and why they
didn't make these conclusions that first
time they evaluated these studies but
there's a new analysis okay of all these
studies and I'll put a link down below I
highly suggest that you read this on
people that are over 6 years old and
basically they found that people with
higher levels of LDL live longer and are
not at risk of heart disease now realize
that LDL is a lipoprotein okay
it's a shuttle it has cholesterol in it
and it has triglycerides in it it has
vitamin E and several other factors but
it's involved in energy metabolism
bringing fuel to different cells it also
has an secondary purpose to help deliver
vitamin E to protect the cell as well to
act as an antioxidant so LDL has never
really been the bad guy it's involved in
the crime scene because it's delivering
reparative actions but it's not the
culprit
okay the culprit is a high insulin and
insulin resistance and that's what sets
up the damage that allows the plaquing
to form and eventually the calcification
calcium is also involved just as
cholesterol but both of those are there
to act as a band-aid to help patch up
certain things and calcium is not the
bad guy either it's just there as a
chain reaction of many things that
happen before it but there's a test
that's way more valuable than LDL and
that is the coronary artery
calcification scoring test I'll put a
link down below of what that test is but
this will actually give you more of a
prediction on how long you're gonna live
because it tells you how much
calcification is actually in your
coronary artery and that's very very
important so when you get your
cholesterol analysis done and you get
all the data back it's really important
to understand the the big idea and how
everything fits together I'm going to
put some more
down below so you can get the full scoop
of this but just realize that the higher
the LDL the longer you may live thanks
for watching
hey so if you haven't done so please
press subscribe now that way you can be
aware of all the new content that I'm
putting out on a regular basis
