I wanted to touch on celery and the
benefits of using celery for sleep for
also lowering cortisol it's quite
interesting there's a certain vital
nutrient called epigenetics in celery
it's in parsley chamomile tea and
grapefruit this is why people drink this
tea before bed to help them sleep
because this compound in celery is
anti-anxiety it can act as a sedative
anti-diabetic helps your blood Sugar's
anti-cancer it has anti-inflammatory
properties and inhibits aroma taste
which is an enzyme that will turn
testosterone into estrogen so if you
inhibit this enzyme guess what you don't
get the excess amount of estrogen so
it's really good for men if you have a
prostate enlargement or breast tissue
also it's good for women who are
estrogen dominant and it lowers cortisol
now here's the thing you can get this in
a pill which I don't recommend and you
need a lot of it to create the effect
the best thing to do and you should try
this you have to consume six to seven
stalks in the evening I mean you could
replace this as your salad because
celery is a vegetable but it really
helps people wind down it's good for
blood pressure and it's definitely good
for sleep so go ahead and try this and
then let us know in the comments below
if it worked for you so if you want more
knowledge on how to create a healthy
body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
