in this video we're going to talk about
hypoglycemia now what is
Hypoglycemia hypo meaning low glycemia
meaning sugar so it's a situation when
you have the the sugar in your blood is
way too low and that comes from an
overreaction of insulin insulin is a
hormone from the pancreas that lowers
sugar so if the insulin is spiked too
much or too fast it comes in there and
it drops the sugar too low and so what
causes hypoglycemia is basically
concentrated carbohydrates which is
sugar we'll get into that in a bit but I
want to talk about some of the other
Basics first the symptoms of
hypoglycemia number one headache why
because the neurons in the brain do run
on sugar um stomach noise growling a lot
of um like you could have hunger pains
things like that brain dead don't take a
test uh when you have hypog gmia a very
bad idea weepiness that's emotionally
crying mood issues hyper irritability
even psychosis um feel U psychotic
behaviors craving sweets anxiety
depression different lower mood
situations paranoia fatigue fear how
many people have these issues and they
don't realize that it could come from a
low blood sugar situation so the single
worst thing you can do when you have
hypoglycemia is consuming sugar and I
see people all the time they have a bag
of Candy by their desk or in their
pocket I'm like what are you doing well
it's for my low blood sugar because
they're thinking logically well if I
have low blood sugar I need to raise it
because the sugar will give me energy
but if you do that you're just going to
continue the process and make it worse
it's going to spike again and drop again
so it might be good for 5 minutes but
then you have the same exact situation
so you must
never consume concentrated sugar if you
have hypoglycemia unless it's a real
serious situation where your sugars are
so so low you know you're you're having
a because you're a diabetic and it can
come up and down that way so because in
diabetes you can have hyper which is
high sugar and then Hyo within several
hours so in that situation you might
need a temporary boost of sugar coming
up if you didn't eat in several hours
but most cases you do not want to do
this because you're not going to be able
to correct it so I want to point out
some of the hidden carbohydrates that
people are not aware of when we say no
sugar we're also saying no juice there
is more sugar in Juice especially Apple
Juice than there is in soda and I'm not
going to talk about the obvious ones
like soda but fruit that that's a hidden
source of carbohydrates um grains breads
pasta cereal crackers biscuits waffles
pancakes those things starches potato
potatoes uh french fries mashed potatoes
all that will are hidden carbohydrates
even plain yogurt has a significant
amount of sugar um in it and of course
wine and other types of alcohol so these
are the things that will worsen it now
the question is what do you do to fix
hypoglycemia um number one there's a
really simple amazing um herb that you
can take uh simple being you can just
you know go to the hosur and get it it's
called Uh berberine and it's um an
ancient Chinese herb that's been used uh
about 3,000 BC so it's been around a
long long time and even in certain
studies it shows that it mimics the
effects of metformin which is something
to control the blood sugars so again
this herb you can get to help with not
just
hypoglycemia but hyperglycemia which is
diabetes and by the way hypoglycemia is
precursor for diabetes it comes before
it uh simply because the person's eating
too much sugar um nutritional yeast uh
this is in a lot of my different uh a
lot of different videos this will
actually lower and help regulate uh
insulin because it has the B vitamins in
it put it in some applesauce or no not
applesauce put it in maybe some peanut
butter or something like that you can
buy it in Wafers or tablets as well um
High pottassium Foods now you might say
should I start eating bananas bananas
only have 500 milligram of potassium
what you really need to do is have the
big salads every single day 7 to 10 cups
it's not hard to do that I just had
salad about a half hour ago and it's not
a big deal that has a lot of potassium
which will help store Sugar longer and
help this situation exercise is a valid
form of therapy for hypoglycemia or
diabetes um because it helps blood
sugars and the most important thing is
make sure in the morning you have
protein for breakfast do not skip that
meal do not have carbohydrates because
within an hour you're going to have low
blood sugar so this is the most
important thing a lot of people have
hypoglycemia in the afternoon or in the
evening because their breakfast is too
much carbohydrate so in your breakfast
do not consume fruit Bagels pancakes
waffles you want protein you want eggs
eggs bacon you know hormone free cheese
that would be the best breakfast for
hypoglycemia and I know I'm going to
create other videos on this too but even
a hamburger patty that without the bun
if you did some of that or a bison
burger for breakfast I know it sounds
weird but I I've done that many times
and you'll see that your blood sugar
issue will just completely go away very
quickly CU it's really good fuel source
to help balance blood sugars all right
so those are the things you need to do
this is the basics so go ahead and start
I'll see you in the next
video hey before you go I have a quick
favor I'm always looking for good ideas
for my next video but I would really
like your advice on what you're
interested in whether it's a burning
question a confusion some interesting
idea that I could do a video on so click
the link below fill out what you're
interested in and I will create a video
thank you
