So today we're going to talk about
chronic fatigue syndrome now if you look
at this up you're going to find that it
has an unknown cause and the name for
that is idiopathic which means a known
cause it's worse with exercise and every
single case that I've seen they have
poor sleep and sleeping does not improve
the situation they're constantly
exhausted and there's no test that will
pick this up now I personally had this
condition in my 20s and I did not know
what to do about it I did not look sick
from the outside but when I would wake
up in the morning I was so tired despite
drinking Mass amounts of coffee I could
not wake up I was in a constant fog
trying to search out something that
could help me I'd be driving down the
street with my wife and I would say
honey there's a healthy store let's go
in there maybe I can buy another vitamin
to try to get my energy back and I had a
warehouse filled with supplements and
I'm not kidding I would be taking over
100 150 pills a day and nothing worked
but before we get into what I did to
solve this problem click that red
subscribe button and that little bell
icon so you can be notified of all the
new videos that I'm about to release and
in addition to that you'll also get
notifications of the upcoming live q a
that I do several times a week alright
so what are the big symptoms of chronic
fatigue syndrome you guessed it chronic
fatigue but there's some other ones that
will give us the clue to uncovering
what's really behind this problem so we
also have memory loss
sore throat we'll come back to this
enlarged glands and your armpits and
your neck right through and here that's
a little red flag as well joint pain
headaches you're unresponsive to sleep
you sleep but there's no change with
your energy an extreme exhaustion okay
so the enlarged glands and the sore
throat give it away one of the biggest
causes of chronic fatigue syndrome is a
hidden virus okay what you need to know
about viruses is this a virus is not
really alive it's a piece of genetic
material wrapped in a little Sac that
gets activated by your own cells okay
and what happens when your immune system
overcomes the viruses and deactivates
them they can lie dormant for yours
and they can also come out of remission
and be active that's called the latent
virus the most common virus behind
chronic fatigue syndrome is the
Epstein-Barr virus okay
if you've ever had Mono before
you have Epstein-Barr virus 90 of the
population on planet Earth have
Epstein-Barr virus it's very very common
I had it myself really really bad to the
point where I could barely even swallow
it was so painful this was in high
school so what happens is you have this
infection it eventually kind of goes in
remission you're doing fine for many
years then you accumulate a lot of
stress and maybe you have nutritional
deficiencies and then the virus comes
out of remission now you may not
experience a full-blown infection but
just a few of them and one is chronic
fatigue or achiness so what makes this
virus come out of remission primarily is
stress it could be a loss of a loved one
or stress at work or whatever and the
virus starts coming out of remission if
you combine stress with nutritional
deficiencies the virus can come out and
actually create extreme exhaustion also
Epstein virus is one of the causes of
Hashimoto's which is an autoimmune
hypothyroid condition if you have
Hashimoto's you definitely need to watch
the video I have on that down below and
also take selenium very very important
in this situation right here you need
high doses of Vitamin D now in the study
I have Below on this it it equates high
dosages of vitamin D being 20 000 IUS
from my viewpoint
that is not that high I would recommend
40 000 IUS if this is what you have
vitamin D is one of the most potent
nutrients to help put a virus back in
remission zinc is number two you would
want to take 30 milligrams of zinc and
also folic acid that's a really good one
as well you can get this from the help
of store if you're new to my channel you
definitely need to learn about something
called healthy keto and intermittent
fasting because that will help you with
this right here and will also help to
put this back in remission and let's not
forget about this dress you must do
everything you can to improve this
stress State Because unless the stress
improve it's very difficult to send this
back into remission and the second thing
that will cause chronic fatigue syndrome
and this is what I had I had this and I
had this as well really bad insulin
resistance what is insulin resistance
well insulin is a hormone that does a
lot of things but one of the things that
we'll do it'll act as a key to open up
the cell to allow Fuel and nutrients to
go into the cell so if you have a lot of
insulin being pumped out in your body
over a long period of time
that could be toxic so the body is going
to resist that and you're going to
create this condition called insulin
resistance at least 65 to 70 plus
percent of the population has this and
they don't usually even know it one of
the big things it'll create is belly fat
okay so if you look down you can see
your belly chances are you have insulin
resistance if you can't go for more than
three or four hours without needing a
snack or food
you have insulin resistance if you crave
sweets you have insulin resistance if
you eat a meal and you're not satisfied
and you need a little bit of sweet after
that you have insulin resistance if
you're getting up through the night and
having to urinate chances are you have
insulin resistance
insulin also lowers blood sugar so
insulin is related to blood sugars and
consuming too many carbohydrates so if
you've been on a high carb diet like
most of the population that's really
what's behind this so the relationship
between insulin resistance and fatigue
is that your cells are starving of fuel
especially the brain and even the
muscles they're going to be tired and
you're not going to have the mental
energy you're going to have a lack of
focus one really really good simple
demonstration you could do with yourself
is just consume a protein meal okay just
proteins you can have some vegetables no
sugar no extra carbohydrates and see how
you feel okay if this fatigue goes away
then it's most likely that you have this
Condition it's a very very simple to
correct if you actually do
healthy keto
and intermittent fasting okay
I have about 500 videos on this but
don't worry about watching all of those
right now just watch the ones that I put
down below in the description okay there
you have it the two main causes of
chronic fatigue syndrome which if you
really understand this and you apply
what I'm showing you it's pretty
straightforward to resolve this
condition thanks for watching
and if you haven't already subscribed
click the red button below and that
little bell icon so you can be notified
of all the new videos that I'm going to
be releasing and I have some very cool
and interesting videos coming up in the
next coming weeks plus in addition to
that you'll be notified of the live q a
sessions that I'm going to be doing
throughout the week and you don't want
to miss those as well so stay tuned for
more great content
