now what would happen if you ate like a
cow I'm not talking about when you look
out into the field and you see this cow
grazing on the grass I'm talking about
what a cow eats in the last 200 days of
its life this cow is forced to consume a
tremendous amount of starch the cow is
prevented from doing a lot of exercise
because they're very small spaces and
they're put in front of the starch three
times a day their diet the last 200 days
is about between 70 and 90% starch take
a look at our food pyramid for a second
you can see at the very top use
sparingly fats oils and sweets it says
not to eat a lot of sugar if we look at
the very bottom the majority of calories
6 to 11 servings should be in the form
of starch and that would be like bread
pasta cereal crackers biscuits things
like that the average American consumes
between 65 to 70% of their calories as
starches I want to show you something
corn chips okay and we look at the back
of the label tell me how many sugars we
have zero sugars how many carbohydrates
18 G that's per serving size per 15
chips now let's look at flour tortillas
zero sugars 25 G of carbohydrate let's
not forget Corn Flakes 3 g of sugar and
35 G of carbohydrate I want to explain a
very big confusion that people have
related to carbohydrates I think
everyone knows that sugar is not that
healthy what about carbohydrates if we
deduct the sugars in the fiber what is
left and the answer is starch what's the
difference between a sugar and a starch
a sugar molecule like we call glucose is
like just one molecule of sugar so sugar
and we're just going to talk about the
basic Foundation or building block of
sugar is glucose but with a starch you
have a chain of glucose stuck together
now you know what a starch is and now
we're not just talking about like whole
starches like potato or even like rice
or even whole grain I'm talking about
the refined stuff like this right here
corn starch and by the way we consume a
tremendous amount of this refined corn
starch every single day in a lot of our
Foods let's just go back to this food
pyramid for a second you see the bottom
foundation of the food pyramid should be
mostly starches 65% of our calories
should be in the form of starches these
are actually hidden sugars Ultra
processed starch is worse than sugar
these ultrapress starches will Jack up
your blood sugar way more than just
glucose when you look at this food
pyramid what you're looking at is you're
looking at a lot of refined
carbohydrates we are recommended to eat
and the only reason that that's
recommended is because the lobbyist
groups are very very powerful the food
companies are extremely powerful only
four companies control the entire grain
market and they have a tremendous amount
of money unfortunately the scientists
who actually create the food guidelines
are just unfortunately very corrupt
because it was found that over 90% of
them had some type of vested interest or
funding from big food what's really
unique about these starches is that
they're incredibly profitable you can
buy one cubic ton of corn for
$198 don't worry it gets more
interesting because right here I have
frozen corn this is not the type of corn
that is in all these other products
there are two types of corn you have
field corn or another name for that is
Dent corn and then you have edible sweet
corn right the type of stuff that you
have a corn on the cob or you'd buy is
frozen corn and so this Dent corn or fi
corn is not even edible but this we use
as the feed to fatten cattle to create a
marbling effect of their muscles and
they make so many different things out
of corn they make ethanol they turn the
starch into cornflour and they can make
modified food starch modified corn
starch molto dextr in fact there's over
50 different starches that they can make
from various foods and this is why
they're a hidden sugar that you need to
be aware of not only that you can also
make oil from corn as in corn oil which
is part of the seed oil which actually
is very very unhealthy even though they
say it's heart healthy an average
American consumes 8 gallons of seed oil
every single Year yes we need to avoid
sugar but not many people are talking
about the hidden sugar the starches
especially the corn starches not only do
they act like sugar but they're also the
most popular GMO food which means they
have traces of an herbicide called
glyphosate if we ask ourselves what
would happen if we ate like a cow well
we have been eating like a cow for quite
some time and you can see the results we
have obesity fatty liver we get heart
disease and the list goes on and on the
normal cow stomach is not meant to
digest grains it's meant to break down
grass grass is fermented with bacteria
and that fiber feeds the microbes the
problem with feeding grains to a cow is
that the microbes now create this excess
amount of acid and they get what's
called acid Doses and you get a lot of
infection and that's not very healthy
for a cow this is one of the big reasons
why in their food they put a lot of
antibiotics to counter this bacterial
over growth if we're consuming all this
grain we probably also have a similar
thing that's what happens when we
consume the grains and it creates
inflammation in the gut and that creates
all sorts of allergies and abnormal
fermentation in the wrong place we
normally we need fermentation a little
bit lower in the digestive tract not in
the small intestine and so this is
definitely not a what if problem this is
like we have been consuming very similar
foods to cattle for quite some time and
if I put some Dent corn in front of you
right now to see if you could actually
eat it you would Absol absolutely not
want to eat it it's disgusting unless we
turn it into a powder and different
things to make the texture a little bit
easier to consume an average person in
America consumes
35.5 lbs of corn starch every single
year they consume 60 lbs of corn
sweetener every single year high
fructose corn syrup and other sweeteners
that are made from corn and as far as
corn seed oils an average consumer
consumes 11 and 12 p lb of this seed oil
every single year if we wanted to add
the soy oil into that mixture you can
add another 28 lb so what should we do
number one we should not support these
intensive farming practices I would
highly recommend not buying food from
cows that are in feed Lots instead start
buying grass-fed grassfish beef if you
and I start buying grass-fed grassfish
animal products these very large
industrial Farms are going to have to
allow cows to live on more space to
consume grass what they were designed to
consume but people will not do that
unless they have the awareness of what's
going on and at the core of what we feed
our animals is Dent corn and soy the
more that you avoid these foods you can
help make a difference and shift the
market from the conventional grain-fed
cattle on that note let's talk about the
healthiest food that you possibly can
eat and I put that information in this
video right here check it out
