hi guys dr. Barrick here in this video
we're going to talk about my best fat
burning philosophy okay now just to kind
of educate you there's six fat burning
hormones okay and some of the people try
to trigger those hormones but it doesn't
work why because these six fat burning
hormones are secondary they can be
influenced by other things and other
hormones okay and mainly when you try to
trigger these things you're actually
doing something now when you have the
three fat making hormones okay there's
three of them that's all about avoiding
certain things okay so we have this
choices that we make all day long we can
do certain things we can eat healthy or
we can avoid things and not do things
okay so if I were to ask you what's more
important to eat healthy or to avoid
unhealthy foods what would you say but I
can't really hear you so I'm just going
to tell you it's way more important a
thousand times more important to not do
certain things than to do certain things
okay why because these are the hormones
that are dominating that fat making
hormones are primary hormones and they
can crush these very easily so in the
presence of just a little bit of these
these won't work so you have the person
who says well I want to eat what I want
and I'll just exercise to burn off the
calories right that won't work because
they just have enough of the wrong foods
to nullify their progress so all it
takes is a small amount of the wrong
thing to destroy a lot of good I'm sorry
that's just what happens so let's talk
about how to what to avoid in these
hormones there's three main hormones we
have cortisol okay cortisol is a stress
hormone so of course we want to avoid
stress right it sounds easy but it's not
easy so everywhere you go through stress
I like to dissect that a little bit more
and really look at who in my life is
stressing me out and just to avoid those
people could be at work could be friends
family whatever just avoid those people
change your environment start to do
things to lower stress go for long walks
supplement your body with nutritional
support there's a lot of things you can
do to reduce cortisol and there's not
videos we'll talk about that but here's
the other thing I have a lot of videos
on this - insulin we have to lower
insulin that means get the sugar out get
the refined carbs out get the hidden
sugars out alcohol juice yogurt in fact
breads pasta cereal crackers things like
that but also eating in general
stimulates insulin so too many meals a
day is bad so we want three or two meals
a day with no snacks very important okay
but here's this other thing that I guess
I want to put more attention on because
a lot of people don't know about this
estrogen is one of the main fat burning
hormones and it gives the excess hit fat
around the hip weight in the butt in the
lower a pooch it can also make your
upper arms kind of fat as well and so
women they get pregnant boy everything
just kind of goes out of whack because
the spike in estrogen and you get the
birth control pills right so you might
say you maybe you're a guy or maybe you
say I'm not on birth control pills and I
don't have an estrogen problem well
where are we getting the estrogen we are
basically bathing with estrogen in the
environment the primary area that you
would be exposed to estrogen is through
the GMO foods GMO is heavily exposed to
herbicides glyphosate glyphosate is very
estrogenic so GMO foods especially corn
and soy and a lot of the sugars which
are beet triggers now are just you just
completely dousing yourself with
estrogen and the problem is it's not
labeled so I really really believe this
and this is probably going to come out
probably not now maybe a couple years in
the future if you go to other countries
people lose weight in America they don't
I think it's the GMO foods that's my
guess because even people that eat
healthy
sometimes they don't lose weight because
of the GMO effect in other countries
they don't have the GMO the food is just
healthier so I think this estrogen is a
bigger problem because it's creating
breast tissue in male bodies it's
creating a lot of cancer in female
bodies and male bodies so what I'm going
to recommend is that you really pay
attention to the type of food the
quality food that you eat like make sure
it's organic if it's organic at least
you know it's non-gmo because a lot of
times they don't label it grass-fed is
non GMO so you want to start looking at
that let's say you go to the store and
you buy chicken it says natural that's
like those animals are fed so much GMO
corn and soy you're you're getting it on
your body so that could be the reason
that's your body is out of balance and
you're not losing weight so I wanted to
kind of just get hit this weight loss
from a different angle
and this is way more important than
trying to trigger and just eating
healthy you have to focus on not doing
certain things all right it's a little
counterintuitive but it's something to
digest and think about alright thanks
for watching I'll see you in the next
video
