let's talk about alternative sweeteners
when you get on a ketogenic diet it's
not a bad idea to transition off your
regular sugar with some alternative
sugars and we like to call them
alternative sweeteners not artificial
sweeteners even though they're a bit
artificial but they're definitely better
than the typical artificial sweeteners
as in aspiran things like that and so
there's some really important things to
know about these artificial sweeteners
because if you're going to get any of
these keto products they're usually
going to have either some type of sugar
alcohol alternative sweetener and
especially these new functional fiber
type ingredients for the textures which
I want to cover as well because
sometimes those are used as sweeteners
when in fact there's no difference
between those and sugar so let's just
start with a this popular brand Lily's
Brand chocolate chips right um these are
the dark chocolate baking chips and I do
like these they said no sugar added and
so if I look at the ingredients it has
unsweetened chocolate arrol chory root
fiber okay that's fine and Stevia okay
so the first thing you need to know
about arrol is out of all the sweeteners
it's one of the better ones because it
has virtually no calories uh doesn't
digest that's why it has no
calories and also it's zero on the
glycemic index compared to another one
that I do like as well zotol zotol is
like 30 on the glycemic index rol is
zero uh zyl tastes more like sugar
arrol sometimes you have to add it with
monk fruit it's close to Sugar but it
doesn't compare but it's a lot better on
the glycemic index if you were to
compare both of those I would say just
consume small amounts when you need it
but Athol is a little bit better but
again if you're consuming just small
amounts it's not going to be that big of
a deal so let's just go through a couple
more here's another
product neutral
okay blueberry cinnamon nut
granola so this one has um you know the
sunflower seeds pumpkin seeds coconut
almonds peans and then a reol and monk
fruit okay so monk fruit is similar to
Stevia it comes from an actual fruit
there's no sugar in it it's like zero on
the glycemic index so monk fruit is
really good but they usually have to
combine it with other things to kind of
make it taste like sugar and Stevia by
the way is really good the only thing
you have to make sure about Stevia is
that make sure you get the one that
doesn't come with
maltodextrin multidex is classified as a
kind of a starch uh but in reality it
behaves like a sugar in fact if you look
at the glycemic index glucose is at 100
maltodextrin is like way higher it's
like 120 or even 130 it's like crazy
higher so how can be classified as just
a a starch when it's really a sugar it's
a loophole uh it's a way to tell people
like oh this is sugar free right but it
has a lot of carbs and those carbs
behave like sugar so always stay away
from maltodextrin and I talk about that
in quite a few videos okay let's look at
another one right
here this one is brown sugar alternative
this one's a rol it also has glycerin
which also is sweet and glycerin is a
sugar alcohol and apparently it's zero
on the glycemic index um but that's just
another sweetener that they use and this
one has Stevia as well okay so that's
one sweetener uh that would be fine to
use um let's take a look at uh keto site
the ultimate
sugar
alternative okay this one has aotol and
natural
flavors Okay so great okay this could be
used as well non GMO um here's one right
here called Sweet Leaf better than sugar
okay this one has organic arrol organic
Stevia I like that so this could be used
as well right so these sugar alcohols
are fine but one point I want to bring
up is that sometimes they can cause
fluid retention sometimes they can
create bloating diarrhea very powerful
diarrhea if you have too much they can
set your microbiome to a certain degree
all sorts of like grumbling sounds in
your stomach so you just have to be
aware of them and not do too much and
even some of them well more of the
artificial sweeteners really kind of can
mess up your microbiome and have a
potential increase in insulin and
definitely keep your Cravings going on
because you have this sweetener all the
time and so if you can't keep giving
into the sweetener you might just
constantly have cravings uh for a
different reason than just having low
blood sugars so again I I think these
things are good when you transition off
sugar and maybe as an occasional dessert
treat but I don't personally consume a
lot of these on a regular basis all
right so let's cover another one smart
sweets they say kick sugar keep candy
three gam of sugar per bag the first
ingredient is cable corn fiber I don't
like cable corn fiber first of all the
way they process it it's extremely
refined so they're taking this corn
starch and they're turning it into a
fiber they have to do that with a whole
chemical process there's not any
long-term safety studies on this and I
don't even know if it's you know non-GMO
or organic well actually it's it says
it's doesn't say one way or the other
okay so anyway I recommend you stay away
from corn fiber and there's another one
called tapioca fiber they might call it
U preotic I would stay away from that
one as well because I just don't trust
these new functional fibers because
they're promoting them as a health thing
without the safety and they're all just
new on the market and they give a nice
mouth uh feel or a
texture but they're produced by the real
big companies that produce Ultra
processed foods so I guess I just don't
trust them aulos is another uh
alternative sweetener that's not a sugar
alcohol but it's very similar to the
chemistry of glucose but they've altered
in a way that uh doesn't affect your
blood sugar because you can't absorb it
but it's very similar to sugar okay
here's one ISO molto
oligosaccharides for that I need to show
you something because I used to promote
this so-called um sugar
alternative as vit fiber the sweet side
of fiber so it's classified as a fiber
but it's not a fiber I don't even know
if the FTA allows someone to even call
it a fiber anymore but they call it a
sugar-free low calorie Prebiotic fiber
sweetener ISO MTO Alo saccharides well
first of all do you know what a
saccharide is that's a sugar it's a very
complex structure and a lot of times
they'll have it in a liquid like a syrup
and it's used in a lot of different bars
keto bars I do not recommend it because
I drank the Kool-Aid and I started
promoting and I started using
ingredients and I noticed man this is
almost too good this is too good to be
true and so I noticed that people were
complaining like they're they're gaining
weight from it I found some data that
shows that it acts just like a sugar in
fact there's one study that shows it
mimics glucose almost exactly the same
so this is not a fiber this is a scam
and you think it's keto but it's not so
this product right here is not good but
stay away from Isom molto alos
saccharides okay so then they had chory
root fiber that's fine rice flour that's
not keto modifi potato
starch that is not keto so that's a
starch because if you look at the uh
total carbohydrates this little packet
has 42 G of carbohydrates so you're
think oh but it's it's high fiber that's
cuz it says it's 13 G of fiber and it
has um 3 g of sugar then what are all
these other carbohydrates starch so you
really have to read carbohydrates fiber
and sugar and kind of understand and see
through those numbers to see what's
really going on all right next one
is monk fruit sweetener monk fruit arrol
and monk fruit perfect I like it you can
use this okay let's look at uh Lily's
brand milk chocolate covered caramel h
no sugar
added okay so we have um unsweetened
chocolate dextrin this is a fiber
again I don't like these functional
fibers is it as bad as um some of the
sugars probably not um could you have it
in small amounts sure just don't get in
the habit of thinking that this is
totally good for you because it might
create problems and I just I'm suspect
just try not to do too much of this okay
it also has arrol chory root fiber
Stevia okay so that's this and then we
have another one called Lily chocolate
styled peanut butter cups okay this one
same thing dextran arra tall same
ingredients okay if you want this
occasionally fine just don't go crazy
with it all right next one is almond
dark chocolate and they have different
kinds okay no sugar added okay well
that's I mean it's better if you want a
little bit after your lunch because it's
probably going to have caffeine from the
chocolate fine but just if you start
having digestive issues and flu
retension and you're not losing weight
then you might want to get rid of it
unsweetened chocolate and then we have
dextrin okay dextrin orthol and stevia
okay here's another one this is by Liles
too this is milk chocolate style and but
this right
here is pretty much the same same
ingredients to dextran okay but there's
another one this is the one that I
wanted to show
you peanut butter filled whoa little
thicker looks great looks very
tasty and this one has in it dextran rol
okay so it's pretty much the same um as
far as carbohydrates go it has 14 G per
serving so this is the other thing you
need to calculate how many serving sizes
per bar and the answer is 2 and A2 so
basically you have to times 2 and 1/2
times those 15 grams of carbs you get
37.5 grams of carbs it's 21 grams of of
fiber so where is this fiber coming
from the dextrin interesting now there's
one sugar alcohol that I would really
stay away from it's called maltol maltol
is in a lot of sugar-free Diabetic Type
candy it's very high in the glycemic
index I mean it tastes just like sugar
and um it's higher than arrol and they
still classified it as low but it's high
the other thing I want to mention is a
Gava nectar they'll say that's a low
glycemic sugar because it's very very
high in fructose I think it's like 80%
fructose and fructose is low on the
glycemic index but what they don't tell
you is that the liver is forced to
metabolize fructose so you're going to
overload your liver compared to regular
glucose which all your cells can share
the metabolism of with fructose it's
just shoved to the liver and um the
liver is forced to deal with it and so
it's increase the risk of a fatty liver
and creating similar effects to alcohol
believe it or not so this uh aava nectar
is not very friendly now if we take a
look at Honey regular table sugar even
high fructose G syrup it's roughly about
50/50 glucose and fructose but agava
nectar is like 80% fructose the other
one that I want to mention is coconut
sugar that's not too much better than
just regular sugar okay and then brown
sugar is a little molasses with white
sugar it's very similar to the effects
of sugar molassus is just cane sugar
with um all the vitamins and minerals so
of course that's better nutrient wise
but um it's still the same amount of
sugar so you have to be careful of that
and avoid that certain alternative sugar
products are good to have in small
amounts but not all the time but they
can is an alternative especially for
like kids and people that have a hard
time now because of the censoring and
the suppressing of the algorithms on
YouTube it's becoming more difficult to
find my content and there's a lot of
content that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other
side
