so this video we're gonna talk about how
to get rid of a hangover okay let's say
you have a headache you feel nauseous
you don't feel very good in the brain so
when you drink alcohol the alcohol is
mainly absorbed in the stomach it goes
to the liver there's an enzyme that
breaks alcohol down into another
compound actually two different
compounds one is called acetyl aldehyde
and the other one is called acetate
which is similar to vinegar now this
chemical byproduct is very toxic it's 30
times more toxic than the alcohol this
is what creates the damage to the liver
and to the rest of the body and this is
what's giving you the symptoms of
alcohol it's not really the alcohol
itself it's this by-product now the more
the liver is deficient in glutathione
which is a very powerful antioxidant
that is supposed to help you neutralize
this the more this builds up the more
side effects you're going to have all
right so that's one situation that's
happening the second thing is that
alcohol decreases a very specific amino
acid called glutamine what happens then
as your body starts making more
glutamine it's called glutamine rebound
and when that spikes because it's a
stimulant it's gonna prevent you from
getting into the deep delta-wave sleep
so you're when you wake up you're not
gonna feel rejuvenated you're gonna wake
up with a headache you're gonna feel
very funky you're gonna feel fatigued
you're probably gonna have anxiety and
even want to vomit because your body is
trying to get rid of this toxic chemical
all right so now the question is what
can you do naturally to minimize the
damage and quickly get rid of this side
effects okay there's a certain vitamin
that will do it and that is vitamin b1
thiamine thymine helps to neutralize
this toxic chemical it also helps to
balance out glutamine so you want to
take the b1 before you go to bed and
also when you wake up to minimize the
damage control because b1 protects the
cell specifically the mitochondria
against oxidation now of course there's
a dehydration effect too so you're going
to drink more water
I also recommend
taking vitamin C in a whole food form or
foods high in vitamin C I also recommend
consuming a lot of green leafy
vegetables in cruciferous because this
creates so much free radical damage that
you want to add an antioxidant from food
to help repair that damage alright guys
thanks for watching and I will see you
in the next video hey if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
