I want to talk about something that's
very very common but very unknown it has
to do with the connection between your
liver and right side shoulder blade pain
now if I'm gonna face this way this is
my right side over here we have the
scapula looking from behind
here's a spine here's a muscle okay
this muscle is called the rhomboid it
brings the scapula inward and upward
that way you have a little muscle right
here it's called the levator angle a
scapula now if you have pain right in
this space right here or up here or
right down here chances are it's the
liver the liver is the most common
source of this referred pain but people
don't connect the dots because they
think the problem is right here and
they'll swear it's from maybe just
bursitis tendinitis or some injury when
in fact they never really had an injury
in that area possibly now this could
also be the gallbladder or the bile duct
because when the gallbladder has stones
or it's congested or there's some
blockage or irritation in the bowel duct
that can irritate a nerve called the
phrenic nerve and you have two of them
and it can shoot up right here and cause
a pain up on the right side and
definitely up here so if it's more up
here usually it's more gallbladder down
here it's more liver now if it's on the
opposite side it could be more pancreas
but both of these problems are related
to digestion and food take a look at a
couple things that could cause a liver
problem one is inflammation you ate
something that created some inflammatory
response either in your liver or the
gallbladder or you have a fatty liver
because you're consuming too much of
some of these foods right here and then
there's not enough space in there it
just keeps getting bigger and bigger and
bigger and a refer pain right back here
now I personally had right shoulder pain
and right rhomboid pain for 12 frickin
years I had no idea it was related to my
liver if I
I went to Chiropractic College hoping
that I would get it fixed and after a
million treatments nothing worked until
after I graduated and I eventually
figured out what it was and I changed a
diet and all that pain mysteriously went
away I wish I would have known when I
know now back then so alcohol can mess
with the liver a high carb diet will do
it too much iron can cause irritation
inflammation in cirrhosis of the liver
vegetable oils okay or medications can
do it too check this out now if we
compare back in the 70s to present time
and we look at the amount of grain
consumption we had an increase of 29% so
that's an average of a hundred and
twenty two pounds of grains per person
per year in the United States now I
definitely don't consume 122 pounds at
all so someone must be consuming a lot
more than that but this doesn't really
compare to these next two check this out
in this 1970s we consumed 4.9 pounds of
corn and I'm talking about corn products
or corn oil or corn sweeteners as in
high-fructose corn syrup
now if we compare that to present time
14 pounds so we went from 4.9 pounds to
14 pounds that's three times more that
is an incredible amount of corn that
people are consuming but check this out
vegetable oils right which are really
great oils 12 pounds in the 70s now it's
36 pounds that is the spike three times
that is a crazy amount of vegetable oils
which by the way these are both GMO and
they're highly inflammatory they could
potentially irritate the liver the
gallbladder and create this pain if
you're new to my channel you should
definitely learn about something called
healthy keto and in a minute fasting it
can help you I put a link down below but
if you want more information about the
liver and what to eat I put that video
right here check it out
