I'm going to give you a very simple
remedy involving only one teaspoon every
single day to get rid of your chronic
sinus infection and it can be more of a
Candida infection or a fungal infection
called aspergillis which is the most
common type of fungus that could be
growing in the sinuses so if you have a
runny nose or even a loss of smell or
which can definitely affect your taste
in fact 80% of your taste comes from
your smell but the worst thing that
people do to that aggravates this
condition is that they take an
antibiotic an antibiotic only kills
bacteria and when you get rid of the
bacteria you actually cause an
overgrowth of this fungus so maybe it
started out to be some type of bacterial
infection but now it switched to a
fungal infection that is very difficult
to kill with the typical antibiotic and
so people keep getting antibiotics over
and over as this problem gets worse and
worse they take the antihistamines they
take these cortical steroids which get
rid of inflammation but it makes it
worse it kind of invades the back of the
ustation tube into the inner ear and now
they have inner ear infections and then
there's two types of uh fungus there's
an invasive fungus and there's a
non-invasive fungus the invasive fungus
starts to break down the mucosal layer
or lining on the inside of your sinus C
cavities and it can start to erode the
bone so it can actually penetrate right
into different tissues around your skull
from there it can evade the joints your
bladder and create a UTI so there's some
really important things you need to know
about aspergillis it needs oxygen to
grow it needs moisture to grow and it
will definitely grow more if your immune
system is compromised so if you're a
diabetic if you have HIV it can really
kind of come out and kick you when
you're down and also you can actually
reproduce this uh aspergillis and make
it grow in a little petri dish if you
feed it sugar or starch and this is
where you see this fungus growing on
like bread and potatoes rice things like
that because it lives on sugar and
starches which means that you probably
need to change your diet and this also
includes Dairy because there's milk
sugar in Dairy as well and they will
just thrive on that so we get sugar
refined carbs alcohol and even birth
control pills can make it grow more
aspir Gillis has a unique strategy of
surviving by shutting down your immune
system through downgrading your vitamin
D levels so it goes into your receptors
for vitamin D exactly where you know you
utilize vitamin D and it downgrades them
very sneaky to the point where you can't
get enough vitamin D
and apparently it knows that vitamin D
is essential for your immune system and
if you can't get enough vitamin D you
don't have a good immune system the most
important thing to know is that you need
to take a lot of vitamin D okay 30,000 I
use make sure you're also taking 300
micrograms of vitamin K2 just to kind of
keep the calcium normalized in your
blood because vitamin K2 offsets the
spiking calcium from the vitamin D what
would be the key remedy to get rid of
this fungal systemic problem number one
garlic oil okay garlic oil greatly
inhibits fungus yeast in mold not to
mention bacteria as well you're just
going to take five drops of garlic oil
in a teaspoon you want to also get some
oregano oil okay that's another powerful
anti fungal anti- candida anti- yeast
okay five drops of oregano oil then make
up the difference with coconut oil
coconut oil has both lauric acid and
caprylic acid both of those are
antifungal and they strengthen your
immune system and you're going to do one
teaspoon of this every single day over a
period of about a month because it's
going to slowly get into your body and
start to balance out the microorganisms
you can also do other things too if you
wanted to add Xylitol to this mixture
you can do that curcumin is another one
that you can always add and aloe vera is
another thing you can add you can also
do blue light wand if you have a blue
light you can even take one of these
wands there's little small little wands
and and put it up your sinuses and for a
few minutes a day and that can help the
problem is I have not located one yet
maybe you can search one and find one
but blue light or violet light uh
therapy would be really good for that
condition if you had surgery on your
sinosis okay and there's damage and the
mucosal layer you want to get the red
light therapy uh sinus therapy and they
have these little devices that you can
put up into your sinosis and help this
condition using the infrared light which
is more of a a different Spectrum it's
not as much of a microb killer as it is
a Healer of the mucous membranes and the
Damage that occurred from the surgery
however you might find that you start
breathing a lot better because it can
get rid of inflammation now there's a
lot more to know about the sinuses if
you have not seen my other video on
sinus congestion check it out I put it
up right here
