and so I have a question can starvation
actually give you a longer life I mean
it's a weird question because of course
it's going to starve you and you're
gonna die early right but a version of
starvation can actually extend your life
let's talk about that so when you don't
eat as frequently you actually live
longer not eating or fasting stimulates
something very very very interesting it
stimulates certain genes that help you
survive and repair and one of those
genes is called sirtuins
so sirtuins have very interesting
effects it's actually quite fascinating
because they're the anti-aging gene okay
so when you have DNA breaks this gene
can repair those so you have in the cell
you have these little proofreaders that
go in there and look for errors in the
genetic code you know they want to
actually clean out any mutations which
are little alterations in the genetic
code so you have all these different
things that can happen in this code and
there could be little breaks there could
be mutations where your body has a
capacity to scan find the air clip it
out replace it with something new and
fix it and it's very very accurately
done it's actually just mind-blowing
so sirtuins is involved in the repair
process because you don't want to have
an alteration in your genetic code
because that can lead to mutations and
cancer and early death so two ins
actually decrease oxidative stress they
increase your resistance to stress so
when someone says that in termina
fasting is stressful for the body or the
adrenals it's not it actually makes you
really tough it makes you resist dress
at the cellular level it protects you it
decreases inflammation it actually helps
you make new mitochondria those are the
energy factors of the cell they
decreases free radical damage so it's
kind of like a very powerful antioxidant
all right now let's talk about some
other things that can also decrease
oxidative stress
one is beta-hydroxybutyrate okay what is
that that is a type of ketone so look at
this we got ketosis and I F together can
help you decrease oxidative stress and
help you live longer that's cool and
here's another one called resveratrol
it's that chemical compound that
phytonutrient in red wine that has a
capacity to increase the lifespan in the
yeast and in fish by 59% there's not a
lot of studies in humans at this point
it's still ongoing well they did a study
with mice giving them this compound on a
high-fat diet and they compared it to
another diet they found that it
increased survival it increased insulin
sensitivity which is very interesting so
if we combine in a minute fasting with
healthy ketosis with a water red wine in
fact you're not going to even feel
stress at all right you're gonna feel
really good all the time and I'm just
being sarcastic if you want to take this
taken in a supplement form not in the
alcohol form because the alcohol is not
going to help you live longer it's gonna
mess with your liver and I'm not even
recommending you take this supplement
all I'm saying is that this has the
capacity to decrease oxidative stress
and there's a lot of research right now
I would rather have you focus on your
foods healthy ketosis and definitely get
them in a fasting because it has the
potential to really help you live a lot
longer all right guys thanks for
watching I'll see in the next video
hey if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
