hi guys have another tip for you and
that is you never want to do
intermittent fasting and a high
carbohydrate diet now why not because
most people are insulin resistant okay
they have hypoglycemia they have blood
sugar issues and so when they go from
one meal to the next they're not tapping
into their fat when they're not eating
they're still running off their store
blood sugar and they tap it out pretty
quickly and they end up with low blood
sugar okay so now they're definitely
gonna experience symptoms like becoming
irritable moody brain fog it's a big
strain on the brain because if you're
not adapted to ketones and you're
running off of sugar fuel if you don't
eat you're gonna see a huge decrease in
cognitive function so that mainly shows
up in a cognitive problem like a loss of
memory and different mood disorders
anxiety depression panic attacks that's
all really a blood sugar issue so when
the body is not adapted to burning fat
like Ana ketogenic diet then the body is
only gonna run on sugar field so if you
add it a minute fasting on top of this
you'll add a huge strain to the nervous
system and the brain and this is simply
because your body hasn't adapted to
burning fat so how do you solve this so
number one you want to first adapt your
cells to burning fat by getting on the
ketogenic diet and then you want to
slowly gradually add in a minute fasting
so as your body burns more fat you can
go longer and longer and longer so that
way you can avoid all the negative side
effects from having a low blood sugar
situation now I put a link down below of
how to do this it's a ketogenic course
there's a link down below I highly
recommend take it get the basics and
start applying it
hi guys listen I want to thank you so
much for your wonderful comments and I
want to ask you if you wouldn't mind
giving me your review on Google I put a
link down below I'd really appreciate it
and thank you in advance
