hey guys today we're gonna talk about a
very common problem that I see with
people doing keto especially if they're
just starting out okay and it relates to
the keto healthy snacks the keto
low-carb snacks right keto snacks are
very bad for keto okay so you have all
these these snacks out here low-carb
protein bars keto cookies beef jerky
keto chocolate keto crackers cheese
crackers okay so these are low carbs
right so what is so beneficial about
lowering your carbs it's that it lowers
insulin and insulin is the hormone that
will block and nullify fat burning but
there's one additional piece of
information that a lot of people don't
know okay so it's right in here
guidance physiology on page 930 other
factors that stimulate insulin secretion
gastrointestinal hormones the gastric
inhibitory peptide which seems to be the
most potent of them all will cause a
moderate increase in insulin secretion
these gastrointestinal hormones almost
double the rate of insulin secretion
following a meal okay so now that you
got that let's look up the definition of
a snack it's a noun a small amount of
food eaten between meals
so very simply every time you eat you
trigger insulin and you don't want to
have these frequent meals because you're
gonna raise insulin all day long and
that is going to keep you from seeing
the benefits of keto so we always want
to combine keto with intermittent
fasting okay
so if you're going to consume these
consume them as part of the meal okay
don't eat them between the meal as a
snack and eat less frequently do in a
minute fasting and then it will work
alright thanks for watching so I suppose
you're wondering how the heck can I put
out so much content to videos every
single day I'm about to reveal how I do
it okay let me show you come on up here
hey how you doing
it's my twin brother I actually can get
twice as much work done okay man over to
you I'm gonna take I'm gonna take a nap
well thank you very much all right guys
I I hope you're ready for some great
content today because we're gonna get
right into it all right
