so I'm not sure if you saw this in the
news but Weight Watchers is getting
crushed by the ketogenic diet so last
week the stocks from Weight Watchers
dropped 30% and Oprah one of the largest
stockholders I think she has like
between eight and ten percent of that
company lost last Tuesday roughly around
thirty million dollars so keto right now
is exploding it's a global shift more
and more people are trying to ketogenic
diet why because it works so Weight
Watchers right now is making a very
fatal mistake
they're assuming that keto is the next
fad when it's not a fad okay even
slimfast for example it's developing
keto friendly snacks they're not healthy
they're loaded with mannitol and other
hidden sugars but they are jumping on
the bandwagon now why is keto not a fad
well number one it works number two it
completely gets rid of your hunger
especially when you're doing it within a
minute fasting so it's sustainable so
the people that oppose keto know that it
works and the strategy that they're
working now is they're basically going
to put doubt in your mind they're gonna
say well there's no long-term studies
what if it's dangerous long-term yes it
works short-term but what about
long-term so the pool little doubt in
your mind so maybe you might not try it
but people are trying it I mean you
should just look on my website I'm gonna
put a link down below and look at all
the success stories these are from real
people
there's no photoshopping we get like 10
amazing success stories every single day
and read those it's very very exciting
keto is not just for weight loss it's
about getting your body healthy
so Weight Watchers is based on a point
system that's correlated with calories
it's all about portion control they're
using the same model calories in equals
calories out and you always hear this
from certain people in the scientific
community where well it's just simple
logic you know if you eat less calories
you'll actually lose weight you know
that's simple these researchers or these
people that have PhDs have never been in
clinical practice if you were in
practice like me for 29 years working
one-on-one with tens
thousands of people you're gonna run
into a lot of people who do the low
calorie thing and they don't get results
I worked with many many people that were
consuming eight to nine hundred calories
sometimes even less that lose no weight
and I'm talking about people that are
exercising on a daily basis they're not
losing weight so that's one topic that a
lot of these guys omit they don't like
to talk about so they have a lot of
fixed ideas and they have confusions
about the endocrine system and how the
endocrine system and hormones influence
the macronutrients carbohydrates
proteins and fat I always like to asking
this one question what are the fat
burning hormones and what are the fat
storing hormones and then look at you
kind of glazed over late they don't have
a clue there are three fat storing or
making hormones you have cortisol you
have insulin and you have estrogen I
mean even take the condition called
Cushing's syndrome with excessive
cortisol they have the big belly
estrogen dominance you're gonna have hip
weight excessive insulin like in
diabetes type 2 you're always gonna see
the person overweight type 1 not enough
insulin they're gonna lose weight
eventually and then you have the fat
burning hormones you have growth hormone
igf-1 I were hormones and I think about
a condition like hyperthyroidism where
you have too many thyroid hormones
you're gonna see excessive weight loss
so anytime you run into these people
that have these fixed ideas about
calories and calories out just ask them
about the fat burning hormones you have
to differentiate the different calories
different food calories are influenced
by different hormones one of the claims
that we Watchers make is that you can
eat real food okay like what does that
mean real food like normal food regular
food what they're really telling you is
that you can eat unhealthy food you can
pretty much eat what you want just make
sure you eat less of it you can have
everyday foods food real people in the
real world eat so you're describing real
people an average person who is
overweight usually and they have insulin
resistance and they're eating real food
they're eating
food unhealthy food so you're gonna
actually give the person the same food
that they're eating okay maybe in just
lesser amounts thinking that they're
gonna actually be skinnier it's not
going to work
in fact I pulled up from their website
some of the foods that they sell and
this is the pancake mix enriched flour
with all these synthetic vitamins using
corn fiber sugar brown sugar okay and a
bunch of other ingredients I can't even
pronounce all right here's another one a
chocolate brownie chocolate flavored
coating sugar
okay so there's sugar maltitol which is
a sugar alcohol but it has a huge impact
on your blood Sugar's so even though
it's the so called keto friendly it's
not really friendly corn syrup soy
protein isolate
that's GMO ground corn whole wheat flour
poly dextrose that's a synthetic sugar
sugar brown sugar rice flour fructose
and modified soy protein and soybean oil
so they're using unhealthy ingredients
and just a lesser amount it's not going
to work because you can't help a person
you can't solve a problem with the wrong
solution especially if you're doing a
diet that leaves you hungry all the time
and this is why their stalks are
crashing and this is why keto is going
to be around for a very long time
because it's not a fad and it does work
so I want to thank you for being here
and watching my videos if you haven't
already subscribed go ahead and do so so
you can stay informed of future videos
