hi guys I had another question it is
5-hour energy drink bad for you okay
well let's talk about it it's cited for
over 11 deaths okay but what that means
is that the people that ingested this
product had it in their system before
they died it's really hard to prove that
it killed them so a lot of people report
symptoms of dizziness anxiety and
sometimes some people even have a heart
attack now here are the ingredients
Splenda okay B vitamins those are all
synthetic by the way they're not natural
tyrosine Dino alanine taurine these are
amino acids that stimulate the nervous
system they wake you up enzymes and
caffeine about a hundred and fifteen to
242 milligrams for two ounce depending
on if you get the extra strength or not
compared to an average cup of coffee at
McDonald's which is like a hundred to
150 milligrams caffeine it's it's a lot
more it's double so what's happening is
you are stimulating the body 5-hour
energy drink are for people that are
tired
so it's artificially stimulating them
which is eventually going to burn them
out that's what happened to me I started
taking all sorts of herbs and caffeine
to wake myself up until eventually
madrina 'ls got burnt out and had
chronic fatigue and then it didn't work
at all so to get your energy back the
number one thing you need to do is sleep
you have to improve the quality of your
sleep and to do that you have to improve
the quality of your foods okay so the
biggest thing that I see for people that
are tired is they're they're actually
have a lot of hidden sugars in their
diet they're eating the breads the pasta
the sugar and their blood sugars are it
goes up and then it crashes down so
they're tired when it goes up and
they're tired and grouchy when it goes
down and they're running on sugar
there's a much better way to switch your
body to fat-burning
and start getting a lot more energy more
natural energy and then you can come off
the stimulants because sooner or later
it's going to catch up with you so you
want to increase your foods to fix your
sleep I'll put some links down below but
that will
you can come off these artificial
stimulants and get real energy thanks
for watching hi guys hey listen I
created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
