so guys I like to do videos on what you
want me to do videos on there are
several people that keep mentioning do a
video on canned vegetables okay in keto
all right so here it is uh let's just
talk about it all right so the first
thing you need to know is when you're
canning you're actually heating you're
preserving the uh vegetable or product
increasing the shelf life so they're
going to heat it between 240 and 250Â° F
that is going to kill the enzymes okay
you're going to sterilize the product
you're going to kill off any bacteria in
there to make sure it sits on the Shelf
a lot longer here's the problem it's
also going to kill off the vitamins not
necessarily the minerals but the
vitamins and the antioxidants it's going
to greatly reduce the effectiveness of
the vitamins especially vitamin A
vitamin C B1 and many others so here you
are you're going on keto you're trying
to be healthy so you're following my
videos and it says eat a lot of
vegetables so you decide to go Cann but
that defeats the purpose because we're
trying to consume the vegetables for the
vitamins and the minerals and the
phytonutrients so by canning it pretty
much defeats the purpose so why even
consume vegetables if it if it's void of
nutrients not to mention like if you're
also uh doing canned soup for example
it's loaded with MSG hidden as modified
food starch so definitely start reading
labels read the carb amounts and the
sugar amounts and stay away from from
any added sugars now when certain foods
are cooked the starches break down
increasing the glycemic index so if
you're going to consume chili for
example and it has beans and they cook
the beans for a period of time you have
a product that's very high on the glaic
index especially when you consume
potatoes as well which you're not
supposed to on the keto PL so if you're
going to do chili make your own without
the beans okay so then you have tomato
sauce one thing you have to realize
about tomato sauce is that the tomatoes
are cooked thereby again raising the
glycemic index so uh don't consume a lot
of it a little bit it's fine all right
so let's say you consume some and then
you're wondering why you're not losing
weight it potentially could be the
tomato sauce to just consume smaller
amounts of that so the same thing goes
with uh pumpkin so ideally you want to
consume the majority of your vegetables
raw and then you can consume some
slightly steamed that would be a lot
better now I want to touch on one
subject and I'll do a separate video on
it to kind of elaborate but I want to
talk a little bit about irradiating food
this is a crazy topic because when they
irradiate your food it's like half a
billion X-rays I mean that's a
tremendous amount of radiation so you're
basically consuming dead food you think
canning vegetables or pasteurizing
vegetables is a bad thing well when they
eradiate vegetables you're really just
kind of wiping out everything and
there's no long-term studies to show
that that when you're putting this
ionizing radiation into the food that
it's not going to create an effect I
don't know about you but consuming
mutated microorganisms where it's
altering the DNA of a a product um I
think that might not be the best thing
to put in your body another uh term for
it is called cold
pasturization or
electronic pasturization yeah pretty
scary um you want to avoid the symbol
I'll put it up right now so you can see
it um and realize if it's organic it's
not irradiated okay I'll do a separate
video just on that one topic thanks for
watching hey if you're liking this
content Please Subscribe now and I will
actually keep you updated on future
videos
