so today we're going to talk about the
missing nutrient analogies that being
said there are other causes of allergies
I've done other videos on this but I
haven't touched on a nutrient deficiency
that is behind quite a few different
allergic reactions so the first thing
I'm going to do is I'm going to teach
you a new word at 2 P this is a genetic
tendency to develop allergies like
rhinitis which is a sinus congestion
sima rashes and just generally high
histamines one cause of this is low
folic acid okay so folic acid is
involved in so many different
biochemical reactions the one I'm going
to focus on is involving reducing
histamines okay he would get folic acid
from dark leafy greens you can also get
it in beef liver but mainly it's in the
dark leafy green vegetables folic acid
is involved with this enzyme MTHFR
methylene tetra hydro folate reductase
you didn't need to know that but that's
the name of this enzyme this enzyme
allows folic acid to work and many
people have a mutation with this enzyme
and you can actually get at the genetic
test to see if you have this and I want
to put some information below on this
because I did another video on this but
it's actually a lot more common than
people think
but if you have a deviation or a
mutation with this enzyme you're not
going to be able to absorb and convert
this into your body at well so you're
going to have a deficiency and one of
the big symptoms is allergies and rashes
through the body so here's the solution
in addition to eating more dark leafy
greens there's three remedies one would
be methylfolate four to seven milligrams
per day b12 you want to get the methyl
version not the cyano Cibola nine
version this is more the natural
activated version four thousand
micrograms not milligrams and b6 400
milligrams and you want to take these
together with a meal once a day for
three
months and there's been some really
interesting research on this and this
protocol so I put the link down below
check it out and thanks for watching if
you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
