hey guys it's dr. Berg here I want to
share with you what is inside the
adrenal body type kit this is my most
popular complete adrenal program okay so
number one it has the adrenal night
formula now what is that it's not a
sleeping pill
it is actually an adrenal rejuvenator
that targets the real reason why people
can't sleep
their bodies are stressed out one before
bed and you get seven to eight
uninterrupted hours of really restful
sleep and you're going to wake up
feeling not groggy because this does not
have melatonin it doesn't have valerian
root it has some other ingredients that
are designed to rejuvenate the adrenal
so it actually heals and supports the
adrenal gland okay so that's number one
number two we got the adrenal day
formula this is mainly you take three
per day and you spread them out and this
is the one that gets rid of that
excessive thinking and analyzing before
bed or even during the day it actually
helps you get rid of that internal
tension that stress that you might have
it specifically targets people with a
low tolerance to stress if you have
people around you that are stressed out
and they're irritating you slip one of
these in their coffee and they'll just
chill out so this Calmes the nervous
system the combination of these are
great for the adrenal okay so this one
during the day this one at night okay
now the next one is the gall bladder
formula now this is not just for the
gall bladder this is for the entire
digest system including the stomach that
pancreas and the liver and gall bladder
because it has ingredients for each one
of it now the problem is that a lot of
times people have a distended belly
because of inflammation because of a
digestive component and it's not just
all fat okay it could be swelling
digestive system your bloated after you
eat so this handles the bloating factor
of the belly fat and some people that
have heartburn
need to add a little upset vinegar with
this or you can get into pills it's
called outside of vinegar plus
combination with this works really good
but you take one of these after you eat
okay
and you will find that your digestion is
going to be much better you're going to
pull more nutrients in there now one of
the key ingredients in there is called
purified bile salts now bile salts help
you dissolve fat so this is really good
for not just digestion but fat
metabolism in general okay and then this
product right here is called trace
minerals now this is not your ordinary
trace mineral product this is a
plant-based trace mental product from
prehistoric times 70 million years ago
and you just suck up one dropper full
put in water drink it you won't even
taste anything and these minerals are
15,000 times smaller than regular salt
base or metallic minerals now why do we
need trace minerals and by the way trace
minerals are those minerals that we need
in smaller quantities versus like the
other minerals like calcium iron
potassium magnesium you need in larger
amounts you need these in smaller
amounts but we included this because in
our soils are so depleted with minerals
especially trace minerals it's hard to
get it in the food you'd have to eat
mass amounts of food to get your trace
minerals and trace minerals are
essential for proteins I'm talking
collagen loose skin sagging belly skin
right through here that's sagging hair
nows collagen so as you get healthy you
can look younger as you lose weight and
look healthier versus some people that
lose weight and they look like a crack
head right this is essential for the
getting healthy part because it's one of
the most missing combination nutrients
that people don't really get in the diet
ok then we have the book this book has
been blood sweat and tears working on
40,000 people over 25 years and it took
me seven years to complete this it has a
full glossary it has 159 images it's
very easy reading it talks about the
hormones it talks about what to eat what
not eat it educates you so you're going
to go right to the adrenal chapter okay
that's the trap that you need to do on
with this now as
a bonus you're going to get also some
other cool things like my meal maker
which you'll be able to design your
meals from a click of a button within
minutes and that way the whole week is
planned out so you don't think about it
you can just go ahead and do it so
you'll get access to that bonus and also
there's a little there's a lot of other
bonuses you have the exercise magic
there's videos there's instructional
information so you'll have all that with
this kit alright so what's your next
step
get the kit and go ahead and start and
then send me your success stories thanks
for watching
