over 80% of heart attacks and strokes
are not plaque cholesterol or calcium
that's blocking your arteries most of
the time when someone has a heart attack
or a stroke they die from a clot this is
not the same and it's very different
than a buildup of cholesterol or calcium
or plaque if someone told you the reason
why you die is your arteries fill up
with cholesterol they are lying to you
that's usually not what kills you it's
the clot that can form in less than 5
Seconds what we're going to do today is
we're going to really dissect a clot and
understand what it is and give you a
solution to prevent clots because a clot
is a very necessary thing a clot is a
response to injury and the way it's
supposed to work is the body is supposed
to form a clot fix the hole in the
artery and then dissolve it the real
problem that we need to focus on is the
hole in the artery but the biggest
trigger to a clot is not cholesterol
it's not calcium number one and people
know this is the inhalation of smoke
from cigarette smoke and now your
arteries are exposed to all these
chemicals and it's going to create
inflammation also pollution or being
around any type of chemicals in the
environment can do that as well a
solution is not to do vaping okay you
need to just stop smoking alcohol is
another one you're drinking alcohol it's
a considered a poison to the liver it
gets into the bloodstream and that also
can create problems in the inside of the
arteries Believe It or Not birth control
pills or hormone replacement therapy is
another thing that can actually affect
the arteries because of the hormonal
interaction increasing the risk of a
stroke and heart attacks then you have
stress and this is an interesting one
because there's something called the
broken heart syndrome where someone has
a loss of a loved one and the risk of
having a heart attack goes up by
2,000% which by the way triggers the
clotting action anything that increases
stress can increase the clotting action
also surgery okay surgery is a very
stressful thing to the body and
Endurance Sports marathons it's a
tremendous stress in your body and refin
starches that's just like pure
inflammation going through your arteries
and this is why diabetics are at four to
five times the risk for getting clots
not just in the heart but in the brain
as well the last thing that can trigger
these clots is an infection it could
come from an infection in your tooth
from a failed root canal where you have
this absis that's leaking bacteria into
the body or it can come from some other
chronic infection I think for most
people it's going to be the high levels
of sugar that's flowing through their
bloodstream that's creating the problem
because of their diet and it makes their
blood really sticky also it chronically
elevates inflammation inflammation is
one of the most potent things for
clotting there's another uh trigger for
this clot as well an excess amount of
calcium in the arteries and let me
explain this because in certain studies
involving postmenopausal women who take
High amounts of calcium for their bones
they have an increased risk of getting
uh this clot because calcium is involved
in over 15 different clotting factors
I'm talking about excess calcium excess
calcium is just not good for the heart
it can cause excessive calcification in
the soft tissues especially in the
arteries as the antidote and the thing
that kind of counters this clotting
there's two things that are very very
important to know number one is vitamin
K2 the purpose of vitamin K2 is to keep
the calcium from building up in the soft
tissue K2 is all about keeping the
calcium out of the arteries and guess
where vitamin K2 comes from dairy butter
it comes from fatty foods the exact
things that they tell you to avoid
because of the cholesterol you should
always take a vitamin D with vitamin K2
simply because vitamin D is super
important as an anti-inflammatory in the
inside of the arteries and it works
together with vitamin K2 magnesium is
another very important calcium regul it
prevents calcium from going inside the
tissues magnesium helps prevent
arrhythmias especially atrial
fibrillation which by the way causes an
arhythmic problem in the heart that can
cause pooling of the blood that can
increase your risk of getting a clot
what turns down clotting the big one is
something called nitric oxide here are
some things that can increase nitric
oxide vitamin D L arginine is an amino
acid that can help nitric oxide and one
of the best sources of L arginine is
meat and liver the exact things that
they tell you not to eat there's
something else that increases nitric
oxide sunlight that can penetrate deep
into the body and help increase nitric
oxide in the inside of the arteries this
is why getting sun is so valuable in so
many different ways not just vitamin D
but other ways as well what's happened
since 1980 is we become Sun phobic
because we're afraid of getting melanoma
which is an absolute lie you want to get
regular doses of sun very therapeutic to
the heart other things that can help you
is polyphenols in natural herbs and
vegetables vitamin C omega-3 omega-3
fatty acids naturally thin the blood
also when people consume leafy green
vegetables that are high in vitamin K1
they think oh that's a lot of vitamin K1
that's going to uh cause clotting it's
going to thicken my BL but no it's not
going to create thickening more than
normal it's just going to bring you to a
normal level it's not going to create
excessive amount of clotting fasting is
another potent way to help reduce the
risk of clotting fasting is also
anti-inflammatory ketones getting on the
ketogenic diet a low carb diet is also
anti-inflammatory to your arteries
regular exercise and I'm not talking
about like high stressful exercise where
you're doing marathons but regular
good exercise with good recovery is
extremely important in preventing this
clotting garlic and onion super
important in preventing clotting as far
as supplements go there's three that are
really powerful nines is a natural
enzyme that helps prevent clotting you
also have another enzyme called serap
pepti that's an extract from silkworms
and then brolene from Pineapple when you
take those enzymes to help reduce
clotting and I'm not even recommending
you take them unless you have a clotting
problem but they're a great natural
source that's not endorsed by big Pharma
because they're competitive you want to
take those on an empty stomach so it can
actually work on the factors in your
blood that's maybe too excessive now you
know the basics of what really is behind
most heart attacks and strokes follow
the advice I hope you took notes and
implement the data that I showed you in
this video thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next video
