against today we're going to talk about
copper deficiencies now no you can't
suck on a penny because that's the wrong
type of copper that's elemental you want
to consume a copper that is actually
from food not from a metal okay very
important now what does copper do in the
body well it helps form collagen and
connective tissue and that's why if
you're deficient you can actually lose
the elasticity with your connective
tissue and get a symptom called swayback
where your lower back is exaggerated
going forward so you have this excessive
lordosis or curve in your lower back but
you can also have all sorts of problems
with your ligaments even flat feet but
these dysfunctions occur when you're in
the womb when you're first developed if
you're a mother that's carrying you is
deficient these trace minerals that you
could start having these problems okay
so copper is a cofactor and by the way
copper is a trace mineral which means
you need it in very small amounts
compared to other minerals that you need
in large amounts so but it's a cofactor
a helper mineral in certain enzymes
enzymes do the work in the body
they're basically proteins that form
different structures and do different
chemical processes so one of the enzymes
helps make melanin which is a pigment in
your skin okay so if you're deficient in
copper you can get something called
vitiligo which is a loss of pigment so
there's little white specks
in your in your skin and this enzyme
called tyrosinase is present in
mushrooms there's actually a mushroom
extract you could take to help vitiligo
okay because of what it does to melanin
now copper is also involved in making
neurotransmitters and these are kind of
like communication particles that travel
through the nervous system as compared
to hormones travel through the blood so
neurotransmitters are just another way
the body can communicate very important
in growth of the fetus so if you're
deficient you're going to get
neurodegeneration which is basically
breakdown of the nervous system one
symptom being peripheral neuropathy
which is the destruction of the nerves
in your feet or your hands you see that
a lot in diabetes loss of vision okay
decrease white blood cells so your
immune system actually is
deficient you have a muscle weakness
symptoms similar to a b12 deficiency
anemia and lastly the foods that you can
eat that are high in copper would be
Easter's organ meats like liver
make sure it's grass-fed meats in
general leafy greens and of course
mushrooms alright I'll see you next
video
if you're liking this content please
subscribe now and I will actually keep
you updated on future videos
