hey guys Dr Burke here now last week I
did a video on how to eat bacon to burn
off belly fat this week we're going to
reverse the flow and teach you how to
burn fat if you are a vegan all right
we're going to use the same principle
but we're going to show you different
foods all right now I asked you a
question last time if you watched the
video what is the hormone that
determines whether you burn fat or burn
sugar do you know there is a hormone
that will determine this and I'm going
to use a reference called gens medical
physiology the Bible of medical
physiology used in all the medical
schools and also Premed um classes so on
page
926 here it says actually
927 it says all aspects of fat
metabolism are greatly enhanced in the
absence of insulin so all fat burning is
greatly enhanced when you don't have
insulin okay now over here the role of
insulin in switching between
carbohydrate and lipid metabolism where
that's fat metabolism it says right here
when the glucose concentration is low
when sugar is low insulin secretion is
suppressed and fat is utilized almost
exclusively for energy right and there's
many many references in here that talk
about when you have insulin lack when
you're lacking insulin your body is
forced to burn fat so insulin is the
main hormone that we need to keep
suppressed if we have any chance or hope
of getting into fat burning okay so when
insulin is high you're going to S uh
stimulate trigger when insulin is uh low
you're going to stimulate fat burning
all right so that's that now you
probably heard of um the glycemic index
right foods high in sugar you have to
avoid those but there's also something
else called the insulin index okay and
I'm going to show you that next all
right so now we have all the glycemic
index foods which are foods that turn
into sugar fast which trigger insulin
but there are other things that trigger
insulin too and you can see those in the
insulin index okay which I have right
here so I have from low to high all the
foods that don't really trigger insulin
and the ones that do what I did is I
summarized all of the foods that are
acceptable that are low on the list so
what's interesting are the fattier foods
do not trigger insulin and they're not
on the glycemic index so our goal is to
lower insulin forget about calories
let's just talk about hormones we need
to keep insulin as low as possible if
you're going to have any chance of
losing weight so these are the foods
that are acceptable to consume olives
very low on the list 3% that's really
low avocados very low on the list CH
seeds nearly Zero Effect peans you can
do macadamia nuts even peanuts are low
on the list walnuts are low on the list
but peans are the lowest and we have
coconut oil and coconut meat very low on
the list uh mushrooms low on the list
seeds uh sunflower seeds pumpkin seeds
are really really good peanut butter
tahini butter that's a sesame seed
butter you can get that at the grocery
store all brand now I don't really
recommend seros but all brand is low on
the list it's a fiber chickpeas as
hummus kidney beans are low on the list
other beans are very high in the list in
fact baked beans is nearly uh like it's
100% it's way way out of the range
oatmeal steel cut is like a moderate so
you could probably do that occasionally
tofu is low in the list but what's
interesting is highly concentrated
protein like whey protein which is not
vegan uh and especially soy protein
icelet you want to stay away from that
because that's very high in the list
I'll talk about that in the next section
vegetables we can eat all the vegetables
except corn um and anything too sweet uh
pea protein is fine and ghee even though
that comes from an animal sometimes
that's acceptable in a vegan uh diet so
these are the foods that you would want
to
consume now these are the foods that we
want to avoid because they do trigger
insulin and some of these uh glucose
okay so fruits we want to avoid all
fruits grains that includes breads pasta
cereal crackers biscuits waffles
pancakes juices of all kind especially
the orange juice beans unless it's the
kidney bean or the chickpea okay and
lentils we want to avoid that's that's a
little bit higher in the list
unfortunately uh berries we want to
avoid potatoes and rice we want to avoid
even brown rice is quite High uh all
sugars of course in corn all right and
then we want to also avoid
uh any concentrated protein like the soy
protein isolates now you could probably
do um if you're doing tofu it has to be
organic or else it's GMO okay so these
are the foods you want to consume these
are the foods you want to
avoid now there's a couple other
principles the other thing that triggers
insulin index is um gastrointestinal
hormones so every time you eat you
virtually trigger insulin to some degree
so what got you in this position the
first place is just maybe too much
snacking eating the wrong foods and just
the stimulation of insulin whether
you're a diabetic or not many people
that have belly fat are it's called
insulin resistance which basically
they're pre-diabetic which they have a
messed up insulin and they need to
actually fix it so what we want to do we
got breakfast lunch and dinner what we
want to avoid are the snacks in between
why because eating a meal triggers
insulin so we want to start off with
three meals a day now even though the
insulin is spiked if you don't need to
have anything between the meal we have a
chance for your switch to start
switching more to Fat birning okay and
especially at night now if you're not
hungry in the
morning then don't eat so therefore we
have two meals lunch and dinner and
what'll happen when you're
not eating you can burn fat longer
because the meal that we want to have
your body consume is your own belly as
the meal as the food and we wanted to
switch over the fat breing and then
eating now here's the problem if you
can't go from one meal to the next
without starving without needing a snack
what we're going to do is we're going to
add more fat maybe some olives to the
meal the next meal we keep adding fat to
the next meal until we can go longer and
longer the fat is not necessarily going
to help you burn fat but it's low on the
insulin scale and allows the it allows
you not to stimulate insulin it allows
you to go longer coconut oil avocado
peans we want to add a little more fat
to the meal for the purpose of going
longer so you can do a little
intermittent fasting which also greatly
improves insulin resistance okay versus
a low calorie grazing all day starvation
that will not work because we have never
have a chance to induce the the fat
burning effect okay so we want to eat
these Foods avoid these Foods have less
frequent meal no snacking try to get a
little bit more sleep if we add exercise
that would be cool and then also add
apple cider vinegar two tablespoons in a
glass of water with each meal okay so
those actions I think will help you more
than anything else so go ahead apply
this and give me some comments below I
will see you in the next video hey
thanks for watching listen I'm always
trying to come up with new ideas for new
videos but I just wanted to ask you
personally what do you need help with so
if there's any topic or subject that you
would be more interested in please click
the link below and let me know thank you
very much
