so I'd like to tell you what I've
learned from the Spanish flu pandemic in
1918 a very interesting story not sure
if you know about this but back in 1918
fifty to a hundred million people died
worldwide of this Spanish flu
now that's very very strange that that
many people would died worldwide just
out of the blue and there's several very
interesting things about this okay
number one they didn't really die of the
virus itself okay the virus was involved
but it wasn't the thing that killed them
fairly recently they did autopsies on
some bodies that they dug up from this
time period and they found something
very interesting they found that the
majority of deaths occurred because of
these two things right here ARDS which
is acute respiratory distress syndrome
which is a situation where the lung is
filling up with fluid so the alveoli in
the lung which exchanged the oxygen and
the co2 basically just filled up with
fluid and the fluid got outside the lung
and the person basically drownded within
their own fluid there was also a lot of
mucus in there so the mucus kind of got
stuck in the lung on top of that there
was a super infection involving bacteria
okay so the combination of bacteria with
this fluid created the deaths now there
are some other things that were very
very strange as well because a good
portion of these deaths involved people
in their 20s
normally the flu affects young children
and elderly people not in this situation
so I'm going to come back to that in a
minute but first I want to tell you what
occurred about four years previous to
this event
okay well 1918 you got 1914 you had
World War one okay that was worldwide
what are some of the changes that
occurred well we had a huge shift in
diet because we had to transport food
great distances and you have to preserve
the food so they did a lot of canning
okay and by the way when you canned food
you really do
increase the zinc in food now zinc
important in the immune system just
slightly so we have the transportation
of food change and the food change not
only occurred with the military but it
occurred with people at home as well
because they did food rationing no
longer did you have the variety of food
the fresh vegetables you had several
foods a good amount of it was preserved
okay so what does this mean
it basically means we created a lot of
nutritional deficiencies if you create
these nutritional deficiencies over a
period of four years you're really going
to increase the susceptibility to get
any infection now the next question that
I wanted to know is what month did the
Spanish flu a curb take a while guess if
you guess January you are correct now
what is unique about the month January
January is at the peak of vitamin D
deficiencies and when you have a low
vitamin D your immune system just does
not work that well in fact vitamin D
innervates every single white blood cell
and without enough vitamin D the risk
factor of getting lung problems like
ARDS or pneumonia go way up also asthma
as well so vitamin D helps your lungs it
acts as cortisol it's an
anti-inflammatory helps your immune
system and when you're low in vitamin D
you're at risk of all sorts of things
I'm going to show you an interesting
chart and I'll put a link down below
this is basically a chart of the seasons
of the year and what type of illnesses
people get if you look at the winter
months you have a huge increase in risk
of getting upper respiratory tract
infections increase relapses of MS which
is an autoimmune disease and other
autoimmune diseases okay because vitamin
D is involved with that also increase
risk of getting F seen bar virus coming
out of remission Rhino virus which is
all the sign of stuff type 1 diabetes
risk factors go up as well as an
increased risk of getting bacterial
infections but not only that children
that are born in the winter months have
higher risks of
a mess down the road and ulcerative
colitis and there's an increased risk of
mothers getting gestational diabetes
fascinating so vitamin D is really
really important in your immune system
so as you can see there's this perfect
storm we have a virus involved we have
nutritional deficiencies that are
setting the person up for these
infections we have low vitamin D but why
did so many people die in their 20s okay
well this is why during that period of
time bear as in Bayer Aspirin ran out of
their patents okay so you had a lot of
other companies coming in to sell and
make aspirin now at that time they
didn't really know and the deadly toxic
effects of high levels of aspirin they
were giving people 1300 milligrams every
single hour for 12 hours okay
and one of the side effects of doing
that is pulmonary edema which is going
to fill up the lungs with fluid and
another side effect is to increase the
bacteria loans now the combination of
the aspirin and the vitamin D deficiency
and other nutritional deficiencies
altogether was responsible for those
deaths so what have I learned from this
I've learned the importance the vital
importance of nutrients and preventing
health problems you see when someone has
a health problem very rarely do they
look at the nutritional deficiency
condition that set them up for getting
sick but it is one of the most important
factors in bulletproofing your immune
system but the problem is here you have
people that eat junk food and they're
exposed to pollution and toxins in the
environment but you really can't see a
deficiency of something it's kind of a
no problem of omission it doesn't draw
your attention because it's subtle you
don't have to have a major vitamin
deficiency it could be subclinical the
only way you're going to know is if
someone tells you number one the
importance in this link of nutritional
deficiencies and bulletproofing your
immune system and also in addition to
that the key foods that you
to be focusing on to make sure that
you're not deficient in the first place
and for that I put some links down below
thanks for watching if you're liking
this content please subscribe now and I
will actually keep you updated on future
videos
