hey guys today we're gonna talk about
cheat L pills are they worth it
what's my opinion on them let's start
with exogenous ketones okay now what is
this word exogenous mean okay
well the Greek word for EXO means
outside so basically this is outside the
body so ketones taking external from the
body versus endogenous which is endo or
end-on from the Greek word means within
so endogenous would be like this you're
you go on a low-carb diet your body
turns your own fat into ketones so it's
something that your body makes within
exogenous you're taking a mixed journal
so it's not actually helping you burn
the fat at all and this is one of the
claims that you'll see sometimes which
is totally not true
ketones don't burn fat they don't help
you lose weight they're the result of
fat being burned in the body but they
don't actually cause your fat cells to
release any fat okay
and if you do some searches on this a
lot of times you're gonna see now this
thing shark tank
ketones to give you the false impression
that these ketones were actually on the
show shark tank when they actually were
not and it's a scam you can actually
look it up they just use the name and
they associate it so you'll actually
increase their credibility but they were
not on the show at all
so do they boost ketosis well what's
your definition of ketosis ketones going
through the body yeah okay they might
boost your ketosis but they're not going
to help you lose weight and the only
time I would recommend these is if let's
say for example someone's frail and they
have Alzheimer's or Parkinson's ok maybe
then or maybe a long-distance runner but
they're very expensive and they're
really not needed there's two different
types ketones salt which is a
combination between a ketone body and a
mineral like sodium and there's ketone
esters which is a combination between a
ketone body and a ketone precursor a
ketone salts are the most widely used
ketone esters are not used as much
really bad taste with these right here
but they're there
expensive and I think that it's much
better off if you generate your own
ketones by going on a low-carb diet okay
number two electrolytes
one of the challenges with electrolytes
is they put the hidden sugar in there a
lot of times with multiple dextran or
dextrose I don't know why they do that
sometimes it's pretty high in sodium
very low in other minerals especially
potassium and magnesium or our bodies
need a lot of potassium and it's easy to
get sodium but it's really hard to get
potassium because you would have to
consume 7 to 10 cups of vegetables at
least to get that but electrolytes are
important when you do ketosis especially
in the beginning because the in the
depth ation process you need these
minerals to avoid some of the
transitional side effects that you might
experience like fatigue or keto flu and
things like that and electrolytes can
actually speed up the process of getting
you ketosis and they're especially
important when you do in a minute
fasting and most people that do keto
also doing a minute fasting together
which is a very smart thing the next
pills I'm going to talk about our B
vitamin tablets okay very very important
when you do keto in the transition phase
as you're adapting to fat burning one of
the best sources would be nutritional
yeast because the problem is would be
vitamins most of them are synthetic and
there is a difference between synthetic
and natural the national ones are a lot
more expensive but if you get
nutritional yeast that's unfortified
because they fortify it with synthetic
vitamins it's much better so you have to
find that and there are tablets out
there and also MCT oil is a medium chain
triglyceride which actually will help
you make you tones but the only point
about this is that let's say for example
you're plateauing and you're not losing
as much weight then you probably don't
want to take this because your body's
going to be turning this into ketones
versus your own fat into ketones a lot
of times people put this in their coffee
and just by cutting it on the coffee
they can speed up more weight loss
alright lastly
herbs a lot of people are taking herbs
to support their Aikido plan primarily
for the reason of improving insulin
resistance
because one of the problems that most
people have before they're on keto is
they have insulin resistance and so they
have blood sugar issues and just by
doing keto in general you're going to
improve insulin resistance but there are
other herbs that help your blood sugars
that help the receptor and they help the
insulin receptor be more receptive so
there it's not so resistant anymore
chromium would be a one trace mineral
that's really really important
bitter melon also can help green tea
will improve insulin resistance the herb
gymnema okay so let me talk about that
it's a very bitter herb from India and I
think there's also a Chinese version as
well that is used to help regulate blood
sugars there's a lot of data on this one
herb that improves blood sugars that
goes way back at one time I had a Geneva
spray and what's interesting about this
herb is that when you spray it it blocks
the taste for sweet okay so it ruins any
pleasure that you would get from
consuming sugar sugary foods and one
time I was at an event and I brought it
with me and my wife got really upset
because I was showing people this
incredible spray go ahead and spray this
and try to consume something sweet of
course no one at the time was on keto
and they don't even know about keto but
they were drinking champagne and wine
and things like that and if you spray
this in someone's mouth before they
drink some alcohol or champagne or
especially wine it actually you know it
tastes like vinegar it'll taste bitter
it just destroys the taste of it and I
kind of ruined that party and I don't
have that product anymore simply because
I want people to do actual keto to get
rid of the cravings not to have some
gimmick or something that would be like
a crutch even though a lot of people are
asking me like when are you gonna have
that product again I'm not gonna bring
it back but if you chew on it it's very
bitter you can you have that same effect
go through is a natural herb that has
similar effects to meth
which is fascinating which actually will
help improve the receptor for insulin
berberine is another herb that can
actually improve the insulin resistance
problem and cinnamon these are just some
herbs and other nutrients that can help
our guys thanks for watching and I will
see you in the next video so if you're
enjoying this content go ahead and share
it with someone that could really
benefit from it
