hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about something called double and
diabetes so I had a question from
someone who had this and they wanted to
know what what they can do about it okay
so let's just explain what it is it's a
combination between type 1 diabetes
where you have the pancreas no longer
producing infant ok there's no
production of insulin pancreas isn't
releasing any more insulin okay
combined with something called insulin
resistance and that's a situation where
the cells are not taking in not
receiving in Flint okay so in a
situation where it's not produced and
not received alright so the cells can't
absorb insulin the insulin that's in the
body it's unavailable to the cells the
combination is pretty dangerous because
it requires you to can take in way too
much insulin than you really need so it
ups the amount of insulin that the
person needs which creates a lot of
damaging effects to the eye the kidney
the nerves and the heart okay so now
what can you do about this
okay now take a look at this insulin has
a purpose to lower sugar in the blood
okay and carbohydrates trigger insulin
so right there that tells you what diet
you should be on right don't consume the
carbohydrates okay cut out the sugar and
the carbohydrates and also frequent
eating will also increase insulin so if
we can create a situation where you
don't need as much insulin that would be
very very smart okay now what will cause
instant resistance well high amounts of
insulin over a long period of time will
cause the cells to block it because the
body is trying to protect you because
too much insulin is dangerous okay it
wants just the right amount the goal is
not to trigger insulin as much with what
you're doing in your diet so we need to
cut out the carbs especially a type of
sugar called fructose fructose will
cause insulin resistance even more than
sugar so that's an agave nectar it's any
fruit you want to completely get that
other diet in fact you don't want to
consume any
Sugar's okay especially the high
fructose corn syrup GMO foods soy and
corn can also cause this condition low
amounts of potassium because you don't
like vegetables can cause the situation
low B vitamins because you're consuming
so many refined carbohydrates you
deplete the B vitamins boom cause this
situation other things will cause a to
so different medications stress there's
a lot of things that can cause instant
resistance but the point is if you were
to cut down the carbs and reduce the
frequency of eating you would decrease
the need for instant you'd still have to
take it but not in the quantities that
you're taking that creates all the side
effects alright thanks for watching hey
if you haven't already subscribed press
the button below and I will keep you in
the know
hey that runs
