so today I want to talk about why it's
considered normal for women to have
insulin resistance when they're pregnant
especially in the third trimester it's a
real common problem and people consider
it normal
well here's what you need to know the
reason this is occurring is because
there's an adaptation process happening
to give the fetus the lion's share of
fuel and nutrients so if that mother has
a subclinical problem with insulin
resistance or a vitamin deficiency
everything will be magnified when she's
pregnant and this is another reason why
some women get gestational diabetes
during the pregnancy and as soon as they
deliver the baby start breastfeeding
that goes away but the problem is that
if a woman has gestational diabetes the
risk to the child for getting diabetes
goes up by 3 times so what a mother
consumes during the pregnancy
and before the pregnancy is crucial to
determine and predict what kind of
health problems that child is going to
have so a lot of times I'll get this
question is it okay to do keto and
intermittent fasting during pregnancy ok
or while you're breastfeeding
well keto is a must okay but not in a
minute fasting I wouldn't worry about
intimate fasting I would focus on keto
why because it targets and improves
insulin resistance it's a precursor to
diabetes and getting on keto can prevent
insulin resistance through the entire
pregnancy including the third trimester
a couple things you need to know trace
minerals especially chromium are vital
to take during a pregnancy especially
like zinc and iodine as well the
chromium really helps the blood Sugar's
okay but these trace minerals are
crucial in the development of human body
so if you're deficient in any of these
trace minerals it can have huge
consequences not just in growing but
even that human beings intelligence
could be affected by a deficiency in
iodine for exam
B vitamins are also crucial to prevent a
lot of problems the B vitamins and other
vitamins act as cofactors in the
chemistry and in the formation of
proteins also when you breastfeed if you
take nutritional yeast or even brewers
yeast you can fortify that milk also you
need minerals potassium magnesium I
recommend getting those from a lot of
vegetables and that way you can also get
the vitamin C that you need also vitamin
D is very difficult to get from the diet
and so you really want to make sure that
you substitute vitamin D and this also
includes when you're breastfeeding as
well and lastly make sure you do organic
foods you don't want to be exposed to
pesticides insecticides herbicides
glyphosate because these chemicals can
greatly affect the formation of healthy
tissues so if you are pregnant or you
know someone who's pregnant get them on
a healthy version of keto immediately
thanks for watching hey before you go
would you mind putting a comment down
below to tell me what you think about
this video
