so a lot of people have this sensation
could be pain soreness behind their eyes
and they've tried everything to try to
figure it out so today I'm going to tell
you what's really behind this typically
it could be multiple things but most the
time it's this one thing now it could
also be that you're sensitive to light
it could be tenderness on the top of
your eye right through here on this bone
or underneath on both sides okay around
the orbits you can also have like this
eye strain or uncontrollable tears so
what is really behind this well this is
a hypersensitivity of a certain nerve
called the trigeminal nerve which is
right behind your eyes and so you get
these symptoms and you might think the
problem is this nerve right and so you
may have a steroid injection or some
medication and it never seems to go away
because the hypersensitivity of the
nerve is just the tip of the iceberg
there's something going on underneath
and I'm going to tell you this
Progressive stage of things that happens
before you get these symptoms so the
first thing that happens is you get
something called chickenpox varicella
and the great majority of the population
had chickenpox now when you get
Chickenpox your immune system comes in
the acquired immune system okay not the
innate immune system that you're born
with and starts to make antibodies
against this virus and you're pretty
much protected for about 50 years but as
soon as these antibodies don't work
anymore uh you're more susceptible to
having symptoms like shingles shingles
is called herpes zoster okay that is the
same virus as the chickenpox varicella
same exact thing it may create a
full-blown shingles presentation or it
may give you a little hint that the
shingles is coming and that is the
hypersensitivity to the trigeminal nerve
because that virus hides out in the
sensory nerves and it waits until the
perfect opportunity when your immune
system is lowered and the environment is
just right that pain behind eyes is
really coming from kind of a
manifestation of this shingles and
there's certain things that will bring
out this virus address and reactivate it
one of the big things is cold okay
during the winter months this is very
important to know because if you can
just avoid excessive cold if you go
outside dress very warmly cover your
entire body if you're in the house make
sure it's slightly warmer and you might
not realize it so here you are going out
in the cold spending a lot of time
outside in the winter and wondering why
do you have pain behind the eyes right
but it's all about getting rid of some
of these triggers and also improving
your immune system
another trigger is pressure sometimes
from the weather when the weather
changes then it can be reactivated and
that's a hard trigger to get rid of
because
I don't have a solution for that one
okay I think the solution is just to
build up your immune system so you're
really bulletproofed
the other trigger and this is a big one
is stress okay and there's all sorts of
variations of stress and you might be
thinking well I'm not really going
through stress but if you really look at
it
um we are bathed in stress mental stress
constantly from the news from even
certain videos that we watch in movies
that we watch that keep us in this fear
mode so anything that does that needs to
be addressed I created a video just in
the one topic and I will put it down
below I think it's really really
important but the stress factor is a
really big one because the cortisol
that's activated by the stress literally
it paralyzes the white blood cell when
you go through stress and I think women
when they go through menopause they lose
the ovary function okay and then the
adrenals have to take over and there's
always this Spike of cortisol and then
cortisol suppresses the immune system
and then that's when these symptoms pop
out
and I also did a video on how to build
up
these hormones during menopause right
I'll put that video down below it has to
do with feeding these hormones the
precursor for the hormones which is
cholesterol and by the way as a side
note anything that lowers cholesterol
and I won't mention any
medication names or statins which is a
precursor of these hormones and just
doing that can activate certain types of
viruses that were in remission for years
but are now reactivated and another
stress believe it or not is vaccinations
actually vaccinations weaken the immune
system I'm not telling you not to take a
vaccination or take one I'm just giving
you the information two other big
triggers number one a vitamin D
deficiency because that automatically
makes your immune system weak and also a
zinc deficiency both of those
deficiencies will set you up for having
more problems so I'm just giving you a
bunch of things to think about but if
you take a look at the big picture if
you really focus on prevention because
this virus is playing hide and go seek
it comes out of remission and it goes
back in remission when your resistance
is stronger so the key thing to really
focus on is your sleep keeping in
regular exercise keeping the stress you
know under control keeping your diet
really good and if you I've watched any
of my videos do you know exactly what to
do with that but I just wanted to give
you some information that could be the
underlying cause of the pain behind your
eyes and this is based on a real
interesting book that I just read and
I'll put that link down below as well
now if you haven't seen my recent video
on cortisol okay
and how to lower it uh you should
definitely watch it and I put that one
up right here
