when you do research on calcium deposits
in your body you're going to see this
word that comes up over and over and
over and that word is idiopathic what
does that word mean it means unknown
cause there's a lot of unknowns about
calcium deposits in your body but today
we're going to talk about what we do
know and potential solutions to that and
I'm talking about bone spurs kidney
stones
osteophytes which are just like calcium
projections from your joints tartar in
the teeth calcium in the arteries
calcium that builds up in the brain or
the breast tissue or your skin or even
on the eyes or on the nerves what could
be behind all this calcification on your
tissues if you had an injury okay or an
infection or some type of surgery or
trauma chances are you may have Scar
Tissue chances are you have inflammation
in that area that can develop calcium
deposits in a joint from an old injury a
couple things that you should know you
need to keep the joint in motion the
more that you immobilize that joint the
more the calcium is going to start to
fuse it so motion is the answer to the
buildup of calcium in your joints also
there's other things you can do like
things that will reduce inflammation
vitamin D as well as omega-3 fatty acids
now the next factor that relates to
calcium building up on your tissues is
the pH so normally your blood should be
slightly alkaline if the pH goes too
high and becomes too alkaline then
you're going to have what's called
alkalosis and that's what I want to
touch on calcium tends to come out of a
solution in an alkaline environment very
similar to the spigot you have in your
backyard you may see calcium deposits on
the receptacle if the pH of your water
is to alkaline if your cortisol is too
high from years of chronic stress or
you've eaten a lot of sugar in your life
those two things can can bring you into
a state of alkalosis and what might
happen after that is you might start
developing calcium on the nerve tissue
first okay and that can show up in
tetany twitching like sometimes you have
this little twitching underneath your
left eyelid that's kind of a sign of
alkalosis and this means that you need
to acidify your body a little bit more
so apple cider vinegar would be a really
good solution or start working on your
stomach like betaine hydrochloride your
pH problem might come from maybe years
of antacids or certain medications but
the real way to balance your pH is just
to eat healthy and avoid things that are
bad for you and your body will come into
the right pH it needs to be and there's
one product that also works great if you
know you have a problem with alkalosis
and it's a standard processed product
called cal ammo it has certain natural
compounds that acidify you so it
systemically acidifies your body and
it's it's really good for arthritis
alcohol this is calcium deposits number
three if you have high levels of calcium
in your blood it's called hypercalcemia
you could potentially get deposits of
calcium through the body and it could
show up as kidney stones as well this
could occur if you're consuming a lot of
calcium supplements or if you're
consuming a lot of milk and this calcium
has nowhere to go and so it starts to
accumulate through the body now another
cause of this could potentially be
vitamin D toxicity taking way too much
vitamin D but I want to just mention
something about this I've done a lot of
videos on this it's very rare to have
that happen
and honestly you'd have to be taking
hundreds of thousands of international
units of vitamin D for you to develop
hyper calcium so for someone that has
high calcium in their blood I would
really make sure that the person is not
consuming too many dietary calcium
supplements if any at all number two if
they have any problem with the
parathyroid gland I would definitely
increase vitamin D3 I wouldn't decrease
it unless the person is taking a massive
amount of vitamin D3 for many many
months which is highly unlikely the more
likely cause would be something called
hyperparathyroidism which I'm going to
get to next but I do want to mention uh
two last points on this hypercalcemia
this high calcium in your blood
situation when someone has cancer or a
tumor they can start having high levels
of calcium in the blood which that's
going to be more rare so I wouldn't
necessarily look at that as a primary
cause I would first look at the dietary
calcium situation and this parathyroid
problem that's actually just working too
fast so let's just touch on
hyperparathyroidism okay you have four
parathyroid glands okay and they're
located around your thyroid gland right
you can see it right here the base of
your neck okay
and so the parathyroid regulates calcium
and when your vitamin D is low okay
vitamin D has everything to do with
helping you absorb calcium it'll
increase the absorption of calcium by 20
times right so if your vitamin D is low
like the majority of the population on
planet Earth well then your parathyroid
gland is going to have to work harder
to look around for calcium so it's going
to look around and it's going to go into
your bone and borrow calcium from the
bone
and grab it and bring it into the blood
and that can create a hypercalcemic high
calcium in the blood situation which is
interesting because we have vitamin D at
both spectrums one at the high level and
one at the low level but indirectly
causing the parathyroid to dump and
release a lot of calcium from the bone
into the blood so that is the mechanism
so this is why if you have some calcium
deposits when you take vitamin D okay
you may find that they improve they
might get better they might go away why
because then the parathyroid stops
having to work so hard and it stops
dumping all this calcium into the blood
now there's other reasons for this
parathyroid gland to work excessively it
could be that you're taking Lithium that
could be one side effect it could be
that you're taking diuretics diuretics
can speed up your parathyroid or it
could be you have a very small tumor on
one of the glands that's causing it to
work too fast it's something to be aware
of and it should be in your radar you
know you can get it checked get an
ultrasound see if there's a problem and
the good thing about the parathyroid
glands is let's say you have a small
little
benign tumor on one of the glands well
guess what you got four so you have some
spares the best way to do with this is
to start it taking more vitamin D3 now
let's talk about another reason why you
might have deposits and this has to do
with low phosphorus phosphorus is in a
lot of our different foods but more in
animal products than other products and
we need phosphorus for our DNA for our
energy for ATP 85 percent of all the
phosphorus is in our bones so it helps
to make the bones very strong and
phosphorus works with calcium too it
also works with vitamin D and so when
the phosphorus is low in the body
now we have a lot of free calcium that
is free to do whatever it wants to do
and it can actually start accumulating
on different tissues can accumulate
anywhere so by adding more of this
phosphorus you could potentially
dissolve some of these calcium deposits
because it keeps the calcium in check
and the type of phosphorus that I'm
going to recommend is from a company
Standard Process I recommend them a lot
I have no affiliation no Kickbacks or
anything like that there's a product
called a phosphood liquid works great on
calcium deposits I used to use it in
practice and there's a whole series of
other symptoms related to low phosphorus
that you can identify and the last
reason why you might have calcium
deposits is biofilm now what are
biofilms biofilms are little small
igloos that microbes make to hide from
you and so they can go underneath the
radar and it's kind of like a community
of microbes that have and together to
survive and this is why antibiotics
don't kill biofilms you can have
biofilms as tartar on your teeth you can
have biofilms in your arteries as
plaquing on the arteries you can also
have biofilms in your joints now vitamin
K2 vitamin K2 works with vitamin D3 K2
directs the calcium to go into the bone
so that way it works with vitamin D
vitamin D brings it into the blood K2
takes it from the blood into the bone to
make your bone really solid so if you're
lacking vitamin K2 you could potentially
start having all sorts of deposits and
vitamin K2 is in hard cheeses soft
cheeses it's in butter eggs and even
sauerkraut I forgot to mention one last
Point magnesium helps to reduce the
calcium deposits magnesium comes from
leafy greens if you're doing a lot of
leafy greens you don't have to worry
about get enough potassium you can also
get potassium from electrolyte powder or
things like that but potassium also
helps to regulate this calcium excess
problem but it's not probably the
biggest common reason why you have
calcium deposits so I didn't emphasize
it so I've given you a series of things
to look at to identify to see
potentially what could be your problem
but I would like you to learn a little
bit more about this vitamin K2 and if
you have not seen this video right here
check it out
