let's talk about the five reasons why
you should avoid synthetic vitamins now
what you need to know is this there's a
huge difference between synthetic
vitamins and natural vitamins they're
not the same some people will say
they're the same a molecule is a
molecule it's not it's a different
orientation in nature vitamins come also
in complexes like they'll come with
trace minerals and cofactors and enzymes
and associated factors and vitamins and
also when you actually just buy natural
vitamins it could come as an individual
part of a complex and that's a lot
better than a synthetic but there's
always exceptions for example there is a
time and a place for synthetic vitamins
a short term detoxification program
totally fine necessary because you're
using vitamins for a different purpose
to help push out toxins so that's
actually essential but not as a
maintenance you don't want to do
synthetic vitamins as a maintenance
because they can actually be toxic
there's a lot of studies out there that
show that even vitamins can cause cancer
now some of the synthetic vitamins are
talking about our like beta carotene or
other phytonutrients but there's also
studies on even vitamin E
creating a lot of problems so when you
hear this and the news that vitamins
cause cancer would ever realize that
they're always using synthetic vitamins
in these studies they're not using food
concentrates whole food concentrates at
all the other exception for synthetic
vitamins would be the synthetic version
of b1 benfotiamine
okay this is a fat soluble vitamin b1
which doesn't appear to have any side
effects but it's great to penetrate the
fat layer in your brain the fat layer
around your nervous system the myelin
sheath to help things like peripheral
neuropathy without any toxicity and some
of the water soluble vitamins are not
toxic they just kind of run out to the
body so I'm not saying that all
synthetic vitamins are
but some of them are especially the ones
that are fat soluble the next point is
that when you take high potency
synthetic vitamins they can cause
deficiencies and other nutrients
vitamins in nature always come in these
complexes and when you actually have
large amounts of certain factors and not
other factors you can create an
imbalance because our bodies use
different combinations of nutrients it
doesn't just use one fraction it uses a
complex of different things synthetic
vitamins are basically artificial
fractions of parts of vitamins made from
things like petroleum oil and coal tar
sulfuric acid and cornstarch synthetic
vitamins so cheaply and then when you
see what they're which are charging in
the health food store you're basically
gonna be shocked because the markup is
so high but the quality is not there
synthetic vitamins also do not absorb as
well as natural vitamins primarily I'm
talking about like vitamin E for example
also in synthetic vitamins there's no
cofactors or enzymes or trace minerals
whoops almost lost that for a second so
I always recommend natural or whole food
vitamin complexes and the way to find
that out is in the back the label you'll
actually read the ingredients and it
will it'll tell you if it's an herb
based or a concentrated food verses on
the nutritional facts like b1 100
milligrams b2 100 milligrams b3 100
milligrams they're all the same values
in nature you wouldn't see the same
percentage on all these vitamins they
would be varied if you're consuming
concentrated liver or liver itself
realize that a lot of people already
have too much iron and if you consume
even a natural amount of liver which is
concentrated iron and that could be bad
plus liver has a super concentrated
amount of vitamin A so you could overdo
it with both iron and vitamin A if you
consumed either too much liver or too
many liver pills and that would be an
exception to the synthetic because liver
is
natural so in summary the exception to
synthetic vitamins would be some type of
detox and then photo mean really try to
go for natural or whole food vitamin
complexes and if you have to take
synthetic vitamins only take them more
on the short-term basis thanks for
watching
