guys I hate to say it but there's some
serious downside to going on keto and
IFI hate to break the news to you so
let's just kind of go to the list
number one it's very very expensive
because you have to buy an entire new
wardrobe because everything's gonna just
hang off you in your the clothes are
gonna be too big so that is expensive
you're gonna also have to buy more
organic food higher-quality food and
that is expensive too but on the other
hand you're gonna do in a minute fasting
so you're not gonna eat is frequently so
you will save some money with that
probably about $600 a month
number two your friends are going to be
very jealous of your weight loss okay in
your new youthful appearance that is the
situation number three it's going to be
very difficult to figure out what to do
with all this energy this is a huge
problem and before people look look at
you kind of weird when you're going
through the checkout line at the grocery
store with all these eggs and the kale
they'll say weird comments like oh it's
it is it it's Easter coming early what
are you gonna do with all that kale or
you're at a restaurant and you're gonna
reject the bread they're gonna take it
personally and look at you kind of weird
or if you're out for breakfast and they
you don't want the toast another another
weird look you're gonna get with that
number five it is gonna be difficult to
socialize with friends because a lot of
your friends everything revolves around
food so ever we go it'll be in your face
so that is gonna be a situation you may
need to adopt new friends okay alright
number six you could end up with what's
called transitional symptoms okay a
little more fatigue a keto flu keto rash
possibly but that mainly happens if
you're not doing the healthy version of
keto if you're doing it correctly you
can pretty much avoid those symptoms but
you really see those symptoms when
you're doing something like a classical
keto where you're actually not looking
at the quality of food you're just
dropping your carbohydrates these can be
avoided but typically you may have
symptoms for three days and that could
be a big problem okay number seven you
will not be appreciated by the food menu
during companies anymore and the drug
companies are not going to like you so
it has huge drawbacks from that alone
now let's flip to the downside of doing
a high carbohydrate diet okay it's also
going to be expensive because you're
gonna have to buy a new clothes but in
this case it's going to be bigger
clothes because you can't fit into the
old clothes anymore very expensive
you're gonna have to buy a lot more food
because you're eating six times a day
all the snacks number three you're going
to have to pay for expensive medications
and more insurance because you're gonna
have diabetes and that's very expensive
with all the medications you'll be on
cholesterol medication you'll be on high
blood pressure medication and many other
medications related to the high sugar
number four you'll be at risk for heart
disease coronary heart disease because
you'll have a clogged arteries diabetic
retinopathy you'll have cataracts
glaucoma all symptoms of high sugar
which is carbohydrates kidney disease
dementia Alzheimer's loss of memory
eventually a lot of nerve problems
peripheral neuropathies number five
you'll be a lot more irritable and
grouchy because the highs and lows of
the blood Sugar's number six you're
going to be tired all the time you're
going to need to take a nap because
you're peeing all night not able to
sleep and you have that sleep apnea
machine on your face which is basically
preventing you from getting a high
quality sleep number seven you will be
bloated all the time after you eat but
on a positive note your doctors are
gonna be able to stay in business
because of you and also the food
manufacturing companies will just simply
love you alright guys there you have it
in a nutshell go ahead and comment down
below to tell me which diet you would
prefer to do
hey so if you haven't done so please
press subscribe now that way you can be
aware of all the new content that I'm
putting out on a regular basis
