hey guys we're gonna talk about
hazelnuts okay
I love the hazelnut butter you can get
this with celery on the ketogenic diet
awesome okay
hazelnuts have some very interesting
health benefits
it's the nut that has the most folate of
all the nuts
okay folate is involved in so many
metabolic processes it's a type of B
vitamin it's vitamin b9 and it's good
for metabolism it's good for women when
they're pregnant and if you're deficient
in folate you can have all sorts of
symptoms from fatigue lowered immune
system irritability and the list goes on
and on and on so even though folate is
in a lot of different foods I think a
lot of people are deficient because they
don't consume the quantities of dark
leafy greens that they need to get the
folate and also make sure you don't do
the full accounts to do the folate
because folic acid is a synthetic
version of folate and it does not work
the same and number two hazelnuts
have the most proanthocyanidins
try to say that three times fast this is
a phytonutrient that actually will help
you in many different ways
decreased risk of clotting decrease
urinary tract infections it's a very
powerful phytonutrient 20 times more
powerful than vitamin c 50 times more
powerful than vitamin E hazelnuts
contain manganese which is a great trace
mineral to activate certain enzymes
involved in collagen and muscle repair
and copper which is also a really
essential trace mineral for the
production of collagen and also it's in
the it's part of the vitamin C complex
normally vitamin C comes in many
different parts and there's a certain
enzyme that needs copper that's called
pyro sanae's so this is involved in
supporting the adrenal glands and also
in just making collagen throughout the
body all right so that's your summary
for hazelnuts and also comment below out
of all the nuts what is your favorite
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called a new body type guide is
an upgrade from my last Edition called
the seven principles of fat burning it
has a hundred fifty six images three
hundred seventy eight pages full
glossary I talk about Kido in a minute
fasting the body types in detail I have
a new stressed chapter I'm going to show
you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
