so I'm always finding new uh better ways
to address certain body conditions So
today we're going to talk about
psoriasis in a a new remedy that I think
can greatly benefit uh anyone with
psoriasis now of course check with your
doctor before implementing this I'm not
telling you it's going to cure your
psoriasis but I'm just going to give you
the information and you can try it out
for yourself to see if it can work so
with psoriasis there's some interesting
things going on you have an accelerated
growth rate of certain skin cells by a
factor of 10 times faster than your
normal cells and then it turns into like
this dry plaquing flaky red thing that
then eventually falls off and then it
keeps happening over and over again
there's also a high association with gut
problems like irritable bowel syndrome
or inflammatory bowel disease and
psoriasis and psoriasis is an autoimmune
disease and since most autoimmune
disease originates in the gut this makes
a lot of sense there is also a high
association with people having joint
problems and psoriasis well so let me
just kind of introduce you to this one
little piece of the puzzle that has been
missing in some of the other videos well
there's this thing in your skin cells
that is a combination between
an amino acid and a sugar
so certain parts of your body are made
from proteins
other parts are made from fats and yet
other parts are made from a combination
of protein and sugars okay and probably
one of the reasons for that is because
when you combine a sugar with the
protein you can get various new
functions like for example that tissue
can now hold a lot more water and so it
can act to help lubricate things this is
why I like the the layer of your colon
the mucosal layer is that tissue
combining a protein with a sugar also
the inside of your sinuses that need
this lubrication are also combining that
tissue as well also in your skin you
have this we'll call it Amino sugars
which is a combination of amino acids
and sugars to help with elasticity
hydration
Etc and so this protein sugar
combination structure in your skin is
called gag and so one of the functions
in your skin is to supply the structural
integrity of the collagen and other
tissues like elastin which provides
elasticity in fact one-fifth of all the
sugar in your skin
uh provides the raw material for that
structure and so why am I talking about
it why does this matter well because in
psoriasis apparently there's higher
levels of this gag
structure in the urine which means that
it's probably breaking down to a certain
degree there is even antibodies to that
structure as well because psoriasis is
an autoimmune condition so there's
antibodies involved so certain
information that I'm going to list down
below indicate that when you have
psoriasis you have an abnormal problem
with this type of structure which is
interesting because you also see the
same problem occurring with people that
have inflammatory bowel disease so in
other words people that have
inflammation in the gut or they have
this IBD they usually have a destruction
of this mucous layer so it's not there
to protect you it's one of the primary
barriers for your immune system and so
if it's not there you're wide open to
developing all sorts of immune problems
not just food allergies but even
autoimmune so we have that interesting
correlation there as well so apparently
the remedy I'm going to talk about is
like a precursor to this gag structure
and this precursor is called nag which
stands for n acetyl glucosamine and this
nag is a precursor it's a building block
for this ghe and so apparently there's
some interesting data to show that it
can improve psoriasis so it can do
several things it can actually help
control the growth
of this rapidly dividing cell that's
behind psoriasis so it's involved in
growth regulation and it can also
stimulate more of those gags to have
built up the lining in your colon as
well as the support structure in your
skin so there's a lot of people who use
it for leaky gut for bowel problems for
joint problems but now they're using it
for psoriasis and it also has an immuno
suppressive effect to actually kind of
calm down the T cells that are involved
in an autoimmune reaction so it's
basically anti-inflammatory and it
provides the raw material to help repair
the cells so it's something I wanted to
mention and create a video on it if you
have psoriasis this is definitely
something you want to look at I've done
other videos on psoriasis if you're
going to take this remedy I would
recommend taking between a thousand to
two thousand milligrams or more over a
period of time and definitely if you
haven't seen my other video on psoriasis
this one's a really important one as
well check it out I put it up right here
