hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about sprouts when you sprout a seed you
get the release of most of the nutrition
as compared to taking the seed and
grinding into flour and then making
bread and things like that
you don't have very much nutrition but
when you actually sprout the seed and
consume it on your salad you get a lot
of nutrition in fact vitamin A you get a
release of an extra two hundred
eighty-five percent more vitamin A b1
increased two hundred and eight percent
b2 over 500% increase b3 over two
hundred and fifty six percent increase
not to mention more vitamin C essential
fatty acids more enzyme release and a
lot more mineral release potassium
calcium because you're getting rid of
something called phytic acid which locks
up those minerals as well as getting rid
of enzyme inhibitors to make those
sprouts more digestible protein is
increased by 30 percent more so when
you're eating sprouts you're eating them
at the peak level of nutrition broccoli
sprouts for example have tremendous
amounts of phytonutrients in fact
broccoli sprouts contain 50 times more
sulfur afine than adult broccoli so one
of the bad things you might hear about
buying sprouts is that you could get eat
coli or Salmonella so if you just if
you're concerned about that make your
own it's very inexpensive I'll put a
link down below of how to do it alright
thanks for watching hi guys listen I
want to thank you so much for your
wonderful comments and I want to ask you
if you wouldn't mind giving me your
review on Google I put a link down below
I'd really appreciate it and thank you
in advance
