I wanted to create a video on clogged
arteries osteoporosis and vitamin K2 you
may have never heard of vitamin K2 but
it's very different than vitamin
K1 vitamin K1 helps clot things and even
doctors if they want to thin the blood
to prevent clots they'll give people a
drug called catin to thin the blood
because it blocks vitamin K1 but vitamin
K2 is very very very very different
vitamin K2 works with vitamin D in
calcium metabolism all right so let's
just show you how this works vitamin
D3 has a function absorbing calcium so
it actually what it does is it allows
the calcium to be absorbed by 25 times
more than it normally would so calcium
doesn't just travel on its own it needs
help by other vitamins okay vitamin D3
is is the one that works in the
intestine and helps you absorb the
calcium from the the intestine much
greater than if you didn't have it and
what calci What vitamin D does is it
increases the amount of calcium in the
in the blood now if you have too much
vitamin D you can end up with too much
calcium in the blood it's called hyper
calcemia um but the the vitamin K2 is
the other part of the
transportation because without vitamin
K2 you end up with plaing calcium plaing
in the artery you end up with all sorts
of uh extra junk in the joints calcium
uh on the teeth is tartter in the soft
mainly in the soft tissues so vitamin K2
helps deliver that Gunk that calcium
Gunk and the calcium that's in the blood
from the help of vitamin D3 into the
bone so and the teeth so one of the
purposes of vitamin K2 do make sure you
have very very strong bones um with
strong calcium and other minerals and
good
teeth but what's really cool is that
vitamin K2 is the most potent inhibitor
of vascular calcification you ever
noticed when people get older they get
stiffer and they start hunching over
like this and they become almost like a
stone that's because they're deficient
in vitamin K2 because calcium just kind
of randomly plugs everything
up vitamin
K2 also has been shown to improve
elasticity in your arteries now think
about what that may do to your blood
pressure too it may decrease the blood
pressure because it's making your your
arter is more elastic um there's even
cardiologists now that have blogs out
there recommending vitamin K2 for
calcified aortic uh or which is like the
vessel in your heart to help reverse
that um but you'll just have to do your
research on that because it also helps
clean out the joints and the te teeth
the other effects is that it does have
effects on the jaw bone and the
maxillary bone and the teeth so without
K2 you end up having kind of a narrow
jaw uh dental problems a need of braces
cavities things like that um they did
three clinical trials and they did find
that um they did not see any prevention
of osteoporosis by taking calcium in
females which is interesting because I
know people tell you to take your
calcium to BR osteoporosis but that's
absolutely not true because they the
three big studies fail to show any
positive relationship between taking
calcium and preventing osteoporosis and
that includes taking vitamin D and we
know why because the person is deficient
in vitamin
K2 they also found that a side effect
from taking this calcium is you start
getting calcified arteries and heart
problems even heart attacks so by taking
calcium it can create problems but if
you know about vitamin K2 then you
understand why because they didn't have
the the dump truck to deliver the
calcium all the way over here now I did
list down below what I recommend is how
much dosage should take vitamin D3 and
vitamin K2 because in order to make
vitamin kt2 work it needs vitamin D3 so
they both work together and in nature we
always look at things as an isolated
event but really it's a complex thing
that occurs
so the big question is this where do we
get vitamin K2 from our Foods well you
get it from the conversion of K1 to K2
because um K1 is in all the leafy greens
it's in the grasses so when the cow eats
the grass it then converts it to vitamin
K2 and it's in Grass uh it's in milk
cheese butter from cows that have been
fed grass not grains it's it's also in
Goose liver so people don't eat that
they don't eat butter it's also in egg
yolks from chickens that have eaten some
grass as well so what are the two things
that people or doctors tell you to avoid
for clogged arteries
cholesterol eggs
butter um cheese whole milk yogurt the
exact things that have de K2 that would
prevented the problem in the first place
so okay so now it's another one of those
everyone knows and they tell you to do
this right but you can take it as a
supplement but you don't have to
necessarily be afraid to consume butter
from a grass-fed cow or even egg yolks
organic egg yolks or even what I like to
do is I like to have the European
cheeses and because those cheeses are
from cows that are on a mountain um um
that have fed grass they're not eating
feeding grains mainly from Europe that's
pretty much what I do I consume a lot of
cheese because I'm from Wisconsin of
course but the point is that you can
really help undo this and prevent
osteoporosis if you get enough of the K2
and have the vitamin D3 and this is uh
actually fascinating because it actually
helps you reverse some of the aging
process with the elasticity of
your soft tissue the joints and and the
arteries okay so this is very exciting
so I hope you enjoyed the video and I'll
see you in the next
one
