hello everyone today we're going to
actually get some wonderful breakfast
cereals to do an experiment to consume
these for about a month so we're going
to pick up some heart healthy whole
grain cereals right most of them anyway
and maybe some instant oatmeal variety
pack and why not even just add this kind
breakfast bars okay into the mix I'm
being very sarcastic I'm not going to
eat these products but I'm going to tell
you the effects of this because I have
eaten this for over 28 years so what
would actually happen to you if you add
cereal to your breakfast every morning
now as a child your metabolism your body
is not yet damaged probably because you
haven't done this chronically but over
the years it starts to build up it
creates problems but I think many
children can at least get away with it
temporarily because they don't yet have
damage with their mitocondria they have
a very good what's called metabolic
flexibility where they are able to burn
off a lot of this extra sugar but what
happens over time is not good let's just
um first take this Fruity Pebbles cereal
right here now one cup of this will give
you about 160 calories about 18 grams of
sugar which comes out to about 4 and a
half teaspoons of actual sugar now
typically if you look at Sugar like
table sugar which is not really in there
but let's just say it was that would
roughly kind of calculate on the
glycemic index to be about 75 which is
high but it's not 100 so you're talking
about every cup you're getting four and
a half teaspoons of sugar okay that's a
lot but there's some hidden carbs and
that has to do with the total
carbohydrates because if we look at the
number one ingredient on this it's rice
okay as in rice flour and the glycemic
index of rice flour is about 95 so in
other words this rice flour this
carbohydrate this main carbohydrate in
this product acts more to stimulate your
blood sugars than actual sugar but it's
not classified as a sugar it's
classified as a starch and of course
there is zero fiber so there's nothing
to buffer this U blood sugar response
and so there's no net carbs but
basically we can put this under the
category of sugar because it's going to
act like sugar so if we take that in
consideration we don't just have 4.5
teaspoons of sugar we have nine
teaspoons for every every cup okay
that's how much sugar whoever eats that
is getting and acting on the blood
sugars but here's the big question how
many of you or even your children
consume only one little cup of this
cereal when they're sitting down for
breakfast they might do more than one
cup and let's just pretend it's four
cups that's pretty much what I used to
have now it comes out to 36 teaspoons of
sugar in that one breakfast every
morning can you imagine what that's
going to do to your blood sugars and how
hungry you're going to be midm morning
and how tired you're going to be
mentally not to mention what this is
doing to other parts of your organs all
right the next concept I want to talk
about is healthy whole grains let's
first just pretend that whole grains are
healthy right and so what people tend to
think about that is if I add this whole
grain this healthy thing on top of all
the other bad things like sugar it makes
it now healthier right well let's take a
look at a couple things when you add
sugar to protein in there that's like
the gluten or to fat and there's oils in
these cereals as well you start to
create this thing called glycation
glycation simply is The Binding of a
sugar molecule to a fat or to a protein
and those tend to accumulate and build
up in the body and they become unusable
and uh the term for that is ages they
turn into what's called advanced gly and
products which create a lot of
inflammation disease insulin
resistance diabetic
syndrome premature aging and all sorts
of other issues so just because
something is healthy in something that's
not healthy doesn't make it healthy not
to mention that they add some synthetic
vitamins okay and the minerals that
they're using like reduced iron is
called Elemental mineral it's not some
easily absorbable uh mineral it's
basically in a form that you would see
in the earth it's Elemental which is a
completely different um chemical
structure than you would get from eating
beef to get your iron or spinach to get
your iron so they have ascorbic acid
which by the way is made from corn
starch and sulfuric acid reduce iron
Elemental uh and then you got B3 B2 B1
folic acid B12 which again those are
synthetic so some of those can be coming
from petroleum and other chemicals
here's the problem with these vitamins
when you're taking
even this version of vitamin C which I
don't even consider it a vitamin C but
ascorbic acid and sugar at the same time
they're both are very similar in
chemical makeup um so what happens is
the body is going to take in the sugar
before the vitamin C this is why you
really can't absorb vitamin C in the
presence of sugar okay and then also all
this sugar is going to kind of nullify
any of these vitamins right here simply
because it requires a lot of these
vitamins to metabolize those
carbohydrates so if you're think you're
getting something special when it says
something like a good source of eight
vitamins and minerals I don't think it's
that special now we're assuming that
this whole grain is very healthy but
here's the problem with whole grains it
has gluten in it okay that's gluten
gluten is the protein or a bunch of
different proteins in grains especially
wheat and other grains that is the only
protein that our bodies can't Digest and
so many people have either an allergy to
it or an intolerance to it and it
creates inflammation in our gut whole
grains also contain a good amount of
phytic acid phytic acid also blocks
minerals especially zinc in fact um many
many children all over the world are
deficient in zinc because they rely on
cereal okay so there cereal comes with a
package you'll say well okay we'll take
the protein out gluten out and we'll
take out the fates by refining it now it
becomes refined grains right we create
more of a blood sugar another thing
that's interesting about the the
research on whole grains it's many times
compared to refined grains so the next
time you see a grain study uh look at
what it's comparing it to what are the
controls right if you compare whole
grains to refined grains there's going
to be an improvement okay so that's kind
of what you have to realize yes it's a
step up but does it make it a health
food that's the big question the other
problem with cereals is the amount of
GMO genetically modified food basically
I mean let's just take a look at some of
the ingredients corn mostly GMO okay
like 95% of all the corn is GMO beet
sugar GMO dextrose corn syrup wheat
flour is not genetically modified but
they spray it with glyphosate which is
like Roundup Ready and that's really the
whole um goal of gml is to make it
resistant to glyphosate so they can
spray it and kill the weeds but not the
actual uh plant so the plants now are
resisting that and they're also killing
insects because they give off to certain
chemicals so is that a healthy thing
research will tell us modified food
starch usually comes from corn cotton
seed oil cotton is GMO Believe It or Not
maltodextrin usually comes from corn uh
or other starches GMO oats uh is usually
not GMO but it's sprayed with glyphosate
then you have cable corn fiber these are
the ingredients of a box of cereal and
for many years people are fighting to
put GMOs on the label so they can see
this but there's been a huge push back
by these companies not to put it on
there so what they did they came up with
a better idea now they are transparent
but they don't use the word gml they use
another word called bioengineered food
ingredient that means GMO you can kind
of see and fine print right down here
where that is there's other things like
artificial colorings BHT and BHA which
are preservatives which are known to act
like estrogen in the body sometimes they
want a convenient maybe a better version
of these cereal so they'll have like a a
breakfast um kind of a cereal bar right
sustained energy from 100% whole grains
gluten-free okay here's the problem
total carbohydrate 29 gram okay with 3
gram of fiber plus on top of that we
have added sugar six gram of added sugar
per serving so there's a lot of sugar
they add some protein in there remember
the glycation when you combine it so the
first ingredient is oats then tapol
syrup okay then peanuts then brown rice
flour okay then we have cane sugar
peanut butter canola oil raisin paste
peanut oil peanut flour milk
sea salt buckwheat so anyway I think
this may um for some people make you
very very tired a real quick story about
my own health this is like a really big
turning point in my entire life for
years I had blood sugar problems I had a
lot of health problems I had a lot of
brain fog I was irritable depressed I
couldn't wake up in the morning until
11: probably 11:30 so as I was searching
for answers I stumbled on this book
called uh mastering the Zone okay and um
I read the first chapter that's the only
thing I ever read from that book and it
mentions something about blood sugar and
refine carbs and Insulin somehow I kind
of missed this in school but the next
day okay I stopped eating all my
different breakfast foods okay because I
used to have cereal and a muffin for
breakfast every morning okay to some
buffalo burger that's what I had it was
like a huge shift someone took this
helmet of brain fog off of my head like
within a few minutes I felt so good I
was like oh my gosh this is amazing so
that's really what started the whole um
reversal of all my health problems of
just getting off this this sugar
especially for breakfast and of course
after this I wrote a book on this
recommending that everyone should have
protein for breakfast recently updated
that and you know made some improvements
you don't even need a breakfast okay
just ride the wave have your first meal
at lunch and you'll do fine a couple
last points about this topic okay seral
AKA ultr processed food and I wouldn't
even call it food because it doesn't
resemble food it's junk food okay and
67% of a child's calories are alra
processed food from junk food so this is
junk food and very unfortunately if you
go to the grocery store there's a lot of
it 83 or 84% of all the calories in
grocery stores are Ultra process food so
anyway what happens when you consume
cereal every morning for a month you're
going to end up like I did pre-diabetic
completely uh exhausted all the time
can't wake up in the morning grouchy
depressed anxiety arthritic brain fog
not to mention weight gain uh fatty
liver etc etc so I want to propose an
idea if you do cereals or your children
do cereals just try this for one day
switch that breakfast to a protein
breakfast steak and eggs uh buffalo
burger fish whatever just have protein
and just watch how much better you feel
from that one tiny little change and
then you decide what you should eat now
because of the censoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other side
