[Music]
hey guys Dr Burke here I want to talk
about organic seal so the cool thing
about this it is certified organic so
that's good it's from Iceland so it's
probably the last place on the planet
that's clean so that's good there's no
toxicity in the ocean but this this
seelp is basically like a um it's a
vegetable from the sea so it has all
these trace minerals it has all these
nutrients
but with the main one being the iodine
in the right source to support the
thyroid um this is really really
important in the female reproductive
system especially uh if they get
fibrocystic breasts or and I'm not
saying this cures cancer I'm just saying
this that if you look up iodine and
organic seel um a lot of times
deficiency of this can lead to
triggering the risk of cancer and I'm
not saying this is going to cure you but
just look there's a link between the two
um but anything reproductive wise female
this is a really important one to take
and the problem is these these minerals
are not in on landbased it's only
actually in the sea so this is a really
good thing to take and I recommend
taking if you're trying to solve like a
pro if you have an issue it just take 3
in the morning if you're not having an
issue and you're like going a
maintenance take 1 in the morning that's
all you need don't take it right before
bed because it might increase energy but
it's really good for thyroid Health as
well all right so that's pretty much the
gist of that the only time you would not
take this is if you have a hyper thyroid
your hyper your thyroid is going too
much because then this will basically
speed it up more and then the other
thing is if you're allergic to iodine
you wouldn't want to take it okay hope
this helps I'll see you in the next
video
