well hello everyone I have a special
guest today this is an amazing success
story
it's sky de welcome how are you doing
thanks for being on you a remarkable
story I want to know a little bit about
growing up you always had a weight
problem can you tell me a little bit
about that I was never in a weight even
when I was a toddler I was overweight
even evil even like when you were born
did your mother ever say like you
started gaining weight like at age 2 or
3 was there a certain year that you
started gaining weight when I see my
photos when I was a kid maybe when I was
by 2 years old I was fine I look fine
but after that I would not even in
kindergarten I was anyone else in my
class Wow what did you have any steroids
that you know that your parents ever
give you steroids or antibiotics or
infections or you have asthma anything
like that were the symptoms upper
respiratory or a lung we're with us that
the symptoms you know when you are kid
you go to the doctor and they would just
prescribe you injections and medications
I cannot remember anything I don't know
anything my mother's an old woman she
cannot read and write so whatever doctor
says it goes ok I got it I'll tell you
why I asked that question a little bit
later but go ahead you're you were gonna
say tell me a little bit about
went through your whole childhood
struggling with weight yes all the time
all the time I was fat I was being
ridiculed at being called names and all
of that and even though that I was
eating just the amount of the other kids
I was teaching just like them I was
playing with them but I was like double
the size of them no matter what I did I
started my first date when I was nine
years old Wow yes and it was very strict
it was very hard for me and I I I lost
maybe 14 kilograms in a year and then I
give up because it was too hard for me
as a kid then I started trying with
myself after I became in 14 I start to
become trying the ice by myself and then
I became anorexic then I became bulimic
and start the cycle Wow I'm still
suffering from it you know what you
cannot cure this I still have to fight
this yeah safe safer place with keto so
did you become bulimic when you were
like with 13 or 14 what what age no I
started yeah and then believe me I said
15 to 16 okay and then it was like a
cycle of anorexia and bulimia and binge
eating Wow
which doesn't help them metabolism but
say that just kept going and how old are
you now I'm going to be 45 in July this
has been a long time it's been a very
long time
yes Wow
so you you struggle it with the weight
so you're going along and you had other
symptoms as well did you not did you
have some other body issues or I think
you had you remember telling me about
you had some other issues fatigue
anxiety started nothing before 16 at 16
I start getting depression okay and
fatigue yes
very sweet mood but it was it was good
luck
you know teenage years yeah no it was
nothing and it was like a cycle in and
out of it but it was the Depression
started with me at 16 no my health
became so bad in my twenties that's been
working and what's in what way like the
depression or some other problems the
depression became worse and then I
started to having problems in memories I
had a problem to connect my brain to my
hands when I was in the university I was
sitting the class and all of a sudden I
cannot understand what's being said to
me and even if I understand I want to
take a note my hand cannot write what my
brains telling it so I struggled with
University and I became more depressed
and I was being fatigued I was being
gone no not myself I'm in a class and
all of a sudden I feel like I'm in
another world all foggy I'm not in the
same class I'm not the same board I
can't remember anything like I'm in the
class of the first time I don't know as
if I don't know English I don't know the
teacher I didn't know my classmates all
of a sudden it's just closes on me I
know nothing
Wow terrifying really terrifying and I
didn't know what was wrong with me very
lazy I'm very stupid and I lost my
university degree because of that I
never graduated from it so I was blaming
myself I said oh you're stupid you were
anorexic that's why you cared about your
body not about your health and that's
how why you lost your university degree
but now I understand no but totally my
fault actually
right exactly you're going along and I
I'm guessing you're probably trying a
lot of different solutions along the way
right trying this trying that yes
diets crosses me I tried it everything I
left nothing Wow yes nothing even crazy
diets like this cabbage soup diet and
banana diet egg diet
I left nothing and in an anorexia was
anorexic for years I would eat like 50
calorie a day no more and I would still
not lose weight wow that's that's
depressing
my gosh
so this went on for years and then when
did you tell me when things started this
shift
what was the taught the time things
started to shift for you yeah like what
information did you get that led you to
trying something that did work well
because my house my house became so bad
it was scary actually
my heart was getting deteriorated in the
last few years but the last two years it
was scary in a way that if I went to the
specialist doctors the best of the best
in my country
nobody even could diagnose what's wrong
with me
the depression was way over my head
no medication was working with me I had
the suicidal thoughts I was always
thinking I cannot I cannot breathe
without thinking that I need to die now
not tomorrow to happen now and I wanted
to be in very very violent very it's
like every breath is hard for me and I
tried to commit suicide many times and
one time twice to the very serious I was
in the hospital friends for two days I'm
good and this is about suicide but even
my blood was raging all the time I was
being very angry as you take it for no
reason I wanted to fight
I want I was even able to kill someone
because I was so raging I thought that
if I get into a fight with someone it
would be physical and I would kill them
even and even this I would I would think
about the scenario I would say even if
that kills them if it's not enough I'm
that great even killing a person is not
enough to kill me and I was very scared
about all these thoughts I would I would
actually lock myself in my room and not
if you see my family sit with my family
because I was scared during that period
of time were you on medication at the
same time did they put your name it's
nothing is working so I would stop any
medication sometimes I would go to
someone help me please I'm in this
situation that would give me at some
indication it would call me a little bit
for like three or four weeks and then no
because the interesting thing about the
feeling of those feelings you told me
about that's like one of the big side
effects of certain medications so I was
just curious I mean it's definitely a
classic that's why they they put some of
the black labels on some of these
medications that warn people against
that because it's not a natural thing to
have someone have those impulses so so
eventually you you found one of my
videos right tell me about that yeah
well my house beside my mental health I
was like physically I couldn't do
anything I was always in my bed I
couldn't walk and sometimes my body gets
like a wave of stiffness and all my body
would get stiff I cannot even move my
mouth I cannot move my my eyes I cannot
do nothing's like there is no connection
between what my brain was to work and my
bunny I cannot do nothing for my body
and this would be like four minutes and
sometimes for half an hour or an hour it
depends and sometimes I would get like
he heads like this and sometimes would
stay with me for months actually
sometimes I would I want to walk and
while I'm walking all of a sudden I get
stiff I can't move my leg and if I work
I work like up and you'd learn like I
can balance myself my spine is like
Wiggly my legs are Wiggly I can fall I
would I would fall from any noise from
any sudden noise any sudden movement
anything it will just make me fall from
from my feet and what - Azzam I would be
like shaking and all my body just like
squeezes on me non-stop constant no
matter what I do I'm in constant pain
and after I did my stomach sleep
actually for the first year I was better
because you know say we don't eat enough
I didn't connect all of these things so
for me I was fine after I become better
and I can eat better my health just went
downhill you did the gastric bypass for
weight loss at that point and you felt a
little bit better and for those of you
that are just watching the reason why
she felt better is that when you have
gastric bypass at least initially it
bypasses something in the small
intestine that reduces your risk for
diabetes it reduces insulin especially
high insulin because high insulin is
usually behind a lot of problems you
mentioned but go ahead continue so you
you got the gastric gastric bypass felt
better and then all of a sudden you slip
back and started feeling worse when you
start eating yes all of these things
just became worse and worse and worse
and plus I would get to like now
understand that was insulin resistant
symptoms I would get hungry all the time
tired all the time I would wake up from
my sleep three four times every night a
feeling like a drop and I need to eat
snack to feel at all
better and with that when I eat I'm not
satisfied I'm not I'm not full
I'm never full and I was always look for
chocolates and sugar and all the sweet
things and of course my health became
worse and worse till I was actually
better than I I couldn't even sit I
cannot sit for like five minutes
I always need to lay down to let me feel
a little bit better you know I have no
strength I have no control of my body
sometimes even I need to go to the
bathroom or even take a sip of water and
the water is right beside me I cannot
actually reach the water it was it was
that bad with me Wow and one day I was
in my bed scrolling in the iPad to watch
anything to describe struck me from my
pain and your video was on the
recommendation hmm because a few a few
months ago I was searching for why am I
always hungry why do I feel hungry or
when I eat fruits why I make smoothie
and makes me more hungry instead of full
why a bananas making me hungry and I
thought no no I find nothing until few
months later when your video showed up
and actually I ignored it I said what's
that
insulin is it one of the video of yours
about insulin resistance was like 20
minutes on video and I said oh is that
and I ignored it and for the next 45
days every time I open my iPad and
they're the same video every time and I
grabbed I said who is this doctor what
he's talking about and why is it
recommended for me and I would ignore it
until one day it's just I got curious I
said oh let's let's see what you'd never
see and this clicks changed my life Wow
I kept trying to tell you but you just
were ignoring me until finally I had to
remind you I had to bug you enough worse
like watch my video
why how should my feet for after months
of searching I don't know
and why's this video all the time is the
same video for days doctor until I
watched it and it was not clicked yes it
was like a viewer you were talking about
me when you were describing the
insulin-resistant symptoms
it was like as if you're talking about
me or your talk about my situation he's
actually describing me Wow
yes miss a video again and then I
started to watch other videos I want to
see what's this heat oh you're talking
about and I was in a very bad state is
that even your short videos that four or
five minutes even these sometimes I
would fall asleep even in these five
minutes I would just go into sleep and I
need to rewatch it every watching until
I'll be able to finish just five minutes
sometimes eight or ten times I need to
reverse one video to be able to go
through actually and sometimes just to
understand it because my brain was so
bad doctor I couldn't guess I couldn't
remember anything so I needed to watch
everything most of all times to actually
understand this one Wow Wow
so so obviously you started eating
differently and tell us what happened
after that well about four or five days
I went to and tell them I need to make
to do me a blood test for insulin
resistant unfortunately he did around
one practice for me yes and they called
me said you have no insulin resistant
and I was happy because now
have to actually cut colors I can eat
bread I can eat chocolate oh it's happy
actually
but there's voice inside of me that kept
bugging me the same day kept bugging me
no way no way this doctor was talking
about you and he was describing you no
way he is wrong in what he's saying I've
tried so many crazy diets in my life try
this one it will not kill me and the
next day I woke up I fried some eggs
with butter and bacon and coffee and
that was it I for the firt like within
three weeks sudden I realized that I
don't have any suicidal thoughts
even though doctor I didn't know about
that no when I looked at your videos I
was just trying to find a way to just
get up from bed just to walk I didn't
know about the cycle psychology I didn't
know that will make me feel better I
didn't know so many all these things
about keto I didn't know about it so all
of a sudden three weeks in and I really
realized that say it's the first time in
years I don't feel like I want to kill
myself about my family I'm not raging
and then I got it YouTube and search dr.
Berg keto and suicide and all this and
then I'm allowed so it works and this
actually I've just insulin resistant and
then I start to be more interested about
keto in treatment not just weight loss
or not just as an insulin resistance
program I realize that it's much much
more than that
Wow did you also know bozer since I
became on keto I never got this
stiffness
[Music]
the only thing that kept with me because
I had constant nightmares and I would
get fevers and I would get shaky hands
please I started carnival and carnival
help me in this keto made it much much
less subdued much carnival helped me to
go 100% he took me to 95% to 100% mixing
between Quito and carnival three months
just three months doctor that's
incredible so that tells me you must
have had some digestive issues
what about did you start doing any
intimate of fasting as well well but
then without me thinking I was fasting
for about 14 to 16 hours a day
wow these are body without me feeling
hungry and this happened very fast
within five or six days I started waking
up and I'm not calm not hungry it just
tells me the power of how amazing the
body can bounce back if it has the right
thing even if there's a damage in your
brain from the past carbs which we know
that you ate a few of them
the ketones bypass the damage and start
to actually feed the neurons in your
brain and the heart and I can imagine
it's just probably such a sense of
relief to have to you know get over this
thing oh my gosh I can't imagine that's
so amazing
Yes Doctor I was I was always saying as
I told you before because it's scary now
I cannot believe that all what I was
suffering from and all my life was
ruined because of cars and nobody ever
told me anything I went to so many
specialists so many specialists and I
was
please tell me something something is
wrong with me and they told me there is
nothing wrong with you it's just a guess
it's not an actual diagnosis it's just a
guess and they would give me treatments
and nothing works and some of them
actually they told me you're just
imagining it you're just in distress
just calm down and I was I was in a very
distressed mood because now I can't even
trust myself with what I'm feeling and
my family started to not believe me but
I think actually I am suffering for real
they thought that state of mind that I
don't want to be sick I want people to
care about me and so I felt hopeless oh
it's hopeless yeah I was going to give
up actually and now when I think what I
was like two years ago and where I am
now it's scary doctor that's all because
of calm yeah just go carbohydrates for
those of you that are new to this
information there's a test that
unfortunately they should have done any
long time ago it's called homa ir hom a
- I R it measures fasting insulin and an
glucose but it's mainly the insulin
fasting test that they never test they
would have found that your insulin is
probably off the charts growing up and I
think this is what I think that happened
I was in practice for 30 years and they
were there there's always a group of
people who came in that were born
overweight they like but when you start
to ask them questions about if they're
sometimes their mother did remember and
I found out that either their asthmatic
they had some type of infection ear
infection throat infection the flu some
type of infection early on that affected
the endocrine system and true things off
to the point where it slowed the
metabolism down which is fascinating not
to mention that if they gave you
treatments whether it's antibiotics or
this or that that makes it where
especially as a child so that's probably
what started the whole thing and then I
could imagine if you're like me I mean
I just lived on carbs and not even
connecting the dots between your
cognitive function and those
carbohydrates and your blood Sugar's I
mean the what Kido does especially even
intermittent fasting with the right kind
of Kido
or carnivore which puts you in Quito
hard core it affects your mood it'll
bring you right up just bring you out of
these lower mood states and it's just
like there's a point where you can
actually be where you don't crave
anything it's like you just ate but
you're not hungry and you just you're
satisfied and you feel calm here I'm
curious did you have you taken any B
vitamins yet or nutritional yeast the B
ones the B vitamins specifically
especially vitamin b1 will take away
that internal anger and stress and
pressure it would take it away within
three minutes just like so and that's
just coming it's basically it's a kind
of a it's a lot it's called lactic
acidosis where you're it's like a
combination you don't have enough oxygen
in your body and it's like you're
getting this tension and you just need
some relief and you sometimes you get
restless leg you can't you cannot sit
still and it's just yet you're exhausted
all the time so it's a it's a nervous
energy that it's a severe b1 deficiency
and the B one is supposed to feed that
part of your brain I don't know if you
saw my video on the hippocampus which is
all about the memory and having
remembering things and and also learning
so I think you maybe have to go back to
school now that you can hopefully start
learning very soon and you can retain
data actually the most thing that I'm
careful I want to do is to help people
and to open their eyes that there is a
solution for your problem because nobody
did this for me I went to so many people
and nobody had an answer for me now that
I've found it my way I don't want others
to suffer like me and have no answers
that's why I've created my Instagram
account and my YouTube account and I'm
trying to teach people about Duke eat or
not just as if you said doctor when you
win you're healthy you will lose your
fats but be healthy first take care of
your body first and you will lose fine
and you will be healthy so don't care
about I need to do this I need to do
that because I want to lose 10 kg every
month be be healthy and your body will
take care of it
it will eat keto and you will be fine
everything will be fine but first treat
the things when I talk to people so many
people of them they came to me just for
weight issues and then when I told them
do this and do that they would come back
to me and said actually I was very angry
person now I'm very calm actually
because so many even I had a few things
that I was always thinking that oh it's
a genetic thing oh I have this because
my aunt's has it my grandmother and now
on keto it disappeared so it's not the
genetic thing it's actually something
was wrong with my body
so even them and they said oh I thought
because my grandmother was like this so
I am like this now on Keeton it
disappeared so I tell them yes do maketo
the right way for the right reason and
your body won't just transform in a
magical way and this is I'm very very
very passionate about and that's why
I've enrolled in your course so I would
get a certificate so at least I would
have some validation because I'm not a
specialist I'm not a doctor
so people yes some of them are very
trusted what tell me they love me and
they trust my word but some people they
need this certification and I want to
learn from you more and more dr. Bergin
you don't know when someone was
somebody's life has changed and saved I
told you I was able to kill anybody I
was able to take drugs just because I
want to numb my pain and in my country
you kill someone deliberately you get
executed so I could have been executed
by now well it wasn't your video doctor
wow that's incredible magic yes can you
imagine that's why I want to learn from
you actually you are worried so forget
or whatever I want to learn I would just
go to youtube and dr. Beck and this and
that watch the videos that I need to
watch because you mama Saviour you don't
know me you don't know me you don't know
that I exist and yet you you save my
life in so many ways for that I'm so
thankful doctor you thank you I
appreciate that thank you
because you always wonder who's watching
these videos and then then you get to
see people like you even have each year
when I well not this year because of the
coma but each year we'd have these
summits and we'd have seven or eight
hundred people fly in from around the
world and you get to meet people that
are applying this information and with
amazing results but you don't know these
people you don't even know them but
you're putting a video out and they
benefited from it so that's very very
gratifying I have a question for you I
have a I think you know I have a a
channel in Arabic do you know yeah okay
yes and so what I've noticed is that
people in the Middle East they a lot of
them have diabetes what what what are
they eating that's causing that that's
what I don't know we have an abundance
of
face and restaurants and easy food very
high in white and sugar and because of
our weather we do not move a lot we
depend on the cards because it's very
hard to mistake tons of beer so even
people who are go and walk a little bit
thirty minutes one hour will not learn
all of this you can you can resist a
cake today and tomorrow but you cannot
resist it every day and it's in your
face all the time and it's very easy we
have so many restaurants that have 24/7
that will deliver to your home and it's
not even expensive so and all the
gatherings then has to be ok because
I've been - I've been to Dubai and they
do have a lot of sweets there a lot of
different sweets and I'm like oh my
goodness I'm trying to find something
that's not from all over the world so
it's very hard very hard and into it we
have a specialist place for diabetes and
yet they do not test for insulin
resistance I was there for yes I joined
that Club for exercising and they did
all types of tests on me yet there was
no test for insulin resistance and it's
a specialist center for diabetes and it
is a resistance so many people many
weight is they do have some resistance
but they don't know all of a sudden is
it ready right I know I I really am I
just some really adamant about getting
the word out on that area I'm glad that
you are gonna be helping as well what
about the other problem which is vitamin
D there's like a pandemic a vitamin D
deficiency now I'm guessing correct me
if I'm wrong
but just because of the clothing
covering up most of the body it's you're
not gonna get a lot of vitamin D
exposure that way and obviously people
probably don't take by the Mandi as a
supplement and it's virtually impossible
to get your vitamin D from food so
that's about it Mindy problem outcome
next week that's how big problem because
our club bring best one too because it's
too hot you just burn right and for that
we use cars and don't get enough
exposure
most of our malls are closed because
it's the heat so we do not get it
sometimes and you know what's
interesting about vitamin D deficiencies
that can put you at risk for diabetes
right from there it can put your liver
at risk it can make you depressed
it can cause massive inflammation it can
create autoimmune problems this period
of very deficient so vitamin D is really
key with and also low immune system so I
mean I think that's like going to be a
big part of people really turning things
around to is just at least clean up the
vitamin deficiencies that people have in
different parts of the world but
especially in where you are but it's
such an easy fix you know if you just
have vitamin D but yeah it's just too
hot you cannot be out there for too long
or else he'll he'll you know little burn
you sore so I think it's like over a
hundred degrees right what's that in
Fahrenheit okay I know it's over a
hundred degrees I think it's a under
griefer I think it's probably a hundred
and ten maybe 115 maybe 20 it's like
literally you can fry an egg on the
sidewalk
we cannot even open the clock door we
need to hold the teacher or something to
be able to hold the card or to open it
or to handle the wheels because it's too
much if if the card is not under the
shield or something right under the Sun
you'd actually bake inside the car well
no what I'm curious about what did they
do a hundred and fifty years ago before
they had air conditioning what did they
do to sleep at night how did they
survive well actually my mother says it
wasn't this bad it was simple life no
much we didn't have all these factories
and all the houses were made from by
month from mothers okay so so there was
air circulation like nowadays
refrigeration and yet it doesn't go back
for two or three days yeah okay
fascinating
Wow well I'm so glad you came up you
stumbled and you persisted and you
didn't ignore that video for too long
and then you finally watched it and you
learn something and you applied it and
now look at you and be like you're
you're helping other people which is
amazing which is it they're near hey um
I appreciate that thank you
that's awesome well I wanted to thank
you for coming on I think a lot of
people are gonna get a lot of benefit
from this and hopefully if someone is
new to Quito they'll even try it there's
a lot of videos I'll put your link down
below if if your your videos are in
Arabic right yes okay yeah so this is
exciting so I will will follow up with
you and let me know when you become a
coach and we'll get you certified I have
a lot more courses coming up soon on
different things so you'll take
advantage of that but you'll be part of
our coaching network so that
gonna be very exciting to help help
everyone that needs it
great I was looking for this doctor it's
with you and thank you for your time
thank you for helping me to reach out
for more people hey my pleasure
