hey I'm back in this video we will talk
about mycotoxins in joint pain so what
are mycotoxins basically their poisons
release from mold or fungus okay
there's about 300 different types but
only about 30 are truly poisonous and
what they do is they inactivate the
white blood cell they make your white
blood cells your immune system go to
sleep they do create a lot of problems
now they create fatigue weakness chronic
sinus issues cognitive problems
stiffness joint pain all sorts of
arthritic type pain skin rashes and skin
issues neurological problems respiratory
problems and allergies other than that
they're totally safe right I'm just
kidding let's get to the cause it's all
the potential causes now if you had a
flooding in your house or some leak
after a storm and then the mold starts
growing you can be exposed that way
that's very common or it could come from
the food that you're eating a lot of
times you'll have higher levels of mold
and corn wheat grains soybean beans
peanuts cheese wine beer coffee and
bread and what's interesting if you ever
read the labels on some of these foods
because they have a little chemical in
there and if you look up the chemical it
releases formaldehyde which is basically
a mold killer so they're putting mold
killers in these foods and another cause
could be taking antibiotics do you ever
notice why some people get yeast
infections or Candida after they take
antibiotics well they get this
overgrowth of fungus and mold then we
get to the glyphosate exposure now what
is glyphosate that's the Roundup Ready
the chemical the herbicide in GMO foods
if you think about it the massive
exposure of this chemical on the soil
over a period of time he's going to
totally disrupt the flora or the
friendly bacterial growth in the soil
which is going to spike certain mole
growths
specifically a type of microorganism
called Fusarium okay Fusarium is a
microbe that grows after you use
glyphosate so I believe that a lot of
the mold exposure that we're getting is
right there because it's in almost all
the
especially if you're consuming all the
GMO foods which is hard to get away from
corn soy canola okay so these are some
of the things that could cause the mold
which then relates to joint pain and a
lot of other symptoms now what do you do
about it
well there's four main things that I
recommend number one grapefruit seed oil
is awesome it's a great anti mold anti
fungus and it's very very gentle on your
own friendly bacteria and the next one
is garlic which is the ultimate an tiny
microbe and then we have bentonite clay
which actually gets rid of Michel toxins
out of the body and then the last one
would be in each of wood sugar because
the mold and fungus and yeast and
Candida live on sugar you're gonna have
to go on the intermittent fasting and
the ketogenic program that I've been
talking about so go ahead and apply this
information and share what you think in
the comments down below
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press this little button down below okay
thanks
