there's people that exercise seven hours
a day you know every single day two
hours a day seven days a week and lose
absolutely zero weight there are people
out like that and there's probably
someone right in the room today so this
whole philosophy of losing weight when
you exercise is um is may or may not be
true so today we're going to get into
behind the scenes I also how do you
explain the variables you ever have the
skinny guy that you ever hear that when
you eat less you lose weight less
calories in right less calories in
right in fact if we take um a very thick
book it's a medical book it says the
cause of obesity is consuming more
calories than our burn you ever hear
that how do you explain the skinny guy
that can eat anything he wants and he
doesn't
even
yeah your metabolism your metabolism is
controlled by hormones that's what I
want to get into hormones however I had
um a lady came to my seminar she says I
I had all my hormones removed
so how you have 600 hormones in your
body 600 we're going to cover each one
of them and I want you to take notes on
all these hormones but the six fat
burning hormones and you have three fat
making
hormones but just to clear it up to make
it really simple let's talk about what a
hormone is I need a volunteer all right
okay you're going to be the thyroid all
right than
you
okay and you will be the cell okay
good all right thyroid say hello to the
cell where are you oh
hello very well done so the
communications are sent get received and
they get sent back up here so hormones
always travel in a two-way flow so when
you send the communication you need
someone listening to you how many to
find the life you need someone to listen
to when they when you talk to them have
you ever talked to someone they didn't
listen to yeah yeah it's genetic in
men okay so so when this gets blocked
you have all sorts of issues that occur
specifically
excessive potential
energy what's another name of potential
energy I know you saw my video probably
10 times thatat very
good so now you can just say I'm not
overweight I just have excessive
potential energy it just sounds a lot
better sounds better you're not really
fat you have PE potential energy to get
this out requires that you understand
how hormones work in the release of how
energy is is um transmitted out um
so this whole philosophy of cutting the
calorie and then waiting for it to be
burned off you don't actually exercise
for example does not melt fat off in
fact exercise really does no good to
your body whatsoever unless you can
recover from it which we're going to get
into but exercise in itself is a stress
it's a controlled injury it's all about
if you can recover from that but let's
just first talk about the thyroid body
type and that would be this shape right
here have you ever seen anyone like that
shape before brother sister cousin
mother mother okay that would be thyroid
it's waking all over not in anyone
location the first problem with the
thyroid would be the person gets
depression so look at me very
depressed you're
smiling okay depression feeling low down
apathetic that would be a thyroid
problem so the hormones can actually put
you in a lower state so we have thyroid
also loss of hair anyone know anyone
with hair
loss okay um could be thyroid could be
other things loss of eyebrows on the
outside here
first right there um loss uh loss of
collagen in your skin specifically
underneath here and right here you ever
meet anyone like that like a friend a
neighbor Co
coworker also the nail vertical ridges
in your nail up and down
ridges those are really good ridges let
me call
911 so you have ridges you can tell a
lot about a person by their nail if the
if the ridges go horiz
onal that would be a different problem
up and down thyroid horizontal more um
immune system issues if you have that
little white Speck that is a zinc
deficiency but it's not really a zinc
deficiency it's a time where you ate
some carbohydrate that pulled the zinc
out so if if you have it right in the
center we know about three months ago
you had a birthday party and you ate the
whole cake so because carbohydrate pulls
zinc out you know it's interesting
vitamins you know I know you some of you
take vitamins and maybe you have uh you
don't really feel any change with them
with thyroid you won't feel any change
with vitamins what's the first vitamin
ever
discovered you already knew the answer a
good what's the second vitamin ever
discovered b
b sorry and the third one possibly b c
and the fourth d d and the fifth very
good okay I just want to see if you guys
uh read the book yes right that's right
so we have the inability absorb vitamins
one of the deficiencies let's take
vitamin A are those little um like
little um bumps on the back of the arm
right here or in the lower leg and um
that's a vitamin A defici C but you
might say well I'm eating carrots right
I'm getting enough well what happens
vitamin A doesn't get absorbed unless
the hormones are working and there's
other factors too like you might need
omega-3 like flax oil to absorb vitamin
A so could be a couple things but
thyroid you won't be able to absorb
vitamins too well you taking all these
things very expensive urine it goes
right through you yeah so that be
vitamins thyroid U case will tend to
crave sweets um carbohydrates and
starches they like sourdough bread out
of the oven for some reason they like
the texture and the flavor and the
smell you like that okay so they like um
carbohydrates I have people that come in
they're they're like 90 and they look
very very vibrant and healthy and they
look very slim so don't go in agreement
with the whole age thing um it's
overrated I have people in the 30s that
don't do they look pretty old um you
ever been to your high school
Union okay you ever see someone like
they look like the teacher and then
you're like oh you were my classmate so
that's just the that's just the the
hormones going down too fast so that
would be thyroid body type
okay got that now next one next one is
extremely interesting very common it's a
problem with the adrenal gland
adrenal adrenal means add on top of
kidneys so the adrenals are right there
deep down the side here SIDS like right
here adrenals are down here you have two
of them they are the stress gland of the
body now how many you ever experienced
stress before got one two three four
five how do people give me an example
what stresses you out kids
kids family yes family presentations
presentations anyone have a fear of
public speaking could come up here right
now no bo boom boom boom so yeah yes
what else uh um emergency emergencies
cops coming up behind please cops coming
up behind those little flashing
lights by the way I'm actually um my
next video I'm going to put if you're on
my email tip is actually uh I talk about
how to get out of a speeding ticket so
I'll show you if you watch the next
video not that I'm recommending that
giving you legal counsel but anyway what
else dresses you up family family yes
yes malnutrition now nutrition yeah
absolutely men men bills Finance Finance
bills bills you don't like bills women
[Laughter]
women what else stresses people out
nowadays work good vacation
vacation vacation yeah vacation is
stressful sitting out there
doing Wall Street economy right so
here's what you do in the economy just
as someone says anything about the
economy just say I'm not participating
that's what you
say so basically you have all the stress
physical stress infection mental stress
it all reacts the same on the adrenals
adrenals don't know the difference
between getting hit with a car crossing
the street and a loss of a loved one
it's the same reaction to the adrenals
so the adrenals react to stress and get
the adrenals are there to help you cope
with all stresses as adrenals go
downhill your tolerance for crazy people
I mean stress goes down little things
bug you you're irritable people get on
your nerves how many found of people
getting on your nerves recently
okay
