hey Dr Burg here this short video I'm
going to talk about some of the best
hypothyroid supplements that you can
take the problem with most thyroid
supplements is they treat the thyroid
which is the exact opposite thing you
want to do because of this and this is
very important because most thyroid
cases or hypothyroid cases are secondary
to something else they're not usually a
problem in the thyroid directly and so
when you treat them with this or this
supplement or iodine whatever you don't
really get anywhere um I have a ton of
people who are taking thyroid medication
actual hormones and they're still tired
and they're still fat it's not working
so chances are there's something else
causing it and these are the two most
common things that will cause a thyroid
problem number one is a lack of bile b i
l e vile is the fluid that comes out of
the liver and it helps to uh break down
fats it's like the the detergent that
breaks down the grease on your hands but
we have it in our liver and without bile
you get bloating burping nauseous you
get right shoulder pain because the
liver is on the right side so and you
might get headaches uh and then because
you don't absorb vitamin A you get dry
eyes and night vision issues um you
don't absorb any of the fat Cy vitamins
like vitamin D so there goes the calcium
you might get some depression and when
you eat you're not satisfied because
without this bile you can't pull the
nutrients but the biggest thing is that
you T4 out of the thyroid that's the
inactive thyroid hormone goes to the
liver and converts to T3 T3 is the
active form that does all the work so
what's probably happening is you don't
have enough bile you can't convert this
thyroid and you end up having thyroid
symptoms but never really get anywhere
because you don't have this digestive
thing tweaked so if if this is is your
situation very simple remedy you can do
U it's called bile formula gallbladder
formula which has bile salts in it and
it has a lot of other things it will
help lubricate the duct um help dissolve
any Stones uh or crud in there and it it
supports the liver so this would be good
for that uh gallbladder formula to help
you give you a little bile to lubricate
the colon especially if you don't even
have a gallbladder anymore so you need
some bile you can get some bile at the
grocery store I mean the healthy store
as well um I just have the one that has
a couple other things that for the liver
anyway we want this conversion and then
number two the other situation that will
cause a hypothyroid is high estrogen and
that's called estrogen dominant and
that's because the ovaries are pumping
out too much estrogen so it's really a
hyper ovary yeah so that estrogen that
builds up will kind of cut down and
block the thyroid from functioning so
anytime you have high estrogen you're
going to have a low thyroid and that's
why women that go through pregnancy they
end up with a lot of thyroid problems
afterwards so if we want to support the
ovary directly we we don't want to
support the hormone we want to support
the gland I use a product it's called
ovary support formula and this product
tends to um help normalize uh function
of the ovary but again we're not
treating diseases uh go see your doctor
for that this is just nutritional
support to help maintain a healthy
endocrine system so those are the two
tips that I have for supplements and you
may want to try them and I think you're
going to get a little bit better
results
