hi Dr Burke here in this video we're
going to answer the question does a
high-fat diet cause Diabetes Type 2 now
recently I'm creating a bunch of videos
on this whole concept because in the
news there's all this data that says
that you need to stop eating saturated
fats because new evidence has come out
and you're going to die of a heart
attack or you're going to get diabetes
so of course you send me an email you
know what do I do and then I have to you
know analyze the study okay so this is
the study that they're basing this off
of it's called Pathway to diabetes
through attenuation of pancreatic beta
cell glycation and glucose transport
okay that's the study I'll put a link
down below now what I wanted to do
before I change all my videos and you
know tell people the real culprate Etc
to fats and it's really not sugar and
you can go back to eating your lowfat
snack W cookies before we do that let's
just kind of cover what the study
actually said number one the study was
done on mice not humans
okay so there could be a difference with
that uh number two they use uh mice that
were
susceptible to becoming obese getting
high blood sugar developing insulin
resistance they're basically genetically
predisposed to getting Diabetes Type
2 those mice were called they're inbreds
they're
c57bl 6j if you want to look them up
okay all right number three when you
read the study
um I kind of missed the details about
what they fed the mice so um but they
did leave a little formula that you can
then pull a string and see where it came
from so if you actually look at the
formula that they fed the mice and I'll
put a link down below um this is what
you're going to
find
25%
25.5% of the calories were not fat
they're actually
carbohydrates they used protein called
casine which is a milk protein who knows
if that was organic or not but here's
what they used molto dein which has the
highest glycemic index of any sugar it's
like 110 like table sugar is like 65 so
it's it's way up there they use corn
starch genetically modified corn sucrose
that's table sugar so if you combine all
the sugars that comes out to
175 g of sugar in the so-called high fat
diet that you're seeing in the news all
over the place soybean oil which is an
Omega six it's an unsaturated fatty acid
it's not a saturated fat and of course
soy is genetically modified as well but
the main fat they use which coconut oil
but it was hydrogenated that's a trans
fat so they're using trans fat saturated
fats unsaturated fats from soy which is
gml gml corn and a lot of sugar
apparently there is no true uh standard
on a high-fat diet so pretty much you
can't really trust what you read in the
news I know it's hard to believe but
it's true but check this out here's
another study that says the high fat
ketogenic diet induces a unique
metabolic state in mice okay I'll put a
link down below so you can check it out
they found when you put mice on a
ketogenic diet they lose weight drop
blood sugar improve glycogen tolerance
and increase her energy so now you have
a diet for your pet mice you can put
them on this ketogenic diet and they're
going to be extremely healthy all right
thanks for watching hi guys Hey listen I
created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
