today we're going to talk about six main
foods well they're kind of categories of
foods that can potentially cause cancer
there's some really key things you need
to know number one it's the dose that
determines the poison okay and so the
key with cancer is chronic exposure to a
certain thing that can create
inflammation Andor dysfunction in a
certain part of your cell and that
certain part is called the mitochondria
the mitochondria is the energy Factory
of your cells that uses oxygen to help
burn fuel with cancer that mechanism is
destroyed then you have a backup system
that is used to keep things alive and
that system is called fermentation okay
so it's a whole different pathway that's
set up that acts as a plan B for
survival and so when this shift happens
that cancer becomes out of control it
loses its mortality it can live on
forever in this presentation I'm not
going to talk about all the different
things that can feed cancer I'm mainly
going to focus in on the things that can
trigger cancer let's talk about this
chronic exposure it can be chronic
exposure like pesticides insecticides
herbicides fungicides things like that I
mean just pesticides alone in United
States we release 1.3 billion pounds of
pesticides into our environment every
single year let's say for example you do
yard work and you're constantly involved
with pesticides or you're doing farm
work you're definitely more susceptible
to having more exposure and more chronic
damage but again it's the dosage it's
The Chronic exposure of that poison you
have something called radon which is
kind of this invisible odorless gas that
can leak in from the soil from you know
into your basement this is why when you
buy a house they check for Radon because
that can potentially lead to lung cancer
you you have cleaning chemicals you have
even old age is a risk factor why would
old age be a risk factor well over time
you kind of lose your mitocondria and
become more damaged the time making you
more susceptible to having this
condition occur viruses like human
papiloma virus and certain fungi even
parasites can do it even certain type of
bacteria can trigger it and then of
course you get pollution all right so
now let's start at the top of the list
alcohol okay no surprises there alcohol
damages your mitochondria but again it's
The Chronic exposure of alcohol number
two trans fats and a trans fat is
something that's partially hydrogenated
why would a hydrogenated oil which is
fully saturated be any less damaging to
a partially hydrogenated fat so from my
viewpoint if you're getting hydrogenated
fats which is in a lot of junk foods
that can create a problem with your
mitochondria number three burnt or
charred meat there's two chemicals that
are generated when you burn meat HCA and
P ah like on the charcoal grill a couple
other things you can do to counter that
you can add garlic to your Meats
Rosemary certain spices to help lower
the um risk factor then you have
something else called ages what is ages
it stands for advanced glycation and
products what is that that is a compound
created when you combine a protein with
a sugar under heat or a protein with a
fat under heat so a couple examples of
that would be barbecued ribs right
you're heating up these barbecued ribs
and you're creating this Advanced
glycation end products so there's kind
of a situation where the protein fuses
together and it can create all sorts of
inflammatory processes especially with
your mitochondria now what about uh
heated uh protein and fats well you have
ice cream you cook this protein with the
fat and you create these ages right and
then you're consuming this ice cream on
a regular basis like a lot of people do
all right number five processed meat you
have nitrates in processed meats that
are potentially associated with cancer
usually people consuming processed meat
are also consuming a lot of other things
that are probably not healthy but what
they've done with this meat is they've
combined red meat with processed meat
and they lumped it into one category of
both of those causing cancer which I
have a big disagreement just because the
research is so weak and there's a big
difference between grass-fed grass
finished meat and grain fed there's a
big difference between red meat and
processed meat and what if you eat red
meat without nitrates so any time you
look at things that cause cancer you'll
see that red meat stuck in there and so
that's one factor that I I disagree with
especially since there's nothing in the
healthy version of red me that has been
evaluated with any substantial
scientific studies that show evidence of
it being damaging at all in fact I know
a lot of people heal their bodies by
consuming red me because there's a lot
of things in there that are beneficial
all right number six ultrapress Foods
okay AKA junk Foods they rebranded junk
Foods as alter processed foods it sounds
a lot better but the actual foods are
not a lot better now remember I talked
about chronic exposure right well guess
what
50% of all of our calories are Ultra
processed foods when we talk about Ultra
we're talking about extreme we're
talking about processed we're talking
about turning something that started out
natural into something that doesn't even
resemble what it started out to be
you're going through many many
alterations using chemicals heat
pressure deodorizing decolorizing and
you're ending up with this end product
that is so refined so different so
altered so dead there's nothing alive in
it you know people talk about uh well
they're just empty calories it's it's
more than just empty calories and so
when we consume it we have to pull from
our reserves vitamins and minerals to be
able to metabolize it and just think
about how much inflammation is created
when you're consuming synthetic starches
not even saturated fats they're
unsaturated fats they're seed oils which
go through industrial processing and a
lot of refining and they're very very
unstable I can't think of anything more
unhealthy to eat than ultrapress Foods
it's it hits the bottom of the barrel
and what's really interesting about this
is let's start with maltodextrin
maltodextrin is considered a starch not
a sugar even though it reacts like a
sugar way more than actual sugar on the
the glycemic index it's way way way high
and
maltodextrin is an alra process
ingredient that is
considered generally recognized as safe
it's called gross generally recognized
as safe is something that uh a company
can use they can basically do their own
studies and they can just tell the FDA
it's safe there's no FDA testing on this
people think oh yeah it's been tested
but it's only tested by the
manufacturing company and they can a lot
of different Shady loopholes with that
maltodextrin is considered generally
recognized as safe cross we have
modified starches which are gross we
even have high fructose corn syrup which
is gross corn oil soy oil is considered
gross canola oil is considered gross
corn syrup is considered gross and here
we have the situation where
manufacturers can kind of use this gross
to give you the illusion that it's safe
when in fact
from my viewpoint it's not too safe now
if you haven't seen my indepth video on
the most unhealthy food in the world
okay you should check it out I put it up
right
here
