let's talk about seven bad habits that
can ruin your day all right number one
eating a breakfast now I know some of
you are saying I thought that skipping
breakfast was a bad habit or skipping a
meal was a bad habit well if you're new
to my channel you're gonna find that uh
eating breakfast is is a bad habit
especially if it's carbohydrates but
even if it's not carbohydrates when you
eat a meal you actually stimulate hunger
so eating promotes hunger about an hour
and a half later
and that is because every time you eat
you do increase insulin regardless of
what you eat so if you're eating a
carbohydrate meal you're really going to
spike that insulin and insulin is behind
this thing called hunger now I have to
read something to you because I found
this paragraph that has
more lies or pieces of false information
combined into one paragraph that I've
ever read in anything so here we go in a
2011 National survey from the calorie
control Council they said that 17 of
Americans admitted to skipping meals to
lose weight the problem is skipping
meals increases your odds of obesity
really no it isn't how would skipping a
meal increase you getting fat
especially when it comes to breakfast
all right so you have to realize that's
completely false okay a study from the
American Journal of epidemiology found
that people who cut out the morning meal
were 4.5 times more likely to be obese
wow I'd love to see that study I have
not seen it so in other words if you cut
out your breakfast you're going to gain
weight completely illogical why skipping
meals slows your metabolism this is
another piece of false information
skipping in meals does not slow your
metabolism
eating frequent meals does slow your
metabolism because you're going to
develop something called insulin
resistance and when you get that you
have excess amount of insulin in your
blood and insulin is the hormone that
prevents you from losing weight so why
in the world would eating more food
increase your metabolism it won't and
then it goes on to say and it boosts
your hunger now I will say this
if you're not adapted to Fat if you're
not burning fat Fuel and you haven't
adapted to that like a lot of people
haven't then skipping a meal is going to
make you very very hungry because you're
running off blood sugars and you don't
have a lot of it in storage so as soon
as you run out you're going to be
extremely hungry so this paragraph
really applies to those people who have
not adapted to burning their own fat and
unfortunately it's torture trying to do
some weight loss program or restrict
yourself when you haven't adapted to Fat
because in that state you have no hunger
okay and it's much easier to stick to
something if you're not hungry or
craving all day long and all right so
then it goes on to say this that puts
your body in Prime fat storage mode so
this whole idea to have these small
little snacks for the day to prevent
overeating
is the absolute worst device you could
ever accept because you're just spiking
that insulin to the day just spiking it
and as the insulin goes up your blood
sugars go down and you're going to be
hungry and hungry and craving and you're
going to be in a torture chamber you're
not going to succeed no one can do that
for any period of time but this theory
has still survived and it's being pushed
out there probably from the food
manufacturing companies all right and
then we have the last sentence and don't
say you don't have time for breakfast
it's easy if you make the overnight oats
all right and here's another point if
you're gonna do breakfast the worst
thing you can do is carbs so oats are
carbs you don't want to consume carbs
for breakfast so breakfast is not the
most important meal of the day I used to
recommend it I no longer recommend it it
was bad advice if you have a breakfast
with carbohydrate in the morning chances
are you're going to be craving carbs
later that night all right number two
drinking too much coffee and that was me
okay I used to drink pots a very strong
coffee and what happens is that the
caffeine in the coffee
blocks certain chemicals that help you
sleep even if you have too much of it
your liver can't clear it out in time
for you to go to sleep at night so too
much caffeine is going to keep you up at
night and guess what you're going to be
tired the next day so I recommend just
to do one small cup in the morning you
can also do coffee Alternatives like to
Chino like turmeric lattes like matcha
lattes which have less caffeine because
it's green tea or just take a whole
lemon with some water blend it up and
drink that with maybe it's a little
Stevia or electrolytes and I will put
that video down below if you haven't
seen it all right number three grazing
at night really really bad bad habit
that you have to break it's probably the
worst habit and so at night after dinner
you just start eating and you don't stop
until you go to bed what's happening is
you're just jacking up insulin so your
ability to fast through the night is
gone you're not going to be fasting
you're not going to be in ketosis you're
not going to be burning fat you're
basically going to have this Spike of
insulin and that insulin is going to
then keep you from losing weight so the
next day you're going to be bloated and
probably in the morning you're going to
be hungry you're going to give in to
temptation to eat something
so what's really happening is you're
going to end up with a low blood sugar
situation in the morning it's going to
affect the brain so you're going to have
brain fog you're going to have brain
fatigue you're not going to be able to
beat up you're going to have like mood
issues you might be irritable you might
have some anxiety more stress so what
you need to do is have more fat at the
last meal okay and maybe as a transition
step instead of stacking on something
maybe you start with snacking on carrots
and celery okay and do that for a while
until you can give that up but if your
last meal is nutrient dense that is
going to help you so even though you're
eating a lot of food if it's empty with
nutrition okay let's see you're just
eating conventional Foods whether it's
vegetables or not and it's just empty
you might be full but you're not going
to be satisfied it's the nutrients that
satisfy you all right the next one is
too much blue light okay through the day
so I'm talking about too much computer
work too much cell phone especially
before you go to bed you're getting all
this blue light blue light blocks
another type of light called infrared
and infrared is really really important
from the Sun from other things like
fireplace from candles incandescent
lights which we don't have anymore
and so blue light prevents the creation
of melatonin from the infrared light so
if you're not getting any Sun during the
day and you're getting all this blue
light you're going to be deprived of
melatonin and that's going to affect
your sleeping it's going to affect your
health you're not going to get a
rejuvenating sleep and you're going to
feel kind of sluggish the next day and
you're going to be tired
if you have not seen my video on
melatonin I will definitely put it down
below
it's very important all right next bad
habit is going out to dinner
you don't it's a crap shoot you don't
know what you're getting there's a lot
of hidden chemicals MSG a lot of omega-6
oils that they put Foods in and uh I
noticed that every time I go up to
dinner even if it's a fairly decent
restaurant I do not feel good the next
day so try to not go out as often all
right next one is shopping for groceries
when you are hungry big mistake you're
gonna buy things you don't normally buy
so always eat before you go food
shopping and last one is just not eating
enough nutrient dense foods when you eat
food that's empty with nutrition even
though it's keto friendly or low carb
what happens is you always are in a
state that your body's not satisfied and
so your your tendency is to go for the
wrong thing when you really have
nutrient-dense Foods man is it easy to
overcome the Cravings it's easy to stick
two things you feel better and the
pleasure of that healthy feeling will
allow you to stick to it long term I
think the next most appropriate video
for you to watch if you haven't seen
this is my video on melatonin
fascinating check it out I put it right
here
