now since heart attacks strokes and high
blood pressure are very common
it might be a good idea to know more
about this arterial stiffness problem
your arteries becoming calcified this
usually comes from getting older
it can come from inflammation because a
person's a diabetic or they consume a
lot of carbs and sugar that create
fibrosis or for example they're
consuming foods that are very
inflammatory like the omega-6 fatty
acids but there is one additional very
important factor that you need to know
about it's actually a cause of hardening
of the arteries or your arteries
becoming very very stiff
and that is a vitamin K2 deficiency when
you are deficient in vitamin K2
the calcium that is floating through
your blood doesn't necessarily go
anywhere it's not directed in the bones
you see vitamin K2 has a lot of benefits
to your body but two really important
ones we're going to talk about are
number one driving the calcium into your
bone and making your bones really strong
so there's two proteins that vitamin K2
are dependent upon one being responsible
for keeping your bones really really
strong and preventing osteoporosis and
osteopenia
and the other is keeping calcium out of
the arteries and out of the walls of
your arteries and so I'm going to put
several links down below
to back up what I'm saying from some
really interesting credible studies but
vitamin K2 can keep the calcium out of
your arteries and in the right place to
Bones it can even decrease your risk of
heart attacks by 50 percent if you have
enough in your body but the problem is a
lot of people are deficient in vitamin
K2 because they don't know where vitamin
K2 comes from it comes from the very
food that they are told to avoid it
comes from food high in saturated fat
and cholesterol you can also get it from
other fermented foods like NATO but
typically in the west we don't even know
what NATO is it's a fermented soybean
product that is never served at any
restaurants but if you live in Asia you
might know more about NATO but you get
vitamin K2 from fatty foods like Meats
organ Meats egg yolks grass-fed butter
Dairy and yogurt you're not going to get
any K2 from vegetables fruits beans
grains or nuts now there's a couple
interesting little parts of this this
story I want to tell you about one is
this when you combine vitamin K2 with
vitamin D3
you get a greatly improved vascular
profile and I'm talking about
A reduced thickness in the wall of your
carotid arteries those are the arteries
in your neck right here just by adding
K2 to your D3 which is very interesting
you also get a decrease in calcium
buildup in those carotid arteries when
you add the K2 to the D3 and anytime
you're adding K2 to D3 I would recommend
doing this
for every 10 000 IUS of vitamin D3 you
should add about a hundred micrograms of
K2 and I'm talking about the version of
K2 that is the MK 7 version now another
interesting piece of this puzzle is this
women and men that take a lot of calcium
as a supplement like at least a thousand
milligrams or more a day
with or without vitamin D actually
increase the risk of dying from a heart
attack by 20 to over 85 percent because
they're omitting vitamin K2 now there's
another little piece of this puzzle I'm
going to talk about
Warfarin Warfarin is a medication that
blocks vitamin K1 okay people that take
Warfarin are trying to prevent clotting
because vitamin K1 has everything to do
with blood clots now when you normally
take vitamin K1 or get it from your
salads because it's normally in leafy
greens and other vegetables you're not
going to clot more than you should
normally clot it doesn't actually create
like these clots that go up to your
brain and create Strokes or heart
attacks that's not how it works but if
you had heart problems or arrhythmias or
atrial fibrillation or or some type of
pre-existing problem then they're going
to recommend something to reduce clots
and Warfarin is a popular drug
here's the problem with Warfarin I just
want to bring this up because it relates
to what we're talking about Warfarin not
only blocks vitamin K1 but it also
blocks that protein that I talked about
the specific protein that is supposed to
inhibit calcification in your vascular
system and within the wall of your
vascular system this is why one of the
side effects from Warfarin is vascular
calcification so you end up preventing a
clot
but you could potentially increase the
calcium in the arteries if it was me
and I had to take some type of
medication to prevent clots I would
evaluate to see if there's some other
drug that I could take
that doesn't involve this K1 or vitamin
K2 proteins in summary start to increase
vitamin K2 Foods if you're going to take
vitamin K2 as a supplement I would
recommend you take vitamin D3 with K2 it
seems to work better and the next tip
would be to go on a low carb diet simply
because that's going to reduce the
inflammation and thus keep your arteries
from becoming stiff and of course lastly
avoid the omega-6 fatty acids that could
potentially increase inflammation in
your arteries now since we're on the
topic of K2 there's a lot more to know
about that and if you haven't seen this
video I think you'd find it very
interesting and I'll put it up right
here
