let's talk about a really good remedy
for tarter now what is tartar tartar is
Dental plaque what we're really talking
about is something called biofilms okay
and biofilms are a combination of these
calcium houses that house bacteria it's
one of their survival mechanisms what
they do is they hide underneath this
calcium little Dome and that way they go
undetected from your immune system as
well as from antibiotics in fact 95% of
bacteria in nature live in biofilms if
you even take a look at a like a little
rock in a little stream and if you
actually pick that rock up you'll notice
it's a little bit slimy and
slippery that's biofilms so biofilms are
all over the place it's some survival
mechanism that's been going on a very
very long time so anytime you have water
as in saliva U you're going to have
biofilms and if there's an over
abundance of biofilms you're going to
get bad breath you'll have uh issues
with inflammation receding gums and of
course many people get to the point
where it's too much and they're going to
have to go to the dentist and have it
extracted but what I want to talk about
is if you are continually getting too
much Tarter in your teeth um I'm going
to show you what to do to prevent it or
manage it a lot better now a couple
things I want to mention Xylitol the
sugar alcohol as in the Xylitol gum and
the Xylitol sweeteners have antibiofilm
properties they help suppress adhesions
to your teeth so if you're going to chew
gum make sure it's xyl and there's also
natural things that are anti-biofilm
okay natural herbs you have
Rosemary you have clove thyme oregano
oil garlic cumin which is in turmeric
cinnamon and another compound called na
a c all of those can help reduce
biofilms however the remedy that I want
to talk about really has just three
simple ingredients okay and I'm going to
tell you why you should use this the
number one ingredient is baking soda now
why baking soda baking soda is sodium
bicarbonate okay so one thing about
biofilms especially the ones that
overgrow around your teeth as um tartar
can start producing too many acids and
when the PE H gets to the point where
it's like 3.5 to
5.5 then the body starts leeching
calcium out of your bones it's called
decalcification and so it's very very
important to make sure your pH in your
mouth does not get that acid you want it
neutral or maybe slightly acid but not
too much and the real main thing that U
produces too much acid is what I talked
about in another video it's the sugar
it's your diet if you're consuming too
much sugar or or you're a diabetic
you're basically feeding the exact food
that these bacteria love as well as the
yeast because there's also a type of
yeast called Candida in biofilms as well
and as they eat all this sugar they
produce the byproduct of lactic acid and
now the pH starts to decrease and the
environment starts to become ideal for
extracting calcium from the teeth so
you're getting cavities and then of
course the microbes are using the
calcium for housing so using baking soda
sodium bicarbonate is a great way to
increase the pH to make things a little
bit more alkaline to help buffer that pH
so the acid isn't there anymore to leech
out calcium also baking soda can help to
break down these biofilms and the other
thing that's very interesting about
sodium bicarbonate baking soda is that
this is what your saliva makes to buffer
these acids so you're just taking
something that your body is already
making so therefore it has virtually no
side effects so you'd want to mix4 of a
teaspoon in a half of a cup of water
okay then you're going to add one more
thing and that is called hydrogen
peroxide now you'd want to make sure you
get the 3% hydrogen
peroxide and you can get from the
drugstore but hydrogen peroxide is a
really good um compound to help inhibit
biofilms from developing as well as
killing off
bacteria yeast candida all these
microbes and another very interesting
thing about hydrogen peroxide is guess
what your body makes it it's in your
saliva hydrogen peroxide is a major uh
compound that your cells use to kill
microbes so we're just going to give
your body what it naturally produces but
it just in higher quantities so you use
a four of a teaspoon of baking soda and
a four of a teaspoon of hydrogen
peroxide side
3% mix that in a half a cup of water and
then use your toothbrush to brush your
teeth after you brush your teeth with
toothpaste what this will do it'll help
prevent the biofilms from continuing to
come back and that way your teeth will
be nice and smooth now one last thing
there is some interesting research it's
a little bit mixed but there seems to be
a positive correlation between vitamin
K2 and inhibiting this Dental plaque so
some people who actually start taking
vitamin K2 that normally comes with
vitamin D3 start to noticing that the
inside of their teeth are becoming
smoother and smoother so that's another
little thing that you can you can try
but in general vitamin K2 is all about
transporting calcium into the bone and
out of the soft tissues but anyway I
wanted to give you a really good simple
remedy to prevent tartar from building
up in your teeth and I think another
good video for you to watch is more
information on vitamin K2
check it out I put it right here
