welcome back everyone we're here with
another q a it's Friday morning for some
people but uh not others uh anything
that I say is definitely not meant to
bypass your medical doctor and give you
any type of
cures so um just check with your doctor
before you implement any of the things
that we're going to talk about
Steve Let's Just Jump Right In Like We
normally do okay true or false
deficiencies
of
some heavy metals like arsenic lead
could be the result of essential
nutrients inhibiting growth and repair
so we know toxic elements like Arsenic
and Lead are bad for us but is it
possible that if we're deficient in
these toxic metals to some degree could
it affect our health
all right yes or no Angelo from YouTube
I understand that you had a sulgren
syndrome what did you do to treat it and
what advice can you share as I now have
it I don't know if I said that right
sogrens Sjogren's yeah I never had it um
so I don't know who said I had it but uh
yeah it's an autoimmune disease it
affects the connective tissue it can
affect the skin it can affect the joints
can affect the digestion
um I think the best thing to do is to um
take high levels of vitamin D because
that can actually help you
hopefully put some of these symptoms in
remission and act as an
anti-inflammatory
so that would be the most important
thing to do and then try to focus on
just creating as much health as you
possibly can by doing the healthy keto
and especially prolonged fasting regular
intermittent fasting because when you
fast
you heal the immune system so that's
that's what I would recommend for that
very good okay I've got sander all set
up for us and Sandra if you'll unmute
yourself you're on with Dr Berg for your
one question go
hi Dr Berg thank you thank you thank you
for sharing all your years of experience
with health and wellness nutrition with
all of us and I Now understand why I
feel so much better with prolonged
fasting
my question is I'm now in my fourth
month of following your Healthy keto and
intermittent fasting guidelines which
has included Your recommended liver
support supplements and I'm wondering
will I eventually be able to eliminate
my symptoms from Tire mean intolerance
since so many healthy keto food and
supplements are high in tyramine
I I think I think it's potentially uh
possible but uh as long as you keep
everything else in check I think you can
definitely eliminate these intolerances
um you know it's it's very it's a good
question because I'll get other people
that will say if I do this long enough
will I be able to get rid of
um like an autoimmune disease or will I
be able to get rid of insulin resistance
or am I diabetes
um the answer is yes
but um when you if but but it comes with
kind of a catch for me too like well can
I ever go back to my normal Foods I'm
like
no because those are not normal Foods so
if you're maintaining these things I
think you absolutely positively can do
that because even if you have a genetic
problem
um you can the genes don't control you
it's like the epigenetics your lifestyle
what you do your
you as a person can actually override
that and really put these genes into
under your control so absolutely
positively yes thank you
that's terrific well thank you and why
don't you get back with us as we ask
everyone to do uh Sandra uh and let us
know how you're doing and if you uh you
know were able to move past this
particular Challenge and we sure
appreciate you coming on with us from
Salt Lake all right hey Steve Steve I
just want to um another story I had had
someone um
this is a long time ago they called me
up and they said yeah your program
didn't work I said what do you mean he
goes well I did I did it for two weeks
and it did help but then I went back to
my normal foods and then it came back I
said uh okay
um
what are you eating you know it's just
completely junk food but
the liver the liver actually takes a
beating it can bounce back pretty uh I
mean fairly quick but it does take a
longer time to really uh stabilize the
liver but
data that you could strip off 50 of the
fat in your liver within two weeks I
mean that's like wow incredible
incredible to be able to do that and um
so
I've seen some incredible things so uh
the body has this incredible ability to
bounce back and heal itself it put in
the right condition
yeah well I tell you I always uh chime
in uh and the biggest factor that I
found in following uh these guidelines
no cures involved is my emotional state
I really suffer when I eat sugar and
carbs and all that uh I mean and it
takes about two or three days if I get
off a healthy eating for me to really
realize I don't know what how am I why
am I so depressed why am I so down and
it seems like it sneaks up on me and I
realize well and so uh you know that's
been a good
um Rod so to speak to keep me on check
more than weight or perception of some
kind of health because I feel good I
like to feel good and emotionally that
comes about a lot less depression so on
just from eating as you said you know
real food it's not like you're trying to
you know sacrifice or something you're
just trying to get rid of the junk that
seems to surround us today so thank you
for that uh Dr Berg yeah I think so for
for some reason you just don't like
feeling depressed is that what you're
trying to tell me yeah I didn't I don't
like it some people I think they really
love it but for me not for me
okay
all right so uh we had our first quiz
question which you
um kind of regurgitated in a different
way but we're trusting that the audience
uh understood what you said and here's
the following uh answers from them 80 of
the respondents say it's true and 20 say
it's false there's this is a very
interesting thing because this is
something very new for me as an
understanding because in my mind I
thought all toxic Metals
um were just toxic but apparently
they have the potential at least in
animal studies they can act as an
essential nutrient
and if you deplete them of a hundred
percent of it you start having problems
in reproduction and growth so
this kind of you know leads me to
believe that um
all these things in the Earth all these
minerals the trace minerals probably we
need all of them uh to some degrees some
degree and uh
um because if you look at there's only
so many essential minerals or trace
minerals or vitamins but other ones are
not essential because
um you know we really haven't found the
evidence but that doesn't mean it's not
essential
they just haven't found it yet but um so
I think we do need um everything as a
package but just the key with the toxic
Metals is that they're more poisons is
it's the dose it's that's the dose so
you don't you want to keep it low Becca
from YouTube I think she's got a good
question should I be taking your
gallbladder formula if I already have
gallstones well uh bile salts which is
in the gallbladder formula has been
known to help break down gallstones so
that would be a smart thing to do
because what is a gallstone it's a it's
a super concentrated usually cholesterol
Stone well how did it develop what
condition it develops from a person not
having enough
bile but yet having too much
concentrated cholesterol
so what do we do do we just cut out the
cholesterol or do we just increase the
bile
well I like uh number two that seems to
be
smarter so here's poor Sandy from
Facebook how can I get rid of bloating I
don't eat as much as I should because of
the bloating my doctors gave me meds for
gas and bloating but they're not working
help hmm
yeah I I'm I'll release that video that
I did on bloating apparently I didn't
really see yet because this is the video
that you need to watch
um the the most important thing to
realize about bloating it's not about
adding something to the diet or a remedy
or anything you want to subtract
something you want to get rid of
something it's usually related to food
okay it's related food and um at the
very top of the list
um
but what creates the bloating is the gas
from the microbes the microbes are
fermenting something and they usually
ferment these things called
carbohydrates and um what happens is
that if you can eliminate right now not
just um
what you might think is carbohydrates
but also the fiber which is the
carbohydrate that would be a good thing
and start cutting down fiber and that
includes all these newfangled uh
functional fibers that are in the keto
treats especially like the inulin and
the guar gum and uh
all these different fibers that they
come out with so I would just uh corn
soluble fiber tapioca fiber just that
get rid of all those and go low on the
vegetables right now too and of course
I'm assuming you're not doing grains or
fruit because that's the worst or beans
but just eliminate the grains and start
cutting down vegetables maybe you want
to cook them or have some just fermented
a small amount and that that gas should
go away
versus trying to
add a remedy
um
I would do that secondary secondarily
because um it's usually you're eating
something that's fermenting in the wrong
place like in your small intestine
um but I will release this video which I
think will explain everything
um I'll try to do that tomorrow David
from Facebook is there a relationship
between diet sodas and elevated glucose
levels good question
um yes and no
um there's kind of a mixed study on that
I think I think they do indirectly
um because they do affect the microbiome
so these artificial sweeteners affect
the microbiome if you affect the
microbiome that can create
insulin resistance it can create
problems in many different issues
um with blood sugars and Insulin
problems so the answer would be yes Ben
from Facebook what are the best sources
of natural potassium our bodies need at
least 4 700 milligrams 4 700
that's a lot
that's more more quantity than any other
nutrient that you would need it's just
like our bossy a lot of potassium so
what has a lot of potassium uh the leafy
greens avocados
um vegetables things like that there is
potassium and
fish and meats as well but not as much
there is potassium and fruit but it
comes with a lot of the sugar so the
best source would be consuming I like to
get it from
um from salad and so I'll do about seven
to ten cups of salad every single day
might seem like a lot but it's not too
bad if you have to have more of a dense
vegetable you can do maybe four to five
cups a day it's not that hard
um
that's where you get your potassium uh
you know the best sources uh the banana
is just loaded way too much fructose
which is going to act just like alcohol
in your liver so we don't want to do
that
um so
I think that's what you you're missing
and then that should uh
handle the void of potassium Debbie from
YouTube uh I'm sorry about her question
what's the best way to naturally address
cancer of the stomach
well I've done videos on this you should
watch all of them and I would the most
important thing to do is a prolonged
fast depending on the severity if it's a
stage four you'd want to do no less than
21 days fast right up right off the bat
um of course taking your nutrients along
the way but that just adds such a great
uh protection
even if you decide to get chemo or
radiation the fasting makes your cells
stronger
so here's the challenge that people are
up against with cancer you don't want to
end up in the boat like this this person
is you want to do every everything you
can to
um
avoid or prevent
cancer so but unfortunately sometimes we
don't do that and all of a sudden we end
up with it so now we're in a situation
the uh if you go to the medical route it
it does get rid of cancer but there's
always a very small amount of cancer
cells that survive and they become
stronger and the the recurrence
there's a high probability of it
recurring and so now we have to deal
with that so there's a protocol that we
have on
um in some of the videos on someone
else's website not mine
that was based on some research we did
in Europe
that involves a certain protocol of
nutrition to help
um block
this certain ends enzyme or biochemical
pathway
that cancer cells need to build their
membranes
so that's a really strategic way to kind
of put things at Bay but but more
important than that is this prolonged
fasting you need to start doing that on
a regular basis basis and um
get some leverage over this cancer okay
very good what would you suggest for
those of us who don't or at least we
hope we don't have cancer as a sort of
preventative type fast what kind of
length and what frequency would we do
that
um I should actually create a video on
this in fact I I will because
um
the you know like Sun Tzu has a book
um the technology of warts or Not The
Art of War I'd get the technology of
Wharf it's a great book you can get it
online on Amazon but there's a principle
that's unsuit use Sun Tzu used uh of
winning his Battles by
avoiding battle it's winning the war
without going to battle
so this is all about prevention so you
have to understand the nature the
intention of a cancer cell and get all
that Intel information so then you can
understand it more like with with cancer
it starts off as a normal cell and it
converts over into a cancer cell
interesting so why well it's it's your
your uh there's damage in the cell and a
very specific part of the cell called
the mitochondria
so that is the secret to preventing
cancers to avoid things that damage the
mitochondria now what does that mean
well
let's go right down the list what
damages mitochondria
um processed foods refined Foods
especially refined sugars
a refined carbohydrates
um very very uh stress chronic stress
will do it
um inactivity not exercising as a
causation Factor
um and then probably what's so
significant about inactivity is that
exercise itself is probably the biggest
inducer of making your mitochondria
strong and bigger and roma bust and more
efficient because of the energy Factory
so exercise alone is one of the most
potent ways to prevent cancer that I can
even think of and then if you also do
intermittent fasting where your cell
goes into autophagy and starts
not just the irregular cells but but the
mitochondria does a little autophagy
it's called mitophagy and it actually
these damaged mitochondria get get
absorbed and into the body and then they
get rebuilt
so the damaged ones get fixed and the
ones that are too damaged get replaced
I mean talk about the ultimate
preventative for cancers is the fasting
and then we have the the keto the
healthy version of the ketogenic diet
too so
um the program that I recommend I think
is is one of the best ways to avoid
cancer because it's creating Health it's
avoiding carbs
and you're reducing stress and you're
exercising it's like really good
epigenetic factors Romeo from Facebook
is keto okay for someone with
mitochondrial disease is there a disease
specific to that it's especially good
for that in fact I don't know of any
other therapy that would be good for
that but yes it's uh the the
mitochondria loves ketones ketones give
a lot more efficiency to the
mitochondria the mitochondria is a
factory and it it's a that it's a
fascinating Factory that turns your your
food into energy
and there's even um there's a battery
going on in there too with electrons and
all sorts of things it's fascinating and
so um
keto diet is the best thing for your
mitochondria that you can do now once
you have cancer
um there's there's
some additional things that you need to
do when we talk about that in the videos
on cancer especially the most recent
ones
all right well good luck with that and
let's get uh I wish the audience good
luck with the next question here's
another true falser for you
okay true or false the liver uh
accumulates and stores toxins as one of
its functions see ham from Facebook
could you please make a video on several
riotic dermatitis face and scalp yeah
that's a classic
Omega-3
uh fatty acid deficiency so you need
fish oils I would in fact I wouldn't do
fish oils I would do cod liver oil and
that way you can have the vitamin D and
the vitamin A both essential for your
skin
um but that's really what you're running
into as a deficiency of that it's either
that you don't have enough of it in your
diet or you have too much of the
competitor which is omega-6 fatty acids
which are in the corn oil the canola oil
the soy oil the cottonseed oil the those
type of hidden things in our food supply
as well as
um
you know if you're if you're going out
to any restaurants you're going to get a
lot of those foods and unfortunately the
a lot of the meats especially chicken
um are fed these grains with a lot of
omega-6 so you're not getting the ratios
unless you're doing
Pastor raised eggs and or the chickens
that are from the the farm that you know
they don't only eat cranes and then the
grass-fed grass finish beef or lamb
is going to be very important all right
very good jotaro from YouTube my urine
is brown I have normal CPK levels
although they get higher after exercise
and my creatine levels are normal what's
going on
sounds like you need a deeper test
to figure out what's going on I will be
doing a video on this this is there's a
completely I think brand new
um field of evaluation that I'm very
interested in I'm studying it right now
hardcore and it's called metabolomics
and it's a it's the study of metabolites
what's that it's like the end product of
a lot of the proteins in the body you're
looking at biomarkers that give you
Clues on the biochemistry of your body
so if you were to get a test metabolomic
test you're checking like maybe the
urine or your blood and instead of just
looking at the usual stuff you're
looking at a lot more data involved in
the biochemistry biochemical Pathways
they're all there there's motion
involved in these Pathways and it's just
a matter of understanding
um these end products in this Pathway to
see what's blocked
um or see what's moving too much or or
whatever or what's toxic and then from
there you can really figure out what's
going on unfortunately
um medicine is the opposite of that they
just basically
tree they diagnose and treat diagnose
and treat you know we couldn't we didn't
find anything here's these medications
uh close person
um around me uh 14 different drugs and
um very young
and there's they can't figure it out so
they keep giving more drugs I'm like
wow talk about
not not understanding the biochemistry
and really figuring out why in the first
place in a very um
kind of like the diet is not important
let's just kind of ignore that
um completely crazy so
um stay tuned for more information about
this because yes uh the DNA testing is
important but this metabolomic uh
testing is I think of the wave of the
future
um for medicine and finding someone that
really can understand interpret it
that's good is going to be uh
really good uh so
of course they have to overcome some of
the drug companies but at the very least
you can be aware of what this test is
and find a really good competent doctor
that can do the evaluation and and help
you and your family
all right very good let's see our second
question true false uh ask the liver
accumulates and stores toxins is one of
its functions and the audience said at
least 95 percent of them uh that it's
true in the other five percent are
holding out for a false false Steve is
completely false the liver does not
store
or accumulate toxins and this is good
that um this is coming up because
um
it's under it's really important to
understand that the liver fat cells
accumulate toxins but not the liver
cells the liver cells detoxify they
remove poisons but they don't hold
toxins
they remove they're a detoxification
mechanisms going on the liver that just
turns toxins into poisons but they don't
accumulate them
that's it that's interesting so they get
rid of them and uh in a in a what so
they take a fat soluble Toxin and turn
it into a water soluble Toxin and then
it it goes right out through the bile
ducts out into the small intestine and
out through your stool so some of it
goes out to the kidney too but um I
think that's important to know
all right so uh Elena from YouTube why
am I still getting hot flashes at 69
years of age
ah man I'm sorry to hear that that must
really be terrible
um but there are some things that
um hopefully you can try I would take
vitamin E in the form of tocotrenals I
would take that before bed I would also
if that doesn't work I would try sea
kelp to get some extra iodine
if that didn't help uh number three I
would use what's called whole desiccated
adrenal support to support the adrenals
to hopefully help
um bolster that backup organ the
adrenals
so then the whole pathway can actually
be more complete from your
pituitary to your hypothalamus down to
the ovaries which are kind of gone into
retirement so you have this
this backup adrenal that's kind of doing
all the work right now I will say this
uh Steve there's a
especially for women and even men as
they get older
um one thing that's very important for
hormones to make sure they have enough
hormones and their sex hormones
um is they're all of these hormones are
made from cholesterol so
anything that blocks cholesterol
anything that inhibits it or if you're
going a low cholesterol diet you may
find a worsening of your your body
especially the endocrine system if
you're going low cholesterol that's one
thing
the other precursor to allow these
hormones is DHEA
you don't need if you're a female you
don't need a lot just a little bit but
that can really act as a a nice uh
fulfillment of your hormones so you can
have this uh this more more raw material
for your hormones to exist and men can
have more too if you have too much you
can make too much testosterone but
um women actually need a certain amount
of testosterone to be healthy so you
don't want to bring it down to zero and
so
um what's interesting about
testosterone and estrogen is
um all of the
estrogen that both men and women have
actually come from
testosterone
which is interesting
so it converts into that so anyway
there's a there's a lot to it but that
should give you some basic things good
well good luck with that hot flashes of
69 is awful let's go back to the Green
Room this time we have Jerry coming to
us from Toledo Ohio and if you're
unmuted Jerry go ahead with your
question please
hi Dr Berg uh first off uh big fan love
your show my background is nutrition and
exercise my retired school teacher and
coach
and I'm just uh love your show
um I have one of my best friends as a
practitioner and
um he says that within the first 15
minutes to 30 minutes of waking up you
should have you should have either
protein
protein or fat
otherwise your liver will release sugar
and then in turn will uh boost your
blood sugar and
um
because I personally feel better when I
do intermittent fasting but he says that
when you when you do that your body is
spiking your blood sugar and then for
the rest of the day your blood sugar is
going to be basically like a super ball
going up and down if you don't
eat
I would love I would love to talk to him
and to see his uh
is reasoning behind that because
what he's talking about is something
called gluconeogenesis the liver makes
sugar right the liver makes sugar and
usually see this with diabetics
in a significant way their liver is
pumping in all the sugar because they
have insulin resistance
um what we're trying to do is we're
trying to fix insulin resistance
if you wake up in the morning and you
have high sugar
and you didn't eat any sugar
that means you have insulin resistance
and it's called the dawn phenomena and
that's a lot of gluconeogenesis and the
way to solve that is to fix insulin
resistance which you do by fasting
um
so you have a couple of things that
happen in the morning if you
um don't eat
um your body is going to then keep
tapping into the reserves of fat for
fuel once you're converted I think what
he's Mis missing the data he's missing
is that
um what you're doing is you're
converting your body over the ketones as
fuel and that takes it some time but
you're you're running off ketones you're
no longer running on glucose so you
don't have to worry about that next meal
getting your fuel because you convert it
over the fat field so you and all the
fuel that your body needs including
glucose can be made from uh your own
bodies tapping into fat
um and so
if you actually do eat a breakfast or
eat protein or fat in the morning what's
going to happen now especially if you
eat that protein you're going to spike
um your insulin okay and then that's
going to lower the blood sugar
then about an hour and a half you're
going to be hungry
and it starts the whole cycle if you
don't eat
and you're fat adapted your body is
going to basically be mobilizing fat and
you can go for a long periods of time
and even I mean here's the thing to do
is just check your blood sugars
they should be normal in the morning if
you're if you're adapted and if you're
not a diabetic and you don't have
insulin resistance so your blood sugars
will be normal and so that I think that
would solve the argument right there is
just to check your blood sugars and then
let's say the blood sugars are high
would you want to eat they're high no
you want to exercise
um so
I guess that would be my answer but I
would love to kind of talk to that
person and work out through what they're
thinking or what what they're using or
what reference they're using and then we
can actually figure out
really where the confusion is because I
really think it's just the absence of
knowledge of the keto
adapt keto adaptation
one other quick question if I may
um as far as when I do intermittent
fasting I'm at the present time trying
to lose around 50 pounds and
um from my understanding
um I should be getting about one gram of
protein per lean body mass in order to
maintain my muscle mass
um and when I intermittent fast I
usually go till one or two o'clock and
then stop eating around six o'clock
um according to that method I would be
needing to get around 200 grams of
protein
and
um
is that possible or is that a good idea
in your eyes no I I think um that date
is uh usually for bodybuilders uh maybe
in their 20s um you might need that much
I would go with uh
0.65 to 8 grams
so that would be less
and then the other thing too is um
when you start cutting down your protein
because you're doing intermittent
fasting too your efficiency of those
amino acids become better because you're
going through autophagy and you're like
the question is if you go on the long
fast where are you getting your protein
it's from autophagy your body is
recycling cleaning up all the damaged
protein and using that as new protein
that is kind of where where you want to
go into to start
replenishing the protein you have
um
so I think I would I would
I would have a little less protein and
just make sure it's quality which I
think you're already doing eggs fish you
know healthy Meats
um and then I think you're going to be
totally fine
thank you so much all right thanks so
much Jerry for joining us from Toledo
and and Steve uh so
um
I think I've mentioned this before I
have a lot of arthritis and old injuries
fracturing bones arthritis in my neck
and I have to really work on that
because of the arthritis so so I've
decided to go do some stem cell therapy
um and the type that is the real stem
cells therapy where you're basically
taking fat cells from your body and then
doing something with them and
re-injecting them into your body to get
the stem cell so I'm going to be doing
that in three weeks which I'll have to
do a video on that but um the problem
that I have Steve is that you need to
have a certain level of fat
to be able to do that and I don't have
enough fat so I have to get some fat and
unfortunately I I can't use someone
else's fat because I did find a lot of
people that would volunteer their fat
for for this cause so um
um I'm doing the exact opposite and I'm
telling people too I'm having
snacks between meals doing apples to try
to gain enough fat in three weeks
to be able to have enough fat to do this
which I don't it's really wild to
reverse this flow because I don't feel
good I don't feel good doing this like I
got brain fog I feel tired I'm like
okay I can't wait till this is done but
uh I have to literally have uh gain
about seven or five to seven pounds of
actual fat on my body so
well well some people love that but I
don't I don't like it but um yeah that's
not a challenge worth of fat right I
mean they want like a bowling ball full
of it that's amazing I guess they have
to harvest that much five five pounds of
extra fat is actually way more than you
might think oh yeah okay pretzel maker
from YouTube is it normal for blood
sugars to spike after exercise that's
interesting not it's not normal because
it should go down because you you're
burning off your sugar but there could
be like some compensating thing and also
you can have like instant resistance and
that could that could create a problem
because you're also generating a lot of
um stress hormones cortisol and you
might be mobilizing sugar and if you're
doing intense
exercise uh you know you're you're
actually living off your sugar you're
mobilizing the store glycogen but you're
going to be using that so it might it
might go up temporarily uh to to feed
the muscles because you're doing a type
of exercise but if you have a lower
level aerobic exercise where you're
doing long walks or bike things like
that
um within the first 30 minutes you're
going to be burning off a lot of that
stored sugar and your blood sugars are
not gonna usually go up and um
but your body's your body will try to
keep them from going down too by
mobilizing different types of fuel so
normally shouldn't go up question number
three here it is why can't we
assess a magnesium deficiency in a blood
test
that's very interesting audience climb
on it
look in your crystal ball and come back
by the way our producer Terry has a
recommendation he said for you to join
me at Krispy Kreme for a week or two and
you'll have the necessary tonnage to
proceed with your test oh oh you know
what that's a that's a really good point
because
I could very easily just live on potato
chips and popcorn stuff like that the
problem with that is you don't want to
do this with all the extra inflammation
that comes through with those
carbohydrates
if you do things like
maybe
um sweet potato or berries a lot of
berries and apples what will happen is
that you'll get at least less
inflammation as you gain
more weight and fat interesting well
Terry you should be ashamed of yourself
I want you to retract that suggestion
right away Carmen from YouTube I'm
allergic to Seafood what alternatives
would you suggest to provide the same
types of nutrition
well probably the biggest nutrient that
you're going to run into is being
deficient is the omega-3 fatty acids so
you could probably maybe do algae
algae might be a solution for the
omega-3 as far as the iodine goes
um hopefully you're not sensitive to
iodine
because you need iodine and I mean the
question is could you do sea kelp is
that an issue is that a possibility
because that would give you the iodine
that you need why don't we wrap up the
green room where we're going to go to
Osiris you know Cyrus if you'll unmute
yourself you're on with Dr Berg
Dr Berg good morning it's a privilege to
speak to you and ask you a question I
recently been watching a lot of your
videos and it's very informative
I'm five six I'm considered morbidly
obese and I don't have any issues as far
as cholesterol or diabetic but I do feel
that there's so much information I've
run across intermittent fasting I've run
across the carnivore diet I've run
across what you've shared with keto and
I just some direction as far as so much
information out there I was thinking
initially of doing a 36 hour fast to
quick start my metabolism and get some
testosterone and then go into a 24 20
slash four hour uh intermittent fasting
to do strictly carnivore but then I know
you've done videos on 16 8 and keto my
wife she's plant-based and so I'm not
plant-based I I don't like it but I was
just wondering if you can share some
information my cholesterol is about 220
it's a little on the high side but
that's because I've eaten poor Meats as
opposed to grass-fed grass finished and
um from time to time I I have the
occasional coffee with sugar or when I'm
driving I feel the fog so I have to pull
over and grab a donut just to
get things back into a a focused mind
but I don't want to be that way I don't
want to be morbidly obese I'm 51.
I'm about 270. I want to be at around
205.
what got it meant yeah so um how would
you say your your willpower is in
general do you have a lot of discipline
or do you have some some weaknesses
within the discipline or The Willpower
um I would say if I'm being honest with
myself when I'm focused and I'm targeted
on on a goal I can reach it uh
because I'm where I'm at I can't
honestly say oh yeah I'm focused and I
have willpower because I've gotten so
big right there's one thing to say and
then another thing to actually see it
the fruit of it uh Again by the grace of
God I don't have any major diseases or
illnesses but I I can improve on The
Willpower for sure
okay great so um so when you enter into
this ketosis there's a couple ways of
going about it um you can you can just
do one or the other if you wanted if you
want to go low carb or you can do
fasting
um like Steve for example does more of
the fasting in the keto
um if you combine both of them you'll
get there faster so I think the best way
to do this is step one cut out snacks
step two
cut out your breakfast
um
and then also start uh preparing your
your food so in your house there's not a
lot of these little snack foods or
refined carbs that you could go to it'd
make it difficult to go get them to make
it easier on yourself just kind of make
sure you replace a lot of the foods in
your fridge and stuff so you don't have
all these
Temptations
um and so that'll make it a little bit
easier
um and then here's the thing as soon as
you start to take action and just start
um you're going to notice something like
wow it's uh my Cravings are less I'm not
as hungry so that's going to make it
easier and then you
then you keep going and then you take
your lunch and your dinner as two meals
and then you slowly start to collapse
them with someone like you
um you'll probably do the best if you
can do one meal a day and don't worry
about calories just
have one meal a day and uh
and then that way you have like 20 you
know more than 20 hours of fasting
and that would actually get you to where
you need to go
um really A to B if you had exercise to
that and plus there's no Cravings so
it's going to make it a lot easier and
then the only other thing you have to
deal with at that point is like past
habits that you have like routines
social activity Temptation with other
people birthdays events and those type
of things which is a problem but you
want to build on your success
and um I think what's really cool about
the fasting is that it actually
strengthens your willpower because uh
you uh
it's like you have to avoid something
and then you'll get stronger over time
and then once you do it
you get the results then you can't you
won't go back because you're going to
feel so good just like Steve you're
going to just feel good
um like wow this is this is really worth
it and then fill in all the other
details with the videos I have
um
um but right now I think you have enough
information to be dangerous I mean
Successful
um so it's just a matter of uh diving in
I wouldn't even
do anything from right now other than
I'm starting immediately
and then um Dive Right In get your feet
wet don't think about it
and then just keep being educated about
it because uh
um there's no reason at your age why you
shouldn't
be 205 and feel strong and then avoid
all the other health problems that come
along with the issues of having insulin
resistance Dr Berg I do have one other
question if you don't mind yeah go ahead
in the mornings uh apple cider vinegar
or or krill oil versus fish oil just
those additional supplements that will
supplement or add I should say to what
I'm not eating uh do you recommend doing
those type of supplements in a carnivore
or those type of supplements in a Keto
type
um both both
um
because there's there's two main
categories so see when you when you do
carnivore or keto you're
they're both ketogenic diets
carnivore is just without any plants
okay so you're not doing vegetables or
fruits or anything like that
so they're both keto they're um so when
you burn ketones there's two general
things that you need to uh be aware of
one is the electrolytes including sea
salt more of those and then B vitamins
because
um that way
um you just satisfied more of the demand
for those two categories and then you'll
have you have you'll have very little
complications you feel good you'll
you'll substitute the great all the
things you need but you mentioned the
Krill for the omega-3 that's another
thing but you could be in carnivore or
keto easily get that from fish oils
things like that so but the electrolytes
in the B vitamins are two at the top of
the list of course
you get electrolytes with trace minerals
that then that's the icing on the cake
I'm sorry I shouldn't talk about cake
but but trace minerals are going to be
good for you
um like the zinc
or testosterone iodine or
brain IQ like just so I think that would
be my answer on that thank you sir
you're welcome that's great Osiris
thanks for a great call and let's go to
question number three which asked why
can't we assess magnesium deficiency in
a blood test and we've got uh is that
called a core I'm a hundred percent uh
say because it's stored in the tissue
and bones and not in the blood that is
correct 99 of all magnesium is not in
the blood
it's an instant inside the cell
intracellular so
that goes along with other other
nutrients too like potassium
um I mean the thing about the blood is
the body does everything it can to keep
a constant in the blood so
this is the problem when you get a blood
test it doesn't really give you a lot of
information it doesn't tell you what's
happening with your insulin levels
um
because there's a lot of things
compensated to keep that blood stable
so there's other testing like I said
that metabolomic testing that looks
deeper into the cells within the blood
and other tissues to really figure this
out but I want to do more videos on this
because
um boy if I had that in practice oh my
goodness it would be a game changer
these this this new technology of being
able to test people in a more Dynamic
way and really figure things out because
it's all about just getting
more knowledge about uh or information
about someone's problem and uh
that's really what we need more of um
to get get all the information so we can
solve the mystery okay true or false
there is strong evidence that depression
is a serotonin deficiency in the brain
climb on that folks Becky from YouTube
should menopausal women do omad I need
to lose 60 pounds absolutely yes they
should do omad and that would give you
good 23 hours of fasting which is going
to be
awesome to be able to you know start tap
finally tapping into your fats so you
can actually run on your fat lose the
use the fat up
to the point where um you can really hit
your goal I think that would be smart
all right very good Mary from Facebook
Ken dim help with night sweats for
someone who is menopausal and under a
great deal of stress
yes yes dim is a concentrated
cruciferous compound
um
you know these plant-based estrogens
that like
um cruciferous for example uh they're
phytoestrogens and people don't
understand like what does that mean it
means they have the ability to um act
like estrogen
but help balance estrogen so you don't
have the dangerous one
you have the protective one
so that you don't have to worry about
getting more estrogen by taking these
compounds because that's not how they
work I mean just take a look at the
strength of them
I mean it's like ten thousand to a
hundred thousand times less strong on
The receptors for estrogen so you're
talking about real subtle changes but
potent changes to help balance estrogen
within the receptors uh to balance out
the good and bad uh to lower the risk of
things like breast cancer and estrogen
dominance and fibroids and ovarian cysts
and fibrocystic breast disease things
like that there is a strong evidence of
depression is a serotonin deficiency in
the brain and they can't make up their
mind fifty percent say yay 50 say nay
there is
zero actual evidence that
there is a serotonin deficiency in your
brain serotonin is a neurotransmitter
and there's a drug antipsychotic called
um
um selective serotonin reptic Inhibitors
and basically
what they do is they block the receptive
serotonin so then your serotonin level
goes up
there is no evidence that that will um
improve
depression but it can create a numb an
emotion numbing in effect numbing your
emotions and also numbing
other things too there's a severe side
effect of Black Box warning label
suicide there's other things like um
numbing of your genitalia
um erectile dysfunction which
can
last for a long time even if you stop
the medication so it's a really crazy
thing because this theory that you have
a chemical imbalance in the brain uh
has not proven out to be true at all yet
they've sold billions and billions and
billions of these drugs
and unfortunately someone goes in there
thinking there's a lot of research
behind this but there's not there's not
there's not any research that shows that
it's a in fact there is some research
that shows that too much serotonin
causes depression
so
so anyway I want to release a video on
that and it's
um since I if I'm not mistaken
I think 15 at least 15 to 20 of the
population is on a psych drug
they should they should know more about
this information they should know the
research
and um
they should also be given Alternatives
like vitamin D
vitamin D think about in the winter
people get depressed why because of the
lack of vitamin D
but there's other things too
um
but stay tuned for that video Teresa
from YouTube I love spirulina please
share with us your thoughts on the
benefits of spirulina
NASA studied Spirulina for their
astronauts in space because it literally
is um
one of the nutrient dense foods out
there and said to find a way to to
consume it but it has protein and has
all the vitamins it has the minerals
it's very very interesting
um it says B12
and so it's if you're a vegan you should
be doing spirulina on a regular basis is
chlorophyll it has phytonutrients
um
so it's a it's a really good
um product and
you can get it in a shake as a vegetable
or a salad substitute so I have some
information on my website on that but um
for those people that don't like salads
you can drink drink your salad spirulina
is just a good good source of that Lily
from YouTube I am fasting and wondering
how much wheatgrass powder can I have
without breaking my fast or disrupting
autophagy would the guidelines be the
same for uh chorella did I say that
right
both both similar
um one's algae one's from a wheatgrass
But realize there's not
even is under one calorie
one one calorie per serving so you're
not going to have to worry about your
blood sugars you're not gonna have to
worry about autophagy because it's so
this this whole breaking of ketosis has
to do with calories how many calories
it's not and it's just insignificant so
I wouldn't worry about
supplements unless you start adding in
these protein supplements
protein powders the whey protein powders
that type of thing well thank you so
much for your attention your questions
stay tuned for more uh interesting
videos this next week have a wonderful
weekend I'll see you next week
foreign
