hi guys that another question from
someone who wanted to know do sit-ups
really flatten your belly okay well
first of all most of the fat in the gut
is coming from higher levels of insulin
but there's two different types of fat
you have the superficial fat which is
right underneath the skin and you have
the deeper fat around the organs that's
called the visceral fat so we have
visceral and superficial both of these
types of fat are being caused primarily
by too much insulin now you could also
have too much cortisol from the adrenal
gland that comes from stress
but what cortisol does is it turns your
muscles into sugar which elevates
influence so ultimately it's the insulin
that does this situation but it can come
from you know stress but mainly it will
come from eating too many carbohydrates
and the refined nature and sugars - just
corn syrup and also just eating too
frequent so if you were to do a hardcore
exercise routine that targets the
abdominal muscles yet omitted an eating
plan that reduced the insulin by
lowering the carbs and decreasing the
frequency of eating the results would be
insignificant so if you have a gut and
you're frustrated and it's not working
with your exercise routine and you want
to speed things up just realize that the
superficial fat and the visceral fat
both are directly and only coming from
high levels of insulin and getting in a
program that targets insulin will be
your best solution in getting your
stomach flat so I put a link down below
of exactly how to do it hey thank you so
much for watching keep spreading the
word and share this video
