hi guys I'm gonna talk about the amazing
health benefits of egg yolks okay now if
you ask the person on the street what
about egg yolks they probably think it's
bad for you it's gonna clog your
arteries in fact when I'm in line buying
my eggs at the grocery store I usually
have seven dozen of course I'm checking
out and they always look at me strange
like what are you buying all these eggs
is it Easter and I'll just tell them I
you know 18 kids but we go through a lot
of eggs I have five people in my house
so we go through a lot of eggs I did a
seminar a while ago at Exxon gas in
Mobile and and after do the summit I
thought they liked it but they they said
you can't come back and do further
seminars and I said why not
they said well because you're
recommending 45 eggs a day I said what I
said
I recommend four to five eggs a day not
45 and they go oh okay you can come back
so I did a series of seminars there and
on health but egg yolks have amazing
things and egg whites really lower
amounts of nutrition essential fatty
acids essential meaning must come from
diet body can't make okay so that will
provide essential fatty acids you also
get a one to one ratio of omega-6 to
omega-3 if you consume eggs like this
pasture-raised Organic okay these are
the eggs that you need to get they're a
couple dollars more per dozen but that
couple dollars is worth it okay because
you're doing in a minute fasting too so
you'll be able to save on that but if
you buy commercial eggs that's a ten to
one ratio omega-6 to omega-3 so it's
just going to create inflammation and I
bet you anything any study that shows
any negative effects from eggs they're
using commercial eggs they're not using
you know eggs from chickens that were
fed on grass and roaming in the farmland
they're not going to do that so omega-3
is really good for inflammation skin
heart hormones okay
egg yolks are loaded with vitamin k2
vitamin k2
make sure bones really strong they also
remove calcium from the arteries and the
joints so it kind of as a transporter
for calcium keeps it out of the wrong
place choline did you realize that egg
yolks have 10 times more choline than
broccoli choline is amazing for brain
support for making sure you don't get a
fatty liver if you do have a fatty liver
choline will strip the fat off and then
people are worried about consuming eggs
thinking that they're gonna get bad or
have a fabulous no it has choline
choline counteracts that it's great also
for the nerves that connect to the
digestive system people that are
constipated actually and get improvement
when they consume choline it's also one
of the rare foods that have all the fat
soluble vitamins so we talked about k2
loaded with vitamin A okay D e k1 uh a
for the eyes for the skin for the mucous
membranes of the sinuses D for the bone
and E for the heart k1 for the blood
okay they're important biotin great for
the hair loss supporting proteins folic
acid B vitamins especially b5 b6 which
basically our helper vitamins that just
put everything together allow you to
metabolize better generate energy make
proteins iron good source of iron if you
have a vegetarian source of iron it's
not the same okay it's not the same this
is like a much better quality absorbable
usable iron zinc a trace minore that a
lot of people are deficient in zinc is
one of those things that helps blood
sugars it helps your immune system and
it also is a trace mineral to help you
build protein as well calcium and this
thing called phospholipids now what is
that phospholipids are healthy fats that
help build the structure of your cells
your cell has a double layer of that
made those phospholipids
and that cell membrane is the key to
actually protecting this cell and
allowing the transport of things going
in and out of the cell there's a lot of
diseases that occur when the cell
membrane becomes damaged phospholipids
are also intimately involved with the
mitochondria which is the energy factor
of the cell and hormones when you
consume egg yolks you increase
glutathione this is a real powerful
compound that protects the liver and
other parts of the body also that
increase good cholesterol HDL okay so
you don't have to worry about consuming
high quality egg yolks I eat the whole
egg I do four eggs every single day
mainly for my lunch which I don't have a
breakfast so the egg yolk is I believe
one of the most healthiest things you
consume to provide the nutrients the
protein and the healthy fats on a
healthy ketogenic diet hey guys a lot of
you already have my book some of you
don't but this new edition called the
new body type guide is an upgrade from
my last edition called the seven
principles of fat burning it has a
hundred fifty six images three hundred
seventy eight pages full glossary I talk
about keyed out in a minute fasting the
body types in detail I have a new
stressed chapter I'm going to show you
exactly what to eat any comprehensive
FAQ I put a link down below check it out
