hey it's Dr Burk here in this video
we're going to talk about how to raise
testosterone in men okay so AG the aging
process alone lowers testosterone by the
time you hit 40 testosterone is on its
way down it's is peaked at 18 years old
okay so um and then what happens a lot
of people start taking biogenic hormones
the problem with taking biogenic
hormones is that it inactivates your own
testicle and adrenals that are supposed
to make it okay so we end up creating a
problem with a shrinking testicle and an
adrenal that becomes inactivated if you
take it too
long the symptoms for low testosterone
would be prostate enlargement now
sometimes people will have this
confusion and say that well I thought
testosterone causes a Prost enlargement
and they're talking about a powerful
form of testosterone called
DHT well first of all if testosterone
causes a prostate enlargement then then
as you get older and men have more
incidents of prostate enlargement then
that does not correlate with the aging
process that lowers testosterone so
really what happens it's the lower
testosterone that makes the estrogen
become more it's the estrogen dominance
in a male body that creates the
enlargement of the uh prostate in fact
certain doctors use DHT to shrink the
prostate so more testosterone will make
the prostate healthier and protect the
prostate against the estrogen decrease
libido erectile dysfunction we talked
about the shrinking testes muscle loss
just it's hard to get muscle tone you're
working out you can't get the tone
toning the muscles you start losing
collagen things start hanging from your
body like breast tissue and the skin and
collagen loss of Vitality loss of body
hair even in your like lower part of
your legs man boobs higher voice other
than that you have nothing to worry
about right okay what causes this
problem number one too much estrogen
it's in the it's in the meats it's in
the dairy products it's in the food GMO
food that's why you have to do organic
hormone
free um it's even in the water supply
there's estrogen if you do tap water so
that's how you have to get a filter and
only drink filtered water and most
filters will uh get rid of the estrogen
but yeah and it's you it's in the water
supply um having liver um be damaged if
you have a fatty liver you're going to
produce more estrogen and that's going
to lower testosterone
unfortunately if you drink alcohol
that's very estrogenic that's going to
make the estrogen go up and the
testosterone go down I'm sorry but
that's the way it is high insulin
insulin from sugar like grazing at night
snack sming too much like by the time
you have dinner and you keep eating from
that point while you're sitting there
watching TV it's going to spike insulin
it's going to lower testosterone so you
want to do three meals a day and that's
it maybe even two meals a
day lowfat diets uh that'll do it um
medications uh
statins uh high blood pressure
medications uh diabetic medications
those are the three that really mess
with this hormone um and this other
thing called High aromatase that's an
enzyme in your body that's made by the
adrenals it's also made by the testes
that converts your testosterone to
estrogen so here you are trying to
salvage that last bit of testosterone
you have and this darn enzyme is
converting it to estrogen and the body
is becoming more
feminized um well there's a couple
things that you can do um to correct
that number one this remedy called
stingy nettler root it's a aromatase
inhibitor
okay zinc is a romat inhibitor you can
take those to decrease this U process
happening in your in your liver and your
body so those are two good remedies that
you can get from the he store uh the
other thing is to increase growth
hormone growth hormone is the anti-aging
hormone growth hormone is made uh by the
pituitary and it works through your
liver wherever growth hormone goes
testosterone follows so there's there's
several things that will increase growth
hormone um eating moderate not high
amount of protein with each meal
um sleep getting enough sleep lowering
stress which will enhance the Sleep
intense full body and exercise that will
Spike growth hormone Spike testosterone
deadlifts are the best workout to
increase testosterone because you're
using upper body and lower body but you
have to get your form down and work up
very gradually or you could hurt your
back um inter
fasting okay that will also correct the
insulin right here so not eating so
frequent will help this as well it's
interesting uh the whole the whole thing
is it's like I don't know who came up
with this idea we have to have three
meals a day or six meals a day you got
want to eat when you're hungry if you
eat the right things you're going to be
more satisfied you'll work off your own
fat and you'll need to eat less but you
never want to eat if you're not hungry
okay anti-estrogenic foods that would be
cruciferous okay kale broccoli brussel
sprouts cabbage very very important to
clean out the estrogen because it could
be the estrogen that's holding down your
testosterone if you want something to
enhance that I have a a product called
whole cruciferous food it has all the
cruciferous you take about six of these
three to six a day um and that will help
you into uh to to enhance these
cruciferous foods and then you want to
decrease cortisol cortisol is a stress
hormone from the adrenals um and that uh
is kind of dependent on how much sleep
that you get but also
Sun uh I had this guy he had this pot
belly and all you have to do is go to
Florida for one week in the sun and it
just comes right down it's amazing so a
good amount of sun lowers cortisol that
will help shrink the belly as well so
that's another remedy yes you can do
vitamin D in the winter but if you can
get some sun that would help lowering
cortisol okay so these are just some
tips to help you uh enhance this hormone
so put your comments below thanks for
watching
