hi guys in this video I want to create a
short video on co-enzyme Q10 had some
questions on what it is so let's just
kind of talk about it coenzyme Q10 is a
vitamin like compound that is used to
make energy in your body your body makes
it and you you can also get it from food
or supplements um but it's mainly for
cellular energy because it helps repair
damage in the mitochondria which is the
energy factories of the body
in your body you have um a location
where all the energy is produced and
it's in this thing called the
mitochondria and the mitochondria have
DNA that are supported by co-enzyme
Q10 um so it's like an antioxidant on
steroids very powerful protective Factor
against the DNA in the mitochondria the
form that I would recommend is called
ubiquinol because it it's absorbed eight
times more than regular coenzyme Q10
it's a little bit pricey but you don't
need as much it's mainly for the heart
it's also good for the brain but if
you're aging or you're on statin drugs
those are the two things that really
deplete coenzyme Q10 and I highly
recommend you consume this if you're
aging and you're on statins all right
thanks for watching hey you probably
already subscribe but if you haven't
press this little button down below and
I will keep you updated
