so I wanted to create a short video on a
question that someone had and what is
CLA conjugated linoleic acid okay this
is a type of fat that can help you burn
fat comes from dairy in animal fat it's
also an egg yolks but the key is you
wanted a hundred percent grass-fed you
don't want it mixed between grains and
grass because in the last few months if
you switch this animal to grains for
flavor or whatever you're going to
nullify this CoA and not get near the
amounts now here's some of the things
that it can do it can actually increase
muscle strength so if you're an exercise
and you want more strength this would be
a good thing to look at increase
exercise endurance so you can go longer
it actually helps your metabolic rate
it'll help your immune system it has
anti-cancer properties can decrease body
fat and you can also stabilize your
blood sugars so when you buy your meats
I would definitely go to the farmers
market not just the regular grocery
store where they don't always have the
grass-fed there's one company that I use
a lot that's called us wellness meats I
get no kickbacks or anything but I'll
put a link down below for more
information I do know that they're a
hundred percent grass-fed so if you're
into exercise and you're trying to build
muscle this is something you want to
look up alright thanks for watching so I
hope you're coming to the keto Health
Summit coming up in October so I want to
quickly comment on what we're gonna do
that's different from other conventions
okay the problem with these other
conventions is they give you information
over a load okay it's so much data that
you're basically swimming in a sea of
information we're going to do things
very differently we're only going to
cover the most important things that
make a huge difference now there are
three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory in concentration
that's going to blow you away
and number two I'm going to show
you how to increase your stress
tolerance so you are completely calm all
the time alright and number three and
most importantly if you have a slow
metabolism if you've dyed it for a long
time and everything is kind of just
really slow I'm going to show you how to
get complete control over your
metabolism so you can literally turn up
the dial as high as you want and control
as much weight as you want to lose and
these three things are just a tiny bit
of what you're going to learn in the
summit so click the link below get
signed up and I will see you in October
