hey it's me again listen I recently had
someone who told me they were starving
when they're doing in a minute fasting
so I wanted to show them and anyone else
interested what I would recommend if
your stomach is growling or you're
severely hungry doing this in a minute
fasting okay well number one we want to
cut things back you're going too fast so
if you're at a two meal per day meal
pattern go back to a three meal per day
you have not graduated yet you want to
do this so gradual that your body starts
getting used to it okay so just add a
meal all right next one you want to
increase more fat with the meal fat is
really the key to allow you to go longer
okay so you might need to increase the
fat and also make sure you're doing
enough protein some people cannot get by
with three ounces they need to do six
ounces some people need to do seven
ounces per meal so just realize that
that could be a factor but again you
don't want to go to much protein
actually will stabilize your blood
sugars and also it's very important in
the recovery process of building all
your proteins but just kind of look at
both of these we don't want to do
excessive proteins we really want a
moderate amount which is about three to
six ounces per meal sometimes a little
bit more alright number three this is
the most important reduce carbohydrates
if your carbs are too high you will
never ever get into ketosis not the way
you get into ketosis and adapt to
ketosis fat burning is by keeping the
carbs low okay so these people that are
doing kind of whatever they want to eat
within a minute fasting a lot of those
guys have a lot of problems especially
fully adapting to fat burning okay so
here you are burning sugar okay we want
to go to fat burning you have to build
enzymes so if there's too much sugar in
the bloodstream right here too much
carbohydrate then the body will never
fully adapt to fat burning and you won't
be in ketosis and you're going to be
suffering as you're doing this because
trying to do a intermittent fasting
program when your body's not adapted
you're not going to be able to tap into
your own fat reserve so you're
constantly going high low sugar and then
high when you eat and then low sugar and
it's torturous to the brain you're gonna
be irritable grouchy weak tired all
right number four increase the amount of
vegetables in the diet okay you need
seven to ten cups why so you get two
potassium and magnesium
without those two minerals it's going to
be really really hard for your body to
fully adapt into the state of ketosis
where you're actually burning fat
consistently okay and those nutrients
are also necessary to to improve insulin
resistance so on the days that I don't
consume enough vegetables I can actually
feel my blood Sugar's not doing quite
right okay number five apple cider
vinegar
this will help from two angles one is to
help you get more digestion with the
protein fix the stomach and secondly it
actually will greatly improve your
insulin situation in your blood Sugar's
so this alone will allow you to go
longer without eating it's a real simple
thing I'm surprised that more people
don't do it okay number six if you're
having to snack and you absolutely have
to snack do it with fat okay do it with
fat don't do it with a carb I would not
do what protein do with fat that has the
least response to insulin so recently I
flew across the country and I didn't
have breakfast and so we flew about four
and a half hour flight and pretty much
both my wife and I ate nothing all day
long until four o'clock you would think
we'd be starving we were not starving
we weren't even hungry just a little bit
hungry we did eat at that point and we
are both at two meals per day but the
point is that if you're traveling and
you travel a lot and you're wondering
well how am I gonna do this and how am I
gonna get food it is the most awesome
thing because you're not gonna have to
eat so frequent you can go and travel
and not have to and do your immanent
fasting and feel totally fine where all
these other people are needing the
snacks and they're tired and falling
asleep when you're just going for hours
and hours and you're totally fine but
you have to be able to adapt to that and
it takes a little bit
work and knowledge okay and also it
takes about three days to get about
fifty percent of your body into ketosis
okay you're not fully 100% adapted but
you're on your way and then you give it
another day and it goes to maybe 70
percent adapted another day and 80
percent adapted till eventually probably
a week you're gonna be a hundred percent
adapted to fat-burning now some people
are gonna take longer some people a
little shorter really depends on how bad
your blood Sugar's has been and how bad
you had insulin resistance but the point
is that give it time and in the
transition do all these things that I'm
talking about so you don't have to
suffer you don't have to go through any
type of feelings of starvation alright
thanks for watching hey before you go
definitely sign up for my free keto
course I put a link down below it's on
messenger in Facebook but it will give
you all the basics it's very quick it's
like three or four videos and it's free
check it out
