so when you look at um let's just take
some hummus okay got some hummus here
and if you ever look in the back of the
label right underneath the nutritional
facts go ahead and start reading that it
says vitamin A
0% vitamin C 0% calcium 0% iron 2% now
what does that mean it means that
there's no vitamin C no vitamin A and
only you get 2% of the daily recommend
amount of iron is in here that's all
you're going to get so you're going to
have to find something that replaces the
98 percentile cuz it's not in there
check this out here's some almonds okay
roasted almonds vitamin A take a while
guess 0% vitamin C zero calcium 8%
you're still going to have to find like
what 90 2% more calcium iron is 6%
vitamin E is 35% okay so we have some
vitamin E right but
it's added synthetically okay that's why
so you got to look and because if
they're adding these like like if you
buy like um bread for example and it
says enriched with vitamins they're just
adding synthetics it's not real so it
might say it's have it has all the
nutrition but really it doesn't okay
here's some Nature's promise I like that
nature it has a picture of leafes right
there so it must be good so it says
right here vitamin A
zero vitamin C zero calcium Z iron 4%
like it's like how we going to how we
going to now now do you see the problem
there's no nutrition in the food let's
just take a cottage cheese okay now we
got vitamin A 6% it's a little better
calcium is 20% vitamin D is 10% that's
just because they added it iron zero
vitamin C zero crazy crazy uh let's take
cheese all right let's take some cheese
vitamin A 6% vitamin C 0% calcium 20%
iron
2% all right let's
take nature give Nature's promise
they're promising us some nature and
it's organic so it must be good Roma
lettuce let's take a peek vitamin a 20%
okay big deal vitamin C 4% calcium 2%
iron
2% that's not a lot let's go up with
Earthbound Farms organic this is an
herbal blend okay this is a little bit
better higher quality okay now we got
vitamin A9 % okay we're coming up the
chain vitamin C
6% calcium
6% and iron 20% okay we're a little bit
better all right so now let's
take my favorite kale all right let's
see kale vitamin A
250% that's way more than you need okay
vitamin C
160% calcium 10% iron 8% but still it's
still not enough to fortify now of
course they're only talking about a
couple vitamins and minerals but you
need a lot of nutrients right so you can
end up if you really wanted to get all
your trace minerals you would have to
consume
27,000 calories a day of food um not
2,700 27,000 so it's it's virtually
impossible to get all the nutrition
unless you enhance so I'm going to
recommend you try this stuff right here
because um all you need it says take
four dropper FS right but when you suck
it up it only comes up halfway that's
considered one dropper full we want two
of those unless you're really burnt out
take four but just you just need two a
day you squirt them in water in the
morning drink them down and you have all
the Trac mins you need all the required
Trac mens and they all plant-based so
they go in like a rocket ship okay so
check it
out
