today I want to talk about the real
story behind the gun control debate now
I'm sure of you've been tracking this in
the media but the media is not talking
about this one point in a recent video I
mentioned that there was a huge
incidents of kids on psych drugs which
are involved in the shootings and I want
to show you this clip with Pierce Morgan
as he subtly sticks in this little part
about we need more Health Care
funding check it
out L to see President Obama increase
Federal funding for mental health
treatment for all Americans who need it
I think that would go a long way towards
at least trying to stop the deadly toll
of gun violence in America but
tonight more healthare
funding really well check out this other
clip the idea that 40% of all gun trades
in America have no background checks is
clearly lunacy as is the lack of real
investment and funding into mental
health but what I would say is I'm
telling you this is exactly the real
story they're trying to use the gun
control as a Reason by putting more kids
on drugs which is exactly the opposite
thing you want to do because these drugs
have massive side effects aggressive
behavior suicide Tendencies and turning
these kids in with toxic brains into
doing crazy things you didn't have this
when you were a kid it's the drugs it's
not the
guns and one more thing I want to show
you here's a of drug companies Health
Care fraud criminal actions here's drug
companies that are losing in court
billions of dollars for paxel Wellbutrin
different psych drugs uh glos Smith
Klein lost $3 billion in a recent
lawsuit fizer lost a billion Abbott Labs
800 million MC 650 million MC another
650 million again gxo Smith client
another $600 million these are criminal
charges but no one's getting in trouble
the the owners of the companies or the
CEOs are not getting in trouble it's
just they're losing billions but of
course they make billions Eli Lily
$438 million abbit Labs 400 million this
is crazy it just goes on and on and on
listen the problem has never been the
guns it never has been the problem the
problem is the drugs that is the new
thing that has been introduced in
society and it has known side effects
that causes suicide it causes aggressive
behavior so remember that then next time
you see a
shooting
