hey guys I wanted to share with you just
some data on the autoimmune diseases a
lot of times it's really confusing if
you have a problem with one of the
autoimmune diseases I just want to give
you some insights on my opinion about it
first of all what is an autoimmune
condition it's basically a condition
where your body has made antibodies
against itself so you have this self
attack so you got immune cells that are
attacking your own tissues and it could
be any tissue or organ or gland or even
a hormone so alopecia for example that's
autoimmune of your own hair okay so you
have hair spots of hair it's falling out
ankle loing spinal litis that's of the
joints that's a condition over time
where a person literally turns into a
stone every single joint becomes Frozen
it's terrible diabetes Well there're one
of the causes of a certain type of
diabetes is autoimmune of the cells that
make insulin pancreas uh Graves that's a
hyper thyroid it's too much it's a hyper
thyroid um autoimmune and then Hashimoto
is a hypo slow thyroid condition um both
autoimmune and then you have Lupus which
is the skin in the joints uh multiple
sclerosis that's of the brain and the
nervous system uh miastenia gravis
that's of the thymus gland that's a
little immune gland on top of your heart
uh and then we have rheumato arthritis
which is a very really tragic um um
destruction of your connective tissue
around the joints and it can deform the
joints scar sarcosis that's of the lung
so you have these little tumors in the
lung that you're these antibodies are
attacking so so those are just some a
small list of a sample of different
conditions right so I have my own theory
about this there are theories floating
around relating to
um um the vitamin D deficiency because
the vitamin D receptor has been hijacked
by microbes okay so they use a certain
medication to try to help that um also
microbial um invasion of like a virus or
a certain microbe that can cause this
that's another theory that's floating
around that's so they put people on
antibiotics for a long term okay but
there is usually one drug that they
usually always use it's for inflammation
it's it's a steroid it's prazone why and
my question is why do they use that well
what is a steroid it's an adrenal
hormone okay so if we turn into Frank
net Encyclopedia of
Endocrinology page 84 talks about
cortisol that's that's cortisone or
prazone cortisol is a an
anti-inflammatory it's also part of the
it controls part of the immune system so
it controls the white blood cell so if
the adrenals that produce cortisol are
burnt out in a condition called Addison
you don't have an immune system system
it's gone so that's the danger of the
not having adrenal so this is what it
says right here it
says when cortisol is like way too high
over a long period of time which
basically is stress induced you get a
breakdown of intracellular barriers
raising
susceptibility to immune
weaknesses
okay so what does that mean it means
that the
adrenals are countering stress and when
you lose control of the adrenal you
become more susceptible to viruses and
bacterias and immune problems okay
that's what that means
so every single case that I've ever seen
with Ms in the last 27 years and there's
been a lot of them they've always tell
me the same thing I say when did you get
this condition and they tell me when
they got it I say what happened just
before and there's always a stress
always lost of a loved one a divorce uh
a serious trauma a pregnancy a lot of
women during pregnancy they can develop
conditions but here's the interesting
thing autoimmune diseases turn off when
you're
pregnant so if you could just want to
stay pregnant all the time you your
autoimmune diseases just go in remission
so there's a
self-protecting mechanism so these
antibodies don't destroy the fetus so
that's interesting so I believe that
autoimmune this is my own Theory comes
from a weakness within the adrenal
system induced by a stress state so here
are some things that I would recommend
to do I would whatever triggered it you
have to handle that stress right you
have to improve that situation so if
it's involved with a stressful job you
know get another job fast go for long
walks when people under stress they tend
to gravitate to pleasure foods and junk
Foods right that's a big mistake the
other thing that you want to do when you
have inflammation especially like the
rheumatoid arthritis you want to really
increase your potassium now in the in
this other videos I talked about I
talked about you need 4700 milligrams of
potassium with these conditions you need
about
5500 milligrams of potassium why because
pottassium decreases the need for
adrenal uh function so you have more
potassium adrenals can be chilled out
and they can work better and the other
thing is the adrenal glands dump
potassium so you lose your potassium
with stress um so we want to support the
adrenals that would be my suggestion
with with these conditions so that's my
theory and I'm sticking to it hey guys
thank you so much for watching please
click the Subscribe button and I will
see you in the next
video
