now there are seven things in a lot of
foods that will ruin your liver and I
wanted to increase your awareness on
this because a lot of people are being
exposed to these things on a regular
basis and they don't know it and as far
as your liver goes you're about as
healthy as your liver your skin is a
reflection of the liver if your liver is
bad uh your Skin's not going to look too
good the liver is a huge organ it's like
three pounds it helps you with digestion
it helps your blood clot mainly it helps
helps you detoxify poisons it turns
poisonous things into harmless things
okay and so let's Dive Right In and go
through the list number one you want to
avoid soy protein iets here's big
question about soy protein isolates what
do you think they do to isolate this
protein from soy um well they use
chemicals it's highly processed they
have to go through a whole series of
things to extract this um concentrated
protein and to do that they have to use
something called hexane that's a
petroleum byproduct it's a solvent it's
not good for the liver it's actually a
neurotoxin and so when you look at like
diet shakes or Diet powders or protein
bars or veggie burgers always read the
label I don't recommend consuming it if
it has soil soy protein isets the way I
was introduced to soy protein icelet is
that I had a series of people that came
into my clinic that were on the diet
that was called Ideal Protein and that
was a major ingredient in this so-called
healthy ketogenic plan where it had very
low carbs but it also had very very low
fat okay and very very low quality
ingredients and so it was filled with
soy protein isets and I noticed when
people got on that program when they
lost weight and they did lose weight
they didn't look healthy and a number of
them develop serious like liver
inflammation higher amount of liver
enzymes a lot of digestive problems and
gallbladder issues and so when they came
off those products it cleared up they
they did much better all right number
two uh fructose okay you have high
fructose corn syrup you have the
fructose and fruit you have something
called a Gava nectar as a sweetener it's
like
70% uh fructose and even table sugar is
half fructose and half glucose now
fructose is a very interesting sugar
because it's not metabolized by all of
your cells it's only metabolized by your
liver so anytime you consume fructose
your liver has to deal with this sugar
it is stuck to deal with breaking it
down and metabolizing it and this is why
people that consume a lot of hypose corn
syrup boy they just develop a fatty
liver way more than if they were going
to be consuming just glucose itself and
even people think that a Gava nectar is
so healthy but it's not because it
contains fructose but here's the
confusing thing fructose on the glycemic
index is pretty low it's like 19 glucose
is 100 okay so if you have a sugar that
has half glucose and have fructose it's
going to be right in the middle like
about 74 75ish but the point is that if
you are just relying on the glycemic
index okay that's your your principle
that you operate off of and you're like
wow it's low I'm going to go ahead and
eat it and you don't understand that the
liver has to metabolize that specific
sugar and indirectly it creates a lot of
problems especially with insulin
resistance then you're can have more
awareness and then you can actually have
do the right thing by avoiding too much
fructose but the point is that despite
being low on the glycemic index fructose
is not a good sugar especially for the
liver especially if you want to avoid
getting a fatty liver and one more point
about this especially when you're
dealing with high fructose corn syrup
All That Corn is GMO and that gives you
another level of toxicity like
glyphosate which is an herbicide that's
not good for the liver instead use sugar
alcohols like arrol xyl use Stevia monk
fruit all right number three vegetable
fats now vegetable fats sound so healthy
don't they I mean they're just the fat
of vegetables well there's actually not
much fat in vegetables okay if you look
at um salad leafy greens just look at
the nutritional profile and you'll see
that there's not much oil or fat in
vegetables so despite being called
vegetable oils it's really grain oil
and it's like Bean oils as in soybean
oil and I'm talking about the corn oil
the soy oil canola cotton seed oil these
oils are very uh processed they're very
oxidating to your tissues which means
they create a lot of inflammation a lot
of inflammation uh they're a very
fragile oil that's omega-6 an average
person in the US consumes about 70
pounds of this vegetable oil I've kind
of done a little switch on these oils
about I don't know 30 to 40 years ago
where they switched all of our saturated
fats uh with unsaturated fats
unfortunately so our membranes now are
being built with this these unsaturated
fats and it's creating a lot of problems
with um inflammation and um and with
that comes a lot of other issues not to
mention GMO okay more glyphosate which
is Roundup Ready in these products so
what you want to do is you want to
consume a lot more omega-3 fatty acids
sardines civer oil salmon things like
that and just as an FYI um there was a
metaanalysis with over 72 different
studies that showed that there's no
benefit from shifting from saturated
fats to unsaturated fats zero benefits
in fact there's a lot of negative things
that have occurred or number four whey
protein powder now think about what whey
protein powder is it's a protein in milk
and dairy and it's highly concentrated
to be extremely lowfat if not zero fat
okay and anytime you uh consume
something that's refined out of the
normal complex that nature is designed
it comes with a package and so way
protein is inflammatory it's a a bit
toxic to the liver it increases
inflammatory markers and I remember long
ago before I had any Awareness on health
I wanted to gain weight okay this was in
high school and so what did I do I
consumed um protein powder and I started
Ching that stuff down and man did I get
sick because not only was it filled with
whey protein powder it was filled with
the next thing on the list which is
maltodextrin so when you consume protein
make sure you consume it with the with
the fat that's nature has packaged that
protein with but maltodextrin which is
number five is in so many foods it's
crazy it's in all the protein powders as
the first ingredient sometimes um here's
the problem with multiex it's a
synthesized or synthetic sugar and it is
higher than glucose on the glycemic
index okay it ranges between 110 to 100
and I think 19 it's just off the scale
so you're consuming something that is
way worse than sugar for your blood
sugars for your pancreas for your weight
for your liver and maltodextrin is put
in a lot of vitamins okay it's used as a
filler it's used as a drying agent for
oils it's hidden in a lot of so-called
ketofriendly foods which I'm going to be
doing a lot of Education about
but basically it makes your liver
fattier and before I forget I was going
to mention they make uh multitran from
corn uh wheat rice potato Tapioca And so
sometimes it's going to be from GMO
ingredients but you want to avoid it um
they even use it in post-workout type
gels it's in Splenda it's in puddings
it's in protein bars it's in a lot of
different things all right number six
afot toxins so you want to stop
consuming afot toxins now what is an
apoxin well it's a um toxin from a
certain fungus which is carcinogenic to
your liver so your liver does not like
this and you're primarily going to find
it in peanuts and corn okay and um
especially if it's in a a moist human
environment now if you consume peanuts
or peanut butter the best way to make
sure you don't get the alox
is by consuming valencian peanuts
valencian peanuts are are a lot drier
and they're usually not going to have
alot toxins especially if you get
organic Valencia peanut butter now of
course if you've been watching my videos
you're you're not going to be consuming
corn um but um corn is in a lot of
products so you're going to have to
watch that as well and number seven okay
is MSG mono sodium glutamate it's in a
lot of different forms including
modified food starch but you really want
to start reading the ingredients because
they put this in pork rind it's in so
many foods as a flavor enhancer they use
it in all the fast fruit restaurants to
enhance the flavor because if it wasn't
in there you wouldn't eat as much but
MSG causes you to eat more of it it's
definitely in Chinese food and so it's a
lot of sodium that's hidden it's not
really salty but you're going to get
fluid retention as well after you
consume it but that's not the big
problem big problem it's toxic to your
liver and it's even in like things like
um cottage cheese if you're getting like
commercial cottage cheese but I would
just recommend just start reading the
ingredients so many of my patients when
I was in practice after they complained
being sick I just asked them uh when did
you start being sick and what did you
eat just before that and there is
usually some ingredient on this list
that they consumed that they weren't
aware they didn't make the connection
now what about red meat is red meat bad
for the liver well the answer is if
you're consuming grass-fed red meat it's
not bad for the liver
unless um you have a problem with iron
okay the thing about iron is that our
bodies are not designed to get rid of
iron easily and too much iron can be
very toxic to the liver and even cause
therosis and of course red meat is high
on iron so if you have that problem then
your probably going to have to avoid red
meat but for most people that don't have
a problem with that red meat is not
going to be a problem for your liver if
it's quality out of all the foods that
are good for the liver the cruciferous
family of vegetables are the best thing
for the liver so that would be like
arugula the kale the broccoli the
Brussels sprouts so you definitely want
to consume those on a regular basis now
that you have this information the next
video that I'm going to recommend is
what to consume or what to do
to repair a liver I put it right here
check it out
