what is the highest burning calorie
exercise activity that ever existed on
this planet that's what we're going to
talk about today now this information is
based on a person that weighs about 155
lbs and all of these activities are
based on one hour of doing them a lot of
these exercises cannot be performed for
a whole hour but just to give you a
relative comparison per unit of time I'm
going to list everything by the calories
burned and then when we're done I'm
going to clarify some really important
points on calories because it's not all
about burning calories we start with
sleeping you'll burn 50 calories per
hour when you're sleeping and then we
graduate to sitting being sedentary
sitting on the couch 65 calories per
hour you can burn just by doing nothing
and just as a side note if you chew gum
you can burn a few more calories an hour
if you laugh you can burn a few more
calories per hour and if you fidget you
can burn a few more calories per hour
all very insignificant so when you're
sitting there watching TV at night
eating popcorn find a comedy start
laughing fidget while you're chewing gum
and eating the popcorn at the same time
then we have standing takes a little
more energy to stand so we have 110
calories sex it's not an exercise I
guess it could be you'll burn about 200
calories an hour but most people do not
spend an hour performing that exercise
probably more like I don't know 4
minutes maybe 10 minutes then we have
planks if you did plank for an hour
you'd burn 240 calories that seems
pretty strange because it seems like a
plank would burn way more calories I'll
have to double check that one but I tell
you one thing I don't think most people
can do a plank for more than you know 5
10 minutes let alone an hour okay then
we have walking moderate Pace about 3 m
an hour you'll burn about 240 calories
an hour bowling is 250 calories house
cleaning vigorous effort 250 calories
gardening or yard work is 270 calories
yoga you can burn 280 calories walking
briskly at 4 miles an hour 340 calories
golfing 360 calories per hour and then
if you do the elliptical training
moderately it's about 400 calories an
hour now a more high-end yoga like a
Power Yoga would you could burn about
400 calories okay and then the next
series of exercise all burn about
roughly about 420 calories softball
baseball rollerblading roller skating
bicycling at 10 mph weightlifting
vigorous effort Zumba dance workout and
aerobics moderate effort all are 420
calories per hour then we have like
aerobic dancing vigorously that's 440
calories per hour volleyball is
450 uh calories per hour hiking with a
backpack 450 calories per hour playing
tennis it's 450 calories rowing 470
bicycling about 12 to 14 M hour is about
470 calories and then the next series of
uh exercises all burn about 480 calories
per hour basketball soccer running 5 to
6 miles an hour elliptical training
vigorously all 480 calories per hour and
then we have swimming moderate effort is
510 calories cross country skiing I've
done that it's a pretty serious workout
that's 550 calories per hour then we
have martial arts Judo karate Etc 560
calories an hour jumping rope 560
calories an hour I want to see you jump
rope for an hour rock climbing indoor
and outdoor 570 calories and of course
that all depends on you know how many
breaks that you're taking in between the
rock climbing I don't think anyone could
rock climb for straight 1 hour then you
have rowing vigorous ly 570 calories
kickboxing 580 calories bicycling
vigorously at 14 to 16 mph 590 calories
then we have running at 6 to 7 mph 590
calories swimming vigorously
high-intensity interval training
CrossFit all of them are 590 calories an
hour now of course they're not factoring
in the rest periods and all that because
obviously when you're resting you're
going to burn less calories running up a
hill 800 calories per hour yeah I like
to see you run up a hill for an hour I
think I can make it about 15 to 20
seconds before I have to take a break
now we have running at 10 m hour that's
pretty fast over
1,126 calories of course no one's going
to be able to run an hour at that speed
but just to look at how many calories
you would burn comparatively it's quite
a few oh check this out chopping wood
with an axe 1,000
196 calories per hour and then we have
the top exercise that burns the most
calories and that's a Flatout Sprint
that's at 1,200 calories per hour we
know that's ridiculous but if you're
doing a Flatout Sprint and you're using
every bit of energy you're going to burn
some serious calories now that's all
really interesting but I need to explain
some key things about burning calories
what is the purpose of burning calories
why do you want to burn calories chances
are it's probably to lose weight right
now we have to ask the question what
type of calories do you want to burn do
you want to burn your sugar calories or
do you want to burn your fat calories or
do you want to burn your protein
calories your muscle protein probably
not so you probably want to burn fat
right so if you actually consume sugar
you're going to burn sugar if you
consume fat without sugar you will burn
fat and when your body starts burning
off your own protein your muscle
that's in a situation where you are
overtraining you haven't slept maybe
you're doing prolonged fasting and in
addition to that you've tapped out like
not just your glycogen Reserve but your
your fat reserves and then now the
muscle is going to be the last thing to
be burned and that's called starvation
with some of these longdistance Runners
they have a bit of atrophy because
they're generating so much energy and
burning so many calories it's very
difficult to maintain a large volume of
muscles because if you keep the
intensity high and you increase duration
you also increase cortisol cortisol
destroys the muscles it's very important
as we're talking about calories to make
sure you never overtrain so if we take a
look at what's really happening inside
your C when you exercise you're using
energy through the machine called the
mitochondria the amount of calories that
you're burning really is dependent on
how healthy that that mitochondria is
how do you know if you have a good
mitochondria well take a look at your
energy how much energy do you have can
you exercise and have more endurance and
and have more energy even after you work
out to some degree certain medications
destroy the mitochondria like statin
drugs which block cholesterol and one of
the big reasons is because it depletes a
very important nutrient that's needed by
the mitocondria to make energy and
that's called co-enzyme Q10 also ELC
carnitine is another one as well so
there are several things that can help
increase the number of mitochondria in
the strength of course exercise will do
it but only if you're resting between
your exercise and you're fully
recovering having a good thyroid can
help the number of mitochondria
increasing more muscle mass will
automatically give you more mitochondria
and this is why it's important if you
want to improve your metabolism to make
sure you have sufficient muscle mass and
even people doing OIC right what they do
is they lose weight but they also lose
muscle as a side effect I mean sometimes
people have this idea that oh yeah I'll
be on this medication the rest of my
life really I I don't think so so you
might start out losing weight and then
all of a sudden lose your mitochondria
doing intermittent fasting can also
stimulate the production of more
mitochondria but I want to say something
there's a fascinating test that um can
look into the mitochondria it's called
metabolomics and determine if you're
getting enough fuel to even feed the
mitochondria especially if someone is
exercising it's very important to get
enough fuel to feed the machine one of
the best fuels for the mitochondria is
meat meat apparently has all the
co-actors the B vitamins the trace
minerals and the most protein to feed
that mitochondria and make it strong
cold imersion therapy or cold sh flowers
can actually do some interesting things
because it forces the mitochondria to
generate a tremendous amount of energy
from your food there's been some data
that resveratol can help uh stimulate
more mitochondria if you have insulin
resistance which probably 90% of the
population has that can severely destroy
your mitochondria it can prevent you
from using glucose and if you keep
eating glucose we can't burn ketones so
in other words to get into fat burning
you need to cut down your carbs now the
other topic is growth hormone growth
hormone can also help reduce this
insulin resistance it can also help you
build more muscle can help you burn more
fat even though you might be sprinting
for 10 to 15 seconds and then resting
for 4 minutes you might not be burning a
lot of calories but
what's going to happen is you're going
to increase growth hormone 24 to 48
hours later while you're sleeping so
you're going to be burning fat while
you're sleeping and this is why you have
to look Beyond just the mechanics of
burning calories because there's other
factors involved one other big mistake
that a lot of exercisers do is when they
try to burn calories with exercise
they're putting tremendous amounts of
energy out at the gym and their their
diet is too high in carbs so they'll end
up burning off the sugar now they're
hungry and they're craving sweets and
sugar and they keep putting the carbs
back in having these little snacks so
they never really lose a lot of weight
because they're running their body on
glucose and they're just putting it
right back so if we're talking about
weight loss exercise accounts for 15% of
your gains whereas the diet can be about
85% of your gains because regardless of
how many calories you're burning
what if you could just focus on burning
fat calories wouldn't that be a smart
thing to do versus increasing the
metabolism to burn off more sugar
calories which you then replace with
sugar doesn't make sense but if we're
talking about exercise and we want to do
an exercise that burns the most calories
you'd want to keep the intensity the
highest possible intensity you can do
and involve the most muscles upper body
and lower body recently I was doing a
metabolomic test on my mitochondria I
exercise a lot I run up hills I do all
sorts of things I was over training so I
cut that back got more sleep and now the
mitochondria is better so that's why the
metabolomic testing I think is going to
be the wave of the future because you
can predict things well before they
become symptomatic for more information
on the best diet that you should be on
to be able to have really healthy
mitochondria you should probably study
this video right right here
