So today we're going to try to find a
reason why
these whole grains are healthy okay I
mean eating healthy whole grains is such
a widespread recommendation and just
about every single diet that you can
find on the internet they always mention
well make sure you have plenty of whole
grains so we're going to take a look
at 100 whole wheat right so this is made
from
whole wheat flour
it is not made from refined flour okay
now what is the difference between
refined flour
and whole wheat flour let's take a look
at this well to make this really simple
the grain is uh made from three things
you have the fiber which is called bran
you have the germ which has like the B
vitamins vitamin E A little protein so
it has nutrition and then you have this
other thing called the endosperm that's
where you have the carbohydrate okay
so really refined grains
are like 100 endosperm now let's just
first compare these two flowers
um this one has bleached wheat flour so
they add bleach to make it white this
says enriched it's a great word enriched
right they add back in niacin
iron B1
B2 and folic acid so they're adding back
these nutrients okay and then 1 4 of a
cup which is 30 grams equals 23 grams of
carbs and there's basically no fiber in
here so if there's any nutrition in here
it's basically added in there now if we
compare this to the
or with flour right here we get 20 grams
of carbohydrates per 1 4 of a cup so
this is a little less carbs okay and
this has three grams of fiber the net
carb is going to be 17 grams so you know
it's so funny because
people always talk about whole grains
being high in fiber well
three grams per 1 4 of a cup it's not a
lot of fiber now let's take a look at
the nutrition okay at the bottom here it
says vitamin D zero calcium zero iron
one milligram
potassium when 10 milligrams okay so not
a lot of nutrition but it's whole grain
so we have the brand the fiber
but when we have the germ but I don't
see a lot of B vitamins in here now if
you look at the expiration date on this
9 23 2023 like next year how can they
put this flower on the Shelf
for a few years I mean without going bad
that's incredible and the other fact
that a lot of these vitamins are
sensitive to oxygen they get oxidized
they get destroyed so you're going to
grind the grain expose it to air light
whatever and expect them to be preserved
I don't think so now this is interesting
when this one expires the refine grain
April
2024 so another year it'll sit on the
Shelf incredible so
wow it's definitely preserved all right
so now what's in this spread here let's
take a peek whole grain flour
water
sugar vegetable oil okay so we have some
wonderful vegetable oil that's coming
from vegetables let's take a look at the
ingredients
soybean oil
okay so that's soy oil
so we put the soy all in here that's
omega-6 fatty acids and let's see what
else the gluten they put the gluten in
there and then they put a little vinegar
in there natural flavors citric acid
okay so that's what's in bread here one
slice is 21 grams of carb and the fiber
is three grams again eleven percent
that's not really that much so we have
wheat we have Rye we have spelled quinoa
you have corn you have rice you have
oats all of these are grains and even
popcorn is considered a whole grain so
we need to break this down to figure out
what is in these whole grains that are
so healthy is it the Fiber Well there's
not a lot of fiber okay so like we're
talking three grams per serving size not
much is the vitamins and minerals well
apparently whole grains only give you
about 10 percent of your required
nutrients 10 percent
I wouldn't call that nutrient dense and
the other point is that when you deal
with whole grains you have phytic acid
phytic acid is in the bran and phytic
acid blocks the absorption of minerals
so zinc calcium iron interesting but
there's no phytic acid in refine grain
so you're not going to have any problem
with that of course you're consuming
these synthetic kind of Elemental
minerals which are like rocks or Metals
which is a lot different from minerals
that are like plant-based minerals now
the question is well maybe there's
phytonutrients like flavonoids or
polyphenols things like that in here
well the problem is when they're exposed
to air and oxygen things like that a lot
of these phytonutrients are fat soluble
so they're going to go rancid really
fast maybe the benefit is the protein
how much protein is in here
oh well we got seven percent
four grams okay four grams not a lot
okay four grams and it's not even
complete protein let's see if there's
any protein in um refined grains yes
there is
three grams okay we got a little bit how
about in this bread right here we got
four grams but of course it's not
complete so again please explain to me
what is it in these grains maybe I'm
missing something with fiber vitamins
minerals protein phytonutrients now this
is what you need to know about the
studies regarding grains okay there's
three key points here and I'm not going
to get two into it I'm going to put some
links down below if you're more
interested but the majority the great
majority of studies done on grains are
comparing
whole grain okay products two refined
grains okay they're comparing these two
and obviously the whole grains are going
to be healthier than the refined grains
right but they're not comparing eating
whole grains to not eating whole grains
they're really comparing the whole
grains to the refined grains and those
people who are consuming uh whole grains
are probably a little more health
conscious they're probably not smoking
as much they're probably exercising more
they probably have a better lifestyle
because the great majority of these
studies are observational which means
it's all based on a questionnaire and
you have to get people to remember what
they ate and last I don't know how long
the problem with the studies is very
very weak it's not credible and that is
because there's just so many other
variables that it could be and they
could pretty much manipulate the study
and make it look whatever they want it
to look like so there's a tremendous
amount of bias in observational studies
and a lot of these studies are industry
sponsored so again you really can't
trust those studies like even some of
the studies in the Blue Zone parts of
the world where people live a longer
life for someone to say that it's
because of the grains they're living
longer you can't prove that well it
could be the the fish it could be that
they don't snack as much it could be
less stress life now in 2017 the Cochran
um Group which is in very large
independent group of scientists who
review studies evaluated nine random
controlled trials and basically it came
out to this there's not enough evidence
to say that consuming whole grains will
reduce your risk of heart disease so it
is true that if you're consuming maybe
oatmeal it may decrease your cholesterol
but you can't then conclude that it's
going to reduce your chance for heart
attacks because the cholesterol went
down you can't say that but if we're
looking at the low carb studies okay
which I'm going to put down below
that would be a study that omits this
Frame and in this next video I'm going
to show you the benefits for the heart
your liver your arteries blood sugar
diabetes by eating foods without grains
Okay backed up by hardcore research so
check it out I put it up right here
