liver cleansing detox that's what we're
going to talk about we're going to talk
about the foods best for that smoothies
shakes and supplements one thing that I
think is a kind of a misunderstanding
about the liver itself the liver does
not hold or store toxins okay it gets
rid of toxins it's the main organ that
turns these fat soluble poisons into a
water salable substance that is no
longer poisonous and then it gets rid of
it through uh the bile ducts with the
help of the bile and when we talk about
cleansing we're really talking about
cleansing the liver of fat and also uh
inflammation or scar tissue and the more
fatty the liver the more scar tissue and
the more inflammation the less it has
the capacity to detox and there's this
whole Cascade of amazing enzymes in the
liver that help uh take this very severe
dangerous poison all the way through to
the point where it's it's no longer
poisonous you can even get rid of 50% of
the liver's fat through going on a low
carb diet this is called a ketogenic
diet so I want to get into very specific
foods but you just need to know if you
go on low carb with intermittent fasting
you can drop a lot of fat off the liver
really fast and the less fat the liver
has the more it can do its job the liver
is about three and a half pounds the
size of a football and it's really
robust it takes a baiting and it can do
its job just with 20% of the liver cells
left and it is the only organ that can
completely regenerate itself but there
is a point of limitation you can get to
the point where it's so filled with scar
tissue that's called therosis that you
know you're going to have to get on the
list for a liver transplant and a lot of
times people don't have any symptoms in
the initial phases of liver problems uh
other than some fatigue but one real
simple way to know if you have a fatty
liver is just to look down and see if
you could see your stomach protruding
out because abdominal fat is a good
indication that you have liver fat now
as far as what causes the liver to
become fatty you might say well alcohol
right well that's definitely something
that can cause it but there's also
something even more common called
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and
that condition mainly comes from
fructose okay now where would you get
fructose fructose is in a lot of the
sugars that people consume like table
sugar has fructose beet sugar honey
fruit all are about half fructose and
half glucose so if you're eating a lot
of sugar and drinking your sugar as in
high fructose corn syrup like all the
sodas and juice and fast foods chances
are you have a fatty liver not to
mention regular wine and frequent snacks
uh will all contribute to a fat liver so
what are the best foods to to help heal
the liver to help strengthen its ability
to
detoxify right at the top of the list
you have something called cruciferous
vegetables that would be like kale
arugula broccoli cauliflower collar
greens mustard greens brussel sprouts
bok choy horseradish cabbage these are
very unique vegetables that don't
necessarily give you more enzymes but
they Trigger or induce
more of your own body's phase one phase
2 enzymes to help you break down
chemicals and there's also very specific
natural chemicals they're called phyto
chemicals or phytonutrients in
cruciferous that are even more potent
than other things okay like sulfurane in
broccoli Sprouts or micro Greens micr
Greens are basically just uh about a
10day old uh baby vegetable versus
Sprouts might be like between 3 to 7
days but but radish Michel greens or
Sprouts or U broccoli Michel greens or
Sprouts are loaded with sulfurane so
what I like to do instead of just using
regular lettuce for my salad I like to
use the arugula Leaf because that's
going to more potently do a lot more
good than regular lettuce another
vegetable that's really good for the
liver is beets beats help increase B
production uh which can help get rid of
toxins from the liver that they just
been broken down beets can help increase
the flow of bile so then that bile can
actually help eliminate all the toxins
that you your liver just broke down
beets also trigger this phase one phase
2 detoxification so what you can do is
you can shave some raw bead on your
salad or just steam beets and consume
beets and just as a side note fruit is
not really good for the liver because
you're going to get a lot of
fructose but berri especially the
blueberry can help you reduce fibrosis
in the liver and it's anti-inflammatory
even though it is classified as a fruit
but it has a lot lower sugar than other
fruits you might think that uh to get
rid of fat on the liver you have to go
in a lowfat
diet no you don't you have to go on a
low carb diet get rid of the sugars
because that sugar then converts into
fat the fattiest foods like eggs and
organ Meats like beef liver and
grass-fed beef and fatty fish all are
loaded with this other nutrient called
choline that very potently gets rid of
fat off your liver actually choline is
even part of your own bile so it's kind
of a a detergent for fats and take a
while guess what has the most choline
egg yolks beef liver and fatty fish but
you can also get some choline in things
like broccoli so it's not just about
going on a low fat diet there's also
other fats that help get rid of fat off
your liver and that would be the omega-3
fats which I just touched on fatty fish
but salmon Seafood grass-fed beef
sardines are all high omega-3 fatty
acids that can greatly help the liver as
well as decrease inflammation in your
liver on the flip side Omega 6 fatty
acids all the seed oils like the corn
oil the soy oil safflower oil all of
these things that are high in Omega 6
actually create more problems for the
liver so I don't recommend consuming
those and unfortunately we have way too
much of those I think uh nowadays an
average person consumes 30 times more
omega-6 oils than they should and it's
hidden in restaurant Foods it's in fried
foods uh they use it in salad dressings
mayonnaise and many many other Foods now
as far as the Protein that's needed for
the liver to function you need high
quality protein that would be eggs
grass-fed beef and fatty fish you don't
want to go on a no protein diet because
these amino acids are very very
necessary to help heal the liver but
then again you also don't want to use
lowquality protein especially the plant
based protein powders the soy protein
powders whey protein is also hard on the
liver it's a refined product there's no
fat the liver actually does better if
you consume foods that have the natural
fat with the protein Probiotic foods are
very healthy for the liver that would be
sauerkraut kimchi and keer and pickles
those are some main foods that are
really good to help strengthen the detox
and also get rid of fat off your liver
and also decrease inflammation let's
switch gears to smoothies and shakes
there's two really good ones and they
both use blueberries okay so you get
some blueberries like a cup and one of
the shakes you're using frozen kale so
what I like to do is take a bag of kale
from the grocery store and then just put
it in the freezer freeze it solid and
then when you're ready take a like a
couple handfuls of kale put it in the
blender okay take a cup of blueberries
put that in the blender fill it up with
water just above the material blend it
for like 30 to 45 seconds and you have
yourself a delicious really healthy
liver cleansing Shake another one I like
to use is with kefir don't get the one
that has low fat whole milk and it could
be either sheep uh milk or goat milk but
don't try to get the lowfat one of
course try to get the grass-fed and and
organic if you can but that Kefir is
better than regular yogurt because it
not only has the bacteria it has the
friendly yeast and a lot more microbes
what I like to do is take a cup or two
of kefir and a cup of blueberries and
you may have to add a little water to it
maybe a half of a cup sometimes you
don't I would first try it without the
water because sometimes the Kefir is
more liquid it really depends on how
liquid the Kefir is and then you blend
it for 30 seconds and drink that down
it's delicious
and so you have this probiotic uh
blueberry uh liver protecting shake and
then with the kale you're actually
drinking your cruciferous vegetable and
it's raw it's frozen it goes right in
and it really helps your liver now as
far as a drink goes the best drink for
the liver would be a combination of
apple cider vinegar and lemon the apple
cider vinegar uh can help strip fat off
the liver uh it also can help uh support
blood sugars and make insulin more
sensitive helping you correct insulin
resistance which is at the heart of a
fatty liver and also lemon is very very
sour and it too has choline and other
things that can help support the liver
it has a lot of vitamin C it can help
reduce inflammation take two tablespoons
of apple cider vinegar put it in a glass
uh you can take uh one lemon squeeze the
lemon from that one lemon into the glass
and you have about 12 ounces of water
and then drink it with a straw sometimes
I'll take the whole lemon put that in
the blender with about 12 ounces of
water two tablespoons of alpet vinegar
blend it down so I have some additional
cool properties of that lemon peel that
you wouldn't get from the lemon juice
you can use actual lemon uh juice but
just realize it's usually
pasteurized it's heated because vitamin
C gets destroyed with heat so if you
just take an actual lemon and Juice It
Yourself uh that's always the the best
now as far as the supplements go that
are good for the liver full transparency
I do sell a liver cleansing supplement
but as far as nutrients go these are the
best things for the liver at the top of
the list would be milk thistle milk
thistle is used as the antidote to
poison I'm talking about uh poisoning
from mushrooms talking about snake
poisoning I'm talking about being
poisoned from Tylenol
and many other poisons it's quite
amazing milk thistle basically has this
superpower to protect the liver but it's
also good for a fatty liver it's also
good to get rid of inflammation and to
prevent scar tissue of the liver and
that term is called sorosis choline I
mentioned that before uh you can get
that as a supplement too choline helps
strip fat off the liver then we have
turmeric okay that's really powerful for
the liver too as an antioxidant it helps
reduce inflammation in the liver and
it's been known to help you reduce fat
on the liver too purifi bile salts are
also good to reduce fat in the liver and
a lot of people are deficient in BIO and
so things kind of back up uh from the
bod duct and when things back up you
can't detoxify so part of detoxification
is allowing things to flow through the
liver and bile salts many times can open
up the stuck flow so things can flow
through and out through into the small
intestine probiotics are really good for
the liver as well and the last remedy
would be something called tokat trinal
This is a type of vitamin E that works
50 times stronger and it's really good
for an inflamed liver and that's called
hepatitis but any inflammation uh on the
heart or the liver can be uh helped
using Tok trinal so it can inhibit
fibrosis because if you think about
vitamin E is you can rub it into the
skin to help get rid of scar tissue well
tokat trinal is really good for scarring
of your liver now there's one more video
that I highly recommend you watch okay
and this video has gotten a lot of views
because it's an awesome video you should
check it out I put it up right here
