now I've done a lot of videos on
cortisol especially as it relates to the
adrenal body type or the adrenal gland
but I haven't done any videos on how to
lure it with Foods so that's the topic
of today I'm not going to get into the
benefits of lowering cortisol because
you probably already know that you
wouldn't be here if you didn't know
about cortisol but cortisol is the main
stress hormone there's another hormone
like uh compound called adrenaline it's
not a true hormone and say a
neurotransmitter and both adrenaline and
cortisol work together and so if you
ever look at the adrenal gland you have
an inside and an outside the inside
releases adrenaline and the outside
releases cortisol and both of those
compounds have crossover functions but
in summary they adapt the body to a
stress State now the thing you need to
know is that the body does not know the
difference between mental stress and
physical stress it reacts with these
hormones and all the adaptations that
occur with it for all stresses but
mental stress and physical stress are
not necessarily differentiated so
nowadays we're not being chased by a
tiger right trying to get our food we
are hit with a lot of chronic mental
stress which creates the same effect on
these two hormones and yes you can do a
blood test or saliva test for cortisol
which is quite extensive because you
would have to test it every four hours
so you're basically getting up in the
middle of the night and you're putting
your saliva in this little tube then you
have to send it out to the lab there is
a much better way of indirectly um
getting an idea of where your cortisol
is at using something called heart rate
variability which measures the autonomic
nervous system I may have information on
that on how you can actually have your
own device and how to measure yourself
but today we're just going to talk about
what foods you should be eating or
avoiding to really optimize your stress
hormones when we're dealing with the
autonomic nervous system we're dealing
with a system that is on automatic and
uh it's composed of mainly two things
the sympathetic fight or flight and the
parasympathetic which is rest in digest
anytime that sympathetic system is
activated by anything like mental stress
cortisol also gets activated so the the
probably one of the most important
things to know before we even dive into
this is the condition called diabetic
disautonomia which basically means your
autonomic nervous system is messed up
because of this high level of sugar in
your bloodstream and that creates a lot
of problems with all the different
autonomic nerves especially the
peripheral nerves the the nerves in your
your feet and your hands and other
nerves too like your vagus nerve that
goes to your digestive system and so
there's a lot of fancy words to describe
those conditions too like one being
gastroparesis another being diabetic
autonomic neuropathy all that means is
your nerves are getting messed up
because you have high blood sugars
because you are diabetic so the first
thing to know is that sugar and starches
really mess up that autonomic nervous
system and they alter for the worse your
cortisol as well as adrenaline in other
words sugar and starches keep you in a
stress mode now of course if you look at
the opposite diet to a high sugar high
starch diet that would be a ketogenic
diet and there's a interesting study I
think it's the only study out there that
looked at very low calorie and a low
carb ketogen IC plan and so they combine
a low calorie which could describe uh
doing like omad one meal a day and
you're also doing low carb you greatly
support the autonomic nervous system
okay so in other words if you have too
much sympathetic nervous system um it
can help balance it out there's some
other research that shows how fasting
can support the parasympathetic nervous
system and this is probably why people
feel very calm when they start getting
into this wonderful fasting uh State
because the parasympathetic nervous
system is kicked in and so when you go
on a ketogenic diet and you cut out the
carbs and you also combined fasting your
uh mood changes you can go from an
irritable state or an anxiety state to a
calm State because of the shift in this
parasympathetic sympathetic balance as
well as the cortisol being lowered in
fact my cortisol was very very high at
one time and that was at the peak of
when I was doing all the carbs okay like
I'm talking massive carbs to support
support this autonomic nervous system to
help balance the stress State you
definitely need um B12 and what foods
would be in B12 all the animal uh
products red meats fish and organ Meats
because a B12 deficiency can cause a
problem with that part of the automic
nervous system the next thing to talk
about is this parasympathetic nervous
system that's your recovery system the
system that controls um sleeping and
digesting and and being calm and the
neurotransmitter uh behind that system
is called aetl choline and so the
precursor for
acetylcholine is choline and guess what
food has the highest amount of choline
you guessed it egg yolks so eggs would
be a really good thing to consume to
support the lowering of the stress and
the lowering of cortisol and adrenaline
but also you can get choline and organ
Meats okay like liver Etc other two key
nutrients to support acetylcholine would
be vitamin B1 and vitamin B5 both of
them and you can get both of those
naturally from nutritional yeast as well
as sunflower seeds and many other foods
and this is why when people have that
nutritional yeast maybe they put it on
their salad as part of the dressing with
olive oil and vinegarette or Ranch
whatever or they might just consume it
in a tablet form but when they consume
that nutritional yeast they feel calmer
about four or 5 minutes later but to
have enough acetylcholine for your
parasympathetics you need B1 B5 and
choline the other two key minerals that
support the parasympathetics as well as
calming down the sympathetics as well as
lowering
cortisol is both potassium and magnesium
both of these minerals are physiological
relaxers okay so they calm the body down
and it just so Happ happens when people
go through a lot of stress all that
stress can actually deplete these two
minerals leaving you deficient and so
does sugar as well but taking more
potassium and magnesium can calm you
down it'll help the restate it helps
lower cortisol so the food that has the
most potassium and magnesium together
are deep leafy green vegetables as in
Big salads as in what I recommend in a
healthy keto PL all right the next
nutrient that if deficient paent can
create a big problem on the autonomic
nervous system is vitamin D3 so you can
get vitamin D3 free from the Sun okay
you can also get it from fatty fish like
salmon while caught but what's unique
about vitamin D in cortisol is this
vitamin D is not really a vitamin it's
like a hormone and it has very similar
functions to cortisol and when you raise
cortisol you tend to deplete vitamin D
people that have high cortisol levels or
they're stressed out usually have low uh
vitamin D and so to create a very
similar effect okay for stress uh for
inflammation or sleeping you can take
vitamin D so vitamin D can help modulate
or regulate that cortisol now when we
talked about the parasympathetic nervous
system that is um part of the vagus
nerve and the vagus nerve connects from
your brain to your digestive system and
other visceral organs as well so you can
actually support and improve that vagus
nerve by doing something to your gut by
fortifying it with probiotics okay
Probiotic foods which I will put some
research Down Below in the description
but sauerkraut kefir pickles kimchi and
probiotic supplements for the gut and
that can support the parasympathetic
which could explain why some people
sleep really good after they consume a
probiotic or kefir uh before bed so that
was six foods that support lowering
cortisol and adrenaline to help you cope
now because of the censoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other side now to be complete
about this topic there are other things
you need to do to lower stress and if
you haven't seen this very popular video
on how to reduce cortisol using other
methods than food watch it I put it up
right
here
