hi guys in this video we're gonna
discuss weight training versus cardio
okay I've had some questions recently
which one should I do well let's just
kind of discuss that now whether you're
doing weight training or you're doing
training without weights but you're
using your full body like push-ups
pull-ups sit-ups squats things like that
there's two things going on with weight
training and using your own body weight
you're using more of the body muscles
but not as much as the heart cardial is
about working in a heart okay now the
problem is that the heart has a less
capacity to handle stress and one of the
biggest mistakes that people make is
they do some type of exercise like the
slamball where you're taking this heavy
ball and slamming it or plyometrics
where you're hopping back and forth or
Sprint's to the point where they really
raise the pulse rate way up here and
they don't give give their body a chance
to settle down enough so they'll be
might rest for 30 seconds and so the
pulse rate comes way up and it comes
down just a little bit and then they do
it again comes in a little bit and do it
again that is not healthy for the heart
that puts the heart under a lot of
stress especially if you're in your 50s
or even 60s or even 40s what would be
much better is to sit down and let the
pulse rate come way way down until you
don't feel it pounding off you're out of
your chest okay and that'll take the
stress off the heart and maybe do more
workouts that exercise a lot of the
muscles but not necessarily focus on the
heart at first and then gradually work
into it but anytime you're doing the
heart type cardio you want to spike the
pulse rate but you want a lot more rest
in between okay one of the best
indicators for health is how fast the
pulse rate can recover after one minute
and so if you find that your pulse rate
is not coming down fast enough then this
applies to you if you're 18 years old
you can pretty much do whatever you want
the other situation is the liver and the
muscles have stored glycogen that's
sugar and what happens is when you
workout you deploy
the sugar and you can feel dizzy or weak
from that so the sensation of you know
overworking the heart is pretty much the
same symptoms as when you deplete the
glycogen so that's another reason why
you need to do keto in a minute fasting
so you're not relying on the stored
sugar anymore so you don't have this
blood sugar thing so in summary the two
things you need to do go easy on the
cardio okay and do keto and intermittent
fasting alright thanks for watching
hey thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
