I'd like to share with you some real
interesting things about glucosamine
that go Way Beyond just help for
osteoarthritis now glucosamine is this
Amino sugar It's a combination of
glucose and glutamine which is an amino
acid and this compound is a precursor
for cartilage it has been known to
increase lubrication and synovial fluid
in your joints so it can help to cushion
the joint and lubricate The Joint so
because glucosamine is a precursor for
things in your joints it can help
prevent the breakdown of the joint and
I'm talking about cartilage it can also
help maintain your cartilage and it's
especially important for athletes that
put a lot of stress on their joints
because the more stress in the joints
the more the requirement of this
compound but glucosamine goes Way Beyond
just support for osteoarthritis well and
just as a reference or disclaimer this
is not meant to cure any diseases in
fact according to the FDA in the United
States you can't make any claims about
any medical condition whatsoever however
in Europe where there's a lot of studies
on this compound there's definitely more
of a claim that you can use over there
in fact in North America there's little
if any research on this compound
probably because of the competition it
competes for a lot of the
anti-inflammatory medications this is
probably why it's not recommended too
much in the medical community but
glucosamine supports wound healing it's
a pretty good anti-inflammatory it's
great at reducing pain there's been some
studies to show that it can improve
varicose veins decrease the risk of
cardiovascular disease and diabetes and
there's also be interesting research on
longevity of glucosamine improving your
lifespan and that could be related to
just decreasing inflammation in general
I don't know but that's interesting and
glucosamine because it's in this family
of these
protein sugar molecules and what they do
in the body especially in lining the
tissues like for example the mucous
layer in your colon is combined with
compounds that combine sugar molecules
with amino acids and so this is probably
why glucosamine is really good for
anything inflammatory in your gut like
colitis or irritable bowel syndrome so
it can be used for that as well now
there's another interesting thing that
glucosamine does it supports this immune
cell called the mast cell and this Mast
Cell makes another compound called
Heparin and maybe you've heard of
Heparin before as something that is
given to a patient after they had a
heart attack to prevent clotting it's
used as a blood thinner well it's in the
same family as glucosamine and
glucosamine actually increases the
production of Heparin which is actually
something natural that is released from
your own bodies Mass self but Heparin is
a potent neurogenic anti-inflammatory
neurogenic meaning relating to the
nerves and your brain as well as
reducing edema and swelling and pressure
and this is why glucosamine also is a
very potent
anti-vascular migraine antidote so it's
really good for vascular migraines as
well as cluster headaches as well as
anything that becomes dysfunctional in
your blood-brain barrier there's been
some research also on glucosamine being
good for seizures there's some other
data that shows that it might
potentially increase seizures if you
take large amounts that study was in
rats so I would recommend just taking
the normal amounts now as far as the
amounts that would be recommended for
glucosamine
roughly between 500 to 1000 milligrams
three times a day some of the
conflicting studies that shows that it's
inconclusive that glucosamine can help a
person with some of these benefits are
usually either studies that were done
very short term within weeks not a
longer period of time because it does
take sometimes six weeks to see the real
big benefits and other times they'll use
the type of glucosamine that is not as
bioavailable like in glucosamine
hydrochloride which I don't recommend
that
type glucosamine sulfate is a good
compound but there's many others as well
however I just wanted to bring
glucosamine under your radar in case you
have some of these conditions and you're
looking for a good remedy now since I
did talk a little bit about
osteoarthritis there's some more
information that you should know about
that topic and I put that up right here
check it out
