now there are so many different
supplements out there that potentially a
person could take I'm going to talk
about seven remedies today that I have
personally observed worked in the
majority of the cases there is a more
comprehensive or complete list that you
can get which you can get access to I'll
put that link down below but today we're
going to talk about the seven that
address very specific conditions and
they work the great majority of the time
and this basically is based on personal
observation as well as myself taking
some of these supplements and I do also
want to mention I do not sell any of
these products okay so I'm not trying to
sell you any products these are just
things that I found that work so let's
Dive Right In number one
ahcc and I'm GNA just kind of leave it
like that I'm not going to get into the
long names you can look those up and
I'll put those links down below but ahcc
is a shitake extract that has some very
special properties okay what it does is
it helps enhance your natural killer
cells natural killer cells are a part of
your immune system that attacks cancer
and viruses and there's over a hundred
randomized control studies just on this
one uh supplement right here that
creates some really interesting effects
on many things including the HPV virus
the human papiloma virus which by the
way has a very evil intention of kind of
weakening your natural killer cells
which basically shuts down your forces
that are supposed to defend you so it
kind of weakens your natural killer
cells so now it can survive but this
shitake extract comes in there and
actually counters that and allows an
enhancement of your natural killer cells
to the point where you can actually
clear out the HPV virus out of your body
so it's really good for anything related
to the HPV including congenital warts
different warts on your body which are
benign tumors and many other things
related to a lowered immune system
certain people who are on chemo take it
to help build up their immune system
it's also used as a really good
anti-inflammatory it's also good for
other viruses that I cannot mention on
YouTube and it's very powerful to
improve your autonomic nervous system in
other words the sympathetic nervous
system allows you to adapt to stress
well apparently the research from this
remedy improves your ability to adapt to
stress as well as helping you recover
from stress that's called the
parasympathetic nervous system so it
helps you get into a calm State helps
you sleep but it also helps you adapt to
stress so that's just a few cool effects
from
ahcc number two ttka what is tutka well
ttka is a synthetic compound okay it's
probably one of the well there's
actually two synthetic compounds that I
do recommend that don't seem to have any
side effects one would be benine for
peripheral neuropathies which I didn't
even include on this list but the other
is Tutt Cup and the reason they made it
synthetically is because TKA is bear
bile and there's been a problem in the
past with killing too many bears to
extract this bile salt to take it as a
remedy it's an older remedy and it has
some very
interesting very powerful effects I'm
only going to cover a couple I did a
whole video on this before but the main
thing that it'll do it will thin the
bile through your bile ducts okay so
many people develop kidney stones
because the biom material in their ducts
become thicken because they're losing
certain factors in there so you have
this sludge that kind of backs up these
bile ducts and that backs up into the
liver and it creates jaundice and it
creates all sorts of problems like even
like forming Gul stones and like all
sorts of abdominal pain and blood loing
and
pancreatitis and all sorts of digestive
issues in fact there's something that
happens when someone goes on a detox
when they actually use natural remedies
to kill off certain like microbes even
biofilms that then can lead to like
different side effects and one of the
side effects is the bile ducts get
jammed up and things start backing up
into the liver and the person has all
sorts of terrible complications because
the liver cannot detox any anymore when
you plug up those Ducks you actually
create a severe backup into the liver
which can then create all sorts of
inflammation in the liver and terrible
uh side effects so Tut cut comes to the
rescue and thins the bile ducts and
allows things to go through freely
giving the person great relief with many
different things including right
shoulder pain and pain that goes up into
the neck or up into the head which is a
problem I had for 12 years because I had
no idea the connection of this area
right here underneath my rib cage in the
B ducks and my right shoulder pain and
my headaches so Tut cut is a very good
remedy to give someone for anything
related to liver gallbladder as well as
many other things but I always recommend
it when you tried everything and nothing
works then you give the person TKA and
it seems to solve the case the way you
want to take it is two in the morning on
an empty stomach and two in the
afternoon on of your stomach you don't
want to take it necessarily with food
because it's going to help break down
the fats in the meal so you want to have
it work on an empty stomach so that's
number two number three Nat kyes this is
a an extract from soy and as much as I'm
against soy this extract has some
fascinating powerful effects on
dissolving fibrous tissue okay it's an
enzyme to break down clots in the body
and fibrin which is part of a clot as
well as part of a clogged
artery so in other words if someone has
a clogged artery or they clot easy this
might be a very good natural remedy to
help break up that blockage and at least
the protein formation in that clot
because the clot is composed of protein
okay fibrous protein which that
addresses cholesterol and calcium okay
calcium and just as a side note vitamin
K2 is good to actually get rid of this
excess calcium that can build up in the
arteries but natoc kinus is one of my
favorite remedies for anything related
to a clogged artery all right the next
one is called NAC n acetal carnosine so
this remedy is really good for cataracts
and you would want to get it in a drop
you want to get NAC drops okay now now
typically this compound right here does
not
penetrate the tissue the eye tissue so
NAC is really good for cataracts
especially if they're new cataracts and
again just to remind you I have a
comprehensive list of all the
supplements that I think really really
work that you should know about on my
website and I recommend that you
download this comprehensive document
when we're done with this video all
right number five is is choline choline
is one of the best remedies for a fatty
liver okay if you look down uh your gut
and you see it sticking out and you no
longer can see your feet because your
belly is sticking out you have a fatty
liver one of the things you should do is
to take choline and just so you know the
food that has the most choline is eggs
egg yolk and so eating eggs can help you
with a fatty liver but choline
specifically will help uh remove fat
from the liver and choline is a part of
vile salts FYI okay so that's choline
the next one is colostrum colostrum is a
supplement that you can get and if you
can find it from a sheep instead of a
cow it might work a little bit better
because there could be less things that
a person is allergic to but colostrum is
part of the secretion into milk
initially when when that milk is first
released and has all sorts of immune
properties it also has has uh
probiotics but it it's something that
helps build the immune system and so
it's really really good for people that
have been on prazone too much and have
destroyed their immune system it's
really good for people who have a
compromized immune system let's say for
example they have HIV or if a person's
under massive sustained stress for many
years and or someone who has a lot of
different antibiotics over a period of
time or if someone just has chronic INF
inflammation okay you want to take
colostrum I would highly suggest you
start out taking a little bit at a time
so you don't have an immune reaction not
that you're going to have that but
whatever the dosage is I would take
maybe a quarter of that take it before
you go to bed okay and you slowly
increase it only counter indication that
I know for this is if you have an
allergy to casine milk protein then
there might be an issue all right so
that's colostrum and number seven is
called d Manos okay D Manos helps to
bind with eoli in your bladder so it's
really good for UTI if you know anyone
that has UTI put them on this it seems
to work the majority of the time now I
have a lot more of these natural
remedies the ones that are really
effective on my website I put a link
down below go ahead and download them so
you can keep them if you need them or
you know someone that needs them
