let's talk about the most overlooked
cause of hypertension and this concealed
cause of hypertension is a shortage of
an essential Trace mineral which I think
has been hidden from view for a very
long time and I want to put it on your
radar because we know that vitamin D
deficiencies can create hypertension we
also know that a potassium deficiency
can also create hypertension and we also
know that 90% of all hypertension is
called essential which means they don't
know what causes it and I really think
it's related to nutrition but this third
nutritional deficiency connection to
hypertension and I want to share it with
you right now I mean just look at this
right here you have high blood pressure
right the problem with high blood
pressure is it puts you at risk for a
stroke and also if you look at a map of
United States southern states have the
highest risk of high blood pressure high
protention as well as the highest risk
of strokes and those Southern States
also correlate with a much higher
deficiency of zinc in their soils yeah
so a zinc deficiency can cause
hypertension and I'm going to explain
why but first let's just talk about
sodium for example because doctors are
so hyperfocus on the sodium you must get
rid of sodium but it's been a big
disappointment because a lot of people
reduce the sodium and they still have
hypertension and they still have to be
on the medication you also have folate
folate if that's deficient can raise
your homosysteine which can lead to high
blood pressure and a stroke as well and
homosysteine is a certain thing in your
blood that puts you at risk for
cardiovascular problems but a zinc
deficiency is way more common so check
this out when you're deficient in zinc
you may have already known your smell is
going to be inhibited but you might not
have known that your taste will be
altered as well and what do you think
that's going to do to people that's
going to cause them to add more salt
more
spices within the junk food have them
Reach for more Doritos or salty chips
they trying to get more uh flavor from
food because everything's kind of bland
and not to mention all the MSG in the
food and so it is true that an average
person in the US is consuming way too
much sodium from junk food and not
enough potassium but they probably not
aware that they're also deficient in
zinc when you consume too much salt okay
without the balance of the potassium and
other minerals like magnesium you start
to increase hormones like renin and this
other thing called Angiotensin 2 which
I'm not going to get into the details of
that all you need to know is that salt
will increase blood pressure through
these hormones because what they do is
they cause constriction of the blood
vessels so if you ever heard of an A2
inhibitor and it is the number one high
blood pressure medication and what's
really ironic about this is that an ace2
inhibitor depletes zinc causing more of
a blood pressure problem a couple other
medications deplete zinc that relate to
blood pressure diuretics that's another
common medication for high blood
pressure well guess what diuretics also
depletes your zinc not to mention
antibiotics will deplete your zinc and
acids deplete your zinc and birth
control pills deplete your zinc now
there's a couple other mechanisms with
blood pressure related to zinc as well
because zinc is a helper mineral for
making uh nitric oxide nitric oxide is a
vasor dilator it helps relax the blood
vessels okay it's really good for people
with
hypertension and zinc is required to
allow nitric oxide to work zinc is also
necessary to make certain antioxidants
one is called sod to allow inflammation
to be kept in check I mean inflammation
is the starting point the exact thing
that starts the whole Cascade effect
zinc is also necessary for leptin and
that's a hormone that keeps you
satisfied so without enough zinc you're
going to find that you're going to
overeat uh definitely at night you're
going to keep snacking because you're
just not satisfied you're really looking
for zinc not Doritos so the question is
how do you become zinc deficient well it
could be it's just not in the soils it's
not going to be in your food
you don't consume shellfish you don't
consume red meat you eat too much sugar
refined carbs alcohol whole grains with
phytic acid fructose especially can
deplete your zinc levels or even your
stomach acid is not strong enough you
can't absorb minerals especially zinc
the food that has the most zinc is
oysters
shellfish red meat and you may need to
get your zinc from some other source
than red meat if if you have a problem
with iron all right so now that you know
this link between zinc and
hypertension check out this other link
between potassium and hypertension and I
put that video up right here
