I want to tell you the number one best
meal to clear out your arteries I spent
a lot of time talking about what not to
eat today we're going to talk about what
to eat this is going to be quite
surprising for most of you because it's
not going to follow the traditional
American Heart Association idea of what
you should be eating to figure out what
to eat we have to really look at the
layer of tissue that's exposed to the
blood going through the arteries and
that's called the endothelial layer it
controls your blood pressure both high
and low it also acts as a filter
especially as the blood vessels go
through the kidney because that's what
the kidney is it's a filter also does
other things like preventing clots it
has an immune component one other very
unique thing about it is that the fuel
that it prefers is actually glucose
realize you don't have to consume
glucose to feed it your body can very
easily make glucose because it uses
glucose as the primary fuel that means
it also needs insulin to hold this
glucose in which means that inside of
the artery is very susceptible to
problems with insulin the majority of
the population has this insulin
resistance problem why is that so
important to know because if you have an
insulin deficiency you're going to have
a deficiency of fuel how do you develop
insulin resistance by consuming things
that increase insulin and that would be
the chronic consumption of carbohydrates
snacking both snacking too much and the
consumption of too many carbohydrates
creates a situation of insulin
resistance the next thing I want to talk
about is nitric oxide the nitric oxide
relaxes the vessels they help keep the
arteries from becoming stiff they really
support that endothelial layer of the
inside of the arteries vitamin D is
another thing that triggers nitric oxide
vitamin D is so powerful and potent at
helping support that endothelial layer
this is why so many people that are low
in vitamin D have a problem with high
blood pressure why because vitamin D
tree supports nitric oxide there's a
couple other things that trigger nitric
oxide one is Arginine this is why a lot
of people are taking that as a
supplement to help lower your blood
pressure another interesting thing about
nitric oxide is testosterone increases
nitric oxide unfortunately nowadays the
big reason why people have low
testosterone is all the Plastics in the
environment because that plastic can
directly shut down your testosterone
another thing that's really important
increasing nitric oxide is magnesium
magnesium tends to relax muscle spasms
tends to reduce cortisol and think about
what cortisol does it increases stress
what's going to happen to your blood
pressure it's going to increase your
blood pressure the other thing that's
interesting about magnesium is that
magnesium is a very potent thing to keep
calcium from building up inside the
arteries magnesium and vitamin D can
help keep that calcium from even ending
up in the arteries in the first Place
vitamin K2 also keeps calcium from
building up in the artery the first
thing I'm presenting to you is the
various nutrients that are really
important in supporting this artery and
then we're going to translate that to
the best meal I always like to take what
mainstream recommends to eat to prevent
heart problems and really look at that
but in the opposite direction because if
we take a look at Cheerios you can see
this little certification thing right
here which says American Heart assoc
Association certified meets criteria for
heart healthy food all you need to have
to get this little certification is if
51% of those ingredients are whole
grains you can have refined grains in
there you can have sugars in there and
it's still heart healthy I don't think
so I also need to show you another heart
healthy thing that's recommended seed
oils that's what they recommend if we
look at the mainstream recommendation
they basically recommend whole Gra rins
unsaturated seed oils for the heart both
of those items will start to raise
insulin we're also told to avoid
saturated fat things with saturated fat
have cholesterol and that could damage
the heart and clog Our arteries this is
why people say you need to avoid red
meat but they're not against coconut oil
one teaspoon of coconut oil has more
cholesterol than 7 o of a steak but
we're not against coconut oil but we are
against meat there's a tremendous amount
of uh false information in relationship
to what's good for the heart the
statistics on heart disease are getting
worse and worse and worse what
mainstream is recommending is not
working the best meal that you can eat
to support a healthy artery to help
support a healthy heart the first thing
to know is we want to consume something
that does not mess up our insulin we're
going to have to go low carb ketogenic
is going to be best because with ketones
you can by pass this instant resistance
and feed that layer of the inside the
artery and make sure it gets enough fuel
the primary part of this meal is going
to be red meat the exact thing that they
tell you not to eat you can do a
hamburger or something like that I would
just make sure it's grass-fed if you're
going to have a burger uh I would highly
recommend you melt some cheese on it I
would find some raw cheese because raw
cheese is higher in vitamin K2 red meat
is also loaded with zinc which will
directly improve your testosterone as
far as how much it could range anywhere
from 6 o to 8 O the mistake a lot of
people make is they start going
plantbased protein that are not very
bioavailable well just think about what
the heart is it's like a muscle and we
need to give it the raw material to help
support it to help heal it now let's get
into the second part of this meal and
I'm going to recommend that you have a
salad I primarily do arugula which also
will increase nitric oxide it also has
vitamin C that's good for the arteries
it also has some vitamin E the other
thing that can help you is pumpkin seeds
pumpkin seeds have high magnesium high
zinc and selenium pumpkin seeds can
increase nitric oxide maybe just take a
handful of pumpkin seeds with your meal
the last thing I want to bring up is
vitamin D to support a healthy heart
there's nothing more powerful than the
vitamin D3 it's virtually impossible to
get your vitamin D from food unless
you're an Eskimo and you're eating all
this seal fat which you're probably not
so you're going to have to get it from
the sun when you're getting the Sun get
a lot of it just don't get burnt in the
winter you can't get it from the Sun so
you're going to have to take it as a
supplement as a maintenance dosage you
need at least 10,000 IUS every single
day that will greatly help your heart
and many other things thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
video
