today we're going to talk about the
relationship between heavy metal
toxicity and changes in your skin I want
to focus on four main heavy metals and
really it's the dose that determines the
poison we're all exposed to various
toxins and definitely heavy metals in
certain amounts and if they're low
enough they won't affect our bodies in
fact there's some really interesting
information
that you might find quite shocking
certain experiments with animals have
indicated that even a deficiency of some
of these heavy metals can create
problems in growth and reproduction so
apparently some of these heavy metals
act as essential trace minerals
interesting but let's just start with
this thing called arsenic now you're
normally going to find arsenic in
pressurized wood maybe in the water
supply maybe in an insecticide that ends
up on your food but too much arsenic can
create rate either a hyper or
hypopigmentation that means that your
skin can start to look a little bit
darker or lighter I'm talking about
little dark spots or little white spots
and primarily you might see this on your
torso your the mid part of your body you
may also notice a hard surface on the
palms of your hand and the soles of your
feet this is called keratosis and this
is another indication that potentially
it could be arsenic now just because you
have these symptoms does not mean you
have this problem you have to look at
the whole picture but I think it's
important to understand the connection
so maybe you can evaluate it deeper and
see if there is a problem or not the
thing about arsenic is it depletes
glutathione and so there are certain
things that you can take or make sure
you have in your body in sufficient
amounts to protect you against Arsenic
and that would be selenium okay one
Brazil nut will give you a good amount
of selenium selenium is also naturally
in Seafood but selenium is one
zinc is number two folate which is one
of the B vitamins and carotenoids which
is an antioxidant and a lot of
vegetables one remedy for arsenic is
spirulina that can be protective against
arsenic now the next one I want to talk
about is cadmium cadmium is in spray
paints tobacco when you if you smoke
cigarettes and it's also in shellfish if
someone is exposed to Too Much cadmium
they're going to notice a yellowing of
the skin and this is not jaundice and
sometimes a tanning of your skin when
you actually have no reason to be tanned
you're also susceptible to getting skin
cancer if you have too much cadmium
there's some protection against cadmium
and that is making sure you have enough
zinc in your body zinc is going to be a
Common Thread with all four of these
heavy metals and the best source of zinc
would be red meat shellfish beef liver
but any of the antioxidants will help
and that's in a lot of raw vegetables
and sprouts and micro greens but also a
remedy called NAC which is a very
powerful antioxidant it's like a
precursor to glutathione let's go to
lead lead is in paint or it used to be
in paint it can be in our water supply
it can be in our soils but the distinct
indication that you might have lead
poisoning is a blue line line on your
gums okay in your mouth it's called a
lead line some of the things that can
protect you against lead is having
enough calcium in the body having enough
iron in the body a remedy called calcium
EDTA which is like a chelator that can
help pull these heavy metals out and
alpha lipoic acid this is obviously in
your dental work I had a lot of amalgam
fillings I had them all removed but it's
also in fish and thimerosol which is in
certain vaccines now the next heavy
metal would be Mercury but mercury
poisoning can create a grain of the skin
and a very interesting pink color on
your palms of your hands in the soles of
your feet the seafood or fish that are
lowest Mercury include anchovies catfish
clam crab crawfish flounder Herring
oyster sardines scallops also make sure
that you have at least one Brazil nut
every single day that will give you
enough selenium to counter Mercury
toxicity so these are just very distinct
symptoms relating to heavy metal
toxicity now there's a lot of other
symptoms too but I think it's just good
to be aware of these four toxic metals
one thing that's really good for any
type of toxicity especially heavy metal
toxicity is to start drinking distilled
water okay and then adding in the
minerals that you want but distilled
water acts like a vacuum and it can help
pull out these heavy metals but remember
the poison is in the dose so just
because you're exposed to a little bit
doesn't mean anything now if you have
not seen my video on distilled water
it's pretty interesting I put it up
right here check it out
