kidney stones can be devastating I mean
severe pain so for those of you that had
a kidney stone or are interested in
preventing a kidney stone this video is
for you I've talked a lot about kidney
stones but I have not emphasized this
one really important factor based on a
recent uh study that I just read which
is actually very fascinating and it's
including a very simple thing to your
water and that is called apple cider
vinegar mostly apple cider vinegar is
acetic acid and so the question is how
does acetic acid influence or help you
dissolve
Stone okay now when we're dealing with
kidney stones we're dealing with um
mainly what's called calcium oxalate
Stones okay but there's other Stones too
you can have a uric acid Stone you can
have stones made from other things but
mostly it's calcium oxalates so I've
done videos in oxalates oxalates are in
a lot of different foods especially in
the ketogenic diet they're high in
almonds they're high in spinach and
chocolate and Kiwis and then you have
another factor of calcium in the urine
which can be a genetic weakness a
genetic mutation
or quite a few people who have kidney
stones and or a tendency to get
osteoporosis they may have a genetic
problem with their Gene that they just
are releasing a lot of calcium in the
urine so typically the scenario of
kidney stone you have
High oxalates you have a high calcium
and you also have low citrates okay
citrates now you might think Citrus like
lemons and limes things like that and
you're correct but your body also makes
citrates okay and the great majority of
the time if you have a kidney stone low
citrates are part of the problem because
one of the things that citrates do is
they can act as a key later with this
calcium and bind to the calcium
lessening the amount of free calcium to
bind with oxalates so that's one of the
things that citrates do but citrates are
involved in Industry cleaning agents
because it can actually get rid of rust
off of Steel it's used to help get rid
of calcium carbonate so it's a chelator
it can bind with another mineral and you
may have taken Biology and learned about
what's called the Krebs cycle which is
this biocom chemical Pathway to help you
make energy or ATP another name for that
is called a citric acid cycle so citrate
or citric acid
is very important in ensuring that you
don't get kidney stones so yes you can
start to consume more lemons or limes
and that's what I recommend in the
morning when you drink your water and I
usually drink a pretty big glass it's
probably
I don't know maybe 20 ounces something
like that and I'll fill it up with water
and I'll put lemon juice just because
kidney stones do run in my family and
the other thing is just having more
fluid right if you have more fluid you
can dilute the urine because
when you get a kidney stone you have
what's called a supersaturated situation
so too concentrated but if you're
drinking at least 2.5 liters of water or
other fluids you can prevent the
formation of kidney stone
and you can also add the lemon juice in
there I mean if you have kidney stones
or developing a stone you should be
consuming like a lot of lemon juice I
would say maybe
I don't know four to six ounces a day
and that can be either from actual
lemons or lemon juice but if you're just
preventing it you can just do you know a
little bit of lemon like the lemon juice
from one lemon or you can do like a
tablespoon of lemon juice you also want
to add the apple cider vinegar in there
because
from a genetic level and actually it's
an epigenetic action which is above your
genes okay and I'm mainly talking about
the genetic problem with this
calcium situation in your urine you have
too much calcium in your urine
you can control that and curb that by
adding apple cider vinegar because what
that's going to do it's going to cause
the reabsorption
the significant reabsorption of citrates
so you won't lose them you'll keep way
more citrates in your urine preventing
the formation of the oxalates to the
calcium now there is also other things
you can do too you can add some
additional citrates from either
potassium citrate or magnesium citrate
which can be found in various
electrolyte powders and then drink one
or two or even three of those a day and
you just may find out you no longer have
a kidney stone now apple cider vinegar
has so many purposes if you haven't seen
my recent apple cider vinegar video and
how it can greatly boost your energy I
put that video up right here check it
out
