hey Dr bur here in this short video I'm
going to talk about soy there's a lot of
confusion it's been marketed as a health
food but is it really healthy there's
two basic types of soy one is fermented
soy okay fermentation is this when they
add some U friendly bacteria friendly
yeast friendly mold and then through
this enzymatic action you create a new
food that's a lot easier to digest in
your body so it improves the food and
you have the also yogurt and cheese is
fermented and you can even ferment um
other Foods as well but when you ferment
soy in tofu Tempe miso or soy sauce
these are the foods that the Chinese
have been consuming for a few thousand
years okay so they've been proven that
they're acceptable to consume and um the
Chinese basically consuming them in a
lot smaller amounts than Americans um
they also have their genetics slightly
different than Americans and that they
can digest them a little bit better in
America we don't consume very much
fermented instead we consume the
unfermented soy and there's not been
enough studies to show the damage but
there's been a lot of studies that show
that I mean that the safety of this but
there's been studies that show that
there's very unsafe even causing cancer
um and even tumors in your liver because
soy if it's
unfermented um Act acts like an estrogen
in your body and there's been studies of
mixed reviews and I think this is where
the confusion is it shows that it's
beneficial isoflavonoids but then it's
some there's some negative effects as
well it increases estrogen and it
decreases estrogen so if it if it
decreases estrogen and also increases
other types of estrogen because there's
different kinds then I would avoid it if
far you because I've seen a lot of bad
things plus the fact that it's not
fermented that means that most of the
time 91% of the time it's genetically
modified without being labeled so
they're allowed to uh contaminate with a
lot more pesticides than you would if
it's not gen
GMO so that would be unfermented soil be
the so soy powders the veggie patties
the vegetarian Meats the fake meats and
also the soy protein isolates these
things are unfermented and very damaging
on your body so you want to be able to
differentiate the two and where do you
find these things they're in baby food
which is a huge bad experiment they're
going on kids because all this Spike and
estrogen and estrogen can affect you at
the DNA level it makes things get bigger
it can create tumors and fibroids and
cyst and and all those things um but
it's also in all the diet foods many of
the main diets out there that offer pre
packaged Foods use the soy powder or soy
protein isolates as their main protein
because it's it's very high in protein
low on carb but it comes with a package
it's very inexpensive protein if as far
as my opinion goes I would stay away
from it it's also in all those little
bars that you get the protein bars or
the which is basically soy and maybe
some sugar in there so you have that and
you have the prepackage foods and you
have all the different shakes and the
baby food and the vegetarian meats and
things and the soy milk um all those
things are
unfermented so again this is a huge
experiment we're doing in the US we're
consuming way way too much of this soy
and there's a lot of research and I
placed some links below if you want to
look at some of the data about soy and
the negative effects so it's okay to
have fermented soy in small amounts but
I would recommend not doing these simply
because the research isn't complete yet
and there's too many negative effects on
the unfermented soy
products
