hey everyone I have a great interview
for you this is aitt and you're are
where are you from right now where are
you located so I'm located in Bangalore
which is in India awesome so um I wanted
to talk to you because you sent me your
before and after picture it was quite
incredible and I wanted to find out a
little bit about your story um can you
tell me a little bit about where you
were before and then what happened to
turn around before you lost the
weight yeah definitely so uh in my early
teen age I was pretty good I mean I was
slim but when I started my college is
that when I got a lot of fat so uh it
was like eating all day out junk food I
I was not caring about what I'm eating
exactly it was whatever I get mostly it
was fast food and Resturant food so uh
it started uh in college time when I was
like uh in uh at the 19 or 20 years of
old uh I got a lot of weight my weight
was around uh 89 uh I have I have
reached 92 as well 92 kgs okay so 92 K
how many pounds is
that uh I think it is uh around 200 okay
wow yeah I remember in college we ate
really really healthy no I'm being
sarcastic now it was like we had deep
fried night Hormel chili oh my gosh I
can't believe I actually survived on
that we'd go to the uh we were so poor
we went to these these stores that you
had these discounted canned foods and by
Canned meat and I'm like what the heck
am I doing with Spam and um it was bad
bad so that's that was the start of my
thing too so so you gained all this
weight and then and then what happened
so uh it was then uh a Time came and I I
started feeling unhealthy uh I I did my
uh Health checkup where I found so many
issues I had a fatty liver that was the
first symptom uh how how old were you
when you found you had a fatty liver uh
I was uh at the age of 23 gosh that's
amazing yeah did you do grad school too
yes wow so uh that was uh uh uh scary
for me he doctor told me that I have a
fatty lever uh and he told me that
you'll have to exercise you'll have to
stop eating outside food but then I
asked him uh what kind of food should I
eat so uh he said stop outside food uh
stop restaurant food and start eating
healthy food like uh brown rice and uh
grains healthy grains and so
on which really didn't help me so uh
taking his Feit back I joined uh gym uh
I joined Golds there I met a
nutritionist uh she she was a dietitian
uh I I took her advice she gave me a
meal plan uh that plan was again uh 7
meals per day starting from a
breakfast uh then every two hours they
asked me to eat so initially I lost
around four to 5 cages of weight uh I
think that was all water wet or I
stopped eating uh restaurant food that
caused me to lose some weight but I was
still around uh 80 586 for around 8 to 7
to 8 years and uh it is recently uh
within an year when I started following
you I actually got my results down and
uh most of it is in last three four
months when I actually started uh going
through your videos and following your
guidance religiously and you start like
an example uh when you get up in the
morning when's the first time you eat so
I work in I I work for us business but I
am in India so I work in night shift so
uh my work starts at 7:30 p.m. IST which
is 900 a uh around 9:00 a.m. EST
basically so uh what I do is I get up
around 2:00 p.m. every day uh India time
all right and then I work out at uh 5:00
p.m. 5 to 7 p.m. IST 7:30 I start my
work so I fast for nearly 16 hours
minimum and before finishing my uh fast
I work out as advised by you the best
time to do a workout so uh it also uh
helps me to get into uh uh so now like
like a few days back I shared my report
with you I was out of koses So what had
happened is my wife was not in town so I
was eating restaurant food and uh uh
considering the labels that I had on KFC
uh I tried it but it kicked me out of uh
the ketosis that was for sure but I got
high CRP levels yeah see we see we
active protein is an inflammatory
indicator yeah yes and at the same time
you released a video on uh CRP so I was
not looking at that report until I saw
your video that I have to uh look at
those uh indicators so uh yeah then as
you told me you gave me advice that it
is uh high in MSG which will have
inflammation in your body so I stopped
it and U I follow I got back to the
eating habits that you have told me and
today I did my test and I am back into
ketosis oh that's great and um um like
in in India I I've just talked to
someone in Pakistan and India just just
this morning and both of them said that
um there's a fair amount of starch in
India they give a lot of starches
grains rice right and flour that's
exactly that's that's absolutely
right yes diabetes and thyroid I mean if
you see in my family uh I have uh my
cousin brothers and all who think they
are eating pretty clean they go to gym
they do all exercise that uh they should
do but still they have thyroid uh uh
there are two three exam such examples
in my Family itself who have thyroid and
then there are one or two uh my uncles
who also have got diabetes wow so this
is my family itself so I can understand
how it would be and even where I work uh
there we uh I work for Microsoft so in
there also we have a few of my
colleagues who have been uh who have
thyroid and uh issues with diabetes
terrible and then so give me an example
of what you would eat as your first me
so my first meal uh is after uh
approximately 5 to 6 hours after I wake
up uh so after getting up uh I work out
before uh ending my fast uh once I'm
done with my workout I wait for another
1 hour or so and then I eat my first
meal so first meal would be uh I include
around 500 G of mixed vegetables that
would be Christopher's vegetables like
broccoli uh B Peppers uh and so on uh so
mix I I cook it in uh uh coconut oil as
suggested by you uh so that is my uh
first meal along with that I have uh uh
3 o of chicken uh boiled or uh sorted
and uh and then I dress it with uh uh
the uh ghee that is grass-fed butter
that is my first meal I I generally try
to keep one meal only but in case if
there are a day or two in a peek where I
do two meals then second meal would be a
smaller meal where I have a whole eggs
four to five whole eggs and uh a cheese
uh basically so cheese has been my uh
partner in uh after I started watching
your videos earlier I was thinking like
cheese is dangerous for health but then
I looked at my reports uh the
cholesterol
has been 50% reduction in the
cholesterol after eating cheese and
you're not even from Wisconsin that's
amazing uh Wisconsin was they have a lot
of cheese there um so yeah some people
are are allergic they're lactose
intolerant but uh I suggest try it
cheese is high in protein and has good
fats um question I have um the the
quality of food in Where You Are from
cheese and things are do they use like
hormones do they use a lot of pesticides
like America so uh yeah I mean we have
Brands which are pasteurized but what I
do is uh there is a uh so I know a
farmer who gives me milk so I generally
take it from him and then my wife makes
cheese at home oh that's fantastic I'm
jealous that is awesome that's really
healthy and then
so you so did you find that did you go
from three meals to two meals to one
meal or how fast did you go to the one
meal a day so it's been uh like
initially when I started if it was uh
difficult because I always had cravings
for cars basically sugar uh but then uh
after understanding how exactly Body
Works uh obviously from your videos your
guidance uh I uh started pushing myself
then I came to three meals from three
meals uh after 3 weeks I entered into uh
two meals then I continued two meals for
12 weeks and now uh I'm doing one meal
one meal a day wow and do you work out
at all well you do work out is it is it
really Intense or is it a a small
workout so uh earlier I was doing uh a
rest poost training that is uh after
every set I uh take a rest of two to
three minutes but then uh and I used to
work out daily
uh it was not that effective uh since uh
then I start after following your videos
I started doing high-intensity interval
training and uh that helps me a lot to
burn fat uh as I'm doing workout on a
fasted state it helps me to uh get into
ketosis also I mean last example
yesterday's example I was out of ketosis
for few days from last 3 four days I'm
eating a proper food but I was still not
into ketosis yesterday I went and I did
a high intensity interval training for
uh 45 minutes and today morning when I
checked I was into ketosis so that that
helped wow and then do you are you
finding that you're you're basically not
as hungry as you were before and you
don't crave as much not at all uh I mean
it it's like uh I have food but I don't
feel like eating but I eat because I
have to uh get my daily calories
in yeah I'm the same way I'm like oh
shoot I got to eat now I'm like I guess
like I guess see what happens then you
start eating and then you're getting
hungry I'm like because you're actually
raising the blood sugars a little bit so
it drops and you're hungry it's like you
probably wouldn't be especially people
in the morning they wouldn't be as
hungry if they didn't eat soon as they
eat now they're hungry 2 hours later so
it's kind of like there this it's a trap
so one of my colleague I was talking to
him uh uh so he uh has a diabetes so I
asked him uh why don't you do uh
intermittent fasting so he was like no
my doctor has given given me pills I
take them I feel better so I I I
recollected one of your video that it
would be sugar which makes them feel
better so I told him uh I know a Doctor
Who uh is very good in this so three to
uh four of my colleagues have started
actually following you would have seen
new subscriptions coming from them uh at
least on YouTube they have started
following you and uh uh two of my
friends they nearly lost 3 to four cages
after following your video
wow that's great and one of them has
also got into ketosis so we when we did
this uh medical test uh it ketosis were
detected in his urine so yeah all advice
that you have given is helping us a lot
that's great that's great and for those
people who are new to this uh this video
and this concept I have a lot of other
basic videos you can watch on what to
eat the details there's a little real
summary book The my new book is not out
yet it's the index is being done so it's
another month but I have a summary book
it's on my website it's it's you can
probably get through it in 20 minutes
but like um just kind of like telling
you here's what to eat exactly here's
what to do but the the two things that
people tend to be concerned with is oh
I'm eating all this cholesterol I'm
going to get a heart attack well no
you're not your body makes a lot of
cholesterol 3,000 Mig a day that's
equivalent of a pound of butter a day 14
eggs or 300 strips of bacon so it's not
your body um will basically make less
when you eat more and uh it's just like
we've been brainwashed that cholesterol
is bad but uh what you're doing is you
got into ketosis now you actually feel
what it feels like and uh I highly doubt
that you would ever go back to your old
ways because now you know the benefits
and you actually experienced it yes I
would definitely not go see uh I joined
gold team for when initi
four to five five six years back uh
thinking that they are the one of the
best that I could uh uh look out for uh
but the advice that I got from them was
to eat five to six meals uh seven meals
plan I mean what kind of advice are they
giving which is actually not true I mean
it didn't help me at all and it was it
is so difficult to follow that you have
to prepare those meals pack them take
them with you and all that I mean it is
very difficult in current life I mean
how will you do it uh that was one thing
yeah I mean like you're doing one meal a
day you are you saving any money doing
one meal a day I think so definitely I'm
saving a lot on uh uh the supplements as
well so when I started gyming uh the
trainer in Gold Gym he told me that
you'll have to take uh BCAA you'll have
to take pre-workout you'll have to take
intra workout you'll have to take
post-workout uh and I used to buy all
that but uh in India we don't get
genuine uh supplements so I used to to
import it from us every time so it used
to cost me around you know 400 $300 $400
to uh you know every month for for
supplements uh that I'm saving that uh
every month I'm not using any supplement
at all it is just it is just and just
whole food that I'm eating that to one
meal which which has helped me to lose
my weight I was uh 200 lbs as I said and
in last four to five months since I have
started following you yes five to six
months when I started uh I was looking
into your videos from quite some time
but I actually started following them
from 5 months and now I wait around
154 uh lbs pounds that's great is your
wife following the is she doing the
eating plan yes so she uh she recently
got pregnant we we we got a baby and uh
then she was concerned about how to uh
you know lose weight because she had got
out of shape so she started following
intermittent fasting uh and she also I
mean eats the food that she cooks for me
so there has not been any issues with uh
the production of milk uh I mean she's
able to breast fit the baby with the
diet that you have told us there's no
side effects at all my baby is also very
good uh so she uh is following it and
she has also lost around five to six
kges in last uh six weeks
she's going little slow she's eating two
meals two to three meals but yeah she's
following intermittent fasting that's
awesome and I think if if a female is
breastfeeding I think two or three males
is is probably a little better just to
make sure you get everything all the
nutrients but the point is that if
someone has a midsection weight they
need to do the ketosis and intermittent
fasting together because ketoses you
could still do six meals a day well
that's just screwed that up and then uh
the other thing is that uh
um they want to um if you have if you
can't get out of bed in the morning like
let's say you you lost your Vitality or
your energy and you get brain fog you
just you just do this and it gets better
you get more Focus um ketosis was
basically for uh epileptic seizures so
anything with uh seizures or epilepsy
you need to do this because it actually
feeds the brain so there's a lot of
benefits that go Way Beyond just weight
um cognitive skin is better I think you
might have said you your Skin's a little
bit better right did you were you the
one that told me that yes definitely I
mean what has happened is uh so uh the I
go to gym so I have uh the people who
work out with me they are working out
from last 5 to six years and they have a
good physique but then the way they saw
my transformation from last 5 to 6
months now they are coming to seek
advice from me uh that happened actually
two of them very good uh bodybuilders
professionals they are doing uh it from
long time they come and ask me now uh
hey what is your diet plan can you tell
us I'm I'm trying hard to lose uh the uh
fat but I'm not able to do it but I see
that you have done some magic that you
have drastically lost it in last five to
six months so what exactly that you have
done so I told them that I am into
ketosis so they say uh is it good for
your body are you sure I said yeah I
mean I'm doing it from five six months
and I haven't seen faced any problems so
there were like one of my friend did it
and he got constipation so he had to go
to doctor uh to take medications to uh
get out of uh constipation I said you uh
go to YouTube and follow uh Dr B he uh
he's the one whom I follow and uh you'll
get good results is what I have said
told them yeah yeah because um you know
there's a lot of different aspects you
need to know know what to do you know if
you get constipation keto flu whatever
there's handlings for everything because
when you switch your cells over to this
new machine it it actually requires a
little more of certain nutrients so um
you got to understand the whole picture
even the dietitians that are uh critical
of this diet I know they don't even
understand it so when I explain it to
someone I before I tell them what to do
I tell them why it works right so they
really get that data versus just blindly
following an eating plan that they don't
understand that conflicts with
everything else they've done they might
not do it so that's why the videos are
important um but yeah my whole thing is
um giving people the truth on how to
burn fat so they have the tools now so
it's not a matter of uh believing
someone but experiencing it knowing it's
true and then being able to have that
tool if you need to lose weight or you
know if you want to eat what you want
that's fine but at least know how to
undo it if you mess up right so uh uh uh
Kito has taken a lot of you know uh
attention uh nowadays but there are many
people who advise on ketos even I was
you know if I go and search on Google uh
or YouTube to find anything related to
Kos I'll find lot of videos but uh they
are not that easy to follow and what
they say is not actually true unless uh
I see what you tell us I have followed
that and I have experienced that and I
have got the results so I know that
whatever you tell is true and you go
very detailed in uh explaining what it
exactly is others don't do that they
will just read and they will uh
reiterate it to us but uh the videos
that you have are very detailed I have
given it to my friends I have you know
uh referred my friends uh to subscribe
to your channels and they're also
finding it very useful uh I remember one
instance one is the and I'm how do you
know the timings when to release the
videos you are at a point I mean I took
I did my test and I found High CRP and
then you're releasing a video on C
reactive protein uh the other day a
couple of months back my wife was
dealing with
u after pregnancy effects like she was
getting hair
uh she was getting hair loss and then
you released a video about why do you
get uh hair loss post pregnancy and then
she started taking netal route uh so I
have a secret camera I'm watching you
and just seeing what problems you run
into and quickly create that video and
then I release it yeah I mean it makes
you uh become as a as a I mean it makes
you uh uh it makes us feel you as a
family doctor like you are looking I
mean yeah you you have a something that
you're observing us and then you are
helping us out on every situation that
is what is happening I mean you make us
give that I read most of the comments
and we I have a lot of comments on uh a
lot of videos but I just get feedback to
see what people want to know more about
so that's where I get the ideas for the
videos uh so yeah so if enough people
are interested I'll do a video on that
but um but I'll you know people say well
how do you release two videos a day how
do you come up with the material um I
mean one video alone could take me 10
hours of research I'm talking like 5
minutes of a video so I'm not just like
throwing them out there I'm like really
going through to make sure that the data
is correct and then um put it out there
versus uh just put out a bunch of crap
and I think I appreciate you uh noticing
that and we are grateful to you I mean I
don't know how to thank you for the
things that you are doing it is really
helping and in country like India uh
where our steple food comes mostly from
carbs I mean uh if you look at uh a
proper food if I go my hometown and I
ask my mom to make a food she will uh
the food that I'll have will be mostly
on carbs it will be rice uh then we call
something as uh Indian breads they are
also made of uh wheat and uh then
vegetables we mostly include potatoes
everywhere so uh that is how it has been
and
uh changing our mindset to follow a keto
is very difficult but your videos make
it uh really easy to understand uh you
you explain it it like anyone uh would
understand it I mean a non-medical
background guy is also able to
understand what you're talking I mean I
can advise my friends now on Diabetes
that's how it has been I'm glad you like
that yeah I try to explain it to uh
seven-year-old so I can really break it
down not assuming that you know anything
just trying to give you the basic but
hey this is a great uh interview and I
want to thank you for your great success
story and so um I'm glad we can do it in
your car and it worked out fine it was
totally fine thanks to you Doctor it all
credit goes to you uh on my
transformation you have literally saved
my life I mean I had a fatty liever I
had so many issues I can't tell you I
can't explain those on a video call but
I had so many complications within going
uh going within me uh but now
when I uh look at myself the way other
compliment me it has been amazing I mean
it is very difficult for people like us
who do a S sedentary job I am a a
computers engineer so I'm always on in
front of my computer sitting and doing
uh a brain work there's no manual uh
physical activity that I actually do uh
and the eating habits as well so all
credit goes to you on the transformation
that I have done thank you thank you and
my wife also wants to say you thank you
because she is also uh of great help I
mean it is helping her also awesome well
you tell her I appreciate that I had one
request if you can make a video on how
to build muscles I mean uh it most of
your videos have been where you we lose
fat and it is very effective but if you
can give uh some uh you know tips on how
to build muscles while being in keto
I'll tell you what I'll release that
tomorrow I already did it I just didn't
release it yet oh so I was waiting for
you to request it now or release it
tomorrow okay great thanks so
much have a good one thanks okay to bye
bye
