so let's talk about the very cool
benefits of avocado whale alright first
thing is it's loaded with potassium 708
milligrams per avvocato and then we have
carotenoids chlorophyll different
phytonutrients that have different
effects one big effect is to help
balance the different types of
cholesterol in the body now that's
interesting because people automatically
think a lava kados they have saturated
fat that's gonna worsen my cholesterol
actually no it's not it's going to help
your cholesterol based on these other
phytonutrients and then we have vitamin
E but not just the corals the
tocotrienols too so this is the complete
vitamin E complex lutein which is great
for the eye and protecting you against
the complications of all the oxidation
out there and chemicals and junk foods
it's loaded with vitamin K 1 b2 b6
folate it also has a lot of vitamin C
and then we have Omega 9 which is
different than Omega 3 Omega 9 is the
monounsaturated fats really good for
balancing out cholesterol so it's
cardioprotective
it's great for the hair could be because
of the vitamin E complex and then we
have anti-inflammatory in fact there's
some interesting studies I'll put some
links down below that show that certain
property is an avocado oil can mimic the
mechanism of certain drugs which are
anti-inflammatory fascinating it can
help stabilize your blood sugars that's
why abaca dough's and avocado oil are
great when you're on the ketogenic diet
lower blood pressure probably because of
the large amounts of potassium potassium
is a physiological relaxer and so it's
really good for people with high blood
pressure number 6 decrease the effects
of sugar there's a study that I read
that shows the comparison that even when
you actually consume sugar and you
actually add avocado oil you can
actually reduce the effects of sugar not
that you're going to do that but it's
just good to know alright number 7
avocado oil is great to use when you
cook certain things because it doesn't
smoke like other oils so you can
actually heat it up to 480Â° before it
starts to smoke now
of course when you're heating the oil
you're going to destroy these nutrients
okay so yes you can actually definitely
use it for cooking but I would also use
it on your salad and you want to get the
organic cold-pressed extra virgin if
possible and that way you can retain
these nutrients right here all right
guys thanks for watching and if you
haven't seen my video on olive oil check
that here on the page
