so hi Rodrigo thank you so much for
taking this uh Skype interview and I
just wanted to find out I saw you before
and after I was literally blown away so
I had to get you on just as a dialogue
um can you tell me can you tell me a
little bit about were you always um like
did you ever struggle with your
weight yes it's been an issue all my
life ever since I was a little kid W and
um have Weight Watchers I was one of the
original Weight Watchers client had the
big uh plastic yellow cup that I had to
drink four times a day all throughout my
teenage years you know it's been an
issue all my life oh my gosh and uh and
uh actually managed to lose weight a few
times it's it's it's I think it's my
fourth or fifth time now losing weight
wow never did it correctly but I managed
to lose some weight before wow a lot
harder a lot harder to lose the weight
but I managed to do it I managed to do
it tell me some of the the turning
points that started you really getting
success well um uh of course you know I
got very interested in your videos I did
lots of research uh basically all over
the internet not just YouTube and um
watched most of your videos if not all
of them and the the turning point for me
to be real precise was understanding
what makes you gain weight I mean that
that
that that for me was was the biggest
turning point I remember Dr bur a few
years back when the Atkins diet was was
arrag you know I guess maybe 10 years
ago maybe when it started out and uh I
did the aam's diet I lost weight but I
gained it all back I gained it all back
and um I could not for the life of me
understand how I could eat so much
protein and fat and lose weight I I I
couldn't understand that there was no
scientific
explanation that made sense to I'm not a
doctor you know I work with software I
have some technical knowledge you know I
understand technical things but um it
just didn't never make sense to me why
why I could not keep the weight off and
and and I remember actually a few years
ago going all over the Internet trying
to understand why the you lost weight on
the Atkins diet and there no one on
Internet that that information was not
available five years ago you could not
find on the internet how that can diet
made you this way the the best answer I
read was well you end up eating a little
bit less because you're eating so much
protein
which it's not
true so that that that that's the
Turning Point the turning point for me
was actually having the correct
information to be able to plan and start
acting on it you know that that that for
me was the big big turning point I think
I just wanted to say interject something
because I think the average person
that's struggling with weight it's
really boils down to they don't know how
to burn fat now if you take a look at
ketosis which is
basically your body is running off of
the byproduct of fat so you're running
off of ketones which are the are
basically fat burning so I mean it would
seem logical to me that if someone
really understand ketosis they would
want to do it since that's the goal the
goal of losing weight is to burn fat but
I think number one people don't
understand what it is it's a new term uh
they don't know how to do it
healthily um
and so they end up doing a diet and uh
and then struggling it highly
contradicts anything we've been taught
yeah right it goes right up and against
oh yeah eat more fat oh what are you
crazy my friends that are doctors I
friends that are surgeons and they're
like what are you
crazy I hope they don't see this but you
know what are you crazy then I started
doing this and a few weeks ago by
they're like what are you doing again
yeah wow so now um like right now now
I'm guessing you're also doing in a
minute
fasting Yes actually that that's when
really things took off I've been using
um both both methods they go really well
hand in hand yeah and um I I I I play
actually I've learned now to at listen
to my Hunger you know if I'm not hungry
I just don't eat you know and and
sometimes when I work out I get a little
bit more hungry I eat and and I take it
like that you know and I I feel like and
I weigh myself once a week and I put on
one or two pounds then I'll do some in
fasting for two three days it'll come
down and that's how I've been you know
being able to manage the the the the the
whole weight situation it makes me feel
good too I mean the whole energy thing
is is totally true W I mean it's it's
you know I'm a witness see actually it
works it works it makes you feel really
good see this is the goal is to get you
just knowing how to do it so you can
pretty much if you go off you know what
to do to get back on you you can control
your weight you're in charge you're not
at the effect of this metabolism so tell
me right now um on average how many
hours do you go with fasting and how
many times you eat in a given
day well I I do well the fast that
really um feels good to me is basically
about a 20 hour fast okay you know and I
usually do those on Mondays because on
the weekend you know I confess I do
relax a little bit you know I sometimes
go I save my carbs basically and I know
I'm not supposed to do this for a little
Veno a little wine I my carbs for the
wine which is the only the only excuse I
I could accept is for the wine hey one
bottle is about 50 cars so you could do
one bottle a night no I'm just kidding
um so so now uh let's say you're going
20 hours so I'm guessing you're doing
two meals a day or just
one I I I do two in a 4 Hour window so I
usually I I'll go like today today my
first meal I wake up around 6 6:30 and
I'll have a little coffee with heavy
cream and um maybe if I'm really hungry
I'll throw a little bit of butter a
little a little bit of the grass head
butter on there and um and I'll go the
whole day and I I'll start getting
hungry around four five o'clock four
five o'clock then I I'll have a snack
I'll have usually a little bit of cheese
or some walnuts and stuff and then I
have a big meal around 7:30 8 o' I have
a big meal and that's it it's over W and
I throw in some kale shakes there once
in a while okay good I like those too I
like those too so can you give me the
example
uh when you eat a big meal what is
what's in that
meal um I I I kept it well to dinner for
example tonight I I I'm the cook here at
home my wife doesn't cook and I took
over the kitchen so and and I I used
that you know to make what I like to eat
then she ended up jumping on the
badwagon we we eat keto so today I made
a big uh meatloaf with stuffed with
spinach and and um and cheddar cheese
wow so that that was our dinner that was
our dinner and a little a little toss
salad with with with with a little
mustard vinegar I also like to cook so
that really helps things out so I've
been trying to get these I I've made a
keto bread I've made keto Pizza you know
and my wife actually lost 15 16 kilos on
the white on the diet too so I put her
on the bandwagon we're both we're both
keto now that's fantastic um and then
right now you working out too right yes
actually what I did is I I what I
noticed which is also I've heard on the
videos when you work out you actually I
used to work out a lot in my teams
actually played some football and stuff
and uh well and then I gained the weight
and it was all over like to lift weights
and stuff so uh I focus on on the weight
loss before working out because I
noticed that working out really made me
hungry I I I go I went on walks I'd come
back and I just couldn't hold my
appetite I had to eat yeah so I sat down
you know I made I did the numbers would
I rather exercise and eat or not
exercise and not eat oh I'm not exercise
and not
eat yeah well that makes sense I just
released a video on that it's like you
you do it maybe right before you're
going to eat during the eating meal or
maybe right after because you're right
it's just going to you're going to tap
out your glycogen reserve and you're
going to be really hungry so if you want
to go through that it's not that big of
a crucial thing to to exercise when
you're not eating so um yeah your before
and afters I was like um amazed amazed
so you've obviously whatever you're
doing is working now if someone were to
um you know hear about what you're
eating or in a minute fasting I think
what comes up number one is like oh my
gosh I'm going to be so hungry I'm going
to lose muscle mass what would you say
to that right I would I would actually
um I I would say try it try it and and
what really worked for me is I started
doing actually I was never really hungry
in the morning I only ate because I was
already overweight right and I like to
eat I mean who doesn't like to eat I
mean the FDA had no problem telling us
to eat six times a day they could tell
us to eat 12 times a day we eat 12 times
a day right you know because it's
pleasureful but um you know I I was
never hungry in the morning so I'm like
okay I'm not that hungry I'm going to
have a coffee and I'm not going to eat
and I went to lunch and then at lunch I
started doing you know a low carb high
fat and one thing just pulled the other
it's kind of the the intermittent
fasting works together with the with the
ketogenic diet I mean they have to go
hand in hand there yeah because it was
really it makes it made a lot of sense
to me and I felt it because I I was
actually fixing my my my metabolism
which I would eat and I couldn't figure
out the life of meal how I would go to
McDonald's and eat the biggest meal they
had and an hour later be hungry I could
how can I still be hungry you know and
now and and now I eat more now more
calories and I'm not hungry so basically
my system was was all polluted with the
carbs and and you know that's what
happened to me and and I was able to fix
it doing the keto diet really helped me
out a lot for those of you that are
watching and you're concerned about it
not being healthy what you're doing is
you're fixing high levels of insulin
when you lower your insulin your body
can finally tap in the fat all six
vaping hormones are nullified in the
presence of insulin so what fixes
insulin is not eating so frequent
cutting out the carbs but to do that you
have to increase fat to be able to go
from one meal to the next you're you're
if you did this on lean protein you
would Crash and Burn because it would be
too hard lot hard yeah a lot it do lose
weight but it's a it's a lot harder and
you fail eventually you won't be able to
hold it long term which is the whole
idea so what you're doing now is do you
feel that it's
sustainable for sure definitely because
I enjoy what I'm eating I don't I don't
go hungry I enjoy what I'm eating and
most importantly the energy I have now I
don't want to lose that energy right
yeah I know it's
incredible I don't want to lose energy
I've never I've never h I've never had
so much energy so I really want to keep
up that that activity level and and
since I'm enjoying myself I'm not really
depriving myself of any pleasures and uh
you know when I eventually want to have
something really sweet I'll have some
Diet uh fat free um diet Jello or
something like that or maybe I'll have
some uh whipped cream with with with
without sugar and that or strawberries
maybe some berries and that's it that's
it basically I understood one thing that
if I want to stay uh lean and and keep
the energy level I can't eat the carbs
if I eat the carbs I will gain the
weight back that that that's a I
understand that for some reason you know
uh the overweight mind thinks like this
I'm going to do the diet so I can lose
the weight So eventually I can eat like
I did before no right it doesn't make
sense go back yeah but that's how we
think that's how that's how obese head
thinks but there's so many other things
you can eat to make it enjoyable and I
think you figured that out so I want to
thank you so much for this interview it
was really great to meet you and uh get
the uh person behind the before and
after which is incredible so uh just
want to say Well done good job and thank
you a lot to me thank you I want to
thank you for all the great information
a beautiful work beautiful job I really
appreciate it oh my pleasure I am
telling everybody I can the work is
great you explain everything really well
and you're L yours ahead of what's out
there in the medicine field let me tell
you I appreciate that thank you much
okay byebye have a good byebye you too
bye
