hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about healthy ketosis and in a
minute fasting versus Weight Watchers
okay alright where do I begin okay
here's here's the big problem that I see
there's one fundamental principle that
is just completely backwards okay in my
program I recommend that where I say
that it's not lose weight and get
healthy it's get healthy and then lose
the weight okay that's the primary
principle so from their viewpoint
they're saying no it's not about the
health it's about weight loss okay
because if you lose weight and then
you'll get healthy so they don't
emphasize health and that's the big
problem they're focusing a weight loss
and they're using outdated or incorrect
information now for years they've been
recommending counting calories but
recently even the president of Weight
Watchers stated that calorie counting
has become unhelpful okay but it's still
a low-calorie diet okay so this is the
summary of their diet about 10 to 35
percent of the calories is gonna be
protein and I agree with that
I think that's a good figure roughly
about 20% of protein it's moderate
amount of protein I think that's awesome
okay fat this is where we disagree
because they're recommending between 20
and 35 percent of the total calories
being fat when it should be a lot higher
why because we have to keep the carbs
down and we have to replace it with
something and so we're also gonna be
extremely hungry so the carbs they're
recommending up to 65% of your calories
should be carbs right there that's a
really bad idea you're gonna raise
insulin now what they do is they lower
calories to an extreme so you'll lose
some weight at least initially so we
have high carbs low fat moderate protein
where it should be moderate protein high
fat and low carbs now they're also
recommending that you do five servings
of fruits or vegetables collectively now
the problem with that is that anytime
you give people the option of doing
fruits and vegetables guess what they're
gonna do fruits fruit is high sugar this
is fructose this is going to promote
insulin resistance if you're doing your
five servings of
which most people are going to do a bad
idea and why would they want to consume
mostly vegetables I don't know it's not
gonna increase more calories you know
it's actually pretty little calorie food
so and of course I'm gonna recommend
there's six meals a day just like so
many other diets out there and pretty
much tell you you need to keep snacking
to prevent overeating the problem is
you're just gonna stimulate insulin all
day long okay now a lot of people have
done Weight Watchers okay because it's
worked when they're 20 years old but
they found it doesn't work now and last
29 years working with tens of thousands
of people a great majority of them did
Weight Watchers back when they were
younger and they keep doing it they keep
doing it but now it doesn't work but the
reason why they keep trying it is
because it worked originally but it
doesn't work now why because when you go
low calorie you actually destroy your
metabolism you end up with a slower
metabolism it's a very unhealthy diet
for your metabolism the quality of food
is very poor - artificial sweeteners
hydrogenated oils it's trans fats white
flour food msg okay now recently there
are new change in 2018 is that you can
now have unlimited fruit big mistake now
you'll probably track a lot of people to
try it because that's they would like
that diet because it's enjoyable because
their sugar in it but this is gonna
backfire this is going to prevent people
from losing weight unfortunately okay so
that's my opinion
and I think you should kind of look at
this in a minute fasting in Aikido and
if you have a slow metabolism I think
that'll work best for you especially
long-term and it will actually improve
your metabolism that was caught us by
doing Weight Watchers long ago thanks
for watching hey before you go
definitely sign up for my free keto
course I put a link down below it's on
messenger in Facebook but it will give
you all the basics it's very quick it's
like three or four videos and it's free
check it out
