today we're going to talk about how to
get rid of this toenail fungus toenail
fungus is really not a problem of the
toenail it's a systemic problem and so
if you just treat it right here in this
location you may or may not be
successful long term and one of the big
problems of treating the toenail fungus
with medication is if you're going to be
treating it for a period of time which
is usually about three months there are
side effects that come along with it
like liver damage wouldn't it be nice to
do something that didn't have any side
effects before we get to the solution I
want to quick just go through a couple
little facts that you need to know about
tonal fungus if you look up the actual
cause it'll say your feet are too sweaty
and then you all of a sudden got this
Tona fungus A lot of people have sweaty
wet feet and they don't get toenail
fungus this specific toenail fungus can
invade the toenail but it can also cause
other skin infections jock itch athletes
foot infections in your beard infections
in the skin on your legs and even your
scalp this specific microb lives on
protein and it your nail it just so
happens to be pure protein one of the
problems that people have treating this
topically is that the cream does not
penetrate deep enough in the nail to
kill off the microbe this microb is
bearing itself deep inside the protein
part of the nail and there's something
very unique about this microbe and how
it survives it has the ability to evade
or Escape your immune system defense and
there's several mechanisms that it uses
one is it grows really slowly over time
so your immune system doesn't
necessarily see it number two it has the
ability to suppress your teac cells the
other thing that it can do is it can go
into a dormant State and then wait for
the right moment to come out of
remission and it could stay in this
dormant state for years this microbe is
uniquely resistant to UV radiation part
of the sunlight spectrum is called
ultraviolet and that does have the
ability to kill C microbes and fungus
but not this specific microbe called T
ruum it can survive despite how much UV
that you put on it so you couldn't
necessarily put a UV light directly on
the toe now it wouldn't work this next
part is going to give you the secret of
the treatment for getting rid of this
tonal fungus remember when I said that
this micro can go into a dormant state
that means it can be reawakened at
certain times when the timing is just
right so the first question is what are
the triggers to go into this dormant
sleep State well the number one trigger
to cause this microb to go into this
dormant state is when your immune system
especially these tea cells can finally
work and attack it your body's immune
system is a very hostile environment for
pathogens including this fungus and it
forces the microb to go into this
hibernation mode this remission recently
there was a kind of a hurricane that
came through we lost power for a couple
days and I have a garage with a freezer
filled with meat and each portion of
meat is in this vacuum sealed plastic we
have a backup generator and so I assumed
that all of our freezers were working
somehow it blew a fuse in the garage and
I did not know that until 2 weeks later
inside those plastic packages with the
meat see worms crawling around I see
microbes moving around I'm like what the
heck where did that come from they
couldn't have actually invaded that
plastic because I had them so protected
well those microbes were already in
there in a dormant State and so much of
the microbes that we have even in our
body the good bacteria also can go in a
dormant State apparently some of the
bacteria around that meat woke up with
the trigger of having a certain warmer
temperature and so one goal is to take
this fungus and put it into a dormant
state if someone were to put some
antifungal cream or take anti-fungal
medication that would also put it into a
dormant state not necessarily kill it
then when you stop taking the medication
it doesn't stay in a dormant state it
comes out of remission another thing
that will cause it to go into a dorm
state is having the environment being
cooler and dry so then the next question
is how do we wake up this microb that's
dormant on your toenail well we actually
can change the environment we warm up
the environment we make it moist we add
a little sweat in there and it can wake
it up but having a warm moist
environment is not enough to actually
cause a microbe just to appear there
another trigger to wake them up is to
change a part of the environment that
involves pH because this microbe grows
best in a pH of eight which is pretty
alkaline so it doesn't like in an acid
environment and normally your skin is
acidic this next thing is the most
important thing the biggest activator to
of having this dormant microbe become
alive is when your immune system gets
suppressed how does your immune system
gets suppressed stress being a diabetic
being overweight taking in an antibotic
because now we killed off all the
bacteria and the bacteria are there to
keep this fungus in check so if you have
an imbalance there this is when we get
an overgrowth of certain fungus but the
biggest thing that will reawaken dormant
microb especially a fungus is having a
vitamin D deficiency your immune system
becomes suppressed vitamin D is the most
important nutrient to support and allow
the immune system to work in the toenail
you have a lot of receptors for vitamin
D and these funguses have a unique
strategy of
downgrading the vitamin D receptors not
only is this microb shutting down your
immune system but it's shutting down the
ability to use vitamin D the goal is
just to be able to activate your immune
system Army against this darn pathogen
that's all we're trying to do and make
the environment so hostile for this
fungus that it just stays in a dormant
State you don't want to just take a
regular ular amount of vitamin D3 you
need to take more vitamin D at least
25,000 international units every single
day now some people need to take it even
a little bit more but what this is going
to do it's going to build up your immune
system to the point where this fungus
has no choice but to go into a dormant
State and we're doing this systemically
all over because it's not really a local
problem it's an whole body problem and I
don't know if this is true because I
don't have a lot of information but if
you could find liquid vitamin D and put
it on your toenail topically I'm not
100% sure if it would speed things up
but it's worth a try based on certain
case studies and other reports of people
using higher doses of vitamin D3 there's
been a pretty good success at riding
this tonal fungus and doing it without
side effects because in the end you have
your immune system back there's some
other things that I'm going to recommend
as well zinc but not just any type of
zinc zinc python this form of ink is
just not talked about very often and
sometimes they put it into a cream
sometimes they will put it into a
certain soap which probably would be a
good idea but it has very powerful
antifungal properties here we have the
vitamin D to help you from the inside
out with your immune system and then
from the outside in we use zinc
topically the other thing I'm going to
recommend is to get some shoes that are
breathable because we want to change the
temperature and we want to keep the feed
as dry as possible also change your
socks very frequently wash them wash the
SHO shoes so that this fungus can't stay
and live in your shoes and when you use
detergent when you wash them that
detergent usually will kill off the
fungus as well now you have a plan and a
solution that won't give you additional
side effects thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next video
