so there's one really big regret that I
have in practice that I wish I had the
information that I had now back then
because the advice I gave on this one
topic was very bad advice I used to
recommend 12200 milligrams of calcium to
people especially postmenopausal women
for bone health okay and especially if
they had any type of osteopenia or
osteoporosis I mean check this out if
you have someone with osteopor rosis
obviously they're missing calcium in the
bone that's true almost every
osteoporotic person without exception
also at the same time has
excess calcium outside their bone in 15
independent clinical trials they found
an increased risk 30% for heart attacks
a 20% increase in Strokes just by taking
an extra 500 100 Mig of calcium per day
in another study involving 61,000 people
over 19 years there was a pretty strong
correlation between people taking over
1,400 mg of calcium per day and a
114% increase in dying from heart
attacks you just go to the store and and
look at the vitamin bottles right look
at the one a days what's the first
ingredient calcium carbonate notice how
heavy that bottle is because most of
that product is calcium carbonate you're
basically eating rocks I mean when you
think about how is that affecting the
heart how is it affecting the tissues
with all this calcium onethird of all
adults in America over the age of
45 have some type of calcification in
their arteries so this idea that if we
just take calcium and'll go right to the
bones is not true yes we have the
calcium in the bone but also calcium has
other functions especially all the
different communication between the
cells use calcium you have the
intracellular calcium and you have the
extracellular calcium outside in fact
you have a lot more extracellular
calcium you have a thousand to 10,000
times more extracellular calcium right
here than inside your cell and so when
this cell builds up too much
intracellular calcium it commits suicide
and check out this next Point calcium
accumulation is an independent factor of
risk of all cause mortality and check
this out people that are taking calcium
channel blockers normally you probably
know they're taking it for high blood
pressure but did you know that it
creates other effects it can also help
improve chronic diseases including you
know ALS Parkinson's
Alzheimer's it can decrease the risk
from coronary artery spasm and Gina
there's one study that shows that taking
calcium channel blockers decreases the
risk of all cause mortality what does
this tell you about calcium in our
bodies but the point is that this drug
has multiple effects that go beyond just
blood pressure which is very interesting
so since we're on the topic of
osteoporosis or bone loss and what
should you do instead of taking massive
amounts of just calcium and trying to
fix that if you ever look up the
condition called
scurvy which is an advanced vitamin C
defici efficiency and you read all of
the side effects of scurvy you're going
to see one of them called bone
resorption so in other words a severe
vitamin C deficiency causes calcium to
Lee out from your bone another symptom
of scurvy is decreased synthesis of
collagen synthesis means the production
of something I mean think about what
bone really is a lot of it's collagen
protein and so if you don't have enough
vitamin C you can't make that collagen
another symptom of scurvy is something
called Osteo liis what does that mean
that means the destruction of bone
another symptom is osteon necrosis
that's a similar thing that means death
of your bone as I continue down the list
of scurvy I also found
osteopenia as well as
osteoporosis I also found another side
effect of oxid of stress AKA a lot of
inflammation and the last side effect
that I found which was very revealing is
calcification outside the bone and so
what would be the remedy for osteopenia
or
osteoporosis well one big thing that I
would recommend is therapeutic doses of
vitamin C and as I did a deep dive into
this topic you're not going to be able
to fix your osteoporosis or osteop just
by normal amounts of vitamin C you're
not going to even create a dent into
that problem you may need to use another
type of vitamin C so you can use
ascorbic acid or another one that might
be good is magnesium ascorbate why
because the Magnesium is really good to
help lower the
pathogenic calcification problem that
we're trying to deal with here and the
amounts that I would recommend of this
vitamin C would be minimally 6,00 000
milligram per day now uh there's a lot
of research on this not just for
osteoporosis for other things but 6,000
plus so some people need to go a lot
higher okay now I would recommend
breaking it up into two or four doses
and one way to determine if you're
taking too much is if you have diarrhea
okay because that's one of the side
effects so you want to take a certain
amount until maybe your stools are loose
and then back off a little bit having
enough vitamin C can suppress the cells
that break down your bone and those
cells are called osteoclasts and having
enough vitamin C can help the absorption
of calcium in your bone and this is that
regret is when I used to recommend these
calcium supplements I don't recommend
that okay now you can get enough calcium
just from a little bit of cheese but the
point is if you have excess soft tissue
calcium you don't want to be guzzling
gallons of milk all day long
definitely not the calcium supplements
ant acids now I'm not telling you not to
take your an acids but an acids a lot of
times involve taking calcium and then
you're going to neutralize the stomach
acid which helps you absorb calcium
check with your doctor to see if you
really need to take that an acid it may
be contributing to your extracellular
extra calcium problem that you have and
don't forget about the Magnesium
magnesium is a natural calcium channel
blocker also vitamin K2
a K2 deficiency is the most reliable
predictor of vascular
calcification and of course if you're
dealing with osteopenia or osteoporosis
a good trace mineral complex would be
good so you get all the different trace
minerals as well as consuming high
quality protein in your diet like red
meat very very healthy eggs are good but
uh red meat is going to be the best
protein to build bone now if you have
that seen my video related to calcium
milk and phosphorus I put that up right
here check it out
