today let's talk about how to predict a
silent stroke a silent stroke is a
stroke that has no symptom so how could
you actually predict it is it possible
well we're going to use this book right
here one of my favorite books it's
called the technology of War you
probably heard of The Art of War by Sun
Tzu but the technology of war was
written by this guy who um found that
there's so many confusions in The Art of
War he decided to learn Mandarin Chinese
and transcribe the entire original text
and he was curious about if the original
text was the same as some of these books
that are put out there The Art of War or
slightly different and in a thumbnail he
found out that that original text was
severely altered to the point of a lot
of false information a lot of confusing
information and so it's really difficult
to make sense out of the Art of War and
even if you look at the original text on
the name of the book it wasn't even
called The Art of War because art
implies more maybe creativity but a
technology is a very specific thing and
so the technology of war is Sun Tzu's
original transcript on how he won so
many wars so we're going to apply that
to the body and the reason I'm going to
do this because of this word prediction
this book is really into predicting
things like number one if you should go
into battle or not you can predict that
based on your advantages and things like
that if you only have a 10 chance of
winning a battle
you better not go to war you better run
in the other direction as fast as you
can because there's no Advantage there
you're going to lose so he talks a lot
about certain things or like clues or
indicators to know
um if you're going to be successful or
not so we can apply this to the body too
and especially with the area of Strokes
so even though you don't have this
obvious
symptom to tell you're going to get a
stroke there are some things that can
very easily give you information to know
if you are going to have a stroke or not
and another really good reference or
paragraph which I'm going to paraphrase
has to do with being Victorious knowing
yourself and knowing your enemy so if we
were to apply this to health it's very
important to understand the nature of a
stroke as well as how our body reacts to
it and how potentially we can avoid it
so what do we know about silent Strokes
there are Strokes that occur without any
symptoms at all you have it you don't
even know you had it apparently the
damage that it creates in the brain
doesn't affect vital areas so you might
not even feel anything other than maybe
a little bit of a a lapse in memory
maybe some fatigue maybe some dizziness
maybe even a mood change and what's
interesting about these silent Strokes
is that in one reference I read uh they
occur five times more than The Strokes
that create all the classic symptoms
like half your body being numb or weak
or having cognitive dysfunction or
having slurred speech but typically if
someone has a stroke whether it's a
silent stroke or another stroke they're
very likely to get another one and
strokes are basically the fifth leading
cause of death in the U.S and the second
leading cause of death in the entire
world so what else do we know about
Strokes well there's a lot of different
aspects to strokes but I'm basically
going to talk about the the most common
situation with Strokes okay you have
these two uh coronary arteries that come
up through the neck through here they
Supply the brain with blood there's some
other arteries but these are the primary
ones and then they kind of merge with
some other arteries is called the medial
cerebral arteries and most of The
Strokes like over 50 percent of The
Strokes occur in one of those main
arteries the most common type of Strokes
that occur in one of these arteries like
85 percent of these Strokes is a
situation where the blood clot
originates in one of those arteries in
the brain so if we were to know the
enemy or know the blood clot if we take
a look at a blood clot what is a blood
clot and is it really an enemy
um it's actually just a mechanism of
healing some type of bleeding situation
maybe some damage in an artery so it's
not really the enemy yet a lot of times
doctors treat it like the Enemy by
giving you a drug to thin it but they
don't really look at the true enemy
behind the scenes and that would be what
we're going to talk about so a blood
clot is a kind of a an aggregation of
platelets which which are things that
help stop bleeding with fibrinogen which
is kind of like the glue that binds
everything together and blood clots
occur in response to some injury or
damage usually in an artery and so what
is the true enemy or the cause the root
cause of a stroke well if you look at
that you're going to find some
interesting things number one
high levels of sugar in the blood
creates a lot of oxidation and creates a
lot of damage in the artery so there's a
much higher association between
diabetics or pre-diabetics or people
with insulin resistance and getting
blood clots and so sugar directly okay
too much dietary sugar and too many
carbs can create this problem not to
mention it really increases your
inflammation as well as something called
the sympathetic nervous system that's
right the stress response and that leads
us to number two that would be
adrenaline
or you can call it epinephrine the same
thing so adrenaline comes from stress
and adrenaline can directly increase the
risk of getting a stroke especially
chronic adrenaline or epinephrine from
chronic stress chronic stress causes a
vasoconstriction but it also creates a
lot of inflammation and it creates your
body running on glucose that's right
glucose I did another video on this and
this is interesting because now this
overlaps with number one eating a lot of
sugar but in this case you're not eating
any sugar the sugar that is there is
coming from the stress state so this
combination of eating a high carb diet
with stress is just a deadly combination
for so many issues these things I'm
talking about are the true enemies that
we need to understand and try to reduce
as much as possible and we get to
chronic stress there's many different
types of stress and I think the biggest
stress is emotional stress especially
losses loss of a loved one loss of job
loss of money loss of anything can be
very very devastating to your body and
then we also have the side effect for
medication like HRT hormonal placement
therapy that would be the exposure to a
lot of estrogen also birth control pills
also increase the risk of getting these
strokes and then number four is smoking
now how can smoking you're you're
breathing it in with your lungs cause a
stroke well
where does that uh smoke in chemicals go
it goes to your lungs and right into
your bloodstream that's carried up to
the brain and the smoke that ends up in
your brain creates a lot of oxidation
free radical damage and a lot of other
issues and then we have number five this
is another thing it's a hypertension now
this might not be the enemy either just
kind of like the tip of the iceberg that
there's something else underneath it but
just the fact that you have hypertension
can cause a different type of a stroke
which is a hemorrhagic which you're
bleeding because it blew a blood vessel
but if we take a look at hypertension
and what's interesting about
hypertension is that 90 percent of
hypertension is classified as essential
or another name for essential is primary
and what does that mean well both of
those terms describe hypertension of an
unknown cause yet so many people are
being treated by high blood pressure I
mean it's pretty wild I think there's
probably a great advantage of keeping
that cause unknown because you can
actually make a lot of money on
medication but the point is that if you
research hypertension and all the
different mechanisms
you're pretty much going to end up with
the real cause being either one of three
things okay most commonly number one
insulin resistance if you take a look at
high sugar diets or high carb diets it
thickens the wall of the artery it makes
the artery stiff
okay so there's no more elasticity so
you're going to increase pressure just
from that so again that crosses over
with the number one thing which is the
high sugar in the diet number two a
potassium deficiency now what does
potassium have to do with the arteries
well potassium keeps the arteries
elastic it keeps them flexible and
without potassium your arteries can
become very hardened and your blood
pressure can go up there's a lot of data
on having enough potassium in keeping
your blood pressure normalized and where
does potassium come from well it comes
from a lot of the foods that are high in
magnesium too and that would be the
leafy greens the average person consumes
only like a a cup and a half of
vegetables a day where they really need
about you know seven to ten cups of
salad per day or four to five cups of
regular vegetables and a lack of
potassium also can cause problems with
arrhythmias like atrial fibrillation
which is another predisposing factor of
getting a stroke and then we also have a
lack of vitamin D which a lot of people
are deficient in the lack of vitamin D
will create more inflammation it will
increase your chance of getting you know
pre-diabetes and diabetes and insulin
resistance and so I always recommend a
good amount of vitamin D
potassium
and they get on a low carb diet that
seems to really handle a lot of
hypertension which will indirectly put
you at a much lower risk of getting a
stroke so when we talk about predicting
a silent stroke if someone is eating a
lot of carbs okay and they're diabetic
and they don't eat much salad and
they're going through a lot of stress
and they're sedentary those are the true
enemies the factors that will predict a
stroke and one last concept I want to
talk about in this book
the first part of the book is all about
getting Intel intelligence so you're
able to evaluate and then predict I have
the knowledge before you go to battle
because if you go to battle or battled
with an illness a sickness let's say
you're battling cancer for example
directly with chemotherapy and
everything else and just throwing
everything out the wall to try to
reverse the situation the outcomes are
not that great if we understand the body
as well as a lot of these other
conditions and that is what my YouTube
channel is all about giving you the
information so you can estimate things
or evaluate things and you can predict
things and you can prevent a lot of
health problems down the road so number
one get on keto and intermittent fasting
number two
make sure you have enough salad in your
diet that way you get the potassium and
magnesium number three start a regular
exercise program to flush out the
adrenaline in the stress that builds up
that ends up creating a lot of problems
and killing a lot of people and also
make sure that you're eating
nutrient-dense foods to provide the B
vitamins vitamin C vitamin E vitamin D
for all the other support for creating a
healthy body now if you haven't seen
this very popular video on the best meal
to clean out your arteries
I put it up right here check it out
