hey guys I want to give you a quick tip
today I did my live show and someone
brought up a really good question okay
they had high blood sugars and the guy
said wow you know I'm doing everything
right I'm doing fasting I'm doing
exercise but my blood sugars aren't
coming down and I said what are you
eating okay so he
basically was telling me a lot of good
stuff but then he slipped in a couple
little things of junk food and cookies
and alcohol and stuff like that he said
just it's just a little bit but I'm
taking um an herb which uh kind of
mimics metformin to counter the effects
okay so if you might have the same
consideration that you can counter the
effects of insulin I want to give you
some data right now in the presence of
insulin you can't lose weight you're
absolutely you will not be able to lose
weight your sugars will go they'll go up
and then it'll come down because insulin
actually uh regulates sugar and
eventually creates insulin resistance
and diabetes the point is that insulin
is a dominating hormone and if it's just
a little bit too high no matter what you
do intermittent
fasting for a real long
time um I don't know exercise eating
perfectly doing things to stimulate all
the fat burning
hormones insulin will will actually just
cancel all those out okay so what I
suggested is that he needed
to simply just do alternative type uh
pleasure Foods okay anything that's out
there Cinnabon brownies cookies
chocolates candy can be mimicked with
ketofriendly low carb no sugar treats
okay I want to show you there's there's
a book I'm I have right here see this
right
here that's a Cinnabon on the cover
ketogenic desserts and yummies okay I'll
put a link down below if you want some
ideas to create these desserts but on a
regular basis we make these amazing
desserts when people come over we have
these desserts available holidays we
have these low carb desserts you don't
have to go to the grocery store and buy
the traditional stuff you don't have to
have a birthday and bake a cake with
sugar there's so many recipes that you
can use that have low carb low sugar
ketofriendly so that way you can do it
long term and actually be successful but
I just want to let you know in the
presence of sugar okay is in the
presence of
insulin you will not be able to uh lose
weight or tap into the fat because in
insulin is a dominating hormone all
right thanks for watching
