today I want to share some really
important information related to chronic
kidney disease chronic kidney disease is
mainly made up by several types of
problems with the kidney one would be
just chronic kidney disease in general
which is usually or mostly caused from
diabetes okay and then you have another
type of kidney disease called polycystic
kidney disease I'm going to be talking
about that and then you have another
problem with the kidney which relates to
kidney stones we'll mention that as well
so if you have any of these problems
this video is for you and you definitely
want to watch it because I want to share
some new information new research on
this topic when someone has end-stage
renal disease ten percent of the time
it's going to be related to this
polycystic kidney disease and that's a
situation where you have all these
fluid-filled sacs around the kidney it
kind of takes over and then the more
cyst you have the less ability for you
to filter and then now you can't filter
a protein so that starts going up in the
blood and you start getting fluid
retention and you get a lot of problems
and polycystic kidney disease is mainly
thought of as a genetic problem and
until recently like 2019 the thought was
you really can't do anything about
genetic diseases but you actually can
and this is actually quite fascinating
because if someone has these cysts that
are overwhelming the kidney pretty much
they're just going to have to wait until
they get on dialysis or they get a
kidney transplant there just wasn't any
non-toxic solution and and this is the
problem with the kidney and the liver
especially
drugs tend to add more toxicity to these
organs and so there's too many side
effects so with the polycystic kidney
disease you have increased risk of
infection you have urinary bleeding you
have reduced function of the kidney
which the kidney is a filter and it
filters out the blood and the person
usually has high blood pressure so in
2019 there was a study done that found
that the ketogenic diet actually halted
and reversed polycystic kidney disease
in mice and so if you have a pet mouse
or a gerbil or a rat that has this
polycystic kidney disease problem
definitely go low carb but they also
found that time restricted eating which
is basically intermittent fasting also
created a similar effect it slowed down
the progression of the cysts developing
in the kidney and the associated
fibrosis or the scar tissue that then
comes after it was also found found that
the ketogenic diet reduces the risk of
kidney stones as long as the person's on
a low oxalate diet oxalates are things
that contribute to kidney stones and
they're in the spinach the almonds the
chocolate kiwi but as long as you avoid
those things and you're on the ketogenic
diet and you're drinking enough water
like 2.5 liters at least a fluid per day
I think you're going to be in pretty
good shape this is what they found in
the study okay and I want to really make
sure you get this one point these cysts
that are developing in the kidney are
absorbing glucose and then of course
with the glucose comes the water so
these cysts are fluid-filled sacs that
have water in them and of course when
they absorb water they get bigger but
the surprising thing that they found and
so if you checked out checked back in
right now because this is the most
important part of the video is this
these cysts not only absorb glucose but
they are dependent on glucose in other
words they can only grow if they have
glucose and of course because this was a
medical paper they went on to say that
maybe drug companies can come up with a
drug to block glucose to help reduce
this polycystic kidney disease of course
I have a different Viewpoint why don't
we just not consume glucose in the diet
okay go on a low carb diet because it's
been found that the ketogenic diet May
improve this condition so that's pretty
interesting because if you can block
sugar or avoid sugar you can actually
shrink these cysts and then of course I
got to thinking there's cyst in the
other parts of the body too you have
cyst in the liver and you even have
Baker cysts that could be in the back of
the knee and I've already experienced if
you get the person off sugar those tend
to go away but then I actually kind of
looked at the cyst in the liver and I
found that one remedy for that is
metformin what does metformin do it
actually has to do with regulating blood
sugar by improving insulin resistance
another interesting Association and you
can even improve the assist by taking
key challenge so apparently ketones are
pretty powerful in dealing with these
cysts which which make a lot of sense
since they're dependent on glucose and
the only way your body can generate
ketones is if you lower insulin and
lower glucose but apparently you can
even take ketones which I'm not
recommending but that's one way to
reduce these cysts now there's actually
three ways to get ketones in the body
one is a low carb diet the other is to
take ketones and the Third Way is to
fast forcing your body to make ketones
from your own fat and so apparently
fasting strongly inhibits the fibrosis
or scar tissue that are associated with
these cysts as well as inhibiting
something called m tour now what is mtor
mtor is something in the body that can
trigger the growth of cancer tumors and
even cysts so anything that reduces mtor
is a really good thing especially if you
have kidney problems and fasting is a
potent stimulator but there's some other
things too curcumin also reduces mtor
Resveratrol will also reduce it and the
egcg in green tea as well as quercetin
and berberine these are all potent
natural remedies to lower mtor to help
kidney cysts but what about other types
of kidney disease chronic kidney disease
well the majority of that is caused by
the same thing glucose because the root
cause of this is definitely diabetes so
anything related to high sugar like
whether you have a pre-diabetic
situation or even insulin resistance
could contribute to a worsening of the
kidney function there's an interesting
protein I won't get into the biochemical
name but there's an interesting protein
that triggers another protein that then
kind of goes round and round and round
that leads to damage in the kidney and
I'm going to put down the link down
below of a new discovery of an inhibitor
of that specific protein that they're
actually using a drug to do it to
potentially halt or stop kidney disease
so this protein that they're trying to
inhibit is called
trpc5 not that you needed to know that
but I did a search on if there's any
Inhibitors to this protein and I found
that there is curcumin and Resveratrol
so if you have chronic kidney disease
regardless of what caused it this is
what I would do I would definitely take
these phytonutrients from these herbs I
would also go on a low oxalate ketogenic
diet so you're not taking too many
almonds or spinach or almond flour or
you know kiwis and if you added
intermittent fasting with that you'd
come up with a really good program to
take those cysts or take whatever damage
in the kidney you have and hopefully
bring it in the reverse anyway I wanted
to share that information with you
especially if you have a kidney problem
or know of a person who has a problem
and if you hear anywhere that the
ketogenic diet is really bad for the
kidneys I think you should watch this
video right here
