hey guys Dr Burg here listen I want to
answer this question that I keep getting
over and over and over again um Dr Burg
should I drink more water to help myself
lose weight well the answer is yes it's
true that water is low in calories and
the idea that it will fill you up and
you'll be less hungry for about a minute
until you have to pee it all out water
does not dissolve fat they don't mix too
well so drinking more water is not going
to melt your fat off or help you lose
weight it's basically you're going to
you're going to flush your electrolytes
out when you and listen I'm not against
water okay when you're thirsty drink the
water if you're exercising drink more
water but what I'm against is
overhydration drinking too much water
forcing your body to drink Way Beyond
what you're thirsty for is really really
bad for someone to say that everyone
needs a gallon of water a day it's not
quite true because there's some dangers
in that there's a condition called
hyponatremia which is basically
um low salt in your blood low sodium in
your blood so when you drink a lot of
water you're flushing out these key
electrolytes pottassium sodium magnesium
calcium and when you don't have the
electrolytes there goes the electrical
conductivity to the heart there goes the
muscle contraction uh and a lot of other
issues so here are the symptoms of low
electrolytes because of too much water
with this condition called hypon nutria
you can look this up I'll put a link
down below um and because we've been
taught this so much uh a lot of people
almost get pissed when I bring this up
because it conflicts with what they
already know or what they've been taught
but if you have that Viewpoint just I
want to ask you where did you who told
you that who told you that you need to
drink all this water who told you that
everyone is dehydrated and you'll find
out like it's when you start looking
like well everyone just knows that well
where who told you and do you know if
that's absolutely a truth
you can get confusion weak muscles
headaches your brain can swell and you
can have an increased risk of This Thing
Called Death you could actually die by
drinking too much water um it can put
you in a situation especially if you're
an athlete and you're overhydrated just
putting a lot of stress on the heart
because you're diluting the electrolytes
again I'm not against drinking water
just if you want to drink a lot of water
just put some electrolytes in that water
to make sure you don't deplete your
electrolytes and of course the worst
thing you can do is drink distilled
water and exercise because that will
deplete the minerals even more um but go
by your thirst are you thirsty put
attention on am I thirsty of course you
could for have no attention your body
and forget about drinking water and
that's not good but the point is that um
if you're thirsty drink water if you're
not thirsty don't drink as much
especially Don't force yourself to drink
and your body will adapt to that as well
last point about sports drinks and
energy drinks uh which is a joke because
they'll put just a little bit of sodium
and a lot of fructose or sugar high
fructose corn syrup in these drinks
which also depletes more potassium out
of your body so you become even more
dehydrated it's sugar water basically
and it's expensive sugar water so uh
that is not a good way to hydrate
yourself all right thanks for watching
press it forget it forget it I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
