there's a drink okay it's a type of tea
that I would highly recommend you start
drinking if you have depression this
drink is the second most common drink in
the world behind water can you guess
what it is in this tea there are many
different pharmacological active
compounds that create a vast spectrum of
benefits in one stud just drinking three
cups of this tea per week reduced
depression by 21% and then they compare
drinking one cup of this tea per day to
drinking four cups of this tea per day
and bumped up that number to a reduction
in depression by 51% and I'm also going
to share with you a couple other things
that are going to be very very important
to add to this tea to bring it to the
next level now what causes depression
well many different things a loss of a
loved one can cause depression stress
can cause depression a lack of sleep can
cause depression certain nutritional
deficiencies can create depressive uh
feelings and there's a lot of people
looking for alternatives to medication
because medication has side effects well
this particular tea might be able to
help you and it is green tea green tea
is unfermented okay so it's different
than other teas like black tea for
example is fermented green tea is
unfermented a lot of people drink this
tea trying to lose weight there's
certain research on that also there's a
lot of people that drink this tea
because of stress because actually
increases your ability to adapt to
stress it's considered an adapted gy in
certain areas of the brain like the
prefrontal cortex and another part of
the brain called the nucleus accumbent
what's that well that's the area of the
brain that is involved in addictions
they don't really fully understand it
another part of the brain certain uh
bioactive compounds in green tea can
affect is the hyppocampus which is all
about cognitive function memory learning
things like that green tea also has
another compound called lanine or some
people call it lanine and this amino
acid helps with mood stabilization shows
that it improves depression directly
also your quality of sleep reducing
stress levels and something called
neurogenesis which is the rebuilding of
nerves which is pretty wild and there's
other effects
anti-carcinogenic
antimicrobial
neuroprotective there's studies that
show that it may reverse age related
cognitive deficits and the big thing
that green tea has the potential to do
is help you reduce cortisol and cortisol
is behind not just Stress and Anxiety
but also depression too so green tea
helps to regulate cortisol because it's
an adaptogen I would definitely
recommend drinking at least one cup of
green tea every single day however
there's a couple other things I would
highly recommend to add to this green
tea and that is this thing called extra
exercise exercise is the next
anti-depressant in one study with 156
adults who all had a major depressive
disorder within four months it showed
that the results were similar to Zoloft
if you continue to study 3 months later
only 30% of the group that exercise had
depression and 52% of the drug group had
depression so if you continue to do
exercise for a longer period of time
it's going to work better
than certain ssris your emotions are
affected by motion high intensity
interval training is going to be the
best for depression and anxiety but the
key is making sure that you don't do it
for a long period of time you want short
bursts of high intensity of exercise
with lots of rest and I'm talking about
running you know 12 seconds and then
resting for four minutes yeah that's the
pattern that you want to do and then you
cycle through that do it again now if
you can walk out in the sun if it's
summer that would be the ultimate but
vitamin D also has a huge effect uh
whether someone is depressed or not this
is why during the winter months people
get the blues so vitamin D is the third
thing I would recommend and I would
recommend minimally 20,000 international
units of vitamin D every single day that
should produce a nice effect okay and
the fourth thing I'm going to recommend
is fasting now real quick story I had um
someone who reached out to me uh a
success story of a guy who was suicidal
severe depression and I did a whole
interview with him and I'll put that
link down below but he was suicidal so
he decided to kill himself he locked
himself in his room he was going to
starve himself for three days no water
no food Nothing by the third day he
started feeling so good and so wonderful
it rebound on him he did fasting fasting
has interesting survival properties that
help our bodies survive better and
actually got rid of his depression and
his depression never came back he went
online he started learning about it he
started following me and now he has a
job he's no longer depressed he's no
longer angry he no longer has anxiety
it's amazing just from fasting now since
we touched on this hormone
cortisol there's a lot more to know
about it so I put a link down below so
you can download this onepage document
so you can learn all of the ways of how
to lower cortisol uh to help with stress
anxiety and
depression
