so what does olive oil do for your body
that's what we're going to talk about
today now for many years I consumed
olive oil but I had no idea it wasn't
the real olive oil it was the fake stuff
it's very Bland it created no
um itchiness in the back part of my
throat like real olive oil does so it
wasn't until I went to Italy where I
visited a farm where they actually make
olive oil the real stuff the extra
virgin olive oil and that was this uh
farm right here I don't know if you can
see it San Michelle a Tory so this was
an amazing experience because
I was blown away at how they really take
care of the soil and the process of
making this and everything is cold uh
pressed and extracted without any type
of solvents and chemicals and so after
that experience I was hooked on olive
oil I consume a lot of olive oil so the
question is what does olive oil do to
the body and what's in the olive oil
that creates these effects we have
antioxidant effects we have
anti-inflammatory effects for arthritis
inflammation in the arteries we have all
sorts of cardiovascular benefits
decreasing blood pressure there's a lot
of nerve and brain effects for your
cognitive function memory and mood as
well as anti-cancer effects there's
amazing effects for the skin and even
effects on your eyes so is it the fat
okay because what's unique about olive
oil is the high concentration of
monounsaturated fat now you might say
well okay so it's not saturated fat so
it must be healthy because it's a
monounsaturated fat and eighty percent
of olive oil is monounsaturated fat but
that is not where you're getting the
benefit okay I mean it also has a little
bit of vitamin E it has vitamin K1 but
that's not where you're seeing the big
benefits all of the therapeutic benefits
of this stuff occur because of a group
of plant chemicals they're called
polyphenols okay poly means many in
phenols is a word to describe a certain
chemistry or a chemical that is from the
plant it's from the fruit of the Olive
Tree the actual Olive so what specific
polyphenol does all the magic all we
know is that these polyphenols from
plants which are developed as a defense
mechanism uh produce a lot of cool
effects on our bodies especially in
preventing the complications from
chronic disease oxidative stress that
destroys our certain cells and there's a
couple things about polyphenols that
like to share with you number one they
are made from a group of amino acids
what's unique about these aromatic amino
acids is they follow a very specific
chemical
pathway which is called the shikimate
pathway so this amino acid pathway
involving enzymes basically converts
these amino acids to polyphenols and our
body doesn't use this pathway but plants
and microbes do and this is how Monsanto
came up with the glyphosate the
herbicide okay that is also classified
as an antibiotic that blocks this
pathway so it blocks the microbe as well
as the plant's ability to utilize or
produce these amino acids so there's no
conversion to these polyphenols so the
more glyphosate something has
the less of these phytochemicals that
they're the plant's going to create and
the less the microbe can make these
amino acids this is why especially if
you're going to get olive oil you need
to do organic because all of the
benefits from olive oil occur if you
have the polyphenols and if you don't
chances are you're not going to have the
benefits now this is a pathway also is
involved in making dopamine
noradrenaline
the thyroid hormones
serotonin
melatonin it probably explains why a lot
of people have problems with sleep the
thyroid their mood when they're exposed
to glyphosate so there's more and more
research that is showing up relating to
this affecting the your gut microbiome
creating
GI problems creating metabolic problems
but what I find interesting is that the
polyphenols are dependent upon those
aromatic amino acid turning into these
phytochemicals that give you the benefit
the other thing that I want you to know
about polyphenols is that they're a
little bit difficult to digest and
absorb by your own body so your own
microbes are actually involved in
breaking them down so they can be
absorbed and the third thing I want you
to know there are polyphenols and a lot
of other phytonutrients in your salad
that you put this on and the absorption
is also dependent on if there's fat
present and so that monounsaturated oil
fat that's in here will greatly help you
extract these other phytonutrients from
the salad so in my salads which I
consume every day I use extroversion
olive oil I use balsamic vinaigrette
and sometimes I'll use different spices
as well so regarding olive oil don't go
for just the cheap stuff that could be
fake to really know it's real just the
smell of it as well as what it does to
the back of the throat it'll irritate
the back of the throat that means it has
those phytonutrients it is too mild or
Bland it's not the real stuff and the
last thing you need to know is always
make sure you do the organic uh extra
virgin olive oil to avoid any type of
extra glyphosate that could end up in a
product since we're on the topic of
olive oil if you haven't seen my other
popular video I put it up right here
check it out
