hey it's me again in this video we're
going to talk about something very very
very important um almost every other day
I'll get a person that will ask me Dr
Berg how much sugar can I eat every day
well um I created this video for them
because the relationship between sugar
and fat burning is is very um against
each other you can't burn fat when
you're eating sugar and and very few
people know that all it takes is a very
small tiny amount of sugar to block fat
burning for a long long time if your
metabolism is slow if you're getting
older a half a glass of wine a half a
glass of
juice soda
inure Slim Fast 18 gram of sugar and you
know maybe a big cookie or a candy
bar can block fat burning up to 60 hours
48 to 60 hours after you consume this if
your metabolism is slow and if you're
getting older and this is probably um
very confusing if you're operating off
the calorie thought because people think
oh I can just walk this off in a half
hour of walking or exercise and I'm good
but if your blood sugars are off and
your insulin is a problem like a lot of
people all it takes is a very tiny
amount of this to throw
off the ability to burn fat for a long
period of time so let's say you're
consuming the half a glass of wine every
night or every other night or every
third night what are the chances of you
losing weight very very very slim the
World Health Organization put out a
report that said that we can consume uh
up to six teaspoons I think it's six
teaspoons or tablespoons of sugar every
day of added sugar uh first of all I
want to know who told them that that's
not true and uh uh I experienced this
with so many patients so I want you to
try and experiment for the next three
days don't consume any extra added sugar
and what you want to do is you want to
take the juice take the wine whatever
and read the amount of sugar grams in
the back of the label not the
carbohydrate uh total but the actual
sugar grams and don't consume anything
that has over one gram of sugar keep it
as low as possible do that for 3 days
and see how much weight you lost this
could be the reason why you're not
losing weight very important very um
hidden as far as U knowledge uh people
might disagree with this but I found to
be a fact all it takes is a very small
amount of sugar to screw up your
metabolism for a very long time so I
want you to apply this tip and write a
comment down
below
