hi guys I wanted to do a video on
epstein-barr virus okay so it's quite
interesting because ninety percent of
the population adult population has been
infected with epstein-barr virus now the
thing about viruses they're not alive
they're a piece of genetic material
wrapped in a sac that can get activated
when your resistance is lowered okay so
the initial infection can create fever
fatigue inflamed throat swollen tonsils
and enlarged spleen enlarged liver
I remember having Epstein Barr when I
was in high school it was like really
bad it was all in my throat and they
call it the kissing virus because it's
spread by saliva so then over time
there's an association between this
virus and chronic fatigue syndrome
fibromyalgia hypothyroidism rheumatoid
arthritis Hodgkin's lymphoma which by
the way also is caused by GMO glyphosate
stomach cancer ms autoimmune conditions
like lupus or Sjogren's hypersensitivity
to mosquito bites and the list goes on
and on and on but what's interesting is
that there's something called viral
latency which means the ability of a
virus to lie dormant so you get this
initial infection and then it goes in
remission it sits there it doesn't do
anything it just waits until it's
activated so what's interesting about
this virus is once it gets reactivated
okay only portions of the epstein-barr
virus genes are expressed so you can
have this initial infection but later in
life you may only have like fatigue kick
in or achiness in the muscles or any
other additional things that can weaken
your immune system to set you up for
getting an autoimmune disease so the
real question is what are the triggers
that would reactivate this virus that is
dormant nutritional deficiencies and
stress okay but I believe stress is the
right here because so many people
they're fine and then they have this
dresser let's say to get a divorce or
something and boom they end up with an
autoimmune disease in fact when I talked
to people over the last twenty nine
years many people that had autoimmune I
asked them when did it start and what
happened just before and one one for one
it was either a loss or a major stress
that activated the whole thing and
brought this virus out of remission
activating certain genes that then lower
the immune system setting them up to get
an autoimmune disease okay so that's a
real common mechanism so the question is
what can you do about it
okay well what you want to do is you
want to support the gland that's
involved with stress that would be the
adrenal gland focus on supporting the
adrenal glands do things to improve it
you know get more sleep go for long
walks do techniques to pull stress out
of your body selenium is very very
important
magnesium is very important boron the
mineral trace mineral boron is very
important in helping put this virus back
in remission there's also something
called mono Lauren which is a made from
coconut oil which is really good for
viruses as well so these are some things
that you can do but I think the biggest
thing you're going to have to do is to
do whatever you can to lower the stress
change your environment to the point
where that stress is no longer in the
environment and that's going to actually
help put this thing back in remission
and chill these symptoms out right here
because these really are symptoms of
this virus or at least part of the virus
activation all right so I put some links
down below for some additional things
you can do to actually help the stress
thanks for watching
hey if you enjoyed this video press
subscribe and I will definitely keep you
updated
