you may never eat bread again after
watching this video I'm talking about
certain types of bread there's actually
two types of bread the good and the bad
a lot of people have a confusion on
which is which now you can eat certain
types of bread and I'm going to show you
which ones I'm going to recommend but
humans have been consuming bread for a
very long time I mean it's recommended
in the Bible many health organizations
recommend eating bread even the food
pyramid recommends that you should eat
bread but all bread is not created equal
there's a huge difference between this
bread and this over here of course this
entire topic revolves around this idea
of whole grains being healthy so of
course they put it in cereals and they
call it heart healthy this is the cereal
that I consumed growing up as a child
here's another one but what are the
other ingredients they're putting in it
I mean right here it says contains
bioengineered food ingredients that's
another word for GMOs well apparently
even instant oatmeal is heart healthy
because it has the whole grains of
course they kind of downplay the massive
amounts of sugar and additional
ingredients here's more instant oatmeal
and then they have the 100% whole grain
certification right here they recommend
to eat at least 3 ounces or equivalent
three serving sizes of whole grains
every single day for fiber by the way
there's not a lot of fiber in whole
grains compared to vegetables and of
course we even have snacks for babies
here grain and grow here we go whole
grain goodness of course with added
sugar and starches okay really simply we
have the bad bread and the good bread
you're never going to get people off
bread there's things that you can buy
that are healthier and I'm about to tell
you why you don't want to eat this
version right here because this is going
to create a lot of inflammation in your
gut it's going to create waine it's
going to create blood sugar issues but
the reason people love bread so much is
really wrapped around this one protein
called gluten now what's so special
about gluten first of all it's the only
protein that humans can't Digest yet we
eat a lot of it but what's unique about
this protein in grains is that it has a
certain mouth feel so a lot of people
are addicted to bread because of that
pleasure feeling that they get opioids
get rid of pain they actually get rid of
stress but the problem is once you start
stimulating those receptors in the brain
you start becoming more addicted
American bread especially has in the
last 50 years we've been increasing the
amount of gluten in bread okay and so
now if we compare now to back 50 years
ago we have five times as much gluten so
what's the problem with gluten it
creates inflammation in your gut it
creates diseases like what's called
Celiac which destroys the inside of your
gut a lot of people have allergies to
this as well in fact certain autoimmune
diseases especially Hashimoto can be
triggered by this whole gluten
interaction with the gut and then goes
across the immun barrier and then your
body starts to misidentify these
proteins as being foreign and then now
you have these antibodies against it and
sometimes that can cross over into our
own tissues and now we start having
antibodies against our own tissues
autoimmune diseases are the number one
type of disease that actually surpassed
heart disease and cancer and out of all
the autoimmune diseases we have
Hashimoto is at the top of the list and
that is the thyroid autoimmune disease
and so what's the alternative I like
several types of Alternatives now what
is IR corn flour well that's an ancient
grain that hasn't been altered right in
a long long time so we made this bread
last night with iron corn flour the iron
corn gluten is less elastic it's good
for flat breads it doesn't necessarily
create as much of these Sensations as
well but it's pretty darn close but on
the flip side very few people have gut
reactions to this and the type of starch
that's in this bread creates a less of a
Spike versus regular American bread you
have a different starch that will just
really create this High spike in your BL
sugars the actual genetics of this grain
even though it's like a it's a wheat
flow is very different than the genetics
that they're using right here so it's
it's very very different and then we
have this other thing called the phytic
acid ftic acid binds with minerals okay
it connects with minerals especially
zinc iron magnesium manganese calcium
and copper so when you consume foods
high in phytic acid it locks up these
minerals and it goes through the small
intestine phytic acid cannot be absorbed
in the small intestine so guess what
those minerals are stuck to it and now
these minerals are going to be lost
through the digestion so when you
consume foods high in phytic acid it
actually depletes you of certain
minerals now is this going to really be
a problem with nutritional levels maybe
not it depends how much you consume
bread certain cultures who eat a lot of
grains a lot of bread red have zinc
deficiencies iron deficiencies because
of this phytic acid now how do you get
rid of phytic acid well you can refine
it you can just use regular flour so in
this wonderful bread right here it
doesn't have much ftic acid but of
course it has a lot of other things but
you can also ferment it okay like
sourdough bread or even Sprout it and by
the way this bread is fermented but
sprouted bread as in Ezekiel bread has
low amounts of phytic acid the cool
thing about this bread is that it won't
create the spike and blood sugars like
these other breads also I do notice when
you consume bread in Europe especially
France or even Italy and you buy bread
from a bakery it's a whole different
experience and that's simply because of
the quality and they ferment the bread
longer and they have different types of
weat that's not so high in gluten I mean
think about this France is a lot smaller
than the us yet they they have 30,000
bakeries and the US has 3,000 so you
don't normally find bread in a bakery in
the US you go to the grocery store and
it's been sitting on the shelf for quite
some time and that's the type of bread
that people consume and I guess I should
probably just quickly mention some of
the dough conditioners are banned in
Europe but they're allowed in America so
BVO or Ada which is a Whitener or
potassium bromate these chemicals are
banned in Europe but we allow them of
course in our wonderful bread I'll put a
few of those recipes down below and I
think you're going to like them but
we're always experimenting with
different flowers we got almond flour
coconut flow and of course iron corn
flour as well a few more points that you
need to know about with American bread
the way they dry the weed out in America
is they they use glyphosate that's the
stuff in Roundup okay they spray it to
dry out the wheat now other things that
are exposed to glyphosate if it's
genetically modified but wheat typically
is not genetically modified but the
point is that it has glyphosate you
don't want to have your body exposed to
this sometimes use bleach and when you
heat or you toast this and you kind of
burn it and you eat it you get a nice
dose of what's called acrylamide
acrylamide is known to cause cancer so
that's just one more negative on this
this list right here now I hope I
convinced you to avoid certain types of
bread okay and if you're still not
convinced you might want to watch this
video right here and also click down
below with some of the these recipes
that I just talked about including this
one right here I think you'll really
enjoy it you cut this up put in the
toaster I think you'll be pleasantly
surprise in how delicious it is
