hey guys I wanted to answer the question
do women need more carbs on a keto and
intimate fasting plan okay this is a
common question a lot of women have
because when they eat carbs they feel
better so naturally they meet carbs
right makes total logical sense because
when they don't do carbs they feel like
crap let's let's let's explain that when
the blood Sugar's drop down to low when
you do in a minute fasting especially
the first place for the body to notice
it is in the brain why because the brain
doesn't store sugar it gets its fuel
from the blood if there's low sugar in
the blood there's going to be low sugar
in the brain and the brain is going to
suffer it's gonna feel very funky you're
gonna get moody irritable and not feel
very good brain fog memory issues all
these symptoms okay and then you eat
carbs and wow man you just feel so much
better but but look what's happening
deeper you have a situation where your
cells are resistant to insulin that
means insolence not working that well
okay that's behind this blood sugar
problem because what happens if insulin
is not working it's not being absorbed
the cell send a signal back to the
origin the pancreas saying you know what
we're not getting the message we're not
getting that hormone so then the
pancreas makes a heck of a lot more the
pancreas will make seven to five to
seven times more insulin than it should
ok so now we have a lot of insulin going
on guess what that's going to keep your
blood Sugar's this because insulin
lowers blood sugar it's gonna push it
down even harder so we have a
combination of high insulin and
intermittent fasting it's gonna crash
those blood sugars you're not going to
feel very good but what you need to
understand is what's really happening
okay we need to fix this because if you
start adding more carbs this problem
never goes away it continues why because
what causes the resistance is high
levels of insulin because you're
snacking or too frequently or you're
eating carbs carbs increase insulin see
the problem so we want to get rid of
this problem we don't want to continue
it so how do you do this correctly what
you do is you heal insulin resistance by
not adding carbs okay because you have
it once you fully adapt to fat over here
we want you to burn fat we don't want
you to run on the sugar thing anymore to
burn fat takes time takes two to six
weeks
yeah to do that you have to add a lot of
greens B vitamins and add fat to the
meal to go longer but maybe you don't
want to do this too long maybe you want
to do it kind of like three meals per Y
I'll get used to it and then down to two
meals slowly okay so you don't so your
brain doesn't have a problem let's say
for example that's overwhelming and you
can't even do with that then instead of
adding the carb what you could add is
protein at least protein is better than
a car okay because the protein will also
make you feel better for other reasons
I'm not going to get into but but not
adding carbs so women don't need more
carbs on keto and then they're fasting
all they have to do is understand what's
happening
do it more gradual okay do it correctly
so we can eventually get rid of this
because I'm telling you once you get
into a full keto DAP tation you're gonna
feel incredible you're gonna have a lot
of endurance but it does take some time
and patience that's why we call you a
patient right that's what I'll actually
put you in a waiting room so you know
I'm just kidding all right well thanks
for watching
hey tell me what you think about this
video go ahead and comment below and
give me your feedback
