hey guys I want to talk to you about a
very interesting mineral called
manganese okay so what is manganese well
meanes is a trace mineral needed in
small amounts you need in 2.5 milligrams
a day um but here's what it does it
actually builds muscle it makes your
bones really really hard it also
supports and strengthens your
ligaments it supports the thyroid okay
so those are the functions if you're
deficient in manganese if your mother is
deficient when she's pregnant with you
you could get flat feet because it does
affects affect the structure of the bone
formation collagen and so if you're
deficient you can get stiff hearing loss
and there's a lot of other other things
that are associated but these are the
main ones right here what will cause a
maganese deficiency would be
malabsorption some problem your D
digestive system it could be that your
stomach is too alkaline it could be
because you have you're taking anti
acids in order to absorb all minerals
you need a very very strong acid stomach
to pull these minerals into your body so
that could be why it is also you come
from taking too many of the too much
iron too much magnesium and too much
calcium because those minerals do
compete for some of these other ones and
so too much of those will not let you
absorb you know this one right here and
the other thing is you could pretty much
get all you need if you consume leafy
greens nuts and
seeds egg yolks that's me meats and the
largest amount of manganese in cloves I
don't know how you're going to eat
cloves but maybe you can crush them up
or something but but if you're doing the
big uh salads you're going to be able to
get enough maganese but if you're not
and you have digestive problems you
could explain why you're always stiff
all right thanks for watching and I'll
see you in the next video hey guys thank
you so much for watching I really
appreciate it please click the share
button below and I will see you in the
next
video
