there are three steps I'm going to show
you to alleviate constipation for
example if you take a a laxative for
over a year you start to create damage
to the nerves and the muscles of your
colon and make sure you always read the
ingredients if it has mineral oil do not
take it because what that's going to do
it's going to leech out fat cable
vitamins from your liver and other parts
of your body the most common uh type of
constipation is called Prim Ary
constipation there's not like a tumor in
there that's abstracting it the first
line of treatment for primary
constipation is polyethylene glycol
petroleum based medication it's also
used to preserve wood that's been water
logged it's used in propellants for
missiles for the US Navy now it is
considered safe but growing evidence has
shown that it's becoming a problem in
between 1990 and 1998 they tested people
and they found over
72% of those who they tested had anti-
polyethylene glycol antibodies which
means these people have developed a hyp
sensitivity to this product which is in
a lot of different things including
medications like I mentioned but when
they're exposed to it in other related
products they tend to get hives make it
dizzy now what we've been told about
constipation of what we need to do um
despite hardly any evidence of this
being true is to eat more fiber and
drink more water and exercise ideally
the microbes consume most of the fiber
so you don't have this undigested fiber
that's actually plugging up your colon
so if we just kind of step back and look
at what we're dealing with we're dealing
with a digestive tube or a pipe which is
roughly between 20 and 25 feet now to
the left and right you have the
gallbladder which squeezes out bile to
help you digest the fat and then you
have the pancreas which releases enzymes
to start breaking down the food and
enzymes that are made by the small
intestine all working together to break
down your food and absorb nutrients now
think about this if you don't have
enough hydrochloric acid in your stomach
to break down the protein then you end
up with undigested protein that enters
the small intestine and so you might get
cramping and extra work by the pancreas
to pump out more enzymes one thing that
humans cannot digest is fiber a lot of
the microbes that you have in the body
act on this fiber and ideally a lot of
that fiber is going to be broken down so
then we have the actual stool or the
residue that's left over so the stool is
composed of about 75% water
25% bacteria
and then some dead cells now my
digestive system was never worse than
when I went on a vegan diet and I had
beans
fruits I had whole grains I was doing
soy oh my goodness did my stomach get
bloated and crampy and I was so
uncomfortable you have to have a super
healthy digestive system to be able to
be a vegan because if you have leaky gut
these are really going to irritate the
already existing inflammatory surface
area of your intestine and this is why
some people do so well on the carnivore
diet because you eliminate all this
fiber we're getting more meat which has
a lot of glutamine which actually can
heal the intestine so let's talk about
the three steps that you should do to
solve this problem okay number one would
be something called interm of fasting
they should bring down their consumption
of food to two meals a day one for lunch
one at dinner and eat nothing in between
with those meals that will at least give
your system a chance to catch up and
have a break okay step number two this
is where we're going to fix the diet the
more complex your meals are with all
these different ingredients uh the more
chance for more stress on the digestive
system maybe you start off with some
meat and maybe two cups of vegetables or
Salad which would be better easier to
digest than like broccoli things like
that unless the broccoli is cooked or
steamed now one really good vegetable
would be sourkraut which is really good
for healing a leaky gut so you don't
want to get your fiber from grain
synthetically created we want to give
your microbes things that they recognize
and they're used to digesting things
like polyphenols to actually feed the
microbes but when you're dealing with
the fiber from corn fiber you're not
getting these polyenals another really
really important thing to avoid is seed
oils soy corn canola because these
things have been severely refined so
change your diet and the diet I'm going
to recommend is the healthy version of
the ketogenic diet and I'm going to put
a link down below but you're going to
tweak it by not consuming a massive
amount of greens or Salad you can have
just a small amount and probably cooked
or fermented at least initially all
right the third step Bane hydrochloride
to build up your hydrochloric acid in
your stomach so how do you know if you
need hydrochloric acid well constipation
is One symptom of a lack of bile then
you need Bane hydrochloride so you would
take like five of those little tablets
before you eat that alone could get rid
of your constipation because bile helps
lubricate the colon and then we get to
probiotics okay but realize that if you
just get your diet corrected you may not
need probiotics now another very
interesting in thing about your Foods
when you consume plants that are raised
on healthy soils that plant is loaded
with microbes I mean this is how cows
for example populate their colons by
consuming the grass that has the
microbes from the soil another really
good thing uh for you to use is
magnesium and more than just like the
normal rdas which could come out to like
800 milligrams or even a little bit more
the other nutrient deficiency that is
common in constipation is vitamin B1
which is if you've been consuming a lot
of refined carbohydrates or sugars and
so you want to start taking a good
vitamin B1 so you can then help
stimulate the pumping action of the
Colin this is where you might want to
add some castro oil or Senna which is a
really common natural herbal laxative
that has very minimal side effects if
any especially if you compare that to
drugs so these three steps should handle
most constipation problems there is
always exceptions to the rules and
there's other things to take but for
right now I think the most important
thing is to start with step one which is
inmin of fasting so if you have not seen
this video check it out on intermittent
fasting
