hey I'm back and in this video we're
gonna talk about what happens when you
only use exercise for weight loss and
you don't use a good eating plan okay I
hear this all the time where people
pretty much say I'm just gonna eat what
I want and I'm just gonna exercise off
the extra calories okay though it's
interesting these people always they
might look muscular or bulky but they
always have a gut or a middle section I
have this guy at the gym the gym that I
go to that I see every time I'm in there
this guy is into some serious exercise
okay I mean he can do a million situps
he can do all sorts of things that I can
do but he has a pizza crust and he has a
gut right here so I know that he is his
diet is not correct okay now your belly
is an indirect indicator of the amount
of insulin you have in your body it's
really insulin insulin is the hormone
that is triggered by various things that
is a fat storing hormone and it stores
fat around the middle section and in the
liver and it also prevents you from
tapping in we're using the fat around
the midsection if you have middle
section weight or love handles or
anything as a top role or anything right
here
your insulin is just too high and
exercise as a tool will not lower
insulin to any significant degree so
you're kind of leaving 85 to 90% of the
results on the table when you're only
using exercises your only tool now you
might think you're doing the right
evening plan but the bottom line is is
it working is it causing your stomach to
actually go flat so when you see
something with a gut it's actually an
eating problem it's not a a lack of
exercise problem so when you do sit-ups
and you work out your midsection to your
core you end up having tighter muscles
but now it's more protruded okay but you
still have the gut it doesn't get rid of
fat around the organs or the liver so
what do you do now I have a lot of
videos I'm gonna put some links down
below of what to do in detail I'll give
you the thumbnail sketch you must cut
the carbs and I'm talking about the
brown rice and the pasta and the wine
and
fruit that has to go over here for a
while because those are the things will
totally keep your midsection from going
away okay number two decrease the
frequency of meals it's called
intermittent fasting very important you
don't want to do a pre snack before your
workout or a post snack you don't want
to drink the energy drinks while you're
working out to get energy you don't want
to do that because all that stuff
increases insulin and that's gonna
really stop your results you want to
work out in a fasting state okay you can
take like B vitamins or vitamins but I
wouldn't do too many things like bone
broth or even energy drinks or any type
of snack especially if it's a protein
snack because that's going to just
nullify the benefit of the results and
I'm talking about the results of losing
the midsection weight so you definitely
want to stop snacking because this is
really a killer I put a link down below
of a step-by-step plan that you can
implement to actually fully get rid of
your gut it's not hard to do so exercise
will enhance it but not as much as you
think alright thanks for watching so I
want to know about what you think about
this video so please comment below and
tell me what you think
