let's talk about the seven signs that
you may be consuming too much salt it's
very rare to have someone consume too
much salt
in reality the person is really just
potassium deficient so I will explain
but let's just go through these symptoms
real quick the first one is edema in
your eyes
in your hands or your feet or lower legs
because sodium is retaining water and
you're becoming waterlogged another sign
would be you're thirsty okay why are you
thirsty because your body is telling you
you need to drink more water to dilute
the excess sodium another one is high
blood pressure because you're retaining
salt and water and that increases more
volume in your blood and you only have
so much space so if we increase the
volume the pressure is going to increase
then we get headache probably because of
the pressure from the volume of blood in
your brain then you have restlessness or
irritability and then the last two are
nausea and fatigue now it's just
important to also now review
a sodium deficiency those symptoms just
so you can compare because you're going
to find out there are more problems with
the deficiency than there are with the
excess let me explain number one if
you're division in sodium you're going
to feel weak especially if you try to
exercise or climb a hill number two you
might have low blood pressure why
because there's just not enough volume
of blood because you don't have the
sodium to retain the fluid and number
three you'll have an increase in various
neurotransmitters like adrenaline that's
the stress hormone as well as other
hormones which then can lead to vascular
stiffness which will then increase the
blood pressure but there's another thing
that can worsen blood pressure
low sodium can lead to higher levels of
insulin and insulin resistance this is
the unintended consequences of going on
a low salt diet so here you are trying
to fix your high blood pressure by
lowering your sodium and then you end up
with more insulin okay and more insulin
resistance which actually causes high
blood pressure I mean what you need to
know is the most common underlying cause
of high blood pressure is insulin
resistance because it'll make your
arteries very stiff
and there's many things that can
contribute to that high carb diet eating
too frequently as well as a low sodium
diet the treatment that they do for high
blood pressure is diuretics which
basically cause you to lose in sodium as
well as potassium people that are salt
sensitive or have symptoms of too much
sodium are really potassium deficient
potassium and sodium always work
together okay one buffers the other and
you actually need twice as much
potassium as you do sodium but rarely
does anyone get that because they don't
consume enough foods high in potassium
as in vegetables salads Etc you would
have to consume at least seven cups of
salad to achieve even a closer number of
your potassium that you need and know
you can't get potassium from eating
bananas because one banana equals 300
milligrams so you would have to consume
well over 12 or 13 or 14 15 bananas and
then to get all that sugar on top of it
is not going to be healthy so with
sodium you need 2300 milligrams for an
average person and then for potassium
it's 4 700 milligrams right more than
twice as much now there's another little
piece of this puzzle that I think is
also valid and very interesting and it
has to do with insulin insulin is a
hormone that's triggered by carbs and
Insulin will compensate for sodium let
me explain let's say you don't have
enough sodium okay and so what the body
will then do is increase insulin to help
retain sodium and that's why diabetics
who normally have a lot of insulin in
their body at least initially if they're
a type 2 and to retain a lot of sodium
so what happens in the kidneys when you
lower your salt is that you increase
this insulin and you can even create
insulin resistance what do you need to
know about this glucose sugar refined
carbs
high carb diet okay causes you to retain
sodium and now you know why through the
help of insulin now on top of that
glucose that's stored in your liver and
your muscles as glycogen also has a lot
of storage of potassium in other words
it takes potassium to store glucose as
glycogen now what's the significance of
that well just realize that the higher
the carbohydrate in your diet the more
potassium you're going to lock up and
store away and become deficient in
because that potassium is unavailable so
not only are we going to have like an
exaggerated sodium problem retention
we're just not going to have the
potassium to buffer it out because that
darn glucose is locking up that
potassium and so we have a dietary
deficiency problem with with potassium
which actually makes you more salt
sensitive it makes sodium be exaggerated
and then on top of that adding a high
carb diet makes everything worse and
this is why diabetics who don't consume
enough potassium are really in trouble
they have a lot of swelling you'll look
look at their ankles look at their feet
they're just like really puffy and their
eyes are always swollen their their
hands they can't get their rings off
they can't close their hands and it's so
simple all they need to do is lower the
carbs in their diet and add more
potassium foods or a good electrolyte
with a lot of potassium and Bam their
blood sugars do better and their fluid
gets better and now they're no longer
salt sensitive don't be afraid of taking
salt because we need a certain amount of
sodium in the diet and as sodium
chloride but not just sodium chloride we
need the whole mineral balance and
that's why you should always consume sea
salt but for those people that have high
blood pressure and want to take the salt
but want one extra awesome thing you
could do there's a type of salt out
there it's called Baja gold salt it's a
type of sea salt with lower amounts of
sodium okay let me explain when you have
sea salt you have to realize that 95 of
that sea salt is sodium chloride and
then you have the rest of the minerals
and trace minerals right Baja gold salt
it's at a location on the planet where
you have the merging of fresh water
which is non-sea salt water with sea
water together we have the salt that
accumulates with only 70 sodium chloride
and the rest of the other minerals so
when you actually consume the salt you
have a much much greater amount of these
other minerals and I'm talking about
potassium magnesium and all the trace
minerals in a little bit less sodium
chloride and it's really delicious on
your food I'll put a link down below for
more information on that but you should
know about it the next most important
thing to know is about potassium and for
that information you have to watch this
video right here
