hey guys I wanted to create this video
because I had this question really comes
up very frequently will my bulletproof
coffee keep me from losing weight okay
so let's just talk about this
when you look at the macros for the
healthy keto program that I recommend
you should keep your carbs under 5% of
the total calories and we added in a
vegetable so 5% of the total calories it
might not seem like a lot but this is
seven to ten cups of vegetables because
obviously there's a lot of water a lot
of fiber and very low glycemic
carbohydrate and then we have the
protein 20% and the rest is fat 70% and
so many people when they start this they
look at 70% feather-like wow that's a
lot of fat that's like tons of fat how
could how am I gonna eat all that back
okay well let's go ahead and take a look
at something
we have in termina fasting where we're
doing one meal a day or let's say we're
doing two meals a day or let's just say
three meals a day well it becomes a
little complex because you get in you
have these calories and you have the
grams and you have the ounces and that's
why we're creating an app right now to
do the calculations for you because it
can get really complex but as we're
testing wrap now we're having some very
interesting realizations that I want to
share with you okay and I'm going to
base this on 1,500 calorie two meals per
day okay so let's say an average
person's doing 1,500 calories they're
not a very large person there may be a
small to medium person and this is how
many calories they're going to consume
well 70 percent fat would come out to a
hundred and fourteen grams of fat okay
you might go wow that's a lot of fat
well check this out bulletproof coffee
with two tablespoons of MCT oil comes
out to twenty four percent of your total
fat calories for the entire day 24
percent if we add the two tablespoons of
butter which makes up the bulletproof
coffee that comes out to 38 percent
giving a total of 62 percent
of your total fat calories just from
this one cup of bulletproof coffee wow
that's a lot then if you added 1/2 a cup
of mixed nuts
that's 39 percent of your total fat
calories so that gives you a hundred and
eleven percent that's a little bit over
a hundred and fourteen grams of fat just
from the nuts and the bulletproof coffee
we're not even talking about the salad
dressing or the fat in the protein so in
reality it's not going to be hard to hit
this target it's going to be hard not to
exceed it now in the beginning you need
to add more fat because you're adapting
and you need to go longer between meals
but as you adapt the goal is to get you
to burn your body fat
not just the dietary fat and that's why
it's important not to exceed these
amounts don't worry the app is coming
really soon we're just working out the
bugs right now but bulletproof coffee
may not spike your insulin very much but
it will provide additional fat that may
keep your body from burning your own fat
so if you find that you're not losing
just mix these two and see if that might
help you so it really depends on how
fast your metabolism is how well your
digestion is your age and there's some
other variables so I'm not against
bulletproof coffee but I just wanted to
give you this data to think with in case
you're not losing weight this could be
the reason hey if you like helping
people as much as I do press the share
button and let's get this information
way out there
