today we're going to talk about the
number one ingredient that is making you
fat and no it's not sugar and the FDA
even granted this ingredient as what's
called grass generally recognized as
safe and some people might mistakenly
think this causes the Chinese restaurant
syndrome where you might get headaches
dizziness after consuming the food with
this certain ingredient in it but rest
assured Wikipedia says that it doesn't
cause headaches it is non-toxic there's
no high quality information that it has
any negative effects on our body if
consumed in moderate amounts there's no
established causation related to this
ingredient most the symptom reports are
anecdotal and they're just not
scientific good because I really like
this ingredient and this ingredient is
monosodium glutamate MSG now what
actually is MSG MSG is a flavor enhancer
it will make the food explode with this
incredible pleasure sensation the
science is definitely settled on that so
we can just forget about it well you
know there's just this one little piece
of information that kind of just stands
out that I want to just bring up why do
they use MSG to make mice obese and how
is it safe for our bodies but not
necessarily too safe with mice in fact
mice don't just get obesity they get
diabetes they have metabolic problems
they can develop fatty livers they
develop a large midsection weight but
the interesting thing about this is what
MSG does to rats why does it make a rat
fat when it's not really a carbohydrate
well apparently what it does to the rat
is it overstimulates a certain part
called the hypothalamus and this is like
the master of the master glands and
there a very specific part of the
hypothalamus that gets destroyed with
MSG what that little Center in the
hypothalamus does it regulates the
balance of hunger and being satisfied it
prevents the utilization of energy to a
very large degree to the point where
you're storing a lot of fat but it also
does other things it affects the
fertility I mean just think about the
foods that they put this in did you
realize the average consumption of MSG
per day is between 590 mg to
2,330 mg and sometimes when you go to a
restaurant you will get up to 5,000 or
more milligrams of this MSG and also if
you add carb hydrates to MSG the effects
are accentuated and also a lot of the
research done on MSG is either sponsored
by industry or funded by industry which
is pretty much the same thing you have
the international tactical committee
which puts out a lot of information that
MSG is safe I don't know if you knew
that this was a loophole that industry
can actually do their own studies
there's not any independent third party
research that the FDA does on these
ingredients but I think this entire
argument
whether MSG is dangerous or not revolves
around this one piece of information
that industry will tell you that it's
natural it's in nature it's in a lot of
Whole Foods so there is really no
problem what you're saying is when we
make this substance in a an industrial
Factory it's the exact same thing as a
glutamate in our food that's really what
they're saying the truth is they're
completely different you see when they
make it in a lab or a factory you're
breaking down this amino acid into its
basic free state so in other words when
you consume this free glutamate it goes
into your bloodstream like a rocket ship
like eight to 10 times faster then if
you were to get glutamate in a whole
food your body would naturally break it
down I mean this is the same argument
that they use with high fructose corn
syrup fructose is the same in high
fructose corn syrup as it is in Fruit
but it's not and this is how addictions
are created so the other loophole that
they use with MSG if there's less than a
half of a gram they don't have to list
it on the label as MSG so how much MSG
are we really consuming well those facts
and figures that I mentioned are just
the listing of MSG not the hidden MSG
we're probably consuming a lot more MSG
but it's really hard to determine that
because I don't know if anyone's
tracking it but when you see ingredients
like hydrolized vegetable protein and
even natural flavorings can have this
hidden glutamate so there's many
different ways to camouflage this free
glutamate but this is the thing in the
food that just makes it intensified the
flavor is amazing but it's all geared to
trick you that's what the whole game is
about so what types of foods are very
high in this monos sodium glutamate
instant noodles like Ramen noodles like
cup noodles you know the stuff that I
used to live on in college all the snack
chips the flavored potato chips the
flavored popcorn why do you think they
taste so amazing the canned soups
bullion cubes try to find a bullion Cube
that doesn't have MSG processed meat
hamburgers deli meat virtually all fast
foods have a lot of hidden MSG so it
might be a good idea to start asking do
you add MSG to your food all the
flavored seasoning mixes have MSG the
salad dressings the frozen dinners which
are the TV dinners which I used to live
on the Savory snacks the gravy and
especially the appetizers that you get
at restaurants also you have the
flavored crackers canned vegetables even
have it so remember there's many
mechanisms here it's not just overeating
that memg has a potential to mess with
your hypothalamus to slow down your
metabolism because it Alters the feeding
centers of the body creating damage
within the hypothalamus but of course
just in Rat studies there's no studies
to show that this is happening in humans
according to Wikipedia and of course
I've talked about obesity but a lot of
people are sensitive to this glutamate
because of what it does to the brain it
overe excites the brain they get
headaches they get allergy symptoms they
get irritable they have sleeping
problems they might get dizzy so it
would be interesting for you just to
avoid any of these processed foods for a
couple weeks just to see how many
problems would actually go away but I
just want to make also another point
about even in certain proteins protein
bars they'll use either soy protein
isolates or sometimes they'll use milk
protein as a sodium quinate well guess
what you're going to get a lot of free
glutamate in both of them and some of
the symptoms that occur from free
glutamate is not right away it can
happen an hour 24 hours later so it's
really hard to pinpoint exactly what it
is because there's DeLay So when you
hear this concept that hey glutamate is
natural it's in our Foods just ask them
this one question well what's the source
of glutamate when you see this added MSG
does it come from natural seaweed that
they used in China for many many many
years answer is no industrial MSG is
made from corn molasses tapioca beet
sugar soy so there's a huge difference
between the two okay they might be
similar but they're definitely not the
same so it's about how much free
glutamate in the MSG you're going to get
like
78.2% free glutamate compared to in a
natural food that has glutamate it's
going to be a lot less insignificant
amounts of free glutamate now that you
know about glutamate you probably
already know that sugar causes obesity
if you haven't seen this ingredient
that's related to obesity this is
another one that you should put on your
radar and I will put that video up right
here check it out
