hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about what type of protein works best
for weight loss okay a couple things you
need to know protein triggers a hormone
called glucagon this is different than
glucose this is not gluts sugar this is
basically a hormone glucagon which
actually works different than insulin
insulin actually makes you fat prevents
weight loss glucagon triggers the fat
burning process and one of the things
that triggers glucagon is a moderate
amount of protein not a lot of protein
so between three to six ounces now if
you're 18 years old or 20 probably can
get away with like eight ounces but
don't do like 10 or 12 or 13 ounces
because that's going to trigger insulin
and also you must bring your
carbohydrates down between 20 and 50
grams per day not per meal because if
you add carbs with the protein you're
going to trigger more insulin and you're
not going to lose weight okay I'll put a
link down below for more information on
that but the absolute best protein we P
actually organ needs it has more
nutrition than vegetables in fact out of
all the foods is most nutrient-dense its
organ meats with vitamin A vitamin D
trace minerals b12 a lot of other B
vitamins it's actually quite amazing the
problem with organ meats is a lot of its
really dirty so you have to make sure
you get a grass-fed product I'll put a
link down below but there's one that I
found liverwurst that is a combination
of liver kidney and heart and I know
some of you are turning up your noses
right now but believe it or not it's not
too bad and you'll find that'll really
help you not just lose weight but get
healthy you don't need much just a
little bit but this is hands-down one of
the most powerful triggers as far as all
the protein and then we get to fish
because you want to get fatty fish you
want to make sure it's wild-caught not
farm-raised all right you don't want GMO
salmon you want really good fish or
seafood you can do sardines totally fine
and then eggs are next on the list make
sure you get pasture-raised I get
organic pasture-raised I don't get like
free range or commercial eggs I get
pasture-raised they're actually outside
in the grass beef actually will trigger
fat-burning better than pork and better
than chicken now look at porks down here
make sure it's organic and then chicken
turkey is low on the list and you can
even experiment with yourself by eating
chicken and then switching over to B for
these other ones and see what works for
you you're going to find chicken will
not produce weight loss near as strong
as some of these right here the last
thing on the list is protein powders
people have this idea if I eat more
protein especially powder all those more
weight well most protein powders are too
lean and the more lean you are with
protein the more triggers insulin okay
that slows down weight loss so you want
more of a fattier protein that's one of
the reasons why I put MCT oil from
coconut in my protein powder because I
didn't want it to lean if you want to
lose more weight start eating these
proteins more up here and avoid these
down here thanks for watching hi guys
hey listen I created a pretty amazing
evaluation quiz down below that actually
analyzes your symptoms to find the cause
the root cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause
so take the quiz now and we'll send you
report
