hey Dr Burke here I'm going to give you
a tip on fat burning how to lose the
maximum fat in the minimum time all
right there's three things that you can
do to keep it really really simple now
these are the doing thises of um of
things now you might have a very
sluggish metabolism and we may need to
get you healthier to receive these
messages these fat burning signals so
you don't have this situation where
you're like burn fat I'm sorry did you
say something so but these are things
that you can do if your metabolism
somewhat okay all right insulin has to
be zero in the body now what does that
mean it means that insulin is the
hormone that's activated by
sugars here's the thing in the presence
of insulin even a little bit you will
not be able to burn fat even a little
bit especially if your metabolic rate is
low so you really have to not follow the
principle like everything in moderation
or um you have to like really go down on
any type of breads pasta cereal crackers
biscuits waffles pancakes muffins sodas
juice alcohol all those hidden
carbohydrates have to be zero okay you
can't even have a little bit even fruit
may slow you down all right that's
number one I mean you should just try it
for a couple days and just see how it
works because you'll be surprised how
much weight more weight you can lose now
cortisol has to be zero what is cortisol
it's a stress hormone made by your
adrenal hormones I mean your adrenal
gland that has to be close down to zero
as well it can't be too high so yes we
can work on the adrenals and and do all
these things but as far as things that
you can do uh you need to go for a long
walk about 45 minutes sometimes to an
hour a day not power walking kind of a
nice easy pace so you're not strained
that is effective in lowering cortisol
especially if you have belly fat the
best workout for belly fat is walking
okay not with your headphones just get
out there and in nature and walk
secondly I want you to get an extra hour
of sleep yeah get a little bit more
sleep every day go to bed a little
earlier sleeping a little longer take
more naps on the weekend why because
sleep lowers cortisol those are two big
tips the third tip is to take celery
before bed four stocks of celery that
would be your snack maybe a little
peanut butter or something maybe a
little hummus right before you go to bed
celery does help lower stress it also
helps lower blood pressure the third tip
no bloating you can't have you can't be
eating foods that bloat you and still
lose weight because this is a stress so
make sure the foods that you eat even
vegetables make sure that none of it
gives you gas and bloating and
constipation find the vegetables that
don't bloat you you know don't have the
beans whatever and uh make sure that
there's no digestive stress because this
can be another h hidden uh barrier to
losing the weight so if these are the
probably the most powerful things to
lose the most fat in the minimum
time
