hey guys Dr Burke here I want to talk
about the amazing mushroom now mushroom
is a fungus and no consuming mushrooms
are not going to give you more fungus in
your body it's not going to create more
candida or anything like that um but
here's here's what it has it has high
amounts of copper and it's in a
plant-based form it's a a type of copper
that is needed in the vitamin C complex
so mushrooms are high high in vitamin C
but especially the copper part of the
vitamin C complex in nature vitamin C
always comes in a complex of P Factor
that's the bioflavonoids vitamin K
Factor the J Factor that's anti-
pneumonia and copper and it's in an
enzyme form called tyrosinase which
basically it's there to help you build
collagen it's help helpful for the
adrenal um connective tissue joint
health so it's a natural form and then
we have selenium which actually is
really good to convert T4 to T3 through
your liver so you need this to make that
enzyme so it's very high in selenium
selenium is also good for the liver and
the detoxification of toxins in the
liver and also vitamin D actually it's
in mushrooms too mushrooms have the only
vegan source of vitamin D other than Sun
uh so that's interesting so it's great
with that and also has calcium to go
with that it's loaded with B vitamins
which are really essential for your skin
your heart your mood your adrenals
stress a whole bunch of things it has
something called beta glucan which is
really good for insulin resistance and
lowering cholesterol and then we have
the a great amino acid profile so it's
it's a good vegan source of amino acids
um also it's loaded with iron so I love
mushrooms I like to saam and butter and
I put mushrooms in my salads I consume
them on a regular basis and I think you
should too thanks for watching
