hey guys I'm back and I've been doing a
lot of research on potassium so I wanted
to create this video it's actually quite
interesting this topic relates to how
potassium affects your muscle strength
and your exercise endurance okay I want
to give you a little background but I'm
gonna make it as simple as possible you
have these little tiny pumps on your
cells on the membrane of the cells you
have billions of them they're called the
sodium potassium pump they're a little
tiny protein molecule that have enzyme
activity and you have billions of them
and they work 24/7 and the name of the
entire structure is sodium potassium
ATPase the ACE is an enzyme and the ACE
basically splits up this energy currency
the ATP so it can have energy to do its
job 30% of all of your energy and your
body is allocated to these tiny pumps
now what do they do
all they do is they push out sodium and
pushing in potassium so they push out
24,000 sodium ions and they push in
16,000 potassium ions now if you do the
math there's a difference of 8,000 so
that difference is very very important
because that difference makes the inside
of the cell more negative than the
outside and it creates a little voltage
so basically this pump turns a cell into
a battery to allow muscles to do their
work through the nervous system so if
you've ever taken a biochemistry class
and not sure how it worked I hope I
explained this in a real simple way now
if this pump is not working you're gonna
feel it in your strength you're gonna
feel weaker and you're definitely not
going to have the endurance and there's
several things that can influence that
number one low potassium in your diet
you don't get enough potassium you don't
need enough vegetables you just you
don't have enough potassium in general
now it could be you have you know
vomiting diarrhea excessive laxatives
something like that where it's
depleting potassium but also training
the more you exercise the more of these
you develop the more inactive you are
the less of these you're gonna have in
your muscles and by the way the biggest
concentration of these pumps are in the
skeletal muscle now if you have insulin
resistance because you're pre-diabetic
or a diabetic that can limit these as
well also if your thyroid is low you
won't have enough of those pumps if you
have low magnesium you need magnesium
from potassium to work you're gonna it's
going to affect these pumps if you have
kidney damage that can affect the pumps
if you're on diuretics it'll deplete you
of potassium if you drink too much
coffee two to three cups per day that
will definitely deplete your potassium
and lastly if you actually experiencing
too much stress and you have too much
cortisol that will also create a
potassium deficiency in effect these
pumps so as an experiment if you're
exercising now go ahead and increase the
amount of potassium in your diet and
just observe the difference in your
strength and your exercise endurance
thanks for watching
you
