in this video I'm going to talk about
the other reasons why your blood sugar
might be high you know other than you
consuming carbohydrates as you might
know when you consume carbs your blood
sugar will go higher okay so I think
most people know that and if you want to
reduce it you need to reduce your carbs
and that should normally bring it down
however what if it goes up especially in
the morning what could it be well at
about 8 o'clock in the morning you have
this hormone shift okay you have this
spike of this hormone called cortisol
that's the stress hormone that will
mobilize sugar from the body and spike
blood sugars so it's coming from
cortisol especially if there's an
adrenal problem and there's insulin
resistance number two you have low blood
sugar for some reason it's hypoglycemia
and you have these counter regulatory
hormones including cortisol as one of
them okay so but this is for a different
reason
this could happen anywhere during the
day okay we're not talking about right
after a meal we're talking about when
you're not eating you have these three
hormones cortisol glucagon and
adrenaline that kicks in if your blood
sugars get too low and that can raise
your blood Sugar's so the reason you
have hypoglycemia in the first place is
you're somehow doing something to spike
insulin and it's pushing this blood
sugar down and it could be because
you're eating when you're eating you're
eating a lot of carbs okay that could be
one reason or you are eating too
frequently so then we have the counter
hormones coming in to try to push up the
blood sugar and sometimes it could bring
it up too high so that's another reason
right there number three you had a snack
late last night and it was a
carbohydrate snack and what's happening
is that you're seeing the effects of the
blood sugar the next day and before you
ate sugar the day before and that will
throw off the blood sugars now if you
having a problem today with your blood
sugars chances are the real cause of it
was in the previous day where you ate
some carb I mean people don't look at
that they're focused right on what they
ate like an hour ago
however these blood sugar issues could
actually be originating from
something you did 24 hours ago alright
number five low blood pressure let's say
you're taking a lot of blood pressure
medication where your blood pressure is
too low guess what that will activate
cortisol to bring it back up and
actually raise your blood glucose levels
all right number six you going through
some type of stress that can raise your
glucose level or you had trauma or you
had an infection or you're taking
cortisol synthetically like medication
like you're taking prednisone or
cortisol injections for some reason that
could do it right there number seven you
forgot to take your medications if
you're diabetic and you've forgot to
take your insulin or whatever last night
there's nothing there to push the blood
sugar down so it's high today all right
number eight you exercise the night
before and that burned up all your sugar
now guess what happens right here your
body has these counter hormones that are
gonna kick in and start raising your
blood sugars and number nine you had
hidden MSG in the diet
monosodium glutamate which will increase
blood sugars or you had artificial
sweeteners which will also increase
your blood Sugar's the ultimate solution
for this is just to do healthy keto and
intermittent fasting and do it long
enough for your body to correct the
underlying imbalances that you have with
insulin resistance all right thanks for
watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
