hey guys I wanted to create a short
video from this woman who uh wanted to
know how to handle the situation because
she went to her doctor and told the
doctor that she was in ketosis and the
doctor says oh my gosh don't do that
it's life-threatening ketones are poison
okay so she wanted to know how to
respond to that so I want to talk about
that yeah so I've done a lot of videos
on this but I'm going to do one more and
it has to do with this one confusion of
thinking diabetic
keto acidosis is the same thing as
nutritional ketosis they're not the same
there is a condition when you're a type
one diabetic when you don't you run out
of insulin you don't have any more
insulin so therefore your ketones go up
and up and up and up and you you become
very acidic and that's dangerous okay so
that's one thing if you're not a type 1
diabetic you're going to produce insulin
so there is no risk of getting keto
acidosis if your pancreas makes insulin
because what you're going to do is go
into ketosis by just dropping your
carbohydrates so your body can then turn
your own fat and the dietary fat into
ketones so the truth is that ketones can
be very therapeutic to your body they
are not poisons okay and there's a lot
of research being done right now on
using ketones on brain injury okay
because here's the truth ketones are
more efficient fuel they need less
oxygen
they produce less waste than glucose
they're
neuroprotective they protect and help
recovery nerve damage from glucose so
when you switch from glucose to ketones
by going on a ketogenic diet it's called
keto adaptation you can actually recover
uh damaged brain cells and nerve tissue
ketones give you more ATP that's the
energy currency of the body so your
energy will go up your need for sleep
does go down it can actually increase
your blood flow by
39% and that's why there's actually
research being done right now on all
sorts of conditions uh involving low
oxygen like um using ketosis after a
stroke after brain injury after um
damage to the lung for example so
running the body and Ketone can actually
just increase oxygen in general it also
can prevent protein from accumulating in
the brain in the tissues because when
you run your body in glucose you can
start developing amalo plaing which is a
little piece of protein in the brain and
that can actually lead to alzheimer's
dementia and a lot of other problems so
the real Poison is excess glucose high
blood sugar because that can actually
shrink the brain cause you to retain
fluid decrease your memory cause
dementia bring you down emotionally uh
cause oxidative stress which then your
body has to come in there and Patch it
with cholesterol uh cause glycation
which is The Binding of protein and
sugar or fat and sugar together and that
clogs everything up and creates damage
and create fatigue decrease oxygen so as
you can see anyone actually telling you
that ketones are dangerous just doesn't
understand what a ketone is thanks for
watching hey guys a lot of you already
have my book some of you don't but this
new edition called the new body type
guide is an upgrade for my last Edition
called the seven principal of fat
burning it has 156 images 378 Pages full
glossery I talk about keto inent fasting
the body types in detail I have a new
stress chapter I'm going to show you
exactly what to eat and a comprehensive
FAQ I put a link down below check it out
