hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I
want to show you how to handle bleeding
gums it's also CA called pink toothbrush
syndrome so you're brushing your teeth
and you see some blood on it or you
smile and you have that red gum issue
that is a a vitamin C deficiency you can
call it gingivitis whatever it's a total
vitamin C deficiency why because the
person is either taking too much of the
wrong type of vitamin C creating the
vitamin C deficiency or they're not
consuming enough vegetables we get our
vitamin C from the vegetable family yes
you can get it from kiwis and oranges
but mainly the vegetables have most the
vitamin C and people with uh that
bleeding gum rarely ever have vitamin C
okay so here's the thing about vitamin
C if if you go to the store and you buy
typical vitamin C it'll say ascorbic
acid V ascorbic acid is not vitamin C
it's one small part of the vitamin C
complex and the problem is manufacturers
especially with vitamins they make this
synthetically out of corn starch and
sulfuric acid okay yeah you realize
there's no vitamin C in corn or corn
starch or or sulfuric acid so they're
making it synthetically so don't ever
buy into it's the same thing as natural
because it's not if you consume a corbic
acid synthetically which is in most uh
vitamins especially if it's over like
100 milligram okay we know it's
synthetic then you're going to create a
deficiency of the other part of the
vitamin C complex that normally comes in
in nature so let's take a look at what's
in the complex the vitamin P Factor
that's the bioflavonoids okay sometimes
vitamin C comes with a pinch of rose
hips right wow just a small pinch B
flavonoids vitamin J is the anti-
uh pneumonia vitamin or it actually
helps your lungs helps oxygen it's
called the J Factor Vitamin K is part of
the vitamin C complex and copper it's in
an enzyme form called tyrosinase which
is really important in building collagen
and building connective tissue and by
the way as a side note the adrenal
glands um store a lot of the vitamin C
in your body so when the adrenal glands
run out of energy or uh gas you're
usually deficient in vitamin C and you
get all these vitamin C symptoms like
like uh Rosy Cheeks spider veins uh
things like that that's a vitamin C
deficiency as well but it shows up in
the gums micro hemorrhaging basically so
what happens is when you take too much
of this and N of these these natural
factors here you can actually create
vitamin C deficiencies and your gums
start bleeding I had a guy go one of my
patients he um decided to go to Mexico
to get chemotherapy um but they didn't
do chemotherapy they injected him with
100,000 migs of ascorbic acid he came
back with bleeding gums like crazy and
he had varicose veins he had spider
veins he had hemorrhoids that's a
vitaminc deficiency okay so what do you
do to correct bleeding gums you need to
start consuming vegetables in large
quantities okay all the leafy greens the
bell peppers all the salads
you'll get the vitamin C naturally if
you're taking any synthetic read the
label if it's over 100 milligrams we
know it's synthetic don't consume it
okay I always like to get my vitamin C
from actual food okay why because it's
not hard to get it's very easy to get
and it'll give you a lot of other
benefits as as well okay so write your
comments below and I will see you in the
next
video
