let's talk about the seven bad habits
that can actually ruin and wreck your
liver I have a lot of experience in this
because I destroyed my liver with all
the bad habits you can possibly imagine
so let's go to the first bad habit and
this is over-the-counter medication now
this goes beyond medication and I'm not
telling you not to take your medication
but all medication especially
over-the-counter medication can really
do some serious damage to your liver and
at the top of the list we have Tylenol
Tylenol is very unique in that it's the
number one cause of acute liver failure
out of all these other medications so
it's something to be aware of and some
people don't realize that and they're
taking it routinely and it's really bad
if you're on any over-the-counter
medication or even medication in general
you should be taking something to
protect your liver and one thing that I
recommend would be milk thistle it has
very unique properties to add protection
and increase regeneration of liver the
other protector for the liver especially
for Tylenol is something called na C but
milk thistle will also work and also the
question to ask is why am I on this
medication in the first place well some
of the other bad habits that we're going
to cover will probably solve the problem
of being on this medication in the first
place all right number two is a
sedentary lifestyle and it's kind of
strange because like why would not
exercising or being active harm your
liver versus other things that you do or
let's say you're drinking alcohol right
you can that's something that definitely
destroys liver but if you're sedentary
your diet might not be that great okay
so you're eating a lot of maybe junk
Foods or more calories and you're
probably not burning them off and so if
we just look at the cells the input of
fuel and then burning that fuel up if
you're inputting too much fuel and
you're not burning that off there's a
lot of damage that's created at the cell
level this is called oxidative stress
you can just think about this as rust
you can rusting out your body and
exercise burns off a lot of that fuel
that's like buffering system for a lot
of things like disease exercise greatly
strengthens the immune system exercise
increases more oxygen throughout the
body exercise also directly reduces
stress that builds up you can't avoid
stress so all day long you accumulate
stress how you going to get that stress
out of your body well exercise can do it
create an a habit of regular exercise or
physical work all right next one number
three not really eating for health or
nutrition now this can get you into
trouble because the primary ingredient
that people eat for pleasure is seed
oils vegetable oils which are really bad
the combination of starch or sugar and
Seed oils is basically the anatomy of
what makes up junk food and the
combination of sweet starch and Seed
oils together it's highly addictive it's
highly damaging but it can give us a
sense of a decrease stress for a second
well actually about 30 seconds until
your blood sugars that were high start
coming down and now we actually need
more to create that same sensation so
most people actually eat for some type
of sensation it's kind of a Mindless
thing that we just do as a routine habit
it has taken me years before I finally
decided to create a new thing for myself
where I'm now going to start eating for
health and I really had to hit bottom
and really feel terrible for many years
before I changed I didn't just switch
overnight I literally had to be so sick
and be in so much pain before I said
that's it and now all I have to do is
think about what I would feel like if I
ate this thing to get me to say no thank
you so the Comfort foods that people
like would be like fried chicken right
deep fried in vegetable oils french
fries with ketchup pastries Donuts you
realize that one time I ate in one
sitting 12 donuts I mean I I I can't
even imagine eating that now the heck
was I thinking and then when you go to a
fast food place you literally drink this
sugar as hutus corn strip just think
about what that does to your liver so
all of these carbs combined with seed
oils are going to create a situation in
liver called insulin resistance this is
a situation where you're forcing your
body to work so hard at at removing this
junk out of the system all the sugar out
of the system and it creates this
protective mechanism where it's going to
start to block sugar okay and because
sugar needs insulin to go into the cells
and it all starts in the liver it's at
the root of obesity belly fat a fatty
liver and high blood pressure all of
that is directly caused from insulin
resistance but a lot of times they
confuse people and they say well each
thing is associated with each other
they're not really showing you cause and
effect relationship but eating for
pleasure eating for the wrong purpose
which is the bad habit directly destroys
the liver because it creates insulin
resistance and then from that point on
it's all downhill all right the next one
number four is also eating for the wrong
purpose eating for convenience okay I
talk to a lot of people that don't have
a lot of time and so they're on the run
and so they have to quickly eat
something and this usually always
involves something pretty crappy
lowquality food and not very good
protein like a protein bar for example
it doesn't have high quality protein
which is going to mess with your liver
because it's filled with this solvent
called hexane and then they're going to
add also on top of that all these other
hidden sugars and starches and chemicals
so that's what you're exchanging for
this convenience I was in that state for
so many years even after a seminar that
I did that I told all these people to
eat healthy I'm driving home hungry cuz
I I didn't prepare and I drive past KFC
okay Kentucky Fried Chicken and I'm
thinking twice and I pull right in there
okay hey Dr Berg and I'm like oh no no
no no no I felt very embarrassed my face
was red I quickly got my crispy fried
chicken and left and hope I would never
run into that person ever again of
course I sat in my car and I ate this
chicken it was delicious it was amazing
all that MSG in there home I take a nap
I wake up three hours later with my eyes
bloodshot like feeling disgusted now if
I even drive past a KFC just the smell
of it makes me disgusted so what you
want to do is you want to prepare your
meals you want to plan out what you're
going to eat and just do a little
preparation my wife and I a lot of times
eat at different times and so I'm
cooking my own meals and I'm not doing
this long recipe thing I might just
combine meat vegetables eggs cheese and
I might have tomato with it I might have
a salad some olive oil and maybe B salic
vinegarette and now I have my meal took
me a few minutes but all this packaged
food out of convenience has a lot of
seed oils there a lot of starch a lot of
sugar you just want to avoid all that
and you want to start adding in a a
healthier habit all right we're at
number five stress and it not only
creates a lot of problems for your sleep
which then will cause your blood sugars
to crash which will then cause you to go
off the plan and eat things that you
normally wouldn't do chronic stress
brings out dormant viruses out of
remission that can affect the liver
establishing new healthy habits it's
very very important to have enough sleep
and this all revolves around doing
things to strip off the stress Vitamin
B1 before you go to bed vitamin D helps
reduce stress exercise long walks all of
these things reduce stress there's a
fantastic acupressure and stretching
technique that I do every night before I
go to bed that works on the fascia I
will put that link down below so you can
check that out but I also want to
mention something else a lot of people
are in a stress State because they're
not really facing the real cause of
their stress so I think it's a really
important question to ask like okay
what's at the root of the stress how can
I face it straight on deal with it so
it's no longer a stress all right number
six alcohol now when you drink alcohol
it goes right to the liver and then the
liver turns it into something else which
is actually more poisonous and now your
body has to get rid of that and so that
creates liver damage now there are
levels of things that will be worse than
other things like the mixed drinks
Margaritas the Pina Coladas where you
have not just alcohol but you have sugar
really bad combination but then you have
beer Which is less alcohol more
carbohydrate but then people consume
more of that in college a friend and I
went to the bar on a regular basis on a
daily basis we would play pool and we
would drink but another time my wife and
I found this little place this little
shop that sold Margaritas yeah and for a
whole year we would stop off after work
and get a margarita and it was one of
those things where I realized am I an
alcoholic I'm drinking every single day
a couple margaritas and I felt great in
the beginning but then I started to feel
more tired more blood sugar issues and
that's when I said that's it I'm done
but then you also have wine right with
at least with wine you have
phytonutrients in there or at least some
that's going to create a little bit of
lessening of the damage of the alcohol
and it really depends of how much that
you consume but if you're drinking for
health reasons just realize there is no
such thing I'm not telling you not to
drink I'm just saying that if it's a
regular routine you might want to just
do something to lessen that routine to
be more in control of when you consume
it you can also take vitamin B1 natural
B1 that will help you prevent a hangover
all right and number seven vitamin
deficiencies so it's basically getting
the key factors to help support the
liver and help the liver work we're
talking about phytonutrients and there's
several foods that will give you more of
that than others cruciferous vegetables
arugula broccoli all filled with
phytonutrients that specifically help
the liver detoxify and I think you
should consume those on a regular basis
other things like salad with added
garlic and onion are also really good
for the liver because what all that does
is it helps give you antioxidants to
protect the liver against all the
inflammation going on but also don't
forget red meat or even like I like
hamburger from grass-fed cows or you can
even do wild caught fish super healthy
for your liver all right so now that you
know about these habits I think it'd be
really helpful for you to get the basics
on exactly what diet you should consume
and for that information I put it up
right here check it out
