let's talk about Biotin and the question
is does it really work for your hair as
in biotin shampoo will it actually help
you with hair loss or other problems
what is biotin it's vitamin B7 so it's
one of the B vitamins having to do with
a couple German words which describe
skin and hair and biotin itself comes
from the Greek word bios which means
life and then the chemical name in as in
biotin meaning the formation of life
because of the importance of biotin in a
growing child and if a child is
deficient because the mother's deficient
that child will have all sorts of
malformations in growth and development
and how biotin really works it acts as a
co-enzyme like a helper enzyme in the
formation of protein it's like even in
the formation of omega-3 fatty acids and
as you know there's a lot of different
uh fats and proteins that make up body
tissue One study I found uh using very
high amounts of Biotin for Ms which is
an autoimmune disease involving with the
destruction of the the fat layer around
the nerve which is called the myelin
sheath and so biotin is kind of a helper
in the formation of myelin but it's also
a helper in the formation of hair uh
normal skin now I think the most
important thing to know about biotin is
that there's a dramatic effect in Biotin
when someone takes antibiotic otics
because the microbes in your large
intestine actually make biotin now
what's unique about that is that it
makes just as much as you get from your
diet but it makes it mostly in a free
form you see when you get biotin from
food uh most of it is locked up in
proteins so you have to digest and break
that up so the majority of biotin you
get from your diet is not in a free form
like you would get from the microbes in
your intestine so this is why anything
that just destroys your microbes
especially antibiotics but other things
too can have a profound effect on biotin
so to get enough biotin you need enough
microbes and also you need it from the
diet as well now despite what you read
on the Internet it's not is easy to get
biotin from the diet yes a lot of
different foods have a small amount of
biotin but unless you're consuming egg
yolks
liver kidney which I don't think anyone
that I know eats kidney or some cheeses
chances are you're probably not getting
enough of that biotin from the diet and
even the rdas for biotin or the amounts
they calculated as being adequate
amounts are not fully agreed upon in
other words we don't have enough
scientific data to really know also
there's other things that cause a
deficiency of biotin that you need to
know if you consume raw egg whites
because it locks up biotim if you're on
the ketogenic diet your de demand for
biotin goes up because of how much fat
that you're consuming and how much more
of an increased demand biotin is going
to be needed to deal with the fat this
could explain why someone that goes on a
ketogenic diet without necessarily
enhancing their diet with biotin could
potentially end up with either a skin
rash or hair loss or hair thinning if
someone is on an anti- seizure
medication if someone smokes or drinks
alcohol that can lower the amount of
biotin in the body if someone had
lowered stomach acids or if someone's
pregnant or breastfeeding that can
increase the demand for biotin if
someone is a super athlete and they
exercise a lot that can increase the
demand as well and also as we age we can
be more deficient there's even some
genetic issues okay that can cause you
to become deficient and a problem with
biotin related to your genes could also
be the reason why a person might need
more biotin to override that uh
interference now as you see when you buy
biotin supplements or you see them in
certain shampoos you'll see very high
amounts of biotin now is that a problem
uh not necessarily because biotin is
water salable can Biotin in a cream or a
shampoo be absorbed by your skin in the
answer is yes and the benefits of using
it as as a shampoo or taking it oral as
a pill is this if you have a subclinical
okay a slight deficiency of biotin you
may end up with thinning of the hair
hair loss and you may end up with skin
rashes primarily of your face now that's
a subclinical deficiency okay so this
could happen if you just had antibiotics
or you just are not fortified with
enough of the right microbes or you're
just not consuming enough of it from the
diet so let's say you don't eat eggs or
you don't have liver or kidneys Etc or
you're on the ketogenic diet increasing
the demand for uh biotin but that's a
subclinical deficiency a major
deficiency can create the following
alopecia which is basically an
autoimmune condition where you have
patches of hair uh that are falling off
of your head you may end up with a more
serious dermatitis or skin problem
called ECA you might even have a seizure
or have candida or even it can affect
your mood as depressed
so if you have a subclinical problem
with biotin the biotin shampoos might
help you but I wanted to give you a full
understanding about biotin so you can
start including it in the diet and even
in a supplement form now if you haven't
seen this popular video on hair loss I
put it up right here check it
out
