hey guys I wanted to talk about a
hypothyroid caution okay it's actually
two things you have to be careful of so
if you have a hyperthyroid condition you
do not want to consume seek help or any
iodine at all why because the thyroid is
already working too hard if you add more
thyroid hormone it's going to get worse
all right so that's step number one
number two make sure you don't consume
any bile salts okay if you don't know
what that is then you're probably not
taking it even I have a gallbladder
formula with bile salts you don't want
to take that with a hyper only a
Hyo so with a hyper condition what's G
to happen and you take gallbladder
formula or B Ox bile or bile extract or
bile salts what's going to happen is
you're going to convert more T4 to T3
and increase more thyroid activity okay
very bad because it's already working
too hard so you don't want to take that
only you would want to take that in a
hypo situation all right so I just
wanted to point that out and just to
make sure you know that thanks for
watching
