hey guys in this video we're going to
share why keto and intermittent fasting
will decrease the need for actual sleep
okay um now number one lack of sleep
worsens your blood sugar so if you don't
get enough sleep if you're a diabetic
you're going to find that you're going
to need more medication because the
blood sugars are going to be more
unstable number two good sleep increases
your blood sugars if you sleep really
good you don't crave as much junk food
okay where whereas if you don't sleep
boy you're just like thinking about food
all the time and number three High
sugars will not only create brain fog
and fatigue but it prevents the quality
of sleep diabetics generally need more
sleep but if you do keto in ad minute
fasting and you reduce your carbs which
is the opposite of a diabetic situation
you're going to have neural protection
okay so the nerve cells the brain cells
are protected and you're going to have
something called neurogenesis which is
basically you can regrow brain cells
well guess where all the cellular
machinery for sleep is located in your
brain the circadian rhythms which
control the cycle of sleeping called the
super chiasmatic nuclei is located in
your brain and the little tiny
neurological switches that control sleep
and awake located in the brain stem
called the rapi nuclei and the locus
cilus are also supported when you do
keto in a minutas so the more that the
total brain is supported the more these
specific functions are supported and the
need for sleep is reduced whereas in a
diabetic patient the entire brain
actually shrinks and you get atrophy of
these centers causing the need for more
sleep so just to summarize we have two
situations one is wow I don't need much
sleep and I'm still awake and I'm still
I'm not tired and then the other
situation is wow I started keto and now
I can't sleep
and I'm tired that's a different
situation I put a link down below of
what to do for that but if you're
sleeping less and you're still awake and
you're not tired then now you know the
reason
why hey you know what I just want to say
something only 30% of the people that
watching this video actually make it
this far and you did so I really
appreciate you thank you so much
