hi guys dr. Berg here in this short
video we're gonna talk about omega-3s
okay omega-3 fatty acids are essential
fatty acids which means they must be
gotten from the diet your body can't
make these fats okay
real simply there's DHA good for the
brain the eye and the heart
okay so DHA what is like food for the
brain especially and because the eye is
an extension of the brain it's good for
that too and as well as the heart you
can get it from fish fish oils here a
vegan algae eggs pasture-raised Organic
of course grass-fed beef and there's
quite a few other foods but DHA is
really important if you have any type of
dementia or memory issues okay then you
have EPA now that's good for the eye the
heart and it's a great anti-inflammatory
but it's also good for other things as
well but these are the main things right
here you'd get it from the same thing
fish fish oil fatty fish by the way
algae pasteurized eggs grass-fed beef
alright and then there's something
called ala that's good for the heart
cognitive function the brain and it's a
good anti-inflammatory so you would get
this essential fatty acid from flax Chia
and walnut there's other things as well
but these are the ones that have higher
amounts the problem is that when you buy
the oils and you expose this delicate
oil to oxygen it oxidizes really fast it
goes rancid really fast the best thing
to do is to grind it yourself or consume
some high quality oil that is in a dark
bottle that's really really fresh now
there is some data out there that this
fatty acid will convert to epa and DHA
but only 0.1 to 0.5% it's less than 1%
so if your body is stressed or sick in
any way you're not going to convert this
fat into these at all so just make sure
that you're getting all your omega-3 if
you're a vegetarian get it from the
algae but
also make sure you get the AL ed from
flax or Chia or walnuts all right
thanks for watching hey thank you so
much for watching keep spreading the
word and share this video
