so hey everyone we have another Su
amazing success Leanne how are you
Leanne great thanks I wanted to uh talk
to you because I saw you before and
after and I just said you know we need
to find out what you did because uh it
obviously worked it was a great success
so I just wanted to find out a little
bit you're are you living in California
right now Austin Texas okay similar yeah
real close and then um you were you
overweight your whole life yes I was
overweight um since I can remember I
remember third grade I couldn't fit in
my desk so I had to tell my mom and she
had to go talk to my teacher about
adjusting the desk I remember wanting to
learn how to ice skate and um I uh the
instructor pulled my dad aside and told
them that like it was kind of hard to
support my weight on skates and it was
things like that all throughout
my my life until my early 20s well
actually in high school I did terrible
kind of dieting that girls do and it was
just um up and down all the time wow at
the time do you have any brothers or
sisters yes were they did they have a
weight problem
too no uh well some of two two do two
don't so it was just it's
been it it's been kind of a study for me
to see a household where uh people have
eaten the same things and it almost felt
like a y me kind of thing for a while
too what what about your parents do they
have a weight issue yes both of them do
interesting but um I was adopted so
genetics um are a little different so
it's it's been really interesting for me
to watch what's your what's your
National where are you from originally I
W I'm Korean I was born in Sol Korea but
I was adopted when I was about 3 months
old wow um I just one little side point
I had a a patient come in she's from
Korea and uh very overweight um she's
the only one in the family overweight um
and what's really really sucked for her
is that her sister was Mrs
Universe that's like my life oh really
my sister is like she's gorgeous she's
real thin and it creates this um
it just it was really hard yeah I could
I could only imagine because um in fact
this patient she ate so much better than
her sister but you know right that's
that's uh that's interesting okay so you
went along you hit your 20s and then
what happened uh then I tried to eat
healthy and
exercise I think a lot of I was probably
220 at my heaviest so a lot of the way
it was pretty easy to lose and then once
once I got to a certain weight it just
I've I kind of plateaued for years it
was up and down but um probably till
about 170 is when it just plateaued and
um kind of it's just been up and down
ever since interesting and um what are
you uh what did you start did did you
find something like did you find the
ketosis and intermittent fasting did you
find that recently or is that something
you've been doing for a while
I just found it about four months ago I
had heard about it through a few people
and I actually found it for mental
Clarity and my my um struggle with my
weight has been all the time and I kind
of never felt like there was light at
the end of the tunnel it's kind of like
I didn't know in a month from now am I
going to be 10 pounds heavier or am I
going to be two pounds lighter I have no
I had no idea it was just always a
crapshoot so it's I found it for um I C
sugar out and then I started
researching and I found the ketogenic
diet which is so much fun like I've had
so much fun with food ever since I
started and um it's
just uh with dieting before I felt like
I was always avoiding things with no fun
stuff on the other side but now I feel
like it's just it's delicious and it's
doable and I don't feel like I'm
depriving myself and I'm I'm I love it
wow and um has it helped you in other
ways
healthwise oh my anxiety I have anxiety
some uh well I do have anxiety and it
has I have almost no anxiety besides
like the natural anxiety nothing crazy
like I used to get and I I don't know
it's been crazy for me because it's just
been so helpful with my mood and I do
intermittent fast um I fast for 16 hours
and then eat uh for eight and I by 11:00
at work in the morning I feel like a
body Buzz almost where I just it's so
crazy I can just feel the effects of
fasting and how it feels great and I
never thought that fasting would feel
good where I just feel energy and I just
feel like bouncing off the walls with
happiness it's really weird that's very
interesting now um has it helped you
weight so far yes I've lost so the first
first the first two months I lost weight
fast I lost probably 10
lbs in the
first uh I'm trying to think in the
first month I lost 10 PBS and so I was
expecting it to go at that rate and then
it's sort of plateaued but what's been
awesome about the diet is that I don't
want to eat any other way with other
dietes it was like oh forget this I'm
not doing this anymore it's not working
I'm going back to this or that and now
I'm just like I love the the way that I
feel mentally that I don't even care
like I just want to continue on this way
and I think of it this way if I only
lose two pounds like every month or
every other month in a year and a half
I'm going to be where I would want to be
and I don't want to change anything
because of how it makes me feel mentally
wow it makes me feel great um the
anxiety it's been and sweating for me I
used to think that I had body
temperature issues and ever since I
started the ketogenic diet I don't drip
sweat which has been really interesting
um it's just been a a complete change in
my body that's amazing um what about um
your size inches are you finding that
you're
shrinking yes so I actually have no idea
how much I weigh right now I've stayed
away from the scale um because at one
point where I was feeling absolutely I
decided to get on the scale and it
didn't move at all in a month and I had
felt inch inches wise that I was
definitely making some progress but I
hadn't been measuring myself so I said
that I'm not going to do anything until
I start measuring because the scale
seems to be not a good indicator of
where I'm at um based on how my clothes
are fitting so that's just a good place
to interject cuz I want to talk about
that um the main thing with ketosis is
you want to get yourself into fat
burning but the thing is when you do
inent fasting you preserve protein and
muscle in the body you actually can
regrow more muscle which is more dense
so you'll be shrinking but the scale
might stay the same the main thing is
are you shrinking do you feel good if
you feel good mentally your hunger
cravings are gone that means you're in
kosis it's working but I imagine with
you lean um if you had this problem your
whole life and you're
18 years old now noid um then that means
that it takes a little longer to be able
to get to your goal but yeah if you're
seeing changes along the way man ride
the wave and then you could always start
to um okay work
on 7h hour window okay good you got that
down 6-hour window do it gradually and
then to your point where your 4H hour
window of eating which takes time to
graduate into but more hours of fasting
but yeah I agree the feeling when you're
fasting you're living off your own fat
it's uh mental Clarity there's less
stress there's less waste products for
the brain I mean could you you imagine
how many people that could get off psych
drugs if they went on this I mean proac
and Rin I mean just or other psych drugs
like um Wellbutrin and um Abilify which
is the number one psych drug out there
it's amazing well I I used to um rely on
Xanax sometimes for cute anxiety and I I
wouldn't want to touch it because it
would mess with where I'm at now and I
just feel great almost all the time that
I don't want to I don't want to drink I
don't want to take anything for anxiety
I don't want to do anything besides feel
what I feel now and it's been it's
almost shocking because I never thought
there was a point in my life that I
could get where I didn't have an edge
that needed to be taken off and it's
definitely due to the ketogenic diet and
it just makes me kind of
um I'm trying to be open-minded about
carbs but it almost makes me know that
they just don't work for me um
weightwise and mentally right I mean um
that's why I always recommend the
vegetable carbohydrate because you need
the vitamins and minerals somehow and
that's you can get them from organ Meats
but a lot of people just don't want to
eat liver kidney and brain anymore so
then we have vegetables left right um
when did you when did you find my video
uh Pro probably when I first started the
ketogenic diet so like four four months
ago and um they definitely were my go my
go-to for because everybody has their
different opinions that aren't really
science based on science or just based
on experience and I felt like you kind
of gave me the facts like I didn't
really have to wonder about more of an
opinion it was all just scientific facts
it felt like awesome well it's obviously
working
and so uh you know you want to ride the
wave and so can you give me the example
of what you would eat on a in a given
meal uh for breakfast at noon I usually
eat either sausage and bacon and eggs um
guacamole that I make just with avocado
and salt and lime juice and a little bit
of garlic powder and then um I'll do
sour cream sometimes depending on uh
where I'm at how I'm feeling sometimes
I'll try to be low on fat I've
definitely learned that fat is not a
Target it's it's funny because when I
first started the ketogenic diet I was
like fat everywhere but I was I realized
more that it's not a goal for the day
it's kind of just like a guide um so
depending on how I feel I'll eat the
sour cream with it and I've been trying
to do more vegetables with breakfast
which is kind of hard because it seems
like tomatoes and onions are the ones
that I usually go with and those are
higher and carbs so it's been breakfast
has been interesting I've been um baking
kale and putting it into my scrambled
eggs more but it's definitely been a
challenge to find vegetables to put into
my breakfast that aren't high in carbs
yeah it really is I'll probably do a a
kale Shake usually and then what about
for dinner what would you have dinner my
go-to is mashed cauliflower with uh
butter and cream I love that and salads
a lot of Taco salads so that's just Roma
lettuce with hamburger meat and um quac
and uh usually just a little bit of
salsa and or I'll do a cob salad um
salads are awesome for me and once I
started the k ketogenic diet my palette
became very I just wanted really simple
things um so it's been really easy just
to buy like maybe 10 Staples every time
every week and then just use them I used
to think about what I was going to eat
all the time or where I was going to go
or and it was always like Chinese or
pasta or something high in sugar or
carbs and now I just eat um whatever I
there have been opportunities where we
could go out to eat uh multiple times
and I could pick anywhere and I'm like I
want to eat at home I don't want to eat
anywhere because I just love um an
avocado just plain with some salt and a
spoon it's like one of my favorite
things ever so it sounds to me like
you're gravitating to healthier foods
like your body is like craving Health
Foods right and I never thought that
that could be possible it just you I
don't I think it's something that you
don't understand until you feel it
because it's just just it's amazing how
I just don't crave anything anymore
especially I used to be addicted to Sour
Patch Kids and Diet Coke like those are
my things that I just and I wouldn't
touch either one of those now um or when
uh my boyfriend doesn't do the ketogenic
diet all the time he definitely is
opening his eyes but when he orders
pizza un like a Friday night I don't
want anything to do with it and I don't
I don't even feel a fight because it
with in myself because I love I wouldn't
want to knock myself out of ketosis
after all the work that I've put in that
I've put into it and then I just love
the mental Clarity so it's that's so
awesome I mean it it seems to me like if
you were to summarize it up you're
you're just you're more in control of
what goes into your body you're eating
for health food's not controlling you
anymore right if someone craves Sour
Patch Kids or or a lemon um that's
usually a choline deficiency and choline
is the key uh mineral B vitamin to help
you with a fatty
liver so it's interesting and believe it
or not egg yolks are loaded with choline
so you would think that that would be
the opposite but no it isn't but yeah
choline if you uh if you if you actually
get the supplement choline and suck on
them they taste uh lemony sour and
Lemony and if you take someone that
likes them like sour candy they'll just
like eat those like candy and it's just
vitamin it's choline so um just a side
note um yeah and the other thing is that
I think that um um when
you start to do a ketogenic diet and
doing intermitted fasting people
generally need more dietary fat because
they they have a blood sugar issue and
they can't go from one meal to the next
so they're going to have to increase the
fat to sustain them and then when you
actually get it adapt to ketosis you're
burning your own fat which you don't
need to add as much and you can just go
longer because you're you can switch to
your own fat a lot faster as your right
meal it's awesome yeah that's awesome so
I just I just want to say thank you for
doing this uh this interview I think
it's going to give a lot of people just
motivation to think they can do it too
especially from where you came from I
it's doable and all these extra extra uh
benefits I mean I don't know why someone
wouldn't want to jump on that and start
doing it you know do you do you friends
or family um are like looking at you
like what are you doing and they get
interested or what what happens with
that right definitely my best friend um
is she's kind she's started trying to
ease her way into it uh slowly and it
was funny because when I started the
ketogenic diet my boyfriend uh was kind
of like um what are you doing um kind of
freaking out about all the fat that I
was buying and everything and I was like
just give me a month I was like like
just let me like don't tell me how you
feel about this don't knock me off track
just give me a month and I remember I
was in the kitchen on a Friday night and
he was on the other side of the
apartment and he looked at me and he's
like oh my God he was like you were
losing so much weight and and at at the
same time I'm like eating a thing a Brie
you know it's just been so much fun it's
been it's almost like keto flu wasn't as
bad as what I adapting wasn't as bad as
I had thought and it it was so I view
keto at it was absolutely amazing
because the transition was really easy
and my Cravings um Went Away really fast
and my family has been kind of so I've
always been dieting my whole life so to
them this is probably like oh she's
doing another one of these things so I
this one I've been kind of it I haven't
felt the need to like preach about it uh
like I had before and I think because
I'm more secure in it I'm just like
whatever so I'm just quieter about it
because it's more fun kind of to change
quietly for me and I noticed that people
are kind of turned off by it because
they just don't understand the science
behind it so they think that it's just
this crazy thing that you're doing so I
don't I feel really bad when I see
people in the morning uh like how I
would well I would do the same thing I
would make like a fruit a fruit smoothie
with like a banana and like a strawberry
and I would end up like washing down
Down breakfast with it instead of it
being my breakfast and I could never
understand why and just the science
behind it all makes complete sense and I
I don't crave the way that I used to or
I used to eat a giant meal and then I'd
want ice cream and cookies and I
wouldn't even I would never I couldn't
understand it it just didn't make sense
and now it makes complete sense to me
and I that's what helps keep me away
from sugar is that I don't ever want to
feel that way ever again because it was
just it's all it's like this BL hunger
that you just don't get no matter you
don't understand no matter how much you
eat you can still be hungry and it was
just it was amazing that's some good
advice um for some people that been
overweight their whole life and they've
dieted so many times in their
menopausal um I will tell them to do
this but then to shoot for just one meal
a day just because they're like their
thyroids so weak and they're going to
need they can't I mean they just they
can actually be so efficient on small
amount of calories so so I do put um a
series of you know a handful of people
on one meal a day and they basically
Thrive they do great and they get their
body back but that's one thing you could
do if you absolutely do not have any
more metabolism you tried everything and
nothing's worked you want to start three
meals no snacks two meals no snacks two
meals within a four window and then
eventually one meal over a period of
months and then that will work for them
so for those of you watching you might
want to try
that awesome well thank you so much for
doing this and I think it's it's it's
it's an amazing transformation and we'll
have to uh do another one another one of
these maybe in like several months from
now and just kind of see the changes
until you're totally
100% satisfied with like okay I hit my
ultimate goal right and it's awesome
because I before I was in a hurry to get
to my goal and of course I want to stay
focused doing this but I'm not um I
think people are in a hurry sometimes
because it's either one or the other
it's like if this is not working for me
right now I'm going to go eat my sour
pitch kids and drink my diet coke and I
just feel like this is the most steady
thing that I've done where I just feel
confident in what I'm doing and I feel
great along the way that if it happens
to be a year and a half instead of six
months uh which it shouldn't be but if
it does um then I'm okay with that
because it's I know I'm going to feel
great mentally the whole the whole time
so it's not like a one or the other kind
of thing anymore right yeah you're not
suffering you're right you're enjoying
it and uh it's not hard so that's
awesome I I feel I feel for these people
that are struggling trying to diet and
they don't have a clue they're eating
small amounts but they're still eating
carbs and I'm like oh my gosh I don't
know how they do it that's rough right
like they must be starving all the time
starving and oh my it's just torture so
right well thank you so much I
appreciated you your time and I think we
have a great interaction so all right
well have a nice day and I'll talk to
you soon okay bye bye bye
