hi guys in this video I want to talk
about endurance exercise and ketosis now
there's this really strong idea that
when you work out especially endurance a
Athletics triathlons marathons that you
need to consume a lot of carbohydrates
before during and after the workout
because you'll deplete your G glycogen
Reserve if you don't consume carbs so we
we only have a small amount of reserve
of sugar it's called glycogen it's
stored glucose um and when you actually
deplete that you hit a wall of fatigue
where you can't go anymore that's called
bonked okay glycogen depletion you run a
of your sugar and you better have some
more to keep going um so that's been the
kind of the idea that's floating around
for a long time but some new research is
saying the opposite you don't have to go
through this there's a thing called
kosis or keto adaptation which is doing
ketosis for a period of time to the
point where your body is is fully
adapted to Runing on fat fuel okay that
takes a lot longer in fact some of the
studies that were done in the past
only went for like a month of Keto
adaptation that's just not enough if
you're if you're a really good athlete
or a high high level Elite athlete and
you do it for a month you might not see
the results as compared to doing it for
six months or even a year so this study
uh showed more of a long-term keto
adaptation and what they found was two
things very interesting number one there
was no bad effects on this glycogen
depletion in other words your body now
was a fat burning machine that was
running on fats and you didn't need to
rely on this glycogen Reserve anymore so
there was no fatigue no hitting a wall
none of that that was interesting and
the elite endurance athletes had
significant enhanced fat burning more
than double the sugar burners actually
was
2.3x that's incredible so the cells
basically were fat burning machines
after the keto adapt that's after 180
minute
exercise with also evaluating 120 minute
post exercise period there was no
problems with glycogen so they burned
double the fat and they had no problems
with glycogen so your muscles do not
have to rely just on glucose they can
run on fat
so I put some links down below if you're
an athlete you need to evaluate this and
check this out check out the research
down below and I think you're going to
find it quite interesting thanks for
watching hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
