wow today I have something extremely
valuable if you are a singer if you do
broadcasting and you have laryngitis or
heness or raspiness any of that stuff
I'm going to show you how to get rid of
that extremely quickly most the time uh
you can get rid of it in 60 seconds this
is a technique that I use in practice
where I started having all sorts of
opera singers fly in from all over the
place to get this done I'm going to show
you exactly how to do it step by step it
is so simple what you do is you take the
area of dysfunction let's say it's right
here and you just work on the opposite
side and one big structure that I didn't
really understand until recently is the
fossil connection between the vocal
cords and how it connects to the
vertebrae right next to it so I think
what's happening with this technique is
you're basically affecting fascia in the
back part to create space in the front
part it opens up with air going through
it you can control the pitch and the
volume of speech and singing the vocal
chords are an amazing thing because they
are affected by emotions and you can
listen to someone and really pick up
their emotions in their voice the vocal
cords have an amazing ability to repair
but they do get inflamed they do have a
mucus layer that actually protects them
from dehydration but the vocal cords and
the voice box are part of a larger
fossil structure so let's Dive Right
into how to do this technique okay
number one you want to locate where the
problem is like in the front part here
and then you want to draw a circle all
the way on the back part okay and if
you're going to have someone else do
this technique you're going to then have
them put their two fingers and then
we're going to come in and we're going
to press while we hold the head so I
have another diagram I found but you
might be pressuring a little higher or a
little lower depending on what's going
on right here so we're going to press
into this area and we're going to hold
it for one to two minutes so what I like
to do is I like to ask them is this
tender here they go no how about here no
how about here yes okay good I'll be
working on the most tender spot for one
to two minutes most of the time it's
like wow it was a 10 now it's a five and
then you're going to ask them did it
move down or up or is it still in the
same spot because sometimes you might
not be on the epicenter of where you
need to be then you go up and you find
the other spots and you press and hold
for two minutes the person's going to
feel like you just opened up more
circulation more blood flow more space
in this area without messing up their
hair very important you can actually lay
down on this device and have this tool
press on these areas on your back of
your spine now that you know how to do
this technique all that I want want in
exchange is for you to comment down
below and tell me your results
