I want to point out something very
important related to magnesium it's
actually not as easy as you think to get
it from your diet and sometimes when you
ask people like what foods are high in
magnesium um they don't really know they
might say bananas or something like that
but you'd have to consume 11 cups of
bananas to get your daily amount of
magnesium and you have to consume even
more bananas to get your potassium so I
want to tell you the type and the
quantity of certain foods that you need
to achieve this uh magnesium requirement
now for men it's about 420 Mig per day
for women it's about 320 mg per day I'm
primarily going to focus more on the
requirements for men and so when I cover
this just realize that it's going to be
a little less for women but you know how
important magnesium is since 40% of the
entire population is deficient in
magnesium magnesium is essential for
generating energy okay it's essential
for reducing the risk of cramps and
helping reduce stress stress and
cortisol and helping you sleep not to
mention reducing inflammation and
helping with your blood sugars and on
top of all that if you don't have enough
magnesium vitamin D won't work that well
in your body and on top of everything
else there are certain things that will
bind up or lock up or deplete your
magnesium like sugars refin
carbohydrates and Grains certain
medications Fates which are in all the
grains whole grains Okay and oxalates
too which bind up magnesium and calcium
as well so let's go through the list
almonds okay almonds are high in
magnesium all you would have to consume
per day is like 5 ounces of almonds to
get your required amounts but the
problem with almonds is that they are
high in
oxalates all right the second food that
has a good amount of
magnesium because it also has a lot of
chlorophyll is spinach the darker the
green the more the chlorophyll the more
the magnesium and all you would need is
if you had spinach is like 2 and 1/2
cups of spinach to get your magnesium
requirement but the problem with spinach
it's also high in oxalates all right the
next food is chocolate dark chocolate
all you have to consume is a little bit
more than about 6 ounces of dark
chocolate to get all your magnesium the
problem with chocolate it's also high in
oxalates what about avocados well you'd
have to have seven cups of avocado you
know you cut it up and put it in cups uh
to get your daily amounts and that's
that's quite significant again what
about fish well you'd have to consume
like 14.8 o of fish that's quite a bit
what about beef well you need about 4
lbs of beef Bak Choy you would have to
consume 22 cups of bok choy every day to
get your magnesium what about zucchini
you'd have to have 19 cups of zucchini
what about eggs you'd have to have about
67 eggs to get your magnesium
unfortunately eggs are really good for
other things but not necessarily uh very
very high in magnesium what about like
iceberg lettuce you would have to
consume 57 cups of iceberg lettuce to
get your magnesium what about Romain
lettuce you would have to consume 30
cups of Romain lettuce to get your
magnesium what about other dark leafy
green lettuce type uh vegetables like
Swiss chard or kale those two are good
sources you'd have to consume three to
five cups per day to get your magnesium
now there's a little secret or a little
hack that you can do to consume
almonds uh and definitely spinach okay
and other leafy greens that are high in
oxalates if you consume your spinach
with a little feta cheese or other types
of cheese in your lettuce like I do
every day you can bind up oxalates with
the calcium that's in the cheese
allowing the Magnesium not to be bound
up anyway I wanted to bring this point
up because a lot of people think oh yeah
I'm getting enough magnesium for my diet
when in fact they're really not and this
is why some people use supplements to
enhance their diet because it's a bit
difficult especially if they don't have
the right knowledge now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other side now that
you know that if you have not seen my
other very important video on magnesium
I put it up right here check it
out
