today I'm going to debunk 10 Health
hacks and other forms of treatment and
number 10 is the absolute worst and it's
not even a health hack it's actually a
treatment that basically generates $280
million a year it doesn't really even
work and it's super dangerous let's dive
in number one ear candling there are
people out there who believe that when
you light one end of this candle it
actually heats up your ear wax and it
creates a suction effect to pull that
wax out of your ear canal and Pull It in
to the candle I even tried ear candles a
long ago when I was in practice and I
got my wife to do it I got my parents to
do it I got some patients to do it
because if you look at the pictures it
looks like it really works you're
sucking this wax out of your ear because
combining the heat of the candle and as
it burns down it creates a vacuum and
sucks all this wax out and you can
actually see it but are you really
looking at the wax out of your ear I
watched a great video by a doctor of
Audiology who performed an experiment to
look inside the ear before and after
using these ear candles and he found
there's absolutely no difference before
and after the treatment of removing wax
from your ears so apparently that wax is
the wax from the candle you might want
to save your money on that one number
two this one is a gallbladder flush I
did this one too and it almost killed me
what you're doing is you're going to
drink 12 oz of olive oil then you're
going to chase it down with these beet
tablets I made the big mistake of
washing down the Beet tablets with the
olive oil and the B tablets solidified
in my esophagus I almost stopped
breathing I literally got really really
scared I do not recommend this you'll
see these videos that they'll show in
the toilet these huge gall stones here's
the thing they're all floating gall
stones don't float they sink what these
people are looking at are little pools
of bile that you just purged and now
you're going to be deficient in bile
especially if you're trying to digest
fats I highly recommend you don't try to
purge
your gallbladder a much better way of
dissolving or preventing gallstones or
preventing that sludge which is the
formation of a gallstone is to actually
take more bile and a good bile to take
to help dissolve it is something called
tadka take tutka on an empty stomach
take two in the morning two in the
afternoon that opens up and gets things
to drain but if you want to add more to
help dissolve a gallstone you want to
start taking bile salts after the meal
to help prevent the formation of stones
and then keep the slow LGE from turning
into a gallstone I do not recommend
purging or flushing gallstones by
drinking a tremendous amount of olive
oil number three the master cleanse were
you're combining lemon juice cayenne
pepper and maple syrup and yes I did
this long ago having this idea that I'm
going to cleanse and Purge all these
toxins in my liver that's not the best
way to cleanse it's a great way to
create a lot of blood sugar issues
because if you're doing this cleanse for
3 days like I did it I ate nothing I
drank Nothing But a G gallon of this
mixture every single day the sugar in
the maple syrup kept me from converting
into ketosis and kept me in the sugar
burning mode where my blood sugars were
up and down up and down I was like
craving sugar throughout the day for
three days a much better way to do a
cleanse would be to just eat healthy
foods especially maybe cruciferous foods
to provide the enzymes for the liver to
slowly detoxify chemicals throughout the
body number four those foot detox pads
this is a waste of money it's like $20
you bought these pads I bought them you
put them on your feet in the hopes of
pulling out poisons and heavy metals
because if you wear them for a period of
time and you take them off they'll be
black right so that's toxins right no
it's some type of chemical reaction you
can just pour water on them and then
watch them turn black they're not
pulling toxins out of your body there's
no detox Pathways in your skin you sweat
Through Your Skin but sweating is not
necessarily A detoxification it's going
to release excess sodium and also water
so you can actually cool the body down
because it's kind of creating like a
refrigeration action externally on your
skin to get rid of excess heat when
these pads have certain herbs or certain
things on them it is not creating a
magnet for metals and that leads us to
number five the foot detox bath go to a
clinic you put your feet in these things
and it has a certain electrode in there
that then generates some current in the
water and then all of a sudden the water
solution becomes like this brown toxic
material it's pulling all these heavy
metals out all this toxic waste from
your kidneys and your liver so you could
become very clean right wrong that's not
what's happening it's not pulling any
toxins out you can actually create the
same color in this bath without putting
your feet in it what's happening when
you're adding the salt in there it's
interacting with the electrodes to
create rust it's a chemical reaction
that has nothing to do with toxins
coming out of your body my wife and I
were in the Dominican Republic and we
did a vacation and they had this little
place where you can put your feet into
these tiny little minnows that will eat
the dead skin cells off of your feet so
your feet are really smooth after my
wife and I did this and it tickled when
they were eating or nibbling on our feet
but I will say it did not make our feet
really nice and smooth I guess you'd
have to probably put some piranhas in
there to do that because these little
minnows just didn't create an impact on
our feet number six the ab belts there's
two different versions so you have the
belt that causes more sweating in your
midsection and then you have the belt
that creates this electric stimulation
like it has like a tense unit where it's
creating this contraction on your
stomach muscles because of course
wouldn't it be great to not have to
exercise and you can just wear this belt
all day and then at the end of the day
you pop it off and you have this these
six-pack abs sorry this one also is not
going to work creating stimulation on
your stomach muscles or even sweating is
not going to remove any fat F from your
midsection and creating the stimulation
without you doing the work is not going
to help you with your midsection I'm
sorry to tell you that most of that
internal fat called visceral fat has to
be removed through diet and there are
also various toning things that you can
do to tighten some of the the fascia
around your midsection you're going to
have to actually do something number
seven the blood type diets is there
anything to it I bought the book
initially it sounded like there is some
special technology that potentially
could work when you pull a string at the
back of the book and search where this
research goes it doesn't go anywhere you
can't find any credible research on this
at all and that's because yes we have
different blood types but these
different blood types relate to more of
an immune difference than a digestive
food difference if you are type O the
theory is your body thrives on animal
proteins and low carbs type A States you
should enjoy a vegetarian diet with
limited red meat and
the reason why it does work for certain
people is because all of the
recommendations for foods are Whole
Foods you're eliminating all the junk
Foods regardless of what type of
specific diet that you're doing based on
the blood type if you just go from
refined foods to Whole Foods you're
going to feel better you're going to do
better number eight EMF blockers the
stuff that comes out of this cell phone
right here and so when you have an EMF
blocker you're putting this little
sticker on the back of your phone and
that's supposed to block all the EMF
waves I just want to tell you right now
you can save your money don't buy into
that because I talked to someone that
really knows about this a physicist and
he was just laughing about it because a
little sticker on your cell phone is not
going to block all the EMF radiation or
nullify or kind of suck it into the area
that's not how it works now you could
put a layer of metal or tin foil along
there and block it but then you're not
going to get transmission number nine
carb blockers have you ever seen those
threein one car blocker that way you can
continue to eat your pasta and your
bread and lose weight if you look at the
ingredient it has a certain extract from
white beans that does inhibit to a
certain degree starches not sugar only
to a very tiny degree maybe if you're
lucky it would take a very small
percentage maybe 2% of that the starch
in the donut and it may slow down the
enzymes to break it down thinking that
oh it's just going to now pass right
through me right now what's going to
happen to that 2% of that starch it's
going to go down into the small
intestine if your enzymes don't break it
down your microbes will then you're
going to get bloating then you might say
well why don't I just take more of that
enzyme yeah you could do that maybe you
could consume nine bottles of the car
blocker to digest the starch in the
doughnut not the sugar not the seed oils
but the starch maybe that might work you
might want to do an experiment be a very
expensive experiment and how much
pleasure are you going to get from
eating that one doughnut if you're
blocking just the starch of that
doughnut probably not going to be worth
it now we get to the big one psychiatric
medication it treats the symptom of a
theory depression is a chemical
imbalance of a deficiency of Serotonin
but that's been recently debunked this
whole time psychiatrists were
prescribing all these medications
for this theory that wasn't even true
the very limited effectiveness of
psychiatric drugs actually Compares with
Placebo outcomes many of the studies
that indicate any Effectiveness from
Psych drugs is owed to the placebo
effect then people might say well okay
so so what if it's placeable if it makes
people think it's working and it works
for them great right if it didn't
account for these serious side effects
emotionally where you even become more
depressed or have all sorts of problems
with even feeling emotion in general
that's one of the big side effects is
you just feel like a zombie I mean are
we supposed to get on this medication
and be on it forever or take it for a
period of time until it corrects
something no you keep taking it it's
highly addictive within two weeks and
now you're dependent on that and the
whole time the psychiatrist does not
evaluate your Foods just giving you a
pill for a symptom and it's hilarious
because all the things that the
psychiatrist is against is any
alternative to medicine but the worst
psychiatric treatment even worse I think
than drugs is the ECT electr convulsive
therapy if you want to call it a therapy
some doctors even claim that it's safe
and effective they don't even know why
it might give some temporary Improvement
in depression and they also downplay the
long-term effects and also how many of
these problems and side effects come
back and unfortunately ECT is even
administered to certain people that did
not give their consent sometimes they
even give it to people in hospice like
why would you want to give someone in
hospice ECT for my viewpoint that's
probably the most dubious treatment that
you could possibly do especially if
we're comparing that treatment to
something like ear candles yet in the
news or even online you don't really see
a lot of the dangers being promoted with
ECT because there's too much money
involved anyway I appreciate you
watching I will see you in the next
video
