okay hey guys I have another amazing
interview I want to introduce you to
brener uh so Hi brener how are you I'm
doing great how are you great in fact uh
you sent me a before and after I was
just uh you know really impressed so I
wanted to get to uh know exactly how you
achieved that and um can you tell me a
little bit about um have you had a
weight problem
for a long period of time or were you
thin and you gain weight what's your
story in a th thumbnail
sketch well basically I've always been a
thin person um my whole life never had
any weight issues um was very athletic
um I used to serve in the military so I
was in the Army very athletic enjoyed a
very athletic healthy life um I'm
getting ready to be 40 years old oh wow
and where did you go to basic training I
did it at Fort Jackson in South Carolina
oh my gosh what what month did you go in
did you go in the summer I went in the
summer of 1999 September I was September
of 1999 wow I was there at Fort Jackson
in 83 in the summer it's so hot there
you actually sweat out of the back of
your your hands it's so hot extreme
they're very mean down there too were
they as mean as they were back then I
don't know I think they had the stress
cards I don't know if you came in there
when they had the stress cards no they
were mean they didn't have the stress
cards I took it personally I was like I
was that's very very rude like oh my God
it was terrible so I didn't know it was
a whole game but anyway um getting back
to you you went through basic training
and then what happened um I went through
basic training had a military life got
out of the military went back to school
got a degree um I had a child um still
was thin after matter of fact I um had
my baby uh my oldest son who's 14 lost
the weight with no problems quickly and
matter of fact people thought I was sick
then um so let's fast forward about 10
years later 10 or yeah about 10 years
later um all of a sudden I had a very
stressful job um started gaining a lot
of weight plus I had quit smoking so I
gained like 40 or 50 pounds and then I I
quit smoking and then I got pregnant
right after I quit smoking which was
interesting um
and then after I had my baby I was at
about 190 PBS 187 190 for a long time uh
he was well over a year which I wasn't
used to that um and then I just got to a
point to where I was like you know I if
I keep letting this
go I'm going to end up 200 lbs I'm going
to end up 350 pounds it's just never
going to stop so what I started doing
was I started changing my diet basically
um so finally after I changed my diet I
did get back down to 160 which was the
pre pregnancy weight then I started
working out doing the traditional things
lowfat diet working out and guess what I
wasn't losing weight and I was killing
myself at the gym um so then I ran into
intermittent fasting and it changed my
life um I started intermittent fasting I
said okay you know what this sounds like
it'll work I'm going to try it first
week week was very tough because I was
used to eating three four five times a
day um then the second week like a
breeze I did it like a champ third uh
the third week did it like a champ so
really initially I did it um truthfully
for two weeks and that's when I started
losing the weight I lost like within two
weeks about 10 pounds wow so what was
your pattern when you did this the first
and second week uh the first and second
week I basically did the 168 um so I
would start I would eat my lunch my
first meal of the day would be about
noon um sometimes 1:00 in the morning of
course you might be a little bit hungry
um but you get past that because your
body adjusts and you get used to it um
but what I started doing is I would have
green tea in the morning um it would
either it usually matcha green tea and I
would put mctt oil in my tea so I use a
lot of MCT oil um and then I would take
a whole food vitamin and I drank a lot
of water and what else I took chromium
pills because somebody had told me that
that helps with sugar Cravings
um yeah so and they really do work um so
I started taking those probably two
weeks after that but um once I started
losing the weight with intermittent
fasting I you couldn't stop me at that
point I was like this works so then um I
guess by the grace of God I ended up
finding out about the ketogenic diet so
then I started cutting out sugar um so I
basically have been introducing both of
those things into my lifestyle um but
for sure I try to do hardcore I'm I'm
hardcore intermittent faster um and as
time went on maybe within a month I
started uh cutting my window to about
four o'clock and then sometimes 3
o'clock um so other was you wouldn't eat
until 3 or 4
o'clock sometimes I wouldn't eat till
about 3 or 4 o'clock or I would eat at
noon and I wouldn't eat after like 4:
okay so basically what's your window of
eating my window of eating on average
right now is between 12 and
4 you mean 12 hours and four hours yeah
so I'll eat I'll eat lunch and then I'll
eat again maybe at about four o'clock so
I'll eat dinner at 4 oh four
hours oh 12 and 4 not 12 hours and four
hours 12 and four that's four hours okay
good that makes sense yeah so I just eat
uh virtually a about two times a day um
and I eat like a healthy meal like I eat
meat I eat
vegetables um just solid stuff I'll eat
cream cheese I love cheeses um I mean
I'll even eat for dinner sometimes if I
want to I'll eat bacon and eggs um I'm
huge on avocados um so as you can see I
try to do the ketogenic diet as well
with my intermittent fasting and that
has really worked my energy is through
the roof so so so for those of you that
are watching that don't know anything
about this the combination of adding
ketosis with intermittent fasting is
probably one of the most powerful ways
to get the weight off simply because it
heals insulin and I just want to I want
to just say one thing um like the
question I always get is how do you get
what triggers ketosis what food triggers
ketosis um no food it's the absence of
insulin that's what triggers ketosis so
you you can eat too much protein and
Trigger insulin you can eat more too
many carbs and Trigger insulin fat is
basically neutral however it just by the
fact of eating it can trigger insulin so
that's why the combination does work if
you're trying to lose weight you have to
do it gradually you know for some people
because do it too fast if you're
hypoglycemic you can crash and burn but
there is a way to do it healthily adding
a lot of vegetables and uh making sure
your vitamin mineral but I mean you're
just you're proof that it does work
there's no one that can con you that uh
eating five meals a day is a good thing
anymore now are you are you also adding
any exercise in there too yes um you
know what the funny thing is I don't
exercise as much I might exercise three
days three days out of the week and that
includes maybe a Four Mile Run so and
that's it um I I do want to start weight
training um but other than that I don't
I work out three days a week maybe wow
and how did you find my
videos oh man just Googling searching
I I'm a huge fan first of all so
anything I want to know I'm like well
let's ask Dr Burke you know so I'm I'm
I'm going on your channel looking for
help with all kinds of things I actually
had a hair issue too um I had a hair
issue and a skin issue I mean I had a
lot of different issues going on and it
all revolved around nutrition um so
thank you for um you know enlightening
me about that I actually take your
essential minerals which has helped a
lot with my hair because my hair was
thinning and it the plant the
plant-based trace minerals the the
liquid yes okay those the plant yeah the
plant-based trace minerals
yeah so I Incorporated that into my diet
as well which gives me a lot of energy
and um man i' I've just did a complete
change in my life and and one thing I've
noticed is that other people notice as
well so they're constantly asking me
questions I've got people at my job
subscribe to your channel um and I was
really excited um to do this interview
because um I was telling the people at
my job and they were like oh my goodness
the Dr bird that that you sent me um the
information about and I was like yeah so
I've got people at my job doing
intermittent fasting I've got people um
at my job asking me questions about the
essential minerals and um it's it's just
ignorance is not Bliss so it it really
can hurt you if you don't know that's
true um there's there's a lot of little
deep the the deves in the details
there's a lot of details about it that
people need to understand like for
example uh trace minerals it's hard to
get that from food if you don't have
trace minerals you can start losing your
hair trace minerals basically help
proteins in your body hair nail skin
collagen joints uh so you know a lot of
times people are falling apart their
skin gets loose they might lose L lose
weight but they don't look good as they
are losing weight so um you look great I
mean you look like you're very healthy
so for people to uh say it's unhealthy
they just don't understand it like I'll
see um especially dietitians who
honestly uh you know they've just been
kind of influenced by the um the big
food manufacturing companies because
they'll say something about intermittent
fasting or ketosis which tells you they
don't have a clue of what it really is
they think that you're going to be
hungry after of time and go back to
carbs they think it's a starvation diet
they think it's the Fat's going to kill
your heart like all this false data um
or it might lead to diabetes it's just
the opposite it's like it's very healthy
and you could do it long term but the go
I think with you probably would agree um
now that you've experienced it you um
you're more in control of your body you
if something happens you know how to go
more into ketosis if you wanted you
could manipulate it you understand how
your body react to insulin you now see
why everyone's fat out there you know
it's obvious there's no more mystery
it's like of course so um It's probably
hard it's for me it's hard not to want
to help everyone I see because some
people don't want your help it's like
people just aren't gonna believe
you they're gonna think you're crazy
yeah it kind of makes them wrong because
they're like um oh so you're basically
telling me all I need to do everything
I've done is wrong and I'm like no I'm
not trying to tell you but yes it is but
there's a way to do it that's simple um
doesn't have to be painful you have to
transition but um yeah so that's
awesome I I do want to say this when I
started this journey I was a size
12 um I am down to a size four just last
week I bought um two pair of jeans size
four from Express and that's amazing and
you know the funny thing is when I was
I weigh exactly 100 between 135 and 138
right now when I weighed that weight
before a healthy lifestyle I was more
into like a size eight size six size
eight so it's like I've lost a lot of
inches in
inflammation does that make sense
totally totally even though I may not be
and I'm still working towards a certain
goal because I'm
54 um about five 5'3 and a half 54 so
I'm trying to get to maybe a few more
pounds or whatnot um because I have a
small frame um so I'm still working on
this goal and it's still happening very
easy and um what I've also done is
typically you're not supposed to have on
the keto diet you're not supposed to
have more than 20 carbs a day but
everybody's different so um I can have a
little bit more because I've tested my
body using the keto sticks which I've
heard they're not great to use but then
I think they are because it's been
working for me um I can have a little
bit uh more than 20 carbs a day because
I still stay in some form of
ketosis um as far as the keto sticks
tell me but um my energy is through the
roof um I have a different perspective
on food um I've even got my mom and my
sister doing it now my mom went from a
size 18 to a size I think she's in a
size 14 now and my sister went from a
size 18 and she's size 10 that's
incredible so I've even got my family
members doing it so I you're right you
try to help
everybody some people don't let you help
them you want to strangle them it's like
want help oh okay let me push you down
the stairs now you want my help yeah
it's h it's funny it's um family is it's
kind of the for me it's the hardest
people to help because they they kind of
uh know you you're history so you come
in there and you give them advice and
got to be careful about trying to help
too many people cuz they they sometimes
they don't want to be fixed uh fixed and
or helped and uh so I basically my
policy is I'll help people that want to
be helped that's why I like YouTube
because you put it out there people are
searching they came to you they get the
information if they don't want help
they're not going to watch your video so
it's perfect you know it's it's an
educational thing and uh people can
learn all over the world and uh why hold
it back why not just give people exactly
what to do and uh you know that's what
it's all about so um can I also
something else yeah um another thing I
noticed with intermittent fasting and
and this new lifestyle is that my memory
has
improved um my job I'm an executive
accountant so I have to deal with like
numbers a lot and
uh I can recall like numbers like crazy
I mean and sometimes I test myself
because I I you know I just want to know
how long can I remember this number can
I remember exactly verbatimly just by
looking at it and examining it and I I
can so um I guess that may have
something to do with maybe the ketogen
aide and introducing more healthy fats
or I don't know but I've noticed that my
memory is a lot better as well so well
let me just bring that up because
glucose if you're running your body on
glucose you're going to be susceptible
to the highs and lows of blood sugars
which is going to negatively affect your
memory that's why Alzheimer's
Parkinson's and dementia is all related
to insulin resistance I mean I'll give
you an example um I think when I was 28
you know I was like I'm 29 right now no
I'm just kidding I'm 52 but when I was
younger my memory was so bad like I'm I
try I'm like like I'm losing my memory
and I thought it was old age it's not
old age you shouldn't have that my
memory is so much better now um I mean
one time I uh I was like I forgot what
toothbr toothbrush is mine I'm like like
there's two toothbrushes my wife's and
mine what color is mine again I'm like
am I losing it what's going on so I
picked the wrong toothbrush I'm like
what's yeah this is crazy so um yeah
memory is much better but uh cognitive
function because now your BR brain is
running on ketones better fuel source
more efficient less waste product
so yeah that's
awesome well I want to thank you so much
for your before and after send sending
that in and also this video because I
think it's going to give a lot of people
some encouragement and hope that they
can also do a similar thing so um it's
proof I mean look at before and after
it's like no one can deny that so thank
you so much for this interview thank you
thank you so much for asking me it's my
pleasure my pleasure too okay have a
great day all right thank you you too
bye okay bye bye
