so what is an adaptogen okay let's talk
about that so an adaptogen is usually
some plant or herb that increases the
ability to adapt and avoid damage from
harmful factors the Latin word for
adaptogen is adaptare which means to
adjust or fit and the Greek word for Gen
means produced by or generated by so an
adaptogen generates the ability to adapt
or adjust to stress and if we define
stress stress is something that
threatens homeostasis another word that
I want to define homeostasis is this
steady state of equilibrium for example
different fluids have different PHS in
your body you have you have a normal
temperature 98.6 you have normal pulse
rate that should be maybe you know 72
you have blood pressure 120 over 80 you
have blood sugars which is usually about
82 so you have all these different
normal values that are generated by
different mechanisms that control
homeostasis which is your internal
ability to adapt to the environment to
keep things normal but when you actually
have stressed and it pushes some of
these factors out of balance for example
when your stress and cortisol goes up an
adaptogen can bring that back to normal
same thing with your immune system if
your immune system is suppressed
adaptogens can help bring that to a
higher level and there are four
adaptogens that I like the best Siberian
ginseng panax ginseng rhodiola and my
favorite one ashwagandha which is also
good for inflammatory conditions like
arthritis anxiety ADHD decreasing stress
lowers cortisol by 20% in certain
studies and a lot of people are taking
this for adrenal stress so in summary an
adaptogen just basically brings you back
to the normal level alright thanks for
watching
