hey I'm back in this video we're going
to talk about why mercury is not really
a problem when you consume salmon
recently I did a video on mercury and
fish but I left out salmon because I
wanted to do one whole video just on
this one topic okay so now farm fed fish
is three times as less mercury than
wild-caught alright
however while caught salmon is still
substantially lower than the danger
levels so you don't really have to worry
about it but the main point about this
video that I wanted to bring up is this
mineral called selenium it's a trace
mineral and selenium consistently and
predictably counters the negative
effects of heavy metal toxicity
including mercury and guess what salmon
has a lot of selenium what happens is
the the enzymes that protect your brain
and your nervous system our selenium
dependent okay and what happens is
mercury tends to lock those up and not
let those work but there's a lot of
selenium in salmon so if you consume Sam
and you're going to be totally fine
because you'll have way more selenium
than you will mercury and these enzymes
can protect you so there's not going to
be any problem all right thanks for
watching hi guys hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
