So today we're going to talk about what
would happen if you were to actually
starve your colon your large intestine
of the fiber it really needs to support
your colon cells because we all know
that fiber is essential it's almost
classified as a nutrient there's just a
lot of confusion in this area and a lot
of questions that people have and so
we're just going to bring up these
questions what type of food would our
bodies be best designed to consume are
we really herbivores plant eaters okay
are we carnivores meat eaters or are we
omnivores a combination of both plant
and animal now I want to touch on that
for just a little bit because it'll kind
of give you a little Foundation of what
I'm going to talk about next
if we take a look at a cow which is an
herbivore callus are not designed to
consume meat they were designed to
consume grass and of course we end up
feeding them grains right more than
grass which makes a huge difference in
the health of that cow which I want to
bring up since I have cattle and I was
involved in a study comparing grass-fed
to grain-fed cattle so this is very
interesting now if we just take the pH
of the stomach of a cow when it consumes
grain it's 10 times more acid than if it
consumes grass so typically the pH of
the cow's stomach should be about 6.4
that's almost seven and it's almost
neutral okay
but when a cow starts consuming grain
the pH changes it becomes 10 times more
acidic it's right around like 5.3 okay
and when you talk about pH every whole
number when it comes down like from a
six to a five is not just one number
it's by a power of 10. and there's a big
problem nowadays with cows consuming
grains they develop a common condition
called Subacute ruminal acidosis this is
a situation where their microbiome is
creating a very acidic condition and
this creates a lot of inflammation and
it's already a known factor that cows
that are raised on grains
have a more inflammatory profile in
their meat in other words the omega-6
omega-3 is really off and grain fed is
like eight to one okay so very small
amounts of Omega-3 grass-fed is like
three to one which is better in a study
that I participated in my beef came to
almost a one to one so it was definitely
not an inflammatory type meat it was
definitely an anti-inflammatory meat
because it buried low amounts of omega-6
fatty acids because you have to realize
that the grains are very heavy in
omega-6 this could also explain any
studies that were done on Meats in
general
they're probably not doing studies on
grass-fed grass-finished meat they're
doing on the grain-fed meat which is in
some cases inflammatory so I just want
to differentiate that one point because
it's really what that cow ate that
determines the health of that meat when
we take a dog or a cat they're more
carnivore and we'll see meat but they
also been known to eat other things too
you know whatever is available grass
acorns things like that but typically
they're carnivores and a dog or a cat
has an extremely acidic stomach it's
between like
1.05 to 2.2 okay that's like battery
acid humans also have a pretty acidic
stomach not quite as acidic as a dog or
a cat it's like 1.5 to 3.0 the fact that
our stomach is that acid gives Clues on
what we should be eating and so humans
have more of a digestion that is a mix
okay it's a it's omnivore both animal
and plant you can actually put a human
and just plant foods and they can
survive probably not as well as they
should but you can also put a human on a
carnivore diet and they can also survive
as well I'm bringing that up to bring up
a point on this confusion of what should
people be consuming well I always like
to compare that to what diet would be
the absolute worst diet for man okay
well it just so happens to be the diet
that man is on now it's called this sad
diet the standard American diet where
they're doing animal products and plant
products but the definition of their
plant products are really grain products
so I want to just put a magnifying glass
on Plants right
a grain is a plant but if you're
consuming mainly grains and that's
really what a typical American consumes
65 of all their calories in the form of
grains of course it's mainly refined
grains but whole grains have a lot of
other issues with them gluten
other anti-nutrients like phytic acid
which blocks zinc and other minerals
tannins oxalates
anti-enzyme factors and it's also true
that plants also have some
anti-nutrients as well but I think
really what happens if you start someone
out on grains you will start creating
damage in your gut and now because of
the damage
any fiber food is going to be a problem
for you this is why I always recommend
if someone has got damage they're
probably not going to be able to handle
all this vegetable fiber salad okay so
they should back off on that the
question is is it because of the fiber
is the fiber doing that well I think
it's the anti-nutrients in the fiber of
course fiber relates to the microbiome
okay now I'm going to bring up the
actual subject that I wanted to talk
about the microbiome in relationship to
what it eats if you look at some of the
standard textbooks they usually omit one
key function they don't really talk
about it very much okay they'll tell you
that the large intestine is primarily
there to reabsorb water and form and
store your feces or stool okay but what
about all those microbes what are they
doing they're fermenting and they're
making things from that fermentation in
the fermentation process there are small
change that acids that are made they're
feeding your colon you also have
vitamins that they're making certain
acids secondary compounds that help your
immune system so the small intestine is
about 25 to 23 feet but the large
intestine is about five feet and what
happens when you start off the microbes
with fiber they can eat other things
they can even ferment Protein that's
right they can ferment collagen
cartilage and just so you know a good
portion of bone is collagen when someone
is on the carnivore diet okay they're
just eating meat no plants
those microbes are adapting to digest
that protein and this explains why many
carnivores if they're doing it right are
thriving in fact they're doing much much
better microbes are amazing they can
adapt to different diets but the point
I'm going to bring up is you're not
going to kill all your microbes off if
you just avoid all plants for a while
but I want to bring up this really
important Point okay when you consume
grains or eat animals that have consumed
grains you're usually going to end up
with inflammation in your gut especially
if you're genetically predisposed
and then that is going to make it very
difficult to digest any plants at all
and I think a lot of people are on the
Spectrum where they might not have any
damage to a little damage to some major
damage in their colons and so some
people can handle digesting different
plants like salads and things like that
large quantities okay like myself yet
other people on this spectrum
well you give them plants and they just
get bloated they get constipated okay so
they should be not consuming plants for
a while then you get these people in
between which they can handle plants but
in a fermented state I'm talking about
the sauerkraut the kimchi pickled
vegetables because what do we have there
we have a plant like cabbage for example
that's fermented and has a lot of
additional microbes that can actually
help you with your gut why they found
that the more Diversified microbes you
have the better the digestion the better
the health so we have this wonderful
fermented food that has Prebiotic it has
some Fiber
already broken down it has a lot of
microbes which are very beneficial that
can start to seed and help your colon I
don't know if they can be cultured in
and developed into more microbes but
those microbes by themselves can
actually add a lot of benefits plus you
have all the additional vitamins in
fermentation right you have K2 you have
B12 you have Biotin you have other B
vitamins you have certain acids that are
very beneficial the other cool thing
about eating fermented foods is this
that when you ferment things you
immediately start decreasing these
anti-nutrients you lessen the oxalates
the lectins the phytic acids the tannins
and you make other things in that food
more bioavailable like the proteins so
here's some tips
preferably if you eat animal products go
for the grass-fed grass finished if
possible because the more grains the
more inflammation the more problems if
you are a vegan or a vegetarian don't
consume the grains Okay consume other
plants like vegetables for example if
you have severe digestive problems you
probably have gut damage and you're
going to have to do carnivore for a
while but just make sure that you do the
grass-fed grass finished why so that way
you don't have that that omega-6 grain
effect that has been passed over to that
animal if you have marginal problems
with your digestion maybe you're going
to benefit from fermented vegetables so
that would be like the kimchi the
sauerkraut and just have that with your
meals now if you don't have any
digestive problems at all you may
benefit more from having a combination
of the grass-fed grass finish animal
products with the plants but not the
grain category of plants I hope this
video cleared up some confusions on some
of these topics there's a lot more to
say about that but if you haven't seen
my video on the microbiome which is a
very important and interesting topic I
put that video up right here check it
out
