hey guys Dr Berg here I want to
personally invite you to a seminar
series we're going to do over the next
three weeks on Wednesday night okay and
the topic is hormones made simple the
endocrine system is so complex where
people make it complex very few people
really understand it I'm going to break
it down for you I'm going to make it
really really simple check this out you
have glands and you have hormones okay
the difference between a gland and an
organ our glands make hormones organs
usually don't and a hormone is a
chemical message that travels through
the blood so the nervous system uses the
nerves to communicate hormones use the
blood to communicate so all we're doing
is we're transferring some chemical
signal over to a group of cells over
here on a different part of the body
which already has pre-programmed
functions okay so what hormones do
they activate those pre-programmed
functions and that could be start your
menstrual cycle go to bed at night wake
up feel rested you know sleep deeply
burn fat store fat grow hair so all
these functions are basically under the
influence of this endocrine system and
it's really really simple if you look at
it so there's a lot of things that can
go wrong with this system but you really
need to understand how these hormones
interrelate because once this hormone is
sent to a different part of the body
there's another signal that comes back
and turns it off so we have this whole
communication right through here okay so
we're going to show you how to balance
the hormones naturally I'm going to show
you how to slow down the Aging hormones
so we can do some anti-aging activities
you can totally do that and then I'm
going to show you the most important
thing is how these hormones interrelate
the problem with Healthcare right now is
they look at hormones as some isol event
you have a a decreased hormone so
they're going to give you a hormone
they're not looking at the big picture
they're not looking at a deeper cause I
want to teach you this in the next
series of seminars so register below and
I will see you on the
inside
