hi guys Dr ber here in this video we're
going to talk about flax seeds okay now
the flax seed has this really awesome
nutrient called alpha linic acid this is
an essential fatty acid mainly involved
in making structural parts in your cells
okay so it's a raw material to help make
certain membranes in your cells so if
you're deficient in this essential fatty
acid you're going to get the biggest
thing you're going to get is dry scaly
rough skin now if you take this or
consume flax seeds and it doesn't work
it could mean that you're not digesting
them because you don't have a
gallbladder or you don't have um the
bile necessary to break down these fats
okay so it could be your own digestive
system but if you're deficient you'll
get this symptom you can get brittle
hair dry hair hot flashes cracking of
the skin especially in your heels uh
bumps in the back of the arm those
little their little chicken SK skin type
bumps right cardiovascular problems
coronary heart stuff increase bad
cholesterol so that's all the
deficiencies the cool thing about
getting your essential fatty acid from
the flax is that it's very high in
omega3 versus Omega 6 so it's
anti-inflammatory but you can also find
this essential fatty acid in chia seed
hemp walnuts okay uh but because it's
very sensitive to oxygen G you want to
grind it before you consume it and
consume it very quick because if you
wait you're going to lose the
nutritional value and let want to
summarize that there was a study talking
about flax seeds making the prostate
worse okay well they went back and they
did a big review of these studies and
they found that actually was not true so
consuming flax seed will not enlarge
your prostate will not cause prostate
cancer I'll put a link down below so you
don't to worry about that I think it's a
good thing to consume and uh especially
if you have any of these right here
thanks for
watching Press the Subscribe button
press it forget it forget it I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
