let's talk about the seven surprising
signs that your blood sugar is way too
high the first question is can you
actually feel high blood sugar normally
you can't feel too much unless it's
really really high you might feel a
little fatigued but where the symptoms
come in is when the blood sugars go down
take a look at this little graph right
here we have this little red line that
goes up and then it comes down past this
level line where I wrote 80 on the left
side and that basically is normal blood
sugar you're not supposed to have a lot
when people overeat carbohydrates the
blood sugar goes up and insulin is going
to do two things it's going to remove
the sugar from the blood okay to help
bring down the blood sugar but it's also
going to open the door in all of your
cells to allow this sugar to go in the
cell so you can use it as fuel a lot of
the symptoms I'm going to talk about are
related to a problem with low blood
sugar and low blood sugar in the actual
cell because insulin is not working very
well anymore you develop something
called resistance and I'm talking about
insulin resistance in the cell and
that's represented in this other image
where you have this little key being
insulin and then the cell you have this
little lock in there right that's the
receptor for insulin that key is not
fitting into the lock anymore then you
get all these symptoms that I'm going to
describe next now that you understand
what insulin and insulin resistance
really is the first one is super common
and this is excessive urination if you
have to get up through the night to ur
night suspect you have a blood sugar
problem now I'm not talking about
diabetes it could be a pre-diabetes the
problem is when you have too much sugar
in the blood it gets filtered by the
kidneys into urine and wherever the
sugar goes the water goes you're
basically losing fluid when you eat
sugar the kidney is dumping sugar and
water because sugar is to toxic if
you're a guy you might automatically
assume it's your prostate when in fact
it's probably just insulin resistance
and think about how many medications
that people are on just because their
diet is not right number two excessive
thirst why are you excessively thirsty
could be because you're losing water
when you have too much sugar in your
blood you retain sodium and if you're
retaining this more concentrated sodium
in the body you're going to need more
water to dilute it this is why when you
have high blood glucose you are going to
be dehydrated you'll probably be very
potassium deficient because you're
locking up a lot of pottassium in the
liver if you're consuming too many carbs
when you start losing too much potassium
then you can't sleep your heart rate
goes up your blood pressure might go up
you might have a lot of issues with that
number three skin changes especially in
the folds of the body like the folds of
your neck underneath your armpit the
skin becomes a little bit darker because
you have too much glucose the darker
folds around your body just basically
mean you got blood sugar issues number
four brain fog and fatigue fatigue now I
had this for years and I had no idea it
was my blood sugar I was eating a lot of
carbs I was trying every single vitamin
it never worked I had such brain fog it
was terrible you are getting literally
starvation of glucose or fuel inside the
neurons are just starving for fuel and
they just can't work anymore if I
continue on that path I probably would
go right into dementia because that's
what dementia is starvation of the
neurons number five mood swings if
someone's cranky they're highly
irritable suspect they have a blood
sugar that's too high that ends up going
too low because of the insulin situation
a lot of mood disorders involve blood
sugar issues I mean if a psychiatrist
would just get their patients on a
ketogenic diet they would probably wipe
out between 80 to 90% of these mental
problems number six is Cravings not
necessarily just for sugar but also for
salty carbs like chips things like that
you're not thinking in the future of
what's going to happen after you eat
that carb you just want it now you want
instant relief I was there I would keep
feeding the body what it's in the mood
for not what I should be consuming and
that's a really a bad question to ask
your body what it's in the mood for
because it's not going to give you the
right answer and number seven is blurry
eyes the lens of the eye that helps you
focus is swollen it's filled up up with
fluid over time what happens is the
inside of the eyelid becomes reden and
also it feels like sand is in there I
mean this sounds so obvious to me and
and probably you but the doctors don't
focus on the diet doctors are taught to
treat the blood sugar with medication
and then carry some candy in your pocket
if your blood sugars get too low and I
feel bad for some of these medical
doctors that go into medicine because
they really want to help people but
unfortunately some of the tools that
they're taught are not the best tools to
fix a problem only to manage a problem I
run into people all the time that they
diabetics and their diabetes is being
managed and they think that's a total
solved problem but in fact it's not and
sometimes I have to withhold my
suggestion because honestly they can get
rid of this in a few weeks maybe up to a
month a couple things about how to solve
this problem you want to run your body
on a different fuel we want to lower
glucose and then the body is
automatically going to start switching
to a different fuel source and that's
called key ketones ketones come from
your fat this is why you're going to
lose weight the way to get your body to
burn ketones is to lower your
carbohydrates below 50 grams per day I
would recommend lowering it like 20
grams a day and another thing I would do
now that you understand what insulin is
right we want to do things opposite to
insulin we need to increase the opposite
hormone that's called
glucagon how do we do that we do that by
consuming high quality prote protein red
meat or fish or even eggs super
important and that protein will trigger
the opposite hormone and help bring you
back to a good blood sugar situation
very quickly an A1C measures your blood
sugars over a period of 120 days you're
measuring how much glycated protein you
have in your blood when you combine
sugar to your hemoglobin that's protein
then it's glycated the more percentage
of your blood protein hemoglobin that is
glycated the more severe diabetes you
have there's one little thing I want to
mention about this if you are starting
on a ketogenic diet or even a carnivore
which you're not eating any carbs at all
you're just doing meat and things like
that you may notice that your A1C might
stay higher or go back up a little bit
what you have to realize that a lot of
people don't realize is that when you do
the ketogenic diet this healthy version
of the keto or carnivore you're
extending the life of your red blood
cells instead of that 120 days could be
130 days or 140 days or 150 days the A1C
will actually go up because the red
blood cell lives longer this is not your
problem getting in a worse soft
condition this is just basically your
red blood cell living longer which
throws off the formula a little bit now
that you know about that the next thing
to know is the details of what to eat
and for that information you should
watch this video right here check it out
