hey guys listen you probably already
know this but the more sugar that you
consume when you're sick the longer you
stay sick and this video I'm going to
show you why that is okay so in each
cell you have these little tiny
receptors for insulin okay so they have
insulin receptors and they allow glucose
or sugar to go into the cell but they
also control the vitamin C that goes in
the cell as well okay so the bottom line
is if there's too much sugar or too much
glucose in the body it competes with
vitamin C and if given a choice the body
will accept the glucose and not the
vitamin C okay so in other words high
sugar in your blood
equals low vitamin C vitamin C is
necessary for the immune system it's
necessary for a certain cell that's
called the phagocyte that cleans up
bacteria and cellular pathogens it eats
it up it's like the garbage disposal if
your blood sugar is like a hundred and
twenty a fasting blood sugar 120 it can
in certain studies drop your phagocytes
by 75% so it neutralizes your immune
system okay another reason to just
completely get off sugar in general but
especially if you are sick also the
white blood cell that's your main
defense for your immune system has more
insulin receptors than any other cell
it also has 20 times more vitamin C than
any other cell so again we need vitamin
C for the white blood cell where we
definitely don't need this high sugar
thanks for watching
hey guys so I recently had a request to
put some of the video footage as an
audio feed okay so because of that I
started something called dr. Burke's
podcast so if you're driving or walking
you can plug in and actually listen to
some of the video information as an
audio format so to get more information
check out the link below
