today I'm going to talk about a crazy
epidemic of autoimmune diseases one out
of every 12 people will develop an
autoimmune disease one out of nine adult
women will develop an autoimmune disease
it is way more common in heart disease
with cancer it's one out of 14 so since
the 50s and 60s we have a 3X spike in
autoimmune diseases in this graph right
here you could see Crohn's disease going
straight up you see Ms in type one
diabetes so normally the immune system
has a very complex and difficult job
creating tolerance for our own cells in
other words it has to differentiate our
own cells and our own friendly microbes
and differentiate that from external
pathogens viruses microbes Etc and the
Hallmark of an autoimmune disease is
really inflammation so we have this
inflammatory reaction because the immune
system is attacking it but I want to
explain the single common denominator
with all autoimmune diseases is this
intestinal permeability leaky gut the
small intestine where 90% of all the
digestion occurs and you have a little
mucus layer you have these little Villi
and you have this single cell layer
between the internal part of the
intestine food particles are supposed to
be absorbed through that in a certain
way but when there's holes because
there's leaky gut we lose that
immigration that stamp of approval we
allow uh things through that area and
now we have a massive confusion we have
things that are incorrectly tagged as
harmful and then we have a Cascade of
effect that can then lead to problems of
any tissue in your body there's several
companies that provide this online uh
test it's not too expensive you can get
them I'll put a list of several down
below and find out if you have leaky gut
and then what you can do is make some
changes and then redo the test you know
maybe every month or every couple months
to see how it's improving what creates
damage in your intestine there's been a
paper 2005 they found
287 industrial chemicals in the fetal
Core Blood of 10 newborn infants we're
talking about chemicals from Plastics
pesticides chemicals that are flame
retardants I mean this is bizarre but
then we have gluten
okay gluten can trigger Hashimoto and
Celiac it's the only proteins that we
cannot as humans digest so as you know
most of the wheat in America at least is
sprayed with glyphosate which Monsanto
sold uh Round Up to bear who now has a
big problem because they have over a
100,000 lawsuits against them but
unfortunately our food system corn soy
cotton seed canola have been heavily DED
with this round of ready which has been
patented as an antibiotic glyphosate has
been known to cause leaky gut as well
being an antibiotic it destroys the
microbiome which is going to create more
inflammation in your gut on top of that
it interrupts certain enzymes especially
in your liver the phase one phase two
detoxification enzymes and so then
you're getting these chemicals but then
you can't get rid of the chemicals once
you get the inflammation in the gut you
can't absorb vitamin D that well anymore
too so vitamin D is U the most important
vitamin for your immune system it helps
prevent autoimmune diseases it's a
powerful
anti-inflammatory it's almost impossible
to develop an autoimmune disease unless
you also have some degree of a vitamin D
deficiency and then you have also the
seed oils that are from grains as well
right soy oil canola cotton seed corn
Etc if you take a look at the graphs of
seed oils I mean it's like one of the
common things that parallels that go
straight up since the late 50s 60s 7s I
mean people have just been consuming so
many seed oils and then we just have
alra process food ingredients that would
be a combination of seed oils refined
sugars refined starches I mean 83% of
all calories in the grocery store are
Ultra processed foods those ingredients
create inflammatory States in your gut
and the next one to list are certain
medications ppis for example which
people take for gird or heartburn things
like that well there's something called
drug induced lupus okay from ppis this
next thing I'm going to talk about is
the icing on the cake and that is a
stress induced autoimmune disease in
practice I I actually personally
interacted with about 40,000 patients
over the course of 30 years and when
someone would come in with an autoimmune
disease and I would do a history there
is always some stress event that
occurred right before they develop the
autoimmune disease stress activates
cortisol cortisol paralyzes your immune
system so this is the solution number
one you're going to have to avoid the
seed oils and you're going to have to
start eating really clean grass-fed
things like that I'm going to highly
recommend you get on the ketogenic diet
with high quality animal prot proteins
as well as a good amount of fat when I
switched my diet off these grains to
more beef red meat things like that I
remember my gut was feeling so good I
had normal bowel movements I mean I was
it was bizarre because I thought you
needed all this like grain fiber brand
to help you go to the bathroom well that
constipated me and like I said whatever
they are telling you to do go in the
opposite direction with this help
healthy version of Keto should you
consume vegetables or not I recommend
that you don't consume raw vegetables I
recommend you cook every vegetable that
you consume because the raw vegetables
the fibers can also activate certain
problems because you have leaky gut as
far as fermented vegetables like
sauerkraut kimchi maybe some pickles
have a a a moderate to a smaller amount
of that if your gut inflammation is
really bad okay then would go complete
carnivore for at least a couple months
but I think if you could tolerate at
least some cooked vegetables and the
fermented vegetables that can help with
the increase in the microbiome as far as
Vitamin D goes yes you need Vitamin D a
lot I would recommend anywhere between
30 to 50,000 IUS per day for a period of
time L glutamine might be a beneficial
um supplement to help heal the gut
you're going to be getting this
glutamine from red meat or any type of
animal protein that you consume there's
one more remedy that you may want to try
and that's called colostrum when you
start taking colostrum take very very
small amounts because yes it does have a
some milk proteins that you might be
allergic to but the only reason I'm even
bringing this up is because colostrum
has a really powerful immune function
but those are the changes that I would
recommend to help turn this thing around
since we're on the topic of inflammation
you should probably see this video where
I talk about the number one food that
can help you heal and regenerate and
it's right here check it
out
