okay so add another question how do you
keep your blood Sugar's normal without
eating sugar right because we don't want
to end up with hypoglycemia because
that's dangerous and the brain runs on
glucose right that's kind of the common
thought here's the truth your brain can
run on ketones now part of the brain
does need glucose but that glucose can
be made from your own fat or the dietary
fat in a triglyceride you have three
fatty acids which the body can run on
not the brain but the other parts of the
body but it also has one part glycerol
okay that glycerol which is part of the
triglycerides can be converted to
glucose and that's what the brain can
run out so you don't need external
glucose your body can make it if it
needs it your brain runs very well on
ketones in fact ketones are very
beneficial to the brain it's like a
clean fuel it's very protective to the
nerves and normal blood sugar of let's
say 80 is really only one tiny teaspoon
of sugar for your entire blood so we
don't need that much sugar and if you
consume sugar then there's no reason for
your body to take it from the saddlebag
fat on the hips or the sagging belly or
the fat on your behind so how do you
keep your blood Sugar's normal without
eating sugar basically you just avoid
eating sugar and your body will then
convert over to ketones and any extra
glucose it needs it could be made from
the body fat or gotten from the dietary
fat thanks for watching hey guys so I
hope you're gonna make it to the keto
house summit October 13 and 14 now we're
gonna cover a tremendous amount
information but there's one thing that I
think is going to be very important to
fully understand it's the situation
where someone is fasting doing one meal
a day and it's really healthy keto yet
still the person is only losing tiny
amounts of weight per week okay like
barely anything we're gonna talk about
exactly why that is what to do and how
to correct it and it usually has nothing
to do with metabolism this information
is completely brand-new and not on any
YouTube videos so click the
link below get signed up and I will see
you in October
