so we have Veronica on here she um has
some pretty serious she had some pretty
serious heartburns there's still some
issues but I wanted to talk about the
subject of heartburn uh four years ago
she had heartburn and she's been
struggling with it for four years about
I think three months ago was it three
months ago a do the doctor kept giving
you anti aets yes and more anti acids
and more anti acids and then some liquid
anti acids and you start losing weight
and how how much weight did you was your
lowest weight that you lost well I was
121 and I went down to
113 okay so you basically you just
couldn't eat you're starving to death
yeah exactly and then every time you ate
the acid would just come up and it would
just burn yes and you kept going to the
doctor and you kept getting the same
solution right yeah and I seen two
different doctors and both doctors um
gave me a whole month of anti acids and
a H2 blocker to um to take along with
the anti-
acids right okay so then um your husband
um in California he emailed me about you
and wanted me to help you so I suggested
some things and did you start to feel a
little bit better yes I did I started as
soon as he got home he brought me a
chlorophyll I took that immediately um
and I started feeling some movement
going on in my stomach and then after
that I started feeling a little better
of course you know it's it was not going
to I was not going to get better from
one day to another but I I immediately
started feeling better good and then the
heartburn was less and less
yes able eat a little bit more I was
actually that night I was actually able
to eat so much better yeah well let me
just tell people what I gave you or
recommended I recommended adding more
acid to your
stomach that's kind of weird isn't it I
mean like that's the exact opposite
thing that you were told to do yes so
when I told you that were you kind of
like what the heck is he talking about I
was so they were giving you all sorts of
things to get rid of your assd but
here's the here's the hidden truth that
a lot of people don't know which um I
had the stemness because I had I used to
live on rol AES by the mega packs I you
see the discount at Costco the big roate
packs I would down that thing in a few
days wow um so taking all this calcium
and everything well do you know what's
interesting calcium one of the the side
effects of calcium is
ulcers oh really yeah peptic ulcers wow
um I'm going to put a link down below
this video so people can see that but
here's here's the interesting thing when
you don't have enough acid in your
stomach the body will not close the
valve on the top of the stomach so that
valve that keeps the stomach the acid in
the stomach is controlled by the pH of
your stomach and the acid so the acid
should be very very acid like one to
three that's like battery acid when the
pH goes higher less acid let's say four
five six that valve won't close and so
you're going to start getting acid
reflex like crazy people can call it
gird or whatever it's all the same and
so the exact thing that you should be
not
doing you were doing with this doctor is
pushing all this calcium and and uh
protein Inhibitors which basically that
blocks the um the H+ the hydrogen ions
which basically then you can't produce
acid so it's completely and utterly the
worst scenario so now here you are
trying to digest food especially protein
without acid and they give you more am
acid you're it's almost going to like
destroy your whole body because you
can't digest so all we did we had the
first he heal your stomach a little bit
so I gave you chlorophyll that's like a
liquid blood of the plant it actually
heals the lining of
the stomach we gave you something called
Bane hydrochloride that is a a remedy
that helps build up your stomach acids
and you do it slowly over time to
correct the pH because we want to drop
your pH to about one to three and I've
had people with such severe stomach
heartburn and you give them more acid
and it gets better and it's the exact o
opposite thing that you're doing and
even when you get older your stomach
needs more acid so that's really what we
did it's really simple yeah now the
problem is your esophagus is
still it's not right it needs more
healing right it's kind of raspy it
bothers you you're probably coughing
tell me more about that right now um
well right now um I'm just dealing with
this I wake up fine and as soon as I
start talking a little bit um my voice
starts getting
raspy and my throat starts hurting a lot
it feels stiff I don't even want to talk
I it's just last night I I couldn't even
sleep because I can feel the pain on my
throat and I would swallow and it was
just like so dry and I'm like uh is just
so it was just so painful you know you
still have the
heartburn um the heart burn I don't I
don't really have it I'll get it once in
a while depending on maybe what I eat
maybe I ate something that I was not um
supposed to but I honestly I don't have
it compared to before good so that's
pretty much in it's gone now we just
have other thing um okay so here's the
thing that
um um that you need to do it's Dr not
because of lack of hydration or water
that's not why it's dry it's dry because
you are missing some of the called fat
sible
vitamins um basically more fat um do you
typically have a lower fats in your diet
now um yes vitamin
A um has a very unique purpose to heal
and control your skin not necessarily
just the outside of the skin but the
inner body skin that lines the mouth the
sinuses the throat the lungs all the
internal skin on your body is controlled
by vitamin A so I would bet you anything
that you have night vision problems as
well because I would you have a very
severe vitamin A deficiency so when you
actually drive at night or it gets dark
is hard to see at night when you're
driving um yes yeah so that is a vitamin
A deficiency so um instead of taking
vitamin A as a
supplement guess where you get vitamin
A um don't know it's really um in all
the animal fats specifically butter
really yeah do you ever eat butter um
actually I stopped using
butter thinking maybe that's something
that was um not good for my gird so yeah
not I'm not eating butter I want you to
live on butter right now okay and um you
can you know if you're allergic to um
Dairy a little bit there's not a lot of
uh allergies with butter but if someone
is they can do
ghee um but I think you'll be fine you
need the vitamin A I would get Cary gold
butter okay have Sam Picks Them Up
brings them home and you want to start
Downing
butter okay that's like the the simplest
solution the other option you could do
is you can start eating animal organ
Meats like liver but I don't think you
probably I don't know people don't like
liver I don't like it so that's the
other option I don't like it either but
that's gonna make me feel better yeah
I'm willing to eat it you know have some
grass-fed beef liver cut it up with
onions with some put some eat some
butter on your vegetables in about 2 or
3 days you'll start your throat will
start feeling better you don't want to
have a lowfat diet okay because you'll
start drying out vegetarians have a lot
of problems with fatsal vitamins but
that is the remedy that you need to um
to fix this last part of your digestive
system
um it's that
simple yeah I mean I I'll definitely do
it know because it's just uh I do
customer service and I'm on the
phone and my voice is just getting so
dry and so raspy and um I am just so
uncomfortable talking it's that bad wow
well I'm going to release uh some
recipes uh next week or so on um some
real healthy alternative snacks that
have butter like you need ways to eat
butter so there's um there's certain
cookies that you can make without any
sugar you can start eating those you you
probably need to gain some weight right
yes I do so you you want to add more fat
to your diet now what happens though
people go on the ketosis di Which is
higher fat to lose weight but what
happens if um if you have a slow
metabolism and you eat too much fat
it'll tend to slow down the ability to
um lose weight because you're going to
burn you'll be burning the dietary fat
with you I think the fat would actually
uh put some a little bit of weight on
your body um but typically you might
find that you might not gain weight by
eating the fat so you might need to add
some carbs which I would recommend
potatoes uh red potatoes um maybe some
wild rice but red potatoes was the best
way to gain weight but you need to start
eating those I'll give you some um let
me see if I have them ready yeah I'll
I'll send you a couple recipes that you
can start making these um treats and
that way you can actually because I
don't want to put I don't want you to
have bread and butter I want you to have
the Frozen little cookies with butter
and you can start eating those okay and
uh you'll your throat within a week will
probably be fully handled oh awesome I
can't
wait yeah very simple so so basically in
summary um heartburn is really caused by
um a deficiency of acid acid reflux is
really a deficiency of acid hardly
anyone knows that if you add the acid
you can fix it Alid of vinegar will help
Bain hydrochloride is the remedy you
should eat that with um with food um if
there's an ulcer you need to heal the
ulcer first and that's what we did with
you because I didn't want you to have
the ban hydrochloride right away so we
had you consume um chlorophyll pearls U
from standard process and and I had you
suck those and eat those like candy all
day long and that actually healed the
stomach um and that's what we did first
and then we acidified the stomach yes so
you probably want to keep taking those
ban Hy chloride and maybe an occasional
chlorophyll
too
okay all right so you know what to do
yes I do okay great so let me know how
you do okay thank you so much Dr Burg I
really really really appreciate it
you're welcome I'm just waiting for that
success story when your your throat is
fully
handled and I'll email you call you
right away as soon as that happens okay
great all right we'll see you later okay
thank you Dr BT
sure
