you know if you go in the community and
you look at people most people fall into
one of four body types okay and it has
to do with where they hold the weight
there's the adrenal there's the liver
there's the ovary and there's a thyroid
so depending on what's going on with
your hormones internally we can pretty
much predict what you're going to look
like so there are four different types
of fat and if you put every one the same
program like a lot of programs out there
there's a lot of books out there that
are based on the person's experience but
it might not be right for you or someone
else I have an advantage I've been in
practice for 25 years worked on 35,000
different people and I have worked with
a lot of different types of people and
I've summarized most people into four
categories for example if you hold
weight in your belly that is coming from
a hormone called cortisol that's a
stress hormone okay yet if you hold
weight on the hips that's coming from
estrogen that's cellulite completely
different
situations the way you get out of lower
cortisol is very different than lowering
estrogen especially with exercise
they're completely different so what
will help some person will actually ruin
another and this is why you have people
that will do marathons and they start
getting atrophied that the muscles get
loose they don't get ton so when you hit
the age of menopause what happens in the
body is these hormones start really
shifting because the ovaries are no
longer backing up the adrenal gland the
adrenal gland is on top of the kidney
now that adrenal has to work twice as
hard usually a person's at that point
kind of burnt out so it's not going to
really back that up so what happens they
start getting in a situation where their
lean body mass just falls apart the
collagen falls apart they get loose skin
right here here right here they get the
belly and then they try to work out well
all that's going to do is going to add
stress to an already stressed out body
simply because the cortisol is going up
that's that stress hormone so one of our
goals is to lower
that especially in your belly fat the
programs out there right now even the
ones that claim to help belly fat never
address cortisol all it is is eat this
diet or do this diet or exercise this
way but they don't talk about how to
lower cortisol they don't talk about how
to pull the stress out I developed a
program that's an acute pressure
do-it-yourself program that will help
pull the stress out of your body over
the years all the stress that you've
been through whether divorce pregnancies
menstrual cycle upset injury infection
pushing yourself at work being stressed
out by all these people all that has
been accumulating you're like a bucket
filling up with stress and when what
happens is that stress can act as an
open application on your desktop
computer so you have all these
applications open on your desktop
computer so everything's running
slower so what this technique will do is
it tends to close the applications
control alt delete Wipe Out the old
stress and get you into a state of a
stress-free body that would really help
your sleep can you imagine never
experiencing stress you know what that
would be like never having any
relationship problems never having any
pregnancies never having any menstrual
problems never having any upset you know
what you'd feel like right now it would
be really good that's what it's like to
have the acupressure that's what helps
lower the stress that's what helps get
you in fat burning especially if you
want to Target the belly
fat
