in this video we're going to talk about
the hidden cause of neck pain and yes
you can have a whip last injury or an
actual neck injury and have pain from
that but what about the times that you
have neck pain with no physical reason
for that that's what this video is about
so what happens is that there is a nerve
that comes from your neck down through
the liver right around the right side on
your diaphragm connecting to these
delicate soft tissues right underneath
the right rib cage and guess what you
have underneath there a gallbladder so a
lot of these referral pain problems in
the neck the right shoulder right up
through here up to the head even
headaches all the way down around your
scapula are coming from gallbladder and
I'm not saying you have a disease
gallbladder but it can be a congested
gallbladder from eating the wrong foods
and that pressure can build up right
here and put pressure on a nerve called
the frenic nerve and cause pain to go
all the way up to the side if this
congestion is so much that it puts
pressure on the soft tissues it could
even cause these vertebrae to rotate out
of place and you go to the chiropractor
and get it adjusted and you feel better
but it goes right back out the next day
because the underlying source is not
corrected and you can usually track this
down by finding out when did this start
what did you eat just before it because
it usually comes from eating excessive
amounts of fatty foods but mainly nuts
so here you are you start eating healthy
you start snacking in more nuts and all
of a sudden you get the right shoulder
pain or headaches or tension your neck
that is because the nuts are a bit fatty
and you can't digest them too well but
it can also come from eating too many
refined carbohydrates too much junk food
too many breads sugars all that stuff so
anything that aggravates the liver bad
foods and even soy protein isolates and
L the diet foods and those little bars
that you eat to avoid the soy but that
can aggravate this area cause pain in
your neck or anywhere in that area up
through here that or the right shoulder
and again it could be on both sides so
let's say potentially you have this
problem what do you do all you have to
do is press on the right upper rib cage
just press in there for like a minute or
so and if your neck pain is coming from
this area you will experience instant
relief of the neck pain okay so then we
know that's what it is and that's how
you'd find out so then if that happens
what do you do you want to change your
diet so this is a nice little um way of
your body telling you to not eat certain
foods okay so it's a little red light
indicator that you know what if you want
pain keep eating those Foods so we want
to maybe either support the gallbladder
with something like purified bile salts
or you can avoid eating so many nuts and
add more greens vegetables that help
clean out this liver system right here
um and not eat the junk food all right
so you'll find that eliminating the
heavy fat of your foods you your system
might not be able to digest heavy fats
so you might want to keep those lower
now I'm not against fats but if you have
a gall BL problem you just can't digest
it so you're going to either get some
help from it or eat less of those Foods
so you can either add nutrition to
support it or just avoid the foods okay
so I just wanted to create a little
video of a very common source of neck
pain and I hope this will help you I
will see you in the next
video
