so I have another question is your fiber
making you fat
okay now realize that fiber is a
carbohydrate however it doesn't have
enough direct effect on blood sugars
okay and you can't even digest it it's
not even for you it's for your microbes
so the benefit of vegetable fiber when
that's what I recommend is that the
microbes turn it into this natural
healthy fat called butyrate okay and
butyrate actually reduces insulin
resistance and which means it's going to
lower insulin which means it's gonna
help you lose weight
just from that one effect right here
also microbes will make B vitamins okay
which will help in other ways so the
vegetable fibers that you consume from
your salad whatever give you vitamins
and minerals and trace minerals and
those are all absorbed in the small
intestine the butyrate in the large
intestine from the microbes okay B
vitamins also the vegetable fiber
buffers the pH from the like the meats
that you consume that are acidic so we
have that buffer effect and also you get
phytonutrients from vegetables as well
in theory the fiber should help you lose
weight however here's the problem if you
have low amounts of microbes that is the
thing that's going to cause you to gain
weight because even people when they go
on an antibiotic and they kill off their
microbes they start gaining weight as a
side effect they give antibiotics to
animals to make them get fat and get
bigger so the combination of low
microbes in the gut and then adding more
fiber when these women basically we we
don't have enough microbes to eat all
the fiber you're gonna get bloating gas
all sorts of issues so when you start
consuming 7 to 10 cups of vegetables a
day and you just feel bloated well this
is the reason why right here so the
fiber is actually making things worse so
you might have to cut back a little bit
and start building up your micro flora
the other thing is that bile from your
gall bladder is recycled from the
microbes if you don't have enough
microbes there to recycle the bile which
by the way it recycles it 4 to 12 times
in a given
okay then what's gonna happen is you're
not gonna have enough file one of the
functions BIOS to help you prevent a
fatty liver okay so that's an important
one also it helps in lowering blood
sugars and improving insulin resistance
so just from that chain reaction you
could actually gain weight just from
that one thing you need to know is
antibiotics destroy the microbes so you
say well I don't take antibiotics well
here's the problem seventy percent of
all the antibiotics that are sold in the
US are sold to livestock so basically if
you consume non-organic hormone injected
you know beef chicken turkey things like
that then you're getting a dose of that
antibiotic okay so that could be one
reason GMO foods there's a chemical
called glyphosate okay that's been
patented as an antibiotic so if you're
consuming GMO foods which is pretty much
all the non-organic boots
you're gonna kill off your microbes so
you have to do organic as much as
possible artificial sweeteners also
lower the microbes and there's a lot of
other things as well so not enough
microbes can actually added the why
you're adding the fiber is not a good
combination
because we just want to feed feed them
what they can eat not anything more and
then there's a condition called SIBO
small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
this is a situation where you have too
much bacteria in the wrong place you
have it in the small intestine it
normally should be in large intestine if
it's in the small intestine what it does
is it starts to compete for your food it
starts eating your food and you don't
get the nutrients from your food so you
start developing all sorts of
nutritional deficiencies so if you're
adding fiber and feeding these microbes
in the wrong place they're gonna
actually grow and multiply so you're
gonna have a worse problem down the road
so you don't want to give too much fiber
in this situation where you don't have
enough microbes and in this situation
where you have too much microbe in the
wrong place I put a link down below on a
video I did for this right here so you
can get more data on that so the key is
not to omit this right here but just to
really make sure
that you support the microbes there's so
many people that start to reestablish
their friendly bacteria and they finally
start losing weight and they're finally
able to handle more quantities of
vegetable all right thanks for watching
so I want to know about what you think
about this video so please comment below
and tell me what you think
