hey guys Dr Burg here in this video
we're going to discuss some pretty
deadly hidden toxins that are basically
it's affecting us all okay so I don't
know if you know this but the
US is the
largest exporter of banned pesticides in
the world did you know that
yeah certain companies in America
basically sell banned pesticides
severely restricted by the US you can't
use them in the US you can sell them but
you can't use them to third world
countries okay and uh for example DDT
was banned in
1972 okay well we we can make it and
then we ship it to other countries
another one called
DPC uh
dbcp was banned in
1977 uh because it causes sterility in
cancer but we're allowed to sell it so
each year we sell a about a billion
pounds of this toxic waste crap to other
countries now me you say you might say
well as long as we're not getting
exposed right well look what happens the
US sells the stuff which is non it's
non-regulated by the UPA because we're
not using it to a third world country
third world country uses it on their
Farms they probably don't even know that
it's been banned in the
US get some their food fruits vegetables
right get where we get our fruit in the
winter boom comes right back to the US
so when something says it's from a third
world country it's not grown in America
you have to realize that it could
potentially be sprayed by some chemical
that's banned it gets into our
bloodstream so I'm going to put some
links down below just to talk about that
just so you could see that even our
bodies now are exposed are still being
exposed to things that were
banned 2030 40 years ago okay pretty
scary all right on that positive note uh
I guess what you can do is increase
awareness and also share this video and
and just make sure that you consume food
that's actually grown within America all
right I'll see you in the next video hey
guys thank you so much for watching
please click the Subscribe button and I
will see you in the next
video
