I want to show you
three simple but very important trace
minerals that can hopefully reverse
alopecia now alopecia is an autoimmune
disease that directly causes patches of
hair loss throughout your scalp and
there are other autoimmune diseases like
Hashimoto's and lupus that can also do
the same thing how can a trace mineral
deficiency cause you to lose your hair
well trace minerals are minerals needed
in very tiny amounts but just because
they're needed in tiny amounts doesn't
mean they don't have a profound effect
over your body these trace minerals are
essential for a lot of different things
regarding hair they're essential in
preventing autoimmune diseases also in
treating autoimmune diseases as well as
their effect directly in building up
the hair protein itself you know when we
think about protein people think about
muscles but there are a lot of other
types of proteins in your body that
people don't consider proteins enzymes
for example and I'm not just talking
about digestive enzymes I'm talking
about the enzymes that are involved in
your biochemistry that help make
hormones that help do the work of the
body relating to the thyroid you
actually have enzymes that actually make
body tissue regarding thyroid hormones
you have enzymes that actually can
convert the inactive thyroid hormone
which is T4 to the active thyroid
hormone which is T3 and then you have
proteins involved in your immune system
that keep your immune system strong that
prevent you from a self-attack or the
creation of antibodies against your own
tissues and out of all the minerals
there's three trace minerals that are
very important to make sure that you get
in your diet and understand other things
that can create the deficiency so let's
first talk about iodine you probably
already know iodine is necessary to make
thyroid hormones through enzymes and as
you're deficient in iodine you can't
make thyroid hormones and when we're
dealing with a thyroid autoimmune
problem
there's some data out there that
suggests that too much iodine can cause
an autoimmune disease but there's
overwhelming evidence that that's
actually not true it's usually a
deficiency of iodine that can create
more of a problem than in excess an
average person is deficient in iodine
because it's hard to get from our food
because it's not in our soils so unless
they eat something from the sea they're
usually not going to get enough iodine
unless they're taking something like sea
kelp or seaweed or in parts of the world
where you eat a lot of seaweed which is
definitely not in America we primarily
get our iodine from sea salt and even
that we probably don't get enough iodine
to satisfy all the requirements that we
need when someone is deficient in iodine
they get an out of control
estrogen level because iodine helps
buffer estrogen and when they don't have
enough iodine and they get too much
estrogen they can develop cysts on the
ovaries they can develop fibrocystic
rest they can even develop nodules on
the thyroid gland itself another
interesting thing about iodine is that
you can be deficient not from your diet
but from other things interfering with
the absorption of iodine like
fluoride okay whether you're getting
some type of dental whitening type
therapy or you're drinking tap water
with fluoride as well as chlorine
chlorine also interferes with iodine so
there's three big things that can
interfere with iodine fluoride chloride
and bromine which is in a lot of
enriched flower products as in the bread
pasta cereal crackers biscuits things
like that which you're probably not
eating because you've been watching my
channel but there's another source of
fluoride that you may not suspect in
fact 20 percent of all medications out
there are fluoride based including
Prozac statin drugs other
antidepressants certain antibiotics
certain antacid medications as well as
certain anti-inflammatories all contain
fluoride which can interfere with iodine
and by the way as far as the amount of
of iodine you need on a daily basis I
would recommend about 200 micrograms
okay not milligrams micrograms iodine is
very very important in a growing child
if a child or an infant is deficient
they can develop all sorts of cognitive
deficiencies but seek help Seafood sea
salt is all good to take if you want to
build up your iodine now the next Trace
mineral is called zinc okay zinc as you
know is very very important in your
immune system and when people get
autoimmune diseases they're usually
deficient in zinc and this zinc
deficiency allows a condition where your
immune system can get out of control but
the best bioavailable sources of zinc is
from meat fish and eggs not plant-based
sources plant-based sources are not good
sources of zinc one of the most common
causes of a zinc deficiency is by
consuming too much cereal okay cereal
has phytates just like any grains and
these phytates block minerals especially
zinc zinc is one of the most important
minerals for your immune system and
without it you're very very susceptible
to infections and other problems
including inflammation the zinc directly
is involved in certain
enzymes which are proteins that actually
build up your hair and as far as the
amount of zinc if you were going to take
it as a supplement I would recommend
about 50 milligrams but if you're
consuming things like red meat or even
beef liver or even oysters or seafood
chances are you're getting enough zinc
but if you're exposed to Mercury that
can increase the need for more zinc if
you consume a lot of sugar or you're
exposed to a lot of stress your
requirement for zinc goes dramatically
up okay the next mineral is selenium
selenium is involved in 35 different
proteins okay and again I'm talking
about those protein enzymes that do most
the work in the body if you're deficient
in selenium you can start getting
graying of the hair you can start
developing alopecia directly or a
deficiency of selenium can lead to
Hashimoto's selenium is a catch-22
because
deficiency can create a problem with
alopecia and an excess or a toxicity can
create alopecia so it's one of those
trace minerals that you just need just
the right amount you don't want to take
more more is not better Mercury can also
interfere with selenium a lot of women
who are pregnant are deficient in in
selenium not to mention zinc and even
iodine so this is just another reason
why if someone is going through
pregnancy it's so important to take
these trace minerals now there are also
genes that help you absorb selenium and
there also could be a genetic mutation
that causes difficulty in getting enough
selenium so in this case if you're just
getting the minimum amount you may have
deficiency symptoms and you can get a
genetic test to determine this and I've
been doing a deep dive in this DNA topic
which I'll do more videos on but so many
people have genetic problems with
minerals and vitamins and this
especially relates to like B12 folate
vitamin D and even vitamin C the other
interesting thing about selenium is that
it seems to control vitamin E levels it
protects a person from becoming
deficient in vitamin E maybe because of
selenium is a precursor for glutathione
which is a powerful antioxidant and
other antioxidants as well the amount of
selenium the person needs would be
between 50 micrograms to 200 micrograms
which really is a tiny amount one Brazil
nut is enough to satisfy what you would
need don't need to hold back okay just
one at a time per day because you can
actually get a toxic amount fairly quick
there are other nutrients as well that
greatly influence the hair and I'm just
going to quickly run down the list iron
okay in B12 primarily because of the
function of what they can do to increase
your oxygen levels and your blood levels
your red blood cell levels to your scalp
without this blood and oxygen to the
scalp the roots of the hair can't
survive and probably the biggest reason
why women are deficient in iron is
because of menstruation and if that's
your problem I put a link down below of
how to correct that specific issue
regarding B12 it could be that you're a
vegan or it could also be that you have
genetic issue with a problem called
methylation for more information I put a
link down below with that too now
vitamin D very very important with any
autoimmune disease because it reduces
inflammation and even though a vitamin D
deficiency
doesn't cause like alopecia directly it
can cause a loss of body hair which is
more of a alopecia for the entire body
but not necessarily just on the scalp
but if you have any type of autoimmune
problem you should be taking vitamin D
on a daily basis roughly about twenty
thousand IUS now let's talk about Biotin
for a second a lot of people take biotin
in very large amounts biotin is vitamin
B7 it's and it's involved in protein
synthesis especially the hair and the
nails but if you're deficient in biotin
is your hair is going to be very dry and
Frizzy you might experience shedding of
the hair you may have just general hair
loss a couple reasons why people are
deficient in biotin because your gut
Flora makes it it could be you have
taken antibiotics it could be you
consume a lot of raw eggs which by the
way the egg yolk
is the thing that has the most biotin
but if you have raw eggs there's a
certain compound in there that locks up
your biotin so you could become
deficient another cause would be
pregnancy which increases the demand for
biotin or you may have a genetic problem
with a certain protein that helps you
absorb Biotin and you have a problem
with that which means you just need a
little bit more and lastly folate this
is interesting because a folate
deficiency is a very common deficiency
even though folate comes from dark leafy
green vegetables a lot of people have a
problem with a certain Gene called
MTHFR which requires them to consume
more folate not folic acid but folate so
they can start to build up some of these
proteins including hair now I talked
about one problem with hair loss if you
haven't seen this video on hairless
which covers other things you should
check it out I put it up right here
