so this is an updated video that I did
about a year ago and I'm going to give
you 10 signs of dementia that are really
really important with the first sign or
symptom that can occur 10 years before
you have any cognitive changes
whatsoever but I have to mention
something just because you have the
following symptoms that I'm going to
mention does not mean you have dementia
okay it could be your sleep it could be
your stress it could be what you just
ate it could be some wine you had just
yesterday it could be anything and I
have to say this which I said in my
other
video the worst thing you could do is
start to diagnose people with dementia
especially friends family and your
spouse I've seen it a lot in practice
where a spouse is correcting another
spouse uh honey you made a mistake uh
honey you're forgetting things don't do
that you can actually mess someone up
you can actually create more of that so
if your spouse makes a mistake just move
on don't try to correct them I've seen
it so much before it's just not a
healthy thing to do what is dementia
well we have a normal brain right here
and over time people can develop a
pathological uh brain condition which is
where it atrophies and that can create
dementia as a symptom so in dementia you
have a shrinkage of certain parts of the
brain you also have inflammation what's
really interesting about this is it
takes many years for this process to
develop and there's one symptom or sign
that occurs 10 years before any
cognitive changes can occur and I want
to mention what that is actually there's
two symptoms or two signs okay before
you even get any type of cognitive
changes so the first change is a sensory
change and it mainly has to do with the
sensation of smell because the nerve
endings in your
sinuses directly go right to the back of
the brain the central nervous system and
there's no bloodb brain barrier it's
kind of like a a vulnerable place to be
exposed to create damage so it's going
to show up first now there is another
part of the brain that extends out
beyond the bloodb brain barrier called
the retina extends outside the skull in
the inner
eye and it's exposed to different things
too but out of all the sensory problems
it's the smell now what's interesting
about the smell is sometimes if you're
lacking smell it's an Omission you don't
really notice it so sometimes people get
get used to it because it's like an
absence of something it's not like a
pain that you notice it's just you're
lacking something right and you just go
along and you might not even be aware of
it but there's some very interesting
research on the association of lack of
smell as as being the first sign well
before the other cognitive problems now
I mentioned there's two of these signs
before the cognitive changes there's
actually three so I already mentioned
the vision but the third one is sleep
yeah sleeping problems now of course if
you have a sleeping problem it could be
a hundred different reasons okay but
there's a high association between
sleeping problems insomnia and uh
dementia all right number four is
agitation what is that that is a low
tolerance to stress it's h someone who
gets agitated easily they have a short
fuse they're not in a calm state but
again I mean a lot of people have this
and there's nothing to do with dementia
but it definitely fits in that category
as um one of the early signs of dementia
and then restlessness uh when the brain
starts to break down the person gets
really restless uh they cannot just sit
still all right the next one is
aggression they might be a bit angry
they might snap at you uh this also
relates to the low stress tolerance but
aggression is just agitation with volume
turned up then we get into the memory
problems and this could be you know uh
forgetting words it could be forgetting
names it could be something related to
difficulty learning something also
there's something called a clock test um
the inability to recognize the time from
a clock and the way that some
researchers describe this is like if you
have someone draw a clock and just um
have them write out what 9:00 is for
example or 3 o'cl and see if they can do
it so a person also might be mixing up
words they will also have um a longer
lag time between answering you and also
there's many other aspects to this it
could be spatial recognition like the
inability to locate um where your car is
or where your keys are or find your way
home without GPS it can also involve a
lack of focus for example too or
concentration okay so the next one is
lower emotion now it could be all the
way down into depression or it could be
a little higher in anxiety but they no
longer have this higher level of emotion
it drops down so it can even be like an
apathy just kind of like they're staring
off into the distance all right the next
one is interesting incontinent
okay so the loss of control of the
bladder or the bows now this is
interesting but it does make sense when
you understand that the brain is
controlling both of those actions and so
obviously there's breakdown in the brain
tissue and then the last one is
constipation which also relates to the
nervous system but it also relates to
the gut what you have to realize is the
gut directly affects the brain
and the Brain affects the gut there's a
whole axis there now the next part of
this I'm going to talk about the
causation of this before I get into what
to do about it but what you need to know
is there's chronic inflammation okay now
what does that mean it could come from
things that you're eating it could come
from head trauma and even destroys the
bloodb brain barrier where you start
getting this leakage I mean think about
it the same thing happens in your
arteries the same thing happens in your
gut you get leaky gut you get leaky
brain and then you start having problems
what creates that inflammation things
that destroy that barrier I think if we
take a look at your foods to the extreme
on the left it's going to be
refine sugars refined starches and
refined oils there's a lot of data now
that shows these seed oils that are
heated like five or six times and then
they might be used at the fast food
restaurants five or six 10 20 times
reheated and then you're going to
actually eat food that's been bathed in
that it's going to go into the body it's
highly inflammatory it's in your salad
dressings it's in your condiments it's
in literally about 80% of all the foods
in the grocery store but the point is
that out of all the things that can
create inflammation it's obviously the
junk Foods or alra press Foods yes you
have alcohol you have smoking but the
worst is the ultrapress foods that's all
going to cause insulin resistance and
that is one common factor with um
Alzheimer's dementia is they nearly
always have insulin resistance which
really causes the neuron the nerve cell
to literally starve of fuel because when
you have that resistance this brain cell
can't get fuel anymore and that's why
when you go on a low carb diet and you
have these ketones ketones can bypass
that damage
and feed the neuron directly and this is
probably why they call Alzheimer's type
3 diabetes now there's other things too
that can influence this inflammation it
could be heavy metals it could be an
infection or it can even be high blood
pressure that is causing this massive uh
pressure situation all way up into the
brain there's a certain genetic weakness
that I want to just bring up because you
won't know about this unless you get
your genetics tested and the type of
genetics I'm talking about and I'm going
to give you this new word is called
polymorphism and this is where you have
a very specific Gene that's altered in
some way some it's modified it's called
apoe4 the Great majority of the public
has APO E3 but there's two copies okay
and if you have just one copy the
apoe4 it brings up your risk at 30% of
developing dementia but if you have both
copies then that risk factor goes up
between 50 and 90% now why is this
significant because this is something
that is in your genes that can set up a
weakness or a vulnerability only if your
environment and your lifestyle is not
that great but just because you have
these genetic weaknesses does not mean
anything because what really
controls the activation of these genes
is your lifestyle and the environment so
you can control these genes but I think
it's helpful getting this genetic test
to find out if you have this weakness
because it might motivate you to avoid
drinking and smoking and start eating
healthier and exercising because if you
don't make those changes the odds are
that you are going to develop a big
problem down the road with dementia the
question is what can you do about it
okay there's obviously you know removing
the bad adding the good there's some
very impactful things you can do that
make a huge difference and the big one
is exercise yes and that's because it
will drive a lot of blood flow to your
brain and it'll also help build up and
regenerate your mitochondria in your
brain regular exercise can significantly
drop your risk for Alzheimer's in fact
it's probably the most important thing
despite anything else even if you're
having a sleep problem and you're
stressed out but if you exercise on a
regular basis it's extremely protective
to your your brain so then sleeping
that's really important too not as
important as exercise but it's still
important because that's going to reduce
your stress the brain is going to do
much better on ketones than sugar so
this is why you do need to go on a low
carb uh diet but do the healthy version
of it with a lot of great ingredients
which I will put a link down below if
you want to know what that looks like
but ketones will be the preferred fuel
for the brain intermittent fasting very
important and periodic prolong fasting
for the brain when you fast fast it's
like Miracle Grow to your brain you help
uh increase this thing called brain
derived neurotrophic Factor and'll
actually help you grow new brain cells
the next thing on the list that's really
important is a lot of omega-3 fatty
acids so we want to get rid of the Omega
6 get rid of it completely it's
inflammatory realize it also competes
with the omega-3 and we want the omega-3
this is fish oils I personally like cive
oil because it has the vitamin D and the
vitamin A with it whereas fish oils
don't but omega-3 in higher doses is
very very important for the brain now
the B vitamins are also important B1
extremely important to help prevent this
atrophy and also for many other things
also the entire B complex including um
the natural forms of B9 which is folate
and the natural form of B12 which is
methyl camine versus the synthetic
versions vitamin D is very important for
the brain there's a lot of recept ctors
in the brain for vitamin d and vitamin D
is one of the most potent
anti-inflammatories so there's several
other things that you can do like sauna
treatments there's one study that showed
that if you do between four to seven
sauna treatments a week you can drop
your risk of Dementia by 60% ratr and
another supplement called NAD are really
good for your brain also probiotics are
also essential to help your brain and
cold therapy believe it or not is really
good for regenerating the brain now you
would think that the cold would be
something that would harm the brain but
just think about uh on the history of
things how many times humans have
starved in very cold temperatures we
have all sorts of genes that kick in
when our bodies get colder that help us
survive especially in your brain but if
you think about it your body does a lot
to preserve the brain and protect the
brain because it's the key thing to help
you survive so cold therapy has some
serious benefits and as much as I
dislike the feeling of it initially it
gives me the most uh Rejuvenation of my
brain it just brings me right up and
it's quick it's wild I didn't think it
could do that but uh it's winter right
now and I am doing the cold immersion I
know it's crazy I never thought I would
do it but because it makes me feel so
good I I still do it now if you have not
seen my other video that got millions of
views okay you should check that one out
too I put it up right here it's very
important
