let's talk about the seven warning signs
that you may have parasites you probably
already have parasites the good news is
they're not bothering you they haven't
turned into some disease the first sign
is fatigue number two a rash and this is
because of your immune system reacting
because when a parasite invades the
barrier in your gut for example and gets
in your blood you can have an immune
reaction that shows up in your skin
number three weight loss with no reason
for losing weight weight you're not an
exercise program you haven't changed
your diet the parasite is eating a lot
of your nutrition it's living in your
small intestine it's thriving you might
start developing nutritional
deficiencies number four is bloating
because there's a parasite in your gut
and it's creating an immune reaction
number five teeth grinding do you grind
your teeth a lot at night think parasite
number six itching especially in your
private parts like anal itching and
number seven anxiety and so when you
have an imbalance of microorganisms a
parasite that's going to affect your
head and that could be related to uh
brain fog as well there's an interesting
Theory it's called the Red Queen
hypothesis where you have the host and
the parasite that is co-evolving
existing together competing for
resources each side develops new
strategies and for example if we never
had parasites or pathogens which create
infection it would never Force us to
become stronger to develop certain
strategy IES of survival your immune
system learns from it and becomes
stronger so the next time you're
infected you have antibodies sitting
there waiting to defend you our immune
system develops a defense against
parasites there's all sorts of chemicals
that are released by cells to help kill
the worm or whatever organism there is
on the flip side parasites have their
own strategies one strategy is to evade
your immune system and one way they do
that is to downgrade your ability to
absorb vitamin D in fact 10% of all of
the genes that you have are associated
with vitamin d and vitamin D also
controls a lot of the the te- cells the
ones that are the quarterback that
control and coordinate your immune
system another wild strategy from a
parasite is to change the behavior of
the host one example of this is
something called Toxoplasma Gandhi which
causes the rodent the mouse to become
Fearless so it will be more likely to be
eaten by a cat because Toxoplasma Gandhi
only can thrive in cats but somehow they
have to alter the behavior to be able to
survive another strategy that parasites
use is to take a certain protein and
cover themselves to evade the immune
system and because this protein mimics
something in your body or something
that's benign another strategy is to to
be able to go dormant and wait until
you're old you're stressed out until the
immune system is weak and then they can
kick in and actually come out and start
surviving better because they can't
survive if your immune system is really
strong and so some
microorganisms can change its
relationship and become parasitic if the
environment changes in your body let's
take for example eoli in the large
intestine uh ecoli I lives in a friendly
manner but when that eoli goes up into
the small intestine and in that
environment that eoli becomes parasitic
another microbe that can become a
parasite is hpylori most ulcers come
from H pylori and one survival mechanism
that this H pylori does is they release
something that alkalizes the stomach
because they can survive better there's
not as much acid you can even get a
parasite from breathing
dirt particles in the air from some
construction because there's a lot of
microorganisms in the soil or what about
you have a pet a cat or a dog that
sleeps with you that you kiss animals
are outside they can pick up a parasite
and they can very easily give you a
parasite as well another way to get
parasites is when you take antibiotics
for example you literally kill off the
good bacteria and the bad bacteria this
really puts you at a major risk
immune wise also realize if you consume
a lot of refined sugar and junk you're
going to feed these parasites right they
they love that refined starches and
flour products you want to get rid of
all that now I want to get into what to
do if you actually have parasites what
can you do to clean them out or kill
them and remove them from the body these
Herbal Remedies will kill these microbes
as a natural antibiotic there sometimes
there's certain side effects you can get
constipated and you can even get like
symptoms for like two weeks I'll tell
you really what to do to prevent the
negative effects take something to keep
the bod duct open and free flowing and I
would recommend finding a product called
TKA TKA is a type of bile salt that
helps open up the flow of sludge through
the bile du itself I would take TKA for
two days and you want to take it on an
empty stomach take two in the morning
two in the afternoon then you can roll
into what I'm going to say next which is
a series of natural anti-parasitic
herbal things and foods to help Purge
and kill parasites directly and
indirectly what you're really trying to
do is get rid of the excess of these
parasites to the point where your immune
system can then take hold and take over
and regulate it so there's not this
overwhelming infection I don't think
there's going to ever be a point where
there's zero parasites in your body but
if your immune system is strong you're
totally fine the two remedies called
wormwood extract and clove are really
good at killing parasitic eggs you don't
need to take a lot of this you usually
see directions on the label just follow
what those directions are and I
recommend taking these remedies with a
meal I mean you're not creating a Toxic
effect in your body you're just taking
enough of these to make it very
uncomfortable for these microbes to
exist because all the remedies I'm
telling you are antiparasitic the next
really important remedy would be black
walnut extract I don't know if you've
ever seen a black walnut we have several
trees in the hall it is so bitter and it
has this incredible strong odor that is
very very anti- parasitic the next thing
and I'm going to recommend to have this
in your food is two or three garlic
cloves a day garlic hands down is one of
the most anti-parasitic remedies in
existence that would be the basics
there's other things you can take too
like oregano oil that's another good one
but you don't necessarily always need to
overdo it because just like it can kill
off a parasite it can create a reaction
on your body as well if you're overdoing
it even pumpkin seeds right there's a
certain chemical that's really good for
parasites it actually causes paralysis
of the parasite as far as a probiotic I
just would include daily fermented
vegetables raw sauerkraut kimchi kefir
and last lastly we do not want to forget
this vitamin D remember the parasite
downgraded the vitamin D receptor so
unless you have enough vitamin D your
immune system might not be strong enough
to deal with it and I would take no less
than 20,000 I use but I'd probably take
30 or maybe even 40,000 I use a vitamin
D3 to really make sure that it works you
want to take the magnesium and zinc with
vitamin D thanks for watching and if you
haven't seen my video on TKA it does a
lot you should check this out I put that
video up right here
