hey Dr Burg here in this video we're
going to talk about bladder issues so
many people have bladder issues and it
prevents people from sleeping through
the night and they can't really go
anywhere because they have to urinate
very frequently or it could be uh where
they have a leaky bladder as well and um
there's a lot of issues but I want to
talk about the three causes and their
hormonal remedies uh the first one is a
low estrogen situation and that happens
at menopause um because the estrogen
does shift of course there is a
relationship between um progesterone as
well but that estrogen
controls something uh something in the
bladder called the Trigon which actually
influences that that sensation of
urination so in this situation if it is
a menopausal bladder thing there is uh
something that I recommend it's called
the OV support formula as a support to
the over itself because I found that
when you use uh when you focus on the
gland that makes estrogen you can
actually improve that output um this
will help it if it's a lower estrogen
situation or even a high estrogen
because it really works on the gland so
it doesn't matter if it's high or low
okay so that's the first thing that
could be coming could be causing this
bladder uh to be a problem number two
obstruction there's some type of
blockage or um pushing or or mass that's
in the bladder and that usually could be
a fibroid it could even be a prostate
enlargement that can cause the bladder
in a male body but mainly in a female
it's going to be fibroid related so if
there's a fibroid uh blocking the
bladder output because there's not
enough space I'm going to recommend
taking vitamin D3 at 10,000 IUS and K2
at 100 microG and I would also throw in
there DHA that's a type of fish oil get
it in 100 uh milligram and DHA is really
good for um suppressing tumor growth as
well and it's good for memory it's good
for the retina and reproduction it's
good for a lot of things DHA those three
right here and then the last thing I
would recommend is a type of mushroom
bake mushroom uh get it as a supplement
the defraction there's quite a few
studies that show that this can help
reduce fibroids okay so that's number
two reducing the obstruction and then
number three this is called um the
autonomic nervous system dysfunction I
know it's kind of a new term I did a
whole video on this but I want to give
you like the short version of it the
autonomic nervous system is the system
behind a lot of different things in the
body especially with things that um
accelerate and decelerate like uh stress
States when you're stressed you have all
these accelerated you have heart rate
you you have um the turning off of the
digestive system the turning off of the
reproductive system and then when you're
resting and sleeping it's all digestive
support you your muscles aren't filling
up with blood you're sleeping you're
supposed to be healing and recovering so
thiss system has to do with regulating
the different body functions during
stress and rest and
Recovery um and it's controls the flight
or fight mechanism so if that's the
problem um then that would be related to
maybe a history of a lot of stress and
that can mess up the valve of the
bladder so this system controls the
sphincters or the valves so we have a
menopausal thing an obstruction and a
valve problem uh maybe you need to see a
plumber but to support this ANS um I
recommend the um adrenal support because
this supports the actual gland the
adrenal gland is actually half gland
tissue and half nerve tissue and the
type of nerve it is it's the it's ANS
tissue nervous system it because the
drenal on the inside that adrenal
controls the autonomic nervous system so
I gave you a bunch of big words there so
don't worry about that just realize that
the ANS autonomic nervous system could
affect your bladder valve and you would
want to support it by supporting the
adrenal gland itself okay so that's the
three things that influence the
bladder
