hey guys Dr Burke here I have another
question can't stick to a healthy eating
plan well if that's your issue you
definitely need to watch this so number
one you want to decide that you want to
get healthy you want to decide you're
going to start and do this right the
anatomy of a problem is indecision it's
a maybe so all you have to do is decide
deciding is almost like a therapy in
itself okay because you you're making
your mind up okay so people are stuck in
this doubt maybe I should do it I was
the worst I had to wait till I was 28
years old before I decided to start
eating healthy I ate like crap I had to
be dying before I finally like that's it
I'm done I'm going to start eating
healthy okay so don't just learn from my
mistakes so we want to um secondly
realize that our bodies are stupid
they're not very intelligent okay so
that's why they'll they'll demand like
they'll create this impulse like I have
to eat this dut or some people are
addicted to drugs or alcohol it doesn't
differentiate what's good or bad it just
does it it wants something for the
moment if your blood sugars are low it
it'll tell you to eat that sugar okay so
you realize that the body is not very
intelligent when it comes down to
cravings and eating okay number three
reduce your body Cravings you might have
a physical craving okay now you have
habits of eating bad foods but let's say
you have physical craving that your body
needs sugar or carbs okay you can get
rid of that you can get rid of it but
here's the thing when you lower your
carbohydrate it won't work because in
order for you to run your body on fat
fuel you must understand that the
purpose of fat is to act as a backup
fuel for sugar and so you must starve
your body of sugar before the Fat's
actually burned starvation means zero
sugar it doesn't mean reducing your
carbohydrates it means zero sugar in the
diet so if you do zero sugar what your
body's going to do between now and the
next three days to maybe two weeks it's
going to start to build new Machinery to
start burning more fat so it's going to
take a process but if you cut the sugar
out completely you're going to find your
craving is going to go right down to
zero because your body is now forced to
burn fat when you're burning fat you
crave nothing okay I don't expect you to
do this with craving so we must bring
sugars down to zero we must start eating
healthy but you can't keep any hidden
sugar in the house so you have to this
is what I want you to do I want you to
pause this video right now and I want
you to go through the house go through
your refrigerator go through the
cupboards and get the junk out of the
trunk take all the hidden sugar all your
stash and shoot it in the garbage go
ahead and just waste it it's not helping
you don't give it to the neighbors don't
give it to your kids just get it out of
the house why because the body is stupid
it's not it's when you you when it when
the blood sugars go low you're going to
be searching and roaming and trying to
find that sweet and you're going to eat
it because it it can't differentiate uh
for you it's not going to actually give
you the right answer all the time so you
got to get the sugar out of the house
okay just not make it available number
four very very important we have to plan
a little bit more in advance this is
kind of a hidden step that so you want
to like let me just ask you a question
first um how do you know what you're
going to eat the next meal do you just
wait for your body to tell you what to
eat or do you just eat what's available
okay in the house that's why you need to
get the sugar out of the house you need
to actually have your house um like plan
out for the week like have food in the
house that you know is healthy very
important don't keep any junk don't keep
no food keep some good food in the house
so you actually what's available is only
good food okay I mean it sounds simple
but it's very very important so um the
worst thing you to do is like let your
blood sugars crash and go wow what am I
in the mood for today uh Chinese food no
that's not good okay a banana split no
that's not good so you want to eat
consistently and you want to kind of
plan out your meals whether it's every 3
days or the whole week so you have a
plan okay and want to make it simple
because you don't want to spend all your
time in the kitchen like I'll give you
an example my salad sometimes I will
only have lettuce it's really simple
it's fast I don't make it very complex
all the meals are very very very simple
it's a couple different ingredients I
don't sit there for hours and make all
these complex meals I have simple things
couple things and make it quick eat it
and I'm out the door you want to just
kind of again again we want to decide to
eat for health not necessarily always
for pleasure okay so these are some tips
to help you stick to it I think they're
important uh because it's really time
that you do stick to it because um you
know I look at this as kind of a
preventative measure
you're it's like real health insurance
either you're going to pay the farmer
now and get healthy or you're going to
pay big Pharma later for drugs so why
not just invest in your health now as
your preventative health insurance okay
so go do it and I will see you in the
next
video
