I want to talk about another very
important huge causative factor in
creating a vitamin D deficiency there
are over 1 billion people on this planet
that just don't have enough vitamin D
and there's many reasons for this you
know whether you don't have enough Sun
you don't go outside as much you're
sitting in front of a screen all the
time and the problem with getting your
vitamin D just from foods it's almost
impossible because the food just doesn't
have enough vitamin D and then you have
other conditions like insulin resistance
which blocks the absorption of vitamin D
consuming a lot of sugar and refined
carbs can actually deplete vitamin D but
there's something else going on that is
very important and I want you to know
about it vitamin D can only work if it
connects to a receptor ok so there's
something called the vitamin D receptor
the vdr and most people think about
vitamin D regulating calcium which it
does and supporting bone health which it
does but this is a very small part of
what vitamin D really does because in
the nucleus of your cell you have a
vitamin D receptor that is responsible
for 229 genes so this receptor has the
ability to create a lot of different
effects
so a really big function of vitamin D is
immune modulation basically meaning that
it can control your immune system to a
great extent now if I were a pathogen
and I wanted to survive what I would do
as a strategy is I would interfere with
this little receptor right here because
if I could what would happen is the
defenses of the immune system would go
down and then I can actually overtake it
and actually survive and that just
happens to be one of the primary
strategies that pathogens those are
microbes that cause pathology or disease
now this strategy is called successive
infection meaning it slows down the
immune system okay check this out here
are a few microbes to interfere with the
vitamin D
scepter knockout TB huge okay lying
Borrelia burgdorferi by 50 times so it
has a capacity to shut down that
receptor for vitamin D by 50x incredible
syphilis will do it
leprosy will do it epstein-barr virus
will do it by 10 percent and by the way
90 percent of the population has
epstein-barr virus HIV will do it as
well so this is the strategy of many
microbes to take over and hijack your
cells so the question is is your vitamin
D deficiency coming from the microbe
shutting it down or do you have a
deficiency of vitamin D decreasing your
susceptibility to acquiring this microbe
which allows for these microbes to
invade so number one if you have an
infection you should be taking vitamin D
and I'm not saying that's gonna cure you
but it's definitely good for the short
term to actually at least give you the
more help with your immune system and
you may need to take larger amounts
because the ability for the receptor to
absorb is downgraded and I just wanted
to increase your awareness of another
reason why your vitamin D could be
lowered and check out these other videos
I have on vitamin D they're quite
fascinating
