you know there's something I recently
learned that it's almost embarrassing to
say that I should have known this long
ago and it relates to the gross which
stands for generally recognized as safe
in this designation goes along with
certain chemicals that are put out in
our environment in food implying that it
probably went through a lot of different
safety studies right and it's regulated
by the FDA but apparently what I just
learned about this is that the FDA
allows companies to self-certify their
poisons I'm sorry chemicals as being
safe and I mean think about this we have
like 10 000 chemicals in our food supply
and 99 of them have not really been
reviewed for safety and so this leads me
to a new definition that I want to share
with you it's called a loophole and
relating to this topic a loophole is
something that a company can use to
avoid certain restrictions and that's
exactly what this gross is it's a big
fat loophole that companies use to imply
that their chemicals are safe despite
other testing done by other facilities
which is quite fascinating because many
chemicals that are allowed in the U.S
are not allowed in Europe yeah and today
I'm just going to talk about six of
these poisons I mean chemicals that are
generally
considered as safe I like how they use
the word generally so they don't have to
be that specific about it so the first
one on the list is nitrates okay
nitrates are those things that they use
to preserve meat
um it's in like bacon processed Meats
things like that to keep that meat from
turning gray okay so it keeps it red it
increases the shelf life but it does uh
increase the risk of cancer it's also uh
could be in your drinking water now
here's the thing when you see on the
label that the nitrates are coming from
something like celery juice that's a
completely different type of nitrate I'm
talking about like things like sodium
nitrate things like that all right
number two BHA okay this is a
preservative this increases shelf life
but it's a known endocrine disruptor it
messes with your endocrine system and
hormones
it's also been linked to cancer it's
considered our carcinogen and if you ask
someone about what causes cancer you
know people will say certain toxins and
chemicals in the environment there's a
whole classification of these toxins
called carcinogens right and the
accumulation of carcinogens could
definitely increase your risk of getting
a cancer so that's BHA there's another
one called BHT which is another
preservative and you see it in a lot of
different foods it too is an endocrine
disruptor it messes with your kidney
your liver and it also increases cancer
risk so you just really need to read the
labels and watch for these chemicals and
there's a lot of them too all right next
one on the list is called potassium
bromide this is a a dough conditioner
I'm talking about the the dough that you
would use to make bread it's used in a
lot of flower products and it gives that
product a certain texture potassium
bromide now potassium bromide is a
carcinogen okay it causes cancer and it
can definitely mess with the thyroid and
it can inhibit iodine and so the
antidotal remedy or thing that you can
use to counter bromide in the body is
iodine whether it's in sea calp or when
you eat seafood the next one also
includes bromide it's called brominated
vegetable oil now this is a flavor
stabilizer in usually in beverages okay
especially Citrus sodas things like that
and it keeps the flavoring kind of
constant so it doesn't fluctuate but
it's also a flame retardant it affects
your nervous system which can affect
your brain which can affect your memory
this chemical can also interfere with
iodine and so iodine would be like the
antidote or something to kind of counter
the effects of that but of course the
best option is to just avoid the food
that they put these chemicals in now the
last one titanium dioxide this heavy
metal gives candy kind of a smooth
texture kind of like that surface area
that's really shiny
and bright because it also gives a white
color and if you actually have different
colorings as in food colorings it can
make those colors pop really bright and
Brilliant and unfortunately a lot of
these chemicals are in the foods that
kids eat and at that age they just don't
have the judgment to be able to
determine these chemicals yeah but it's
up to the parents judgment if the parent
is aware of these chemicals there's one
little tiny problem with this heavy
metal it causes DNA breaks damage with
your chromosomes which can link to an
increased risk of cancer and the kind of
the antidote remedy for that is a
volcanic ash mineral called zeolite as
well as infrared sauna but I think the
best thing to do is just to avoid it but
typically we have
in our bodies especially in the liver
the ability to get rid of a lot of these
poisons if we don't consume too many
however when I'm doing this recent deep
dive in DNA I found quite a few people
who have a problem with their
detoxification genes and so they have a
lessened ability to get rid of these
poisons which means they need to avoid
them as well as consume foods that help
the detoxification process like
cruciferous vegetables which have
certain phytonutrients that help
stimulate this detoxification process
now I have a really good video
describing that phenomena right here
check it out
