hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about estrogen your mood and
menopause and a lot of other things
connected to the menstrual cycle okay
now here's the problem a lot of the
symptoms for high estrogen or estrogen
dominance are very similar to low
estrogen so when you do research in the
area of estrogen you're gonna find a
tremendous amount of unknowns
complexities and confusions so as we go
through this I'm gonna point out the
things that we definitely know for sure
and then I'll show you what I'm going to
recommend so when people talk about
estrogen there's not just one estrogen
there's actually three different types
of estrogen and they all have slightly
different purposes you have estradiol
estriol and s Jerome okay when you're
pregnant you're primarily using estriol
which is anti-inflammatory as
anti-cancer and it has a lot of other
properties but when you're in menopause
you're primarily using s drone okay and
this is the one that increases your risk
for certain types of cancer but
typically when you're not pregnant and
when you're menopause the primary
estrogen would be estradiol but you also
are producing these as well so realize
that your adrenal glands also make the
three estrogens as well and when you go
through menopause they do help to supply
the lack of estrogens that the ovaries
make and so if you're going into
menopause and the adrenal glands are
weak then you could start seeing all
sorts of symptoms because the adrenals
cannot back up these ovaries so
therefore you're going to end up with
low levels of certain hormones and high
levels of other hormones and this can
create night sweats hot flashes bone
loss and a whole series of other events
we do know in certain studies that when
you're depressed you do have a lower
amount of estrogen but this can occur at
the first part of menstruation it can
also occur at other points during the
cycle of hormones in a given month and
what can also occur during menopause so
there's certain times where estrogen
goes down and then also to make things
more complex you can have progesterone
being dropping out too far
giving this relative higher level of
estrogen even though estrogen goes down
the ratios are going to be off making
the pier that estrogen is too high when
it's too low and you can also get
depression and anxiety
if the estrogen is too high there's a
certain structure in your brain called
the amygdala and the amygdala is the
part of the brain that has the most
estrogen receptors and that little gland
is responsible for all sorts of things
related to stress it can affect your
mood and put you in a state of anxiety
and worry and doom and gloom
so estrogen has a huge effect over your
mood and your cognitive state so when
someone takes birth control pills which
is mainly synthetic estradiol
it's basically convincing the
hypothalamus kind of like the master
gland in your brain that you're pregnant
and you don't need to are you late okay
so with that comes a lot of other
complications increased risk for blood
clots stroke headaches and the list goes
on and on if you compile that by
consuming a lot of foods that are not
organic and smoking and going through
stress you can really set yourself up
for a lot of problems not to mention
golf stones and gallbladder disease now
if you're female the most important
thing that you can do to help balance
estrogen would be to avoid commercial
foods that contain hormones and I'm
talking about dairy that's at the top of
the list
like like milk commercial milk not good
because the amount of hormones in that
milk is pretty high now the next worst
thing would be commercial meats so you
want to make sure that your meats in
your dairy and even your vegetables are
mainly organic okay and also consume a
good amount of cruciferous vegetables to
clean these endocrine disruptors or
estrogen mimickers and other hormones
out of the liver and out of the body now
your liver make certain enzymes to help
you balance estrogen so if there's too
much your liver will detoxify that
excess the same thing with your gut the
gut has a very important purpose in
making sure that there's not too much
estrogen in the body
so if you have a fatty liver okay if you
have liver damage if you have a problem
with your digestive system where you
don't have enough good bacteria and too
much of the unfriendly bacteria this is
where you can have a problem with an
overload of estrogen in the system and
that can link to a whole bunch of other
problems including suppression of the
thyroid gland so high levels of estrogen
can inhibit the thyroid function and
then when the thyroid is low as in
hypothyroidism that can also affect your
livers ability to get rid of estrogen
your metabolism alright so that being
said there's a couple things that you
need to focus on number one go organic
as much as possible of course do keto
and intermittent fasting because that
way you can reduce the sugar effect and
the insulin effect and just make sure
it's high quality and make sure you do
organic lots of cruciferous vegetables
now avoid dairy if you have problems
with your menstrual cycle or you have
too much estrogen however for most
people if they do grass-fed dairy it's
going to be okay but I would definitely
not recommend the milk or yogurt now out
of all the nutrients iodine is very very
important in regulating estrogen it
helps to balance estrogen by lowering
the bad and increasing the good you can
get that in seek help or seafood okay
the other mineral that's very important
in menopause is boron boron is really
essential to help balance estrogen and
it's really good for women that are
going through menopause and I would
recommend it if you experiencing
irritability or depression take some
boron and I think you'll actually feel a
lot better because that's kind of like
the missing element so the combination
of iodine and boron is very very
important and then again the cruciferous
the kale the broccoli the Brussels
sprouts there is a product that I use
called estrogen balance that you might
want to look at it has something called
dim which is a concentrated cruciferous
so one pill is equivalent to two pounds
of cruciferous so in this product that
put a lot of factors to help balance
estrogen whether it's too high or too
low so I hope this video wasn't too
confusing because there's so many
complexities when you deal with the
endocrine system
especially with estrogen and so many
unknowns but I do know going organic is
going to be very very essential to
protecting yourself in the future
against the harmful effects of estrogen
thanks for watching hey you know what I
just want to say thank you for watching
these videos you made it this far I
appreciate your attention and your
precious time
