my name is Deborah Carrol what brought
me to Dr Berg was that I was a wreck I
was just
fatigued in a lot of pain gaining weight
couldn't understand why cuz I was
exercising and doing what I thought was
the right things and I'd been to several
doctors and they couldn't pinpoint what
was wrong with me but they were willing
to put me on drugs which I wasn't going
to take um and
I had heard about Dr Berg and that he
used different alternative methods which
I was interested in because I like
natural medicine and um I heard an
advertisement about uh um uh it was like
a workshop he was doing and so I came to
the
workshop and saw him made an appointment
to come see him and what was incredible
to me was like the first time I saw him
he was able to pinpoint exactly what was
wrong with me and gave me a treatment
and I had relief that I hadn't had in
years I slept I hadn't slept through the
night in 2 or three years and it was the
best sleep i'
had as far as my healing process um I'm
losing weight now I'm sleeping I'm not
having the severe pains that I was
having and and I'm learning how to eat
the right way and it's just making such
a difference in my life and I'm just I'm
just eternally grateful to him he's
changed my life he's given me back my
life I was also going through some
severe
depression that I didn't realize that I
was going through I knew something was
wrong aside from the pain I had lost my
mother and had gone through very serious
divorce back to back and I didn't
realize as I've now learned that stress
is an accumulative thing and so I was
holding in a lot of stress which was in
turn turning into you know physical um
pains and and anxiety I had very severe
um acid
reflux and so I had all these things
going on with me I thought I was having
heart attacks every time I have you know
an event and I didn't even know what was
going on with me but there again Dr Berg
was able to share with me what was
happening to my body the fact that I did
have a lot of stress that had
accumulated in my body over the years
and also uh he he found a a a thing that
I hadn't even thought about he asked me
one day he said did you ever have an
injury where you you hurt either the
bottom of your spine and I thought back
and it was years ago that I had had a
fall off of a ladder and fell right on
on the tailbone and never thought about
it cuz it wasn't I didn't think it was
serious but I would always have some
issues in in the spine area and some
pains and yeah I would go and get
adjusted and things like that but it was
never really any relief well he shared
with me how also when you have accidents
that those injuries if they're not if
the energy from that is not released
that it can cause all kinds of problems
and so he did a treatment on me to treat
that and there again to my amazement was
there just this release this this
feeling in me that this tightness had
just gone away that was always in my hip
areas in my lower hip area and I mean
just pain that I just had gotten to a
point where I was just getting used to
it I just accepted that this was the way
it was going to be for the rest of my
life and that pain was going away we're
always skeptical when there's something
new that we're not familiar with and um
you know I've looked at
alternative therapies and things but he
was coming from an area that I had never
heard of before so I was skeptical
skeptical but I did have an open mind
and so I was willing you know when
you're in pain sometimes you're willing
going to try almost anything and Dr
Berg's mannerism he's he's such a calm
person uh he's very matter of fact and
you just feel like the here is a guy who
is not giving you a bunch of malarkey
he's he's talking straight and and he
means what he says he really cares about
his patients and that really meant
something to me I've never had a doctor
who especially on first visit I mean
really sat there and he talked to me for
over an hour and a half asking me
questions and I wasn't used to that I
was used to going in 15 minutes with a
doctor and you know they give you some
lame blame excuse want to give you a
prescription and you're gone but he sat
there and he talked to me and he asked
me things and he made me think and he
made me feel very comfortable to answer
those questions and it again it's just
been
great people that know me know that I
don't talk to you about anything that I
don't believe in and since I've been
coming to him and his his treatments
have worked for me that I can let people
know that you can just come with an open
mind and a willing Spirit to listen to
what he has to say even if you don't
agree try you might just be surprised to
find that you'll get the answer you've
been looking for all
along
