today we're going to talk about Bill
Gates Appeal and if it's safe I did a
pretty thorough research on Google to
see if it was safe and as I was reading
the pages it's it looked really safe in
fact it's been thoroughly fact checked
so we know it's probably going to be
safe and we don't need to look any
further until I took one additional look
at the ingredients of this appeal and
one of the things that was listed it
says
99.34% of this product is listed as
other ingredients other ingredients it
doesn't tell you what's in it so right
there is a big red flag there's no
transparency we do know that there are
mono and diglycerides in there which I'm
going to talk about but we don't know
what else is in this product now first
of all what is a mono or a diglyceride
it's a emulsifier what's an emulsifier
it's something that helps to mix two
things together and I was able to look
at the patents in this appeal product
and really kind of see more about the
manufacturing process because they're
using solvents in this process and then
they'll put in a metal like Palladium
and then put it under high Heats with
hydrogen so it's like a fat-like
substance that they're using but they
could be making this partially
hydrogenated product which is trans fats
that's how they make trans fats they're
actually adding hydrogens it's called
hydrogenation and when you look a little
bit more into this you see that there's
also traces of
cadmium
lead Mercury and arsenic I'm like what
but they're in very small amounts and
they say that it's safe because it's
below uh the certain standards that they
use but my question is like if you're
consuming these chronically over time
have they ever done safety studies on
that they also add polyethylene glycol I
mean isn't that the stuff they use in
antifreeze and these two solvents for
example so are they toxic well
they said that they take them out but my
other question is like what chemical do
you use to take those solvents out and
are those chemicals clean they don't
tell you I did a video on this this is
the industry's loophole they can do
their own safety studies submit them to
the FDA get them approved in fact trans
fats at one time were considered
generally recognized as safe until they
found out they weren't safe and also if
you have less than a half of a gram of
trans fats the FDA says you can round it
down to zero trans fats but what was
really interesting is this point that if
you classify something like this as an
emulsifier and not as a lipid which is a
fat you're exempt from the fda's ban of
trans fats amazing now there's also
another controversy over whether the AAL
is really a coating or a fungicide
because both the paa and the uh organic
materials review Institute says that
it's a fungicide used after harvest but
appeal advertises this as a protective
coating so there's a lot of problems
with this product you know we don't know
if they added kagin in there which
creates a lot of problems for people and
some of the other edible Coatings that
they use are things like beeswax which I
think is is a lot better but they also
use like shellac I mean don't they use
shellac in woodworking staining or
sometimes they'll put that on your nails
is that safe and then also sometimes
they use paraffin wax which is made from
petroleum which actually is flammable so
I learned a lot about these Coatings
that they're apparently putting on our
fruits and vegetables especially if you
bring these fruits or vegetables home
and you want to clean them off right so
if you have this appeal coating around
it how are you going to take the
pesticide out if it's conventional now
they do have an organic version but you
know sometimes with these organic
products you don't know if those are any
safer personally I am not going to be
buying my fruits or vegetables with a
peel because first of all you can't
clean it off but you can actually maybe
cut the peel off but where is all the
nutrition most of the nutrition is in
the peel so it's going to be really hard
to take out any pesticides insecticides
or any microbes I mean who knows if
there's eoli or salmonella there's a
been outbreaks on that but if you put
that coating on there that could
actually seal that microbe in there so
as you can see I have a lot of issues
with this appeal you might want to just
buy fruits or vegetables that don't have
this coating and yes uh they might go
bad a little bit quicker but at least
you can wash them off with something
more natural if you want to know how to
do that you should watch this video
right
here
