so I had another question recently is it
okay to consume potatoes if I'm a
diabetic okay let's just let's discuss
that well there's a thing called a
glycemic index and that's how fast the
food will turn into sugar in your blood
and raise the blood sugar a baked potato
is between 84 and 111 so a high glycemic
index would be anything above 70 so this
is pretty high okay because you're
cooking the potato you're probably not
going to consume the potato raw
boiled is 82 instant potato is 97 so
it's gonna raise your blood Sugar's way
more than you want
so really want to keep your
carbohydrates low now if I was a
diabetic
I would keep my carbohydrates below 20
grams per day because the American
diabetic Association recommends between
135 and 230 grams of carbohydrates every
single day that is going to create
diabetes there's quite a few studies
that show that low carbohydrate diets
will improve your blood Sugar's and
improve a1c which is an average blood
Sugar's of three months I'm going to put
some links down below alright thanks for
watching if you want to find out more
about your body type click the link
below and take the quiz
