hi guys in this video I'm going to talk
about a very very powerful phytonutrient
called apigenin okay a lot of people
think that vegetables and herbs and
plants will just give you more vitamins
and minerals but they give you a lot
more and they're plant-based chemicals
in these vegetables that go beyond just
vitamins and minerals they give you
other health benefits I'm just going to
talk about this one
okay induces vltava G what is it ah the
G etapa G is your body's ability to
clean out old and damaged parts of the
cell and recycle them all so it cleans
out old infected cells mold fungus
viruses bacteria out of the cell so it's
one of the greatest anti-aging processes
that we have and it's stimulated by an
amount of fasting but it's also
stimulated by a certain phytonutrients
this final nutrient is a potent drug
detoxifier so it helps you protects you
against the excess accumulation of drugs
and chemicals in the body it also
reverses the highest level of drug
resistance found when you're treating
cancer or a certain type of chemotherapy
the problem is when you start using
chemotherapy a lot of times your your
cells start resisting it and you need
more and more chemotherapy so if you're
consuming vegetables or plants or herbs
with this in there it actually will help
you decrease the need for chemotherapy
because your cells are more sensitive to
it okay so you can take less of it also
it prevents kidney damage from drugs and
medication so this is the ultimate
protection when someone is taking
medication so if you are on medication
or you're taking chemo I would
definitely be consuming foods high in
this vital nutrient it also stimulates
adult neurogenesis that's basically the
formation of new nerve cells after
injury physical injury or chemical
injury from drugs I mean this is
incredible it would also help you
decrease amyloid plaque Inc that you see
in Alzheimer's okay so where do you find
this you could find it in parsley the
cruciferous vegetables celery wheatgrass
juice powder has it and chamomile tea
alright well thanks for watching hey
guys I just recently did a survey and I
found that the number one thing that you
want is to know what to eat
okay you want examples of meals so I
created a series of recipes that you can
get which basically show you how to
combine the foods in the right portions
to do ketogenic internment of fasting
they're totally free all you need to do
is click the link below and sign up
