hey Dr Burg here again in this short
video I'm going to talk about pleasure
Foods so if we look below the Cravings
we really have a situation where people
live for pleasure Sensations okay so
they're always trying to relieve their
body stress by eating certain foods so
the reason or the problem that people
are trying to solve when they're eating
these bad foods is to relieve stress
satisfy hunger um overcome upset or
fatigue or even pain so this is really
what you need to ask yourself when
you're tempted with these Foods what
problem am I trying to solve am I bored
am I in pain and try to fix the real
problem instead of trying to cover it up
with Foods um so not that you have an
addiction I'm sorry a craving but people
are literally addicted to the junk food
and they're in this it's a trap it's a
total trap why because as soon as you
give into it it's going to cause you to
want to eat more and more of it there's
there's a guy named Paul stit he wrote a
book called beating the food Giants he
was a chemist that worked for the main
food uh manufacturing companies and he
in his book he talks about there's 22
different chemicals that they put in
foods to cause you to keep eating the
foods over and over and over they're
very addictive and that's why you can't
just stop eating one you know one is MSG
monosodium glutamate that enhances the
taste of the flavor of the food so the
food tastes better than it really is so
you can get a buy with eating low
quality food so that would be one so
what happens when you're have these
problems and you're stressed hungry or
tired you become more reactive you're
not going to think in in see uh
consequences you're not going to think
tomorrow you just want it now I was at
an event last night and uh they had cake
and they had these
incredibly delicious chocolate chip
cookies out of the oven I mean they're
warm they're soggy they're the texture
is incredible the smell the roam in the
air and then they had this uh bread out
of the oven as well freshly made bread
okay so you have all these people and
I'm watching them and they're just like
a magnet just like they just smell it
and they go over there and they're just
everyone's like eating all these foods
and they're not even conscious about
doing it just like doing it without
being aware what they're really doing
and then when they eat it they're like
oh my gosh what did I just do so food
does tend to um affect people um and it
triggers various responses that cause
hormones to be affected now the hormones
that are affected are serotonin and this
other hormone called beta endorphins so
when those when the serotonin hormone
goes down um you'll tend to through
stress or the up being upset or hungry
your body doesn't have words to talk to
you it will talk to you through Cravings
so any type of body craving it's your
body's way of communicating it wants
something but it's not going to be able
to tell you exactly what it wants
instead of saying I want kale it'll say
give me something sweet right now you
know so you'll have just this urge this
impulse to eat something that you know
you shouldn't be eating okay so there's
a chemical imbalance that occurs with
Cravings there's also a nutrition
balance when you're deficient in
minerals especially
potassium it you won't have that
stability with blood sugars so blood
sugars is another effect because when
the sugar goes down in the body um what
you need to be doing is correcting that
but your body won't tell you that it'll
just say eat sugar now because the body
only thinks about quick fixes not
long-term Solutions it wants to relieve
the pain now
so it'll tell you just to quickly eat
something sweet and then you get the
sugar up and then it goes down again and
goes up and down and up and down okay so
so people will satisfy that so what I'm
saying is that try to increase your
awareness so the next time you crave
something or next time you go to a
bakery try to find out what you're
trying to solve are you trying to
release stress um and be aware of what
you're eating and realize that this
could block fat burning for at least 72
hours not just 80 calories but a longer
term effect because insulin if insulin
is triggered in the body and your
metabolism is slow it can block fat
burning for up to 72 hours okay not just
from even a small amount of something
sweet not just like an hour so so we
have this situation where you crave and
then it affects the hormones and then
your body will start giving you Cravings
okay so
now when people are depressed or they
have anxiety they go to their doctor and
the doctor tends to give them a
prescription drug okay whether it's
paxel proac Axor all these psychotropic
drugs now what happens the way these
work is they they take that small amount
of hormone you have left a little bit of
ser tonin for example and they cause it
to and they recycle it so they it helps
you recycle that last drop you have over
and over and over to make it appear that
you have more than you really do but in
fact you have a smaller amount okay now
sometimes when you do blood tests it
won't show up on a blood test and that's
another reason but I'll get to that in a
moment I I want to come back to I want
to focus on this right here so when you
take these psychiatric drugs all they do
do is they fake your body out and make
it think it has more than it really does
um so you feel better right so all
people come in and they'll tell me oh
yeah I said you're in Psych drugs yeah
and it's like it's it's working for me
it's it's really working I said define
working what do you mean working oh I
feel better I says yeah you're going to
feel better if you take cocaine but it
has it comes with a package so the side
effects from psychiatric drugs are not
only serious side effects of the brain
toxic brain side effects and in fact
nearly all of the shooters in the
schools were on some type of psychiatric
drug and that's a big side effect too
and that's nothing that the the media is
talking about but it's a total uh direct
link but it also will cause you to be
wooden um and you're just you're you're
like not there I can tell when someone's
on a psych drug because they're not
fully there they're a little bit delayed
and uh so it makes it your emotions
wooden causes weight we gain uh and
there's just many many other side
effects from from suicide to aggressive
behavior to all sorts of things
healthwise so there's side effects and
there's also something else called
receptor downgrade now what does that
mean receptor downgrade well the little
receptors that receive that hormone over
a period of time become downgraded so
when you take this drug over time you're
going to need more in more and more and
more of it to create the same effect so
it that small dosage no longer works and
it's so funny because doctors will say
well well let's just take this short
term for the crisis and then we'll have
you come off of it well you're never
going to come off that stuff as far as
the doctor is concerned because you're
going to need more and more of it you
don't it doesn't get better with time it
gets worse so unless you're doing
something to correct the real problem
you're going to be hooked on it for a
long long time and then it's going to
eventually not work work at all so long
term it's a bad solution but the doctors
really never cover the actual correction
of the real problem which has to do with
food they don't talk about your eating
they don't look at the effect of all
these junk Foods uh or sugar or aine
carbs in fact one of the things that
will affect um serotonin is is grains
specifically the gluten gluten is the
protein of the grain that's the that's
the thing that creating so many
allergies and all sorts of diseases like
Celiac and um iliac spru and
diverticulitis all these digestive
painful problems come from the gluten in
the Grain and it also creates depression
and all sorts of anxiety so there's a
lot of side effects with gluten but the
reason why um wheat is bad for you is
because not only does it turn into sugar
but that
gluten uh breaks down into your stomach
into a small protein that can cross the
blood brain barrier it goes up into the
brain and it starts to affect your
Chemistry because it goes in The
receptors the opiate receptors the
morphine receptors in your brain so they
you're talking like wheat is acting like
a drug in your brain and that's why
there's so much pleasure in wheat and
and bread and this is why people are
addicted to it so it does affect your
mental state and in kids it can actually
create the reverse effect can create
hyperactivity add brain fog memory
problems oh my gosh so when I see people
too even with sasis all over their arm
all I do is I get them off the gluten
and boom it clears right up so it has a
lot of effects so if you don't believe
me try try to just get it out of your
diet for a week and just see how much
better you feel uh from arthritis to
allergies to digestion I mean I used to
live on bread I remember one day driving
the backseat of this cab and I I bought
this huge roll of French bread I down
that whole thing and it didn't satisfy
me I could keep eating it over and over
and over so very low nutrients very high
in carb and I started developing a pizza
crust around my waist but I used to live
on that bread and when I stopped that
bread um oh my gosh all my digestive uh
problems cleared up so bread sugar does
trigger
serotonin um and then it comes up and it
comes down up and down up and down
that's why it's a pleasurable thing so
it's a trap though because these
pleasure Foods end up being pain Foods
down the way down the road not just in
digestive pain and arthritis but being
fat and being tired and having a lot of
health problems okay
so if you tell people to not not eat
this food it's very difficult sometimes
because they are addicted so the
question is how do we
overcome depriving ourselves CU it's
like oh yeah I'm going to deprive you of
pleasure I'm saying you can't eat this
anymore it's not going to work long term
so how do we
handle the pleasure of these grains with
some we have to give them substitute
basically so the substitute what I
recommend is some foods that will create
a neutral effect or a positive effect
eating salad or eating kale is not very
pleasurable okay you cannot live on
lettuce for the rest of your life unless
you have something else with it um you
can't live on pure lettuce but probably
I could but no one else could so what we
want to do is we want to
consume so can't be it has to be the um
the fats okay so we want to
increase the fat in our diet why because
sat is fat is a sey uh effect on the
body it creates a satisfaction um and it
satisfies certain hungers and it makes
you feel better
and so that's pretty much what I do and
I'm talking about the healthy fats and
that would be like an egg yolk um U
maybe some animal proteins um some nuts
peanut butter um those type of things um
even certain types of butter like not
certain types but just butter cooking
and butter um all that is very very very
good to actually replace the
carbohydrate effect of what this is
going about right here so we want to
increase fat there's various recipes
that I have on my website that you can
consume make brownies uh with butter and
maybe um egg versus grain and sugar okay
and you can use substitute sugars and
alternative things but we have to be
conscious about what we're doing we have
to use
substitutes and we also need to focus
on being objective like listen there's a
lot of pleasure in being healthy there's
a lot of pleasure in working out and
having energy from that I'm 48 years old
I've been really taking care of my body
for a long time and building at my
health I have a lot of my body gives me
a lot of pleasure why because I invest
in it I take care of it I get it healthy
I wake up I feel energetic through the
whole day I feel great um I exercise I
feel good from that I don't have the
fatigue that I did before so there's a
lot of pleasure in having health and
being aesthetic because one thing that
these pleasure foods make you look very
unhealthy you're not sexy anymore you
have this fat roll around your waist how
much pleasure do you get when you look
at yourself in the mirror not very much
so look for the long-term pleasure of
liking your body and enjoying that but
short term we want to think okay what
can we use as substitutes and then we
also have to increase the nutrients in
our foods to to heal our bodies as well
so what's the moral of story realize
that the these pleasure Foods end up
being painful Foods um it's a trap
because they chemically food
manufacturing companies chemically
manipulate your hormones and keep you
addictive to keep selling more more of
this um these products um there is no
profit in curing you and that's why
drugs only last for a certain amount of
time 24 hours and you have to keep
taking them there's there's no research
that's going to cure you doctors don't
spend a lot of time in educating you
about the foods because there's no
profit in fixing the problem it's much
better putting you on a drug and keeping
you on that for the rest of your life
it's a business so look through the
whole thing where oh this is science and
this is scientific medicine or this is
science-based medicine that's bogus it's
basically drug medicine there's no
science in it it's about covering up
your symptoms um to keep you feeling
better temporarily okay I'm not against
drugs I mean if you cut off my arm right
now I will take I will take an aspirin
or a stronger drug or if I have a kidney
stone I will take something but with
something like this you want to look at
the foods okay so apply this information
and I'll see you in the next
video
