hey I'm back again I had another
question related to craving chocolate
during the period okay I want to discuss
that first of all chocolate has a
certain chemical called PE it's a
natural chemical phenol ethyl amine okay
so you don't need to know that but it
just has a chemical that improves the
dopamine production okay so it goes to
the dopamine receptors and pathways and
it improves dopamine so that's what it
does dopamine is a feel-good
neurotransmitter in this natural
chemical PA in chocolate increases
energy mood focus decreases stress and
decreases depression so you have this
double effect of this chemical doing it
directly and then also the increase the
dopamine also doing it directly so
people consume chocolate when they're
stressed out right well this is what
they're getting now it doesn't have as
much caffeine if any it has another
stimulant so you don't want to consume
the right before bed you don't want to
take too much just take a little bit
maybe in the morning or afternoon and
then also make sure it's sugar-free
because the problem with chocolate is
all the sugar in it okay some of the
sugar alcohols in there could create
some bloating so find something it
doesn't create the bloating now as far
as your period goes so there's a link to
low estrogen and the dopamine neuron
disappearing by 30% I'll put a link down
below so there's definitely relationship
between estrogen and dopamine
if estrogen is low dopamine will be low
and that's probably why there's a lot of
moodiness and depression not just during
your period but right after pregnancy
okay so the other thing that can cause
low estrogen would be having a
hysterectomy where they actually take
out the ovaries as well okay or adrenal
fatigue or menopausal changes because
during menopause the adrenal gland backs
up the ovary because the ovaries are
going in retirement the Drina glands
have to work harder because they make
estrogen too and you can end up with low
estrogen thus the craving and chocolate
you feel better when you take it okay
let's hope that it cleared up the
confusion and thank you so much for
watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press this little button down
below
okay thanks
