the best and worst forms of magnesium
let's talk about that today now the
question is why is magnesium so
important well it's involved in 300
different parts of your biochemistry no
other mineral is involved with that many
enzymes now vitamin D is involved with
2500 different genes but genes are not
enzymes the other big thing about
magnesium is it's almost impossible to
test that's right if you do a blood test
you're not going to be able to know
what's going on in the cell you see the
majority of magnesium like 9 % is inside
the cell and only 1% is in the blood but
it's very difficult and it's not easy to
test in fact I don't know anyone who's
ever had their magnesium tested
correctly an average person doesn't even
come close to getting enough magnesium
from their diet magnesium is at the
heart of energy production deep down
inside your cells you have this little
rotary motor it's the smallest motor in
nature and it's spinning between 100 to
400 times a second and you need
magnesium for that thing to rotate to
make the energy magnesium is very
important in vitamin D so if you don't
have enough magnesium vitamin D won't
work you might have thought that vitamin
K2 was the key vitamin to keep calcium
out of the soft tissues but what you
might not know is vitamin K2 is
dependent on magnesium also people get
these kidney stones it's usually a
calcium oxalate kidney stone magnesium
can prevent that Stone from forming
because it controls the calcium
magnesium is essential for the heart to
lower blood pressure prevent muscle
cramps migraine headaches helping you
sleep at night so let's go through the
different forms of magnesium starting
with the one that is the worst of the
worst very poor absorption rate this is
called magnesium oxide usually you can
cram 400 milligrams of magnesium oxide
into one pill but what you might not
know is the magnesium oxide only has an
absorption rate of 4% that's like 96% of
it goes right through you whereas other
forms of magnesium like the best form
which I'll get to has an 80% absorption
you'd have to take 8,000 milligrams
that's 20 of these capsules just to
equal the dose of what You' get from a
high quality magnesium supplement
there's no way you could take 20 of
these pills all together because it
would create so much gastric stress and
so much diarrhea so never take magnesium
oxide now the problem with that is that
that's the most common one they sell
over the counter in fact and this is
interesting magnesium oxide is the most
common type of magnesium they use in
researching magnesium and if you're only
absorbing 4% you can imagine the results
from those studies are not going to show
hardly any benefit thus the mixed
reviews you get about magnesium and then
of course your doctor might say oh yeah
based on the studies magnesium doesn't
work but not all magnesium is the same
there's a lot of differences and the
reason why you can't just take magnesium
without anything it has to be
transported so when you see magnesium it
always comes comes with something else
and the last thing about magnesium oxide
is super expensive you're probably
paying $10 for it but you can buy a
kilogram of it if you buy it in bulk for
like $5 so when you're buying a bottle
of magnesium oxide the raw material cost
of that is probably 10 cents the bottle
is more expensive than the Magnesium
itself okay so we're starting at the
worst magnesium magnesium oxide and
we're going to start to go up from there
and mainly this evaluation is based on
absorption but I'm going to go through
each one and kind of tell you the unique
things about each one the next one is
magnesium sulfate you probably get an
absorption rate about 10% so it's a
little bit better it also has a high
laxative effect so it can help relax
your muscles superficially all right
let's go to the next one magnesium orate
this one has an absorption rate of
roughly up to 15% this one is unique
because it can penetrate the cell wall
so it can kind of go into the cell and
help make energy it's also good as an
antioxidant and it can support your DNA
the next one is called magnesium Tate
and for this one you get a moderate
absorption like 20% so that's a little
bit better and this one is also good for
cardiac anything related to the heart
especially blood pressure as well as
supporting your nervous system then
let's go to the next one magnesium
lactate this one has a little better
absorption about 25% and this one is
more gentle on your GI system it's not
as much of a laxative it too is good for
the cardiovascular system and to improve
energy now this is the one that they
usually put in an oil to put on your
body topically but here's the problem
magnesium doesn't actually penetrate
through all the different barriers of
your skin deep into the blood supply
it's not going to go into your blood
topically but it may go into your
muscles and help relax your muscles a
lot of people get benefit by rubbing
this magnesium into their muscles before
they go to bed so it's not a bad option
all right the next one is magnesium
citrate this is an absorption of about
30% a lot of people take this one to
prevent kidney stones because citrate
combine with the oxalates okay and they
can reduce the oxalates connecting to
calcium but it also can help detoxify
you it's good for cardiovascular issues
blood pressure and this one also can
come in a liquid next one is magnesium
malate this one absorbs a little bit
better like 40% malate is good for
chronic fatigue syndrome fibromyalgia
overall increasing energy it helps your
muscles then we get to another form of
magnesium and that is called magnesium 3
and8 this one absorbs pretty good 75%
but it doesn't have a really good
systemic effect on everything else
mainly for your brain because it can
cross the bloodb brain barrier so this
one is good for cognitive function sleep
but this is not the type of magnesium
you want for overall Body Benefits all
right now let's get to the one that I
personally take it is the most
absorbable type of magnesium and this is
called magnesium glycinate this one can
be absorbed up to 80% so that's a lot
this one is good because it doesn't give
you a laxative problem it's very gentle
on the GI system it's good for any
muscle spasm in the body it's good for
Sleep relaxation stress migraines and it
won't interfere with other minerals like
calcium and iron and one of the more
important functions of magnesium and I
want to emphasize this is to allow
vitamin D to work and vitamin D won't
work without magnesium so if a person
takes vitamin D and they're like oh yeah
that didn't work is probably because
you're deficient in magnesium magnesium
is a natural calcium channel blocker so
it's really good for the heart it's
really good to help control calcium
build up anywhere in the body magesium
is also involved in insulin secretion
and allowing your insulin to be more
sensitive this is why diabetics are
nearly always severely deficient in
magnesium I recommend taking magnesium
at night as a maintenance dose I would
recommend to take 400 mg per day as a
therapeutic dose I would double that but
the problem if you're taking magnesium
glycinate all at night that's a lot of
pills so I would recommend just
spreading those out through the day
magnesium follows like a rhythm okay so
it's going to be at its lowest point in
your body in the early morning okay
maybe around 6:00 a.m. that's going to
be the lowest point okay and then in the
evening it'll be at its highest point
and so if you have a subclinical
magnesium deficiency you May notice more
problems you have in the early morning
and I'm talking about early morning
insomnia the cramps the feet cramps or
leg cramps that just get you out of bed
in the early morning most of those
cramps happen right about that time so
isn't that interesting it correlates
exactly with a magnesium deficiency now
if you want more fascinating information
about magnesium check out this video
right here
