I'd like to talk a little bit about
black seed oil right this is a a quite
amazing compound it's a very small
molecule but it has huge therapeutic
potential because it's been effective on
so many different types of problems from
asthma to allergies to digestion cancer
skin inflammation and then I mentioned
diabetes because it has this really
interesting effect on the A1C and
helping someone with insulin resistance
it supports the the cell in the pancreas
called the beta cell that regulates ins
so anything that would improve that
would also correlate to improving weight
problems there's been uh a lot of
research in the area of the immune
system specifically autoimmune diseases
and I'm going to put some of the
research down below but if we take a
look at all the conditions I just
mentioned a lot of them boil down to
inflammation and that's exactly what
black seed can do one way it does it is
it helps to regulate inflammation so
when someone has this inflamed
situation there's always this immune
factor it's il6 that's higher well
there's something in black seed oil that
tends to lower that it also helps
increase something called interferon
which is basically an immune compound
that interferes with uh infection and
viruses thus the word interfere on right
it interferes with this um virus that's
attacking the cell also there's another
part of the immune system called the T
regulatory cells and those cells help to
dampen an overactive immune system as in
an autoimmune situation where you have
this inflammation that's out of control
so black seed oil helps to stimulate
that part of the immune system out of
all the different plant-based chemicals
in black seed oil the biggest one is
called tho quinel this molecule is
probably the the most of any other
molecules in black seed even though
there's over 1,700 different paper on
this why would it work on some people
but not others you have to realize that
this is a compound that addresses the
symtom right it doesn't actually fix the
cause of the problem I mean it's great
to take because it's non-toxic it's
relatively inexpensive and it's pretty
effective but you also at the same time
need to dive into what's causing your
asthma what's causing the autoimmune
what's causing your digestive issues
what's causing diabetes because if you
have a person that doesn't correct that
and they take this remedy is this going
to be a waste because it might not work
but that being said I would try it out I
would definitely try it because uh a lot
of people are getting amazing results
with it the other thing that's actually
probably more important than you know
1,700 studies is the fact that it stood
the test of time it's been around for
several thousand years they found it in
King T's tomb and it's been used in many
different cultures for just so many
different things some people also take
it for brain health um because it can
actually increase something called
acetycholine which is a neurotransmitter
which can help your memory and your
ability to learn and your focus and your
concentration but I think the majority
of people take it mainly for
inflammation on the skin like dermatitis
and you can take it orally as well as
topically and the question is how much
should you take well I would recommend
taking between one and three teaspoons
per day but always start out with just a
little bit maybe like um maybe a half a
teaspoon and work your way up and it's
really kind of bitter doesn't really
taste good but if it starts to help you
you'll keep taking it but I want to
mention something about uh using it
topically putting it on a joint that's
inflamed right what I would recommend if
you really want to see a very cool
enhanced effect is get another product
it's called
DMSO now DMSO in itself is an
anti-inflammatory but it tends to help
dry D things deeper into the tissues it
tends to penetrate uh all sorts of
layers uh on your your skin in fact if
you just took a DMSO and put it on your
foot for example I mean within seconds
you'll actually taste like a little like
a garlic taste so it goes right into the
body really fast and that itself is a
good remedy but when you add these two
together so you're adding this
incredible solvent with the black seed
oil okay together and I would do a 50/50
mixture so just 50/50 and then I would
rub it into the joint okay whether it's
in your knee or your toe or your ankle
or your wrist I think you're going to
notice an even bigger effect with this
because you're adding two powerful
things and this DMSO thing will just
drive it right into the joint and really
help your inflammation and what's
interesting is I got this idea from
WebMD of all sources okay but sometimes
people just use DMSO itself sometimes
they add aloe there's all sorts of
recipes you can add things to it to push
things in the body but the molecules
have to be small enough to be carried uh
by this solvent now black seed oil is
definitely on my list of favorite uh
remedies for different things now if
you'd like the complete list of all my
favorite remedies and you want to just
download it I put a link right down
below check it
out
