okay I'm back and this is part three on
why people can't lose weight and today
we're going to talk about self
discipline what is self-discipline it's
your ability to control yourself your
body and not to let your body control
you so there's several things that you
need to do because this one is very very
common and until you reach a certain
point of your life where you're maybe
really really sick or very overweight
you might not have self-discipline I I
was very very um unaware growing up and
I never had self-discipline with my
eating in fact I pretty much um ate food
to fill me up that was my level of
awareness I didn't know about nutrition
if my body craved something I would eat
it so the first step is to be aware of
what you're doing um in the
past I would crave lasagna Pizza chips
crackers and sugar and I would just eat
those
until I was think it was 28 where I
decided you know what I can't keep doing
this I got really really really sick and
then I started to be started to decide
to change um and put some
self-discipline so I'm almost 32 now so
that way I'm I'm really starting to
learn from my P I'm just kidding I'm
actually almost 40 next month I'll be 50
actually so I was a lot older back when
I was 20 but I've been working on my
health so it does work it does work if
you are aare of what you put in your
body so that's step one is to be aware
that your body is not um very very
intelligent into telling you what you
really need if you go to a grocery store
when you're hungry and ask your body
what am I in the mood for it's not going
to give you the right answer all right
so step one is to be aware of what you
put in your mouth uh you wouldn't drive
a car unaware right down the street like
an automatic where you don't even look
at the road well maybe you do that well
you would you don't want to do that with
your body you don't want to put your
body in automatic where you're just
realize oh my gosh what did I just do I
just ate all the the wrong food so you
want to just increase more awareness of
what you're doing step two is
preventative the most important thing to
do is to make sure that breakfast is
really really really good because if
your breakfast is either missing or not
enough protein or too many carbs at
night you are going to have low blood
sugars and that is going to create major
urges and it's going to be very hard to
put self- discipline because you're
going to be roaming around trying to
find something to eat um so it's very
important to be able to prevent Cravings
at Night by eating a good breakfast the
other thing is that if you're not
sleeping that well if you're going
through a lot of stress and you're not
really handling the stress or the cause
of stress you'll have a tendency to want
to maybe drink alcohol at night as a way
to solve that um or a lot of people are
taking medications now for various
things like brain fog memory problems
cognitive issues but a lot of that can
be handled through just getting your
food right so number one awareness two
preventative and number three is to be
able
to with awareness differentiate what
your body really really needs because if
it's low on B vitamins it's going to
crave carbs refined breads pasta cereal
crackers all those grains why because
those grains naturally have the highest
B vitamins the problem is when you grind
the grain into flour you destroy these
vitamins and you don't get any vitamins
in fact when you eat refined grains you
actually create deficiencies of B
vitamins yeah because there's no B
vitamins in there anymore and that's why
they enrich the flour with synthetic B
vitamins it's not the same thing so if
you're craving those things your chances
are you're you're low on um bees also
starches now the next thing is magnesium
if you're low on magnesium your body
will crave chocolate that's one of the
things in chocolate U but it won't tell
you to take magnesium it will tell you
to eat chocolate your body if it's if
it's deficient in potassium will cause
you to crave sugar or sweets why because
guess what food has the highest amount
of potassium sugar cane but no one eats
regular sugar cane they eat the refined
white sugar and you're never going to
get the potassium in fact when you eat
pure sugar you create potassium
deficiencies yeah and that's why the
heart starts going up and uh you start
filling with fluid because potassium is
kind of like a diuretic it pushes fluid
fluid out so potassium is very very
important um um and I mean I'm not
saying go out and chew on sugar canane
but that's why you crave it is because
um your body is missing a mineral all
right so now we have low blood sugar
this is another thing as soon as you
start to get into the sugar trap where
you're you crave sugar and eat it and
the next day the sugar drops down lower
and then you'll need sugar and next day
you comes up down so people a lot of
people crave sweets if they have low
blood sugar and the thing not to do is
to consume sugar because it's going to
spike up and it's going to come right
down harder every time you do that and
and that's one thing I don't understand
about even with people that are
diabetics they're given uh glucose pills
if their sugar goes too low to me that
is totally insane because if they just
had some fruit or something like that
that would be much better but to eat
completely refined sugar all that's
going to do is Spike the sugar up and
then crash it down so three things start
increasing your awareness of
self-discipline uh that you're in a trap
and um your body won't tell you what you
really need you have to to tell it what
to do you have to be in charge uh put
some self-discipline don't wait till you
get really overweight or very sick do it
now while you have a chance preent use
preventative uh strategies the breakfast
is the most important thing start eating
for a different purpose health and then
also be able to differentiate what your
body really really really needs okay so
this is the last point I want to bring
up on why people can't lose weight
they're just out of control so I hope
this gives you some information to turn
this around I'll see you in the next
video
