hey guys in this video I want to talk
about something called acryl amide okay
acrylamide is a very toxic poison it's
like a plastic causes cancer it's in a
lot of pet foods it's in our foods it's
in well not our foods maybe some
people's foods french fries potato chips
toasted bread cereals cigarettes
actually have three times the amount
than actual food and even coffee now if
you consume dark roast you'll get less
of it than a lighter version because
apparently the roasting breaks down
acrylamide but the question is where
does this curl of mine come from well it
comes from the combination of consuming
high carbs glucose or fructose with an
amino acid called asparagine under high
heat 248 degrees Fahrenheit now you're
not going to create the situation if you
boil things or steam them but it's
basically just a combination of these
under high heat creates this toxic
plastic a substance that then causes
cancer now it's in a lot of other foods
as well that I didn't list here but the
point is that it's almost impossible to
avoid every single poison and toxin
because you live in a planet Earth so
what you need to be doing on a regular
basis is to make sure that you're
constantly creating your health
constantly consuming large quantities of
vegetables especially cruciferous
vegetables to counter a lot of the
poisons that you're being exposed to
alright thanks for watching hey if you
enjoyed this video press subscribe and I
will definitely keep you updated
