today I'm going to interview someone who
should have been dead six years ago and
he's still alive so we're going to talk
about why he's still alive he had stage
four cancer now what is stage four
cancer stage four cancer is also known
as metastatic cancer which means it has
spread to at least one organ and in his
case it spread to his bones but here's
the thing the
normal lifespan of someone with the
stage four cancer is from a few weeks to
a few months and in rare
cases several months to up to a year but
it's been six
years since guy has been told he had
cancer so he's still alive hello guy
good to see you hi hi Eric nice to see
you again very nice to see you and uh
we're going to talk about this because I
have have to give a disclaimer um this
is not meant to bypass your medical
doctor check with your doctor before
implementing any of the things we're
going to talk about we're not here to um
tell you we have the absolute
positive guaranteed cure okay we're not
going to tell you that however that
being said if I had cancer I would want
to know what I'm about to tell you
because there's some fascinating
information that I want to put on your
radar to consider and in this present
we want to be very reasonable as far as
um make it as sane as possible and as
easy to do
because when someone gets cancer they're
getting so many different opinions so
our thought in this presentation was to
do several things at once not to only do
one thing just to make sure we cover all
bases because there's different
conflicting theories you know there's
one theory that says that if you just
starve the cancer off with glucose doing
the ketogenic diet you'll kill the
cancer off okay and there's another
theory that states that well cancer can
live on ketones okay so that conflicts
with that first Theory so we have an
idea to actually cover both sides of the
spectrum including if someone also wants
to do some medical care we're not here
to tell you what to do but we want to
tell you that um there's things to look
at there's things you should consider
and uh there's some fting information
that we're going to share with you today
uh so so in other words the protocol
that we want to talk about uh today
involves um even someone doing chemo
okay so there's some research that guy
and I uh both worked on with a a very
famous competent physician
researcher um that we published and we
will put all those links down below um
we could spend an hour going through
this study and put you completely to
sleep but we're not going to do that
because it's very tactical um but to
really give you the Simplicity of this a
cancer cell really came from a normal
cell and what happened is there's damage
in the mitochondria the body then has a
plan B to survive and so it uses more of
an an older ancient pathway to get its
fuel so the cancer then loses its
programmed cell death and it can live
forever but it gets his energy from
another source outside the mitochondria
so that's kind of the nature of cancer
and uh cancer then can live without
oxygen and it can it can spread and
create all sorts of problems but there's
some unique things that we're going to
share with you today that um that are
very important when you have cancer okay
guy I want you just to briefly
you know in a short little paragraph of
information tell us when you were first
told that you had cancer 6 years ago
what did the doctor tell you to do about
this absolutely nothing because it was
too late they told me uh uh enjoy the
rest of your life and that's it so they
didn't propose me any treatment because
it was no more treatment my cancer was
too much everywhere and it was too
late did it spread into the bones did it
spread into other in the bones in the
bones in the leaf node and it spread in
my lungs too a little bit it was not a
lot compared to the leaf node or to the
bones of course so that must have been
frightening and at that point of course
you disagreed you I mean the thing about
guy is he is a Survivor he
basically reached out to everyone that
he knew he started to kind of get more
information and I think you flew around
the world trying to find someone that
could help you yes and uh what who
helped me you with your video I already
told you that uh Thomas C freed because
I went to see him I did a lot of uh fast
prolong fasting and uh I was in this
moment absolutely sure that ketones can
help to kill cancer cell because you
know the
autoag uh another a Nobel Prize in 2016
a Japanese
guy and
uh okay I was uh it works it works
because uh I'm still here and little by
little I add a lot of things because
what I still
um what still scared me is the relapse
because we have a lot of people who have
relapsed if we don't change the way we
try to fight
cancer we we're dead we are dead yeah
and and the other thing is that uh did I
don't think you did not use any chemo
correct no absolutely no chemo okay no
radiation because they they didn't
propose to me because I was not
different with than anybody if they told
me Kimo can uh prolong your life or
saved you I will do it of course I was
lucky my concern was
too spread too much then they have no
solution for me so I start to read the
publication on I search on PubMed on NIH
on nature and all
the the
famous scientific uh
publication I was I had no no no no
knowledge of nothing but I was obliged
to try to learn to understand and when I
understood what is
cancer I discovered that probably I can
uh save my life I went to see Thomas CED
he helped me a lot explained me a lot of
things and uh today I would like to
continue to his uh is a ginaa pig he
proposed me to do a GU stud guinea pig
okay gin G Pig yeah yes I I would like
to continue to be is gin Pig yeah okay
good that's a that's great because um um
obviously uh guy you did something that
was very successful so I want to break
it down what you did okay um now um I
think probably the big difference the
the big difference the elephant in the
room the thing that was stands out the
most is you did prolong fasting now you
have the
ability apparently fast for a long time
I mean I think you went to I think up to
40 days um and then what you'll do on a
regular basis is you might do a 7-Day
fast and then you might do a 48h hour
fast and then you might do a 72-hour
fast and there's no pattern and I think
that was that's smart too because cancer
tends to figure you out and so you
really have to switch want to give a
cancer a routine right so right I didn't
know the day after what I will do
tomorrow yeah because perhaps my brain
can my cancer cells can read my brain
right so it's perhaps stupid but I don't
think so yeah yeah cancer is um very
smart and it adapts and it's it survives
like crazy so um the big thing though um
is you did the long-term fasting and
so if the theory of cancer can live on
ketones is true and then the question is
well if you're doing fasting you're
living on ketones but there is also data
to show that those ketones are different
than the ketones you get from the diet
so and there's a lot of other things
that happen when you go fasting as far
as the survival proteins all sorts of
tumor suppressor suppressor genes kick
in there's a lot of things that happen
when you do fasting prolong fasting and
and also the strengthening of the immune
system and also if someone does chemo um
the the tolerance for that chemo goes up
and so people have less symptoms and so
as I get a lot lot of emails you get a
lot of emails from people asking
questions about cancer we just wanted to
lay out a lot of these questions and
answers in this presentation uh even now
um
99.9% of all of my cancer videos I had
to get them off YouTube and put them on
Rumble this one is a bit conservative
and uh we're just going to talk about
some Concepts so one of the normal
things that happens in our bodies if we
have strong mitochondria is this
interesting process
of the cell if it's damaged it actually
ends up committing suicide to get rid of
the cell which is fascinating um but it
takes a lot of energy um so when there's
mitochondrial damage it doesn't have
enough energy apoptosis stops working to
a certain degree that has a lot to do
with this whole cancer transition which
I'm not going to get too into the woods
but I will say that um you have people
that can do fasting you have people that
can't do fasting you have people that
are really really frail and skinny and
if you put them on a long fast I mean
they're going to lose all their muscles
then you get other people that um can
have some muscle to lose with some
prolonged fasting so it's really going
to be a judgment call so what we're
going to recommend if you can't do
fasting you what you can do is What's
called the fasting mimicking diet uh by
um volter Longo and he came up with that
and you know we're not recommending the
version where you're taking supplements
like the the food supplements the one
that we're going to recommend is the
it's kind of a version of his own
initial uh program and basically you're
going to do for five days you're going
to go in a special eating plan that will
mimic fasting but it's not complete
fasting because it's a lot easier to
mimic fasting than actually do the
fasting program if you can go five days
now when guy does the fasting he feels
good
he can do it other people have had Tred
to do prolong fast and they feel like
crap and they just you know they haven't
adapted yet and it you know it's it's
tougher so we're going to give you
options right and so this fasting
mimicking diet you're you're going to
get your calories down to like 800
calories a day and maybe the first day
you do a thousand and then the next four
days you'll do 800 calories and so to
keep this really simple what we're going
to recommend is to do just um
vegetables salad steamed vegetables
steamed cruciferous vegetables high
quality extra Virg olive oil so that way
you have something that you can it can
be satisfying and plus you have all the
phytochemicals from in the plants that
can actually are
anti-carcinogenic so and you can use
herbs and all this detail we're going to
put in this document that you'll be able
to download but you can do herbs
definitely have sea salt there's there's
going to be a a supplement protocol that
we're going to recommend we don't sell
any of those supplements just so you
know but these are going to do a certain
thing but as far as the foods go it's
going to be basically vegetable and
extra virgin olive oil and herbs you can
do teas and you can make that into soup
but that's it that's it we're not
recommending a lot of protein or any
protein or other types of fats because
what we want to do is we want to create
a hormonal shift um to really make sure
that this leverage um the fuel for this
cancer to the point where it just
doesn't have anything to live on and it
can shrink and go away and you would do
that for five days now let's say um you
you're going to do chemo and usually
they do it for every third week so you
would do this program every three weeks
right before the chemo and through the
chemo and right after because you're
going to find that if you do this
there's going to be a lot lot less
complication and symptoms with your Cho
okay uh but let's say you're not going
to do Cho then you would do this once a
month okay and we also explain what to
do on the other days you want to eat
clean and you want to get enough protein
and other nutrition but so you're
basically doing a um you know a decent
prolonged fast once a month or once
every three weeks
now the more severe the cancer the more
frequent when you should do this and uh
if you can fast you should probably fast
and and do exactly what guy's doing in
fact I mean it's been six years and as
soon as guy found out that his cancer
was no longer there do you think he just
stopped this Protocol no he's even do it
right now he started another uh 21 day
fast so so in other words um you know we
can learn a lot about people that are
successful and that's what we want to do
is let other people learn from other
people right especially the ones that
are successful and um I have friends
that have cancer that are going
different directions and uh you know
it's the bottom line is I always like to
follow people that are successful and
that are doing it and this guy here he's
still alive he should have been dead six
years ago so uh it's quite miraculous so
there's a lot of people looking at him
close under a magnifying glass to see
what he's doing but fasting is important
if you can't do the fasting do the
fasting mimicking program okay so once a
month uh five days um and then the other
days um if you can do omad one meal a
day that would be great but you're going
to have to get all your calories and
your nutrition and we do of course
there's several key foods that are going
to be important like uh sardines right
um crer CR ious vegetables a lot of
garlic uh things like that um green tea
green tea so let's let's go into the
next part of this right here what kind
of protocol well based on the the
research that we did um led by Maurice
Israel um you know there's been a
long-standing series
of Investigations into this and and just
to keep it really
simple the theory that cancer can
survive on ketones okay so we're going
to talk about that for a second some
people will disagree with it some people
will agree with it but but what we did
is we did a a my study put them on a
protocol a natural protocol to block a
certain
enzyme that would
starve the cancer from getting ketones
okay and this enzyme's called Scott I'm
not going to give you the long name of
it because you don't need to know it but
um Scott is an enzyme that allows uh
this cancer cell to get Ketone so
there's been a lot of experiments to
figure out what would be the best Scot
Inhibitors and we wanted to use natural
things that you could get that don't
have toxic effects and the research that
we did showed a remarkable significant
Improvement and you can you can read up
for yourself on what happened but this
was on animals it wasn't on humans okay
but still I mean it's very interesting
to look at and it's a starting point um
so this this Scott inhibitor
protocol um it uses about I would say
seven or eight different natural
remedies and instead of going through
each one and telling you the dosage
we're just going to have all that in
writing for you so you can just look it
up and take it um so but these some of
these um remedies uh addresses the Scot
inhib directly some handle um um various
aspects of this like one uh blocks
glutamine it's kind of a natural da
inhibitor and this is what um Dr SE
freed uses in his protocols um so we're
we're using it it's like a green tea
extract um AB yeah so that's a really
good protocol and there's another one um
Allison from garlic extract that helps
uh another pathway with cancer and so
there's so in other words what what I we
think is reasonable is to try a lot of
different angles to this all at once
because there's a lot of things that
will shrink the tumor but then how do we
really you know hit it from different
angles is just when you think you got to
figure it out there's this other thing
that happens that the cancer goes back
so um the combination of doing this
fasting mimicking program or an actual
fast with the Scot Inhibitors with a
couple other things which we'll mention
I think this would be the most
reasonable way to address cancer what I
discover it's not me that it's concer
find always a
way when you try to find something to
fight concer and it works the day after
or one year after it doesn't work
anymore so that's why I try to find a
way to avoid relapse and I know that
ketones saved me the first time we had a
friend his name was Fred and he
developed
concer he cured his cancer but he has
relapsed and one year
after he died so it's very disturbing
for me and and I say because I did the
same thing than you than him
so I start searching another way to cure
cancer in case if the cancer try a a way
another way if the concer find a way to
eat ketones how what I have to do to
avoid that so we serve
we study
the the result of a lot of people who
explain me we spoke with me they call me
they ask me uh and we discovered that
perhaps there are an other way to cure
cancer we know that there are a lot of
things who give concer and we are sure
that that there are a lot of things he
can cure
concer
and the things to have a lot of protocol
different protocol in case if one is not
working it's very important but if we
don't search before it's too late so
what I try to do is to have uh idea
to what I have to do if today what was
working before doesn't work anymore
exactly um and then just to piggyback on
that there are several things that are
very important to
avoid when you have cancer number one is
iron make sure you're not taking iron in
any supplements iron iron can feed the
cancer cancer likes to eat iron
use it calcium don't take any calcium
supplements when you have cancer that's
another one that uh is not recommended
in fact probably not have any dairy
dairy is uh more anabolic so it tends to
make things grow so avoid the dairy uh
as far as taking vitamin D I think
that'd be super important because the
vitamin D feeds the the immune system so
we want to keep your immune system
really really strong there's there's so
many different types of cancer
um that are linked to a vitamin D
deficiency as far as triggering and or
lowering your immune system or adding
more risk for I mean you take a lot of
cancer uh patients they nearly always
have low vitamin D levels as far as
exercise goes um it probably be good to
do walking but not do high type intense
exercise when you're doing either a long
prolonged fasting unless you're really
healthy or if you're doing a or not too
lazy
right um but long walks are going to be
good in the sun uh getting Sun getting
you'll get melatonin from the infrared
very important keeping your stress level
low but but not some high uh High
intense exercise because we want to
conserve your energy especially if you
are in the middle of a fast or doing the
fasting mimicking diet I would like to
precise something very important for
me Thomas C Professor Thomas C helped me
a lot he explained me a lot of thing and
he helped me to save my life and what I
try to do today it's not
to to say I'm a better biologist than uh
Tom CED I have
no no knowledge at all
but I think if my concer come back what
I have to do to save my life if the
concer find a way to eat my ketones what
I have to do it's only this it's only
this and I need to be
prepared exactly and on that note um
we're going to put a link down below of
where you can get um the summary of what
we talked about uh so if you want to
just study the information and share it
but I least want to put this on your
radar
that I don't know if I had cancer I
would want to know this data there's a
lot of very interesting things that
we're in the middle of right now with
doing more research and but we're not
going to get into them quite yet we're
going to wait till we get that done but
anyway I want to thank you for being on
guy and thank you for watching this long
we'll put the link down below and stay
tuned for more information on on this
topic thank you Dr B I'm sure we will
continue to fight to find the best
solution against cancer
great
