I'm sure you heard about this benine
vitamin so what's all the hype in do we
really need it and what is it good for
botam is a fat sble B1 normally B1
called thiamine is water sble and so
there's several advantages of having
this vitamin in a fat cable form number
one it can penetrate membranes that are
made out of fat much easier like by a
factor of
360% more penetration so benine is
really good for anything neurological
anything brain especially peripheral
neuropathy where you have the bottom of
your feet tingling numbness burning or
that could be on the hands as well so
what is it actually doing one of the big
things it's doing it's inhibiting the
formation of something called
ages that stands for advanced glycation
and products now what is that well
that's basically this uh formation of
sugar with a protein or sugar with fat
that's um morphed into this unusable
protein so for example when you are a
diabetic and you test for blood glucose
levels a lot of times they'll do what's
called A1C and that test measures for
this term glycation which basically
means how much damage to your proteins
in your blood is occurring like the
hemoglobin is protein right so they can
measure how much of that protein is
unusable because it's glycated because
all the sugar interacts with the protein
and kind of fuses it to make it
unavailable and so as the red blood
cells is UN available guess what you get
you get a lot of complications from that
one being just lowered amount of the
ability to carry oxygen and think about
the Cascade of effects that that can
create also this glycation starts to
accumulate in the mitochondria and it
plugs up the machinery for your cells so
benine
is a very potent antioxidant type
nutrient that inhibits the formation of
this glycation it also supports the myin
sheath that outer covering of the nerve
that allows the nerve to actually work
and on a deeper level we need B won
desperately for several enzymes in our
mitochondria involved in metabolism
certain enzymes are dependent on B1 and
if your cells don't have B1 boy all
sorts of issues start occurring so a lot
of the
complications especially from diabetes
occur because of this lack of this B1
because the more glucose you have
flowing through your bloodstream the
more B1 you need so by being a diabetic
you're basically sucking up all that
residual B1 that you had leaving you
high and dry now there are four main
tissues in the body that are affected by
diabetes more than any other tissues in
the body okay we have the nerve and the
Brain kind of the same tissue we have
the arteries we have the eye and we have
the kidney now what's so unique about
these four tissues well number one
they're the most metabolically demanding
tissues of your body which means they
hog a lot of fuel and they also require
a lot of oxygen and then they as a
byproduct they put out a lot of
oxidation so that means these four
tissues are very susceptible to problems
with too much oxidation and basically
that means that your balance of
antioxidants versus your oxidants are
out of balance you don't have enough
antioxidants to handle the amount of
oxidation occurring and you can kind of
think about oxidation is kind of
something rusting out in the body and so
the term for that is called oxidative
stress so these four tissues are very
susceptible to becoming damaged with
high levels of sugar because of the
oxidation and the uh inability to repair
and so B1 can come in there to the
rescue and lower this oxidation because
it's kind of a very potent antioxidant
another thing that happens in diabetes
is um you have damage to the micro
circulation the tiny capillaries that
feed these tissues these capillary walls
start to leak and you get bleeding and
you especially see this in arteries you
see this in the eyes it happens in the
kidney and so in a deeper level we're
getting all this glycated protein junk
that's accumulating in the mitochondria
plugging everything up and literally
starving the cells of fuel and oxygen
that's why you see periphal neuropathy
showing up as a kind of a one of the
first things because it affects the
extremities at the farthest distance
from the heart this Advanced glycation n
product compound that's plugging
everything up can come from several
things it comes from eating sugar with
protein when it's cooked it comes from
eating sugar and fat when it's cooked
that would be like ice cream would be a
perfect example it comes from cooking in
high Heats like you're deep frying
something or you're grilling something
where something is very crispy you do
get a certain amount of glycation but
just being a diabetic causes high levels
of glycation as you get older you have
more glycation so age is a big factor if
you smoke if you drink alcohol and the
more inflammation you have the more
glycation you're going to have this is
why benot toine for diabetics is so
vitally important because it basically
just starts slowing down this glycation
process and getting rid of the
complications from diabetes and of
course hopefully that person is getting
rid of the real cause of diabetes which
is the diet but sometimes the doctors
don't really emphasize that they're all
about managing your blood sugars well
eventually need to fix the cause but
also benine can help you with the
symptoms along the way and also many
times people combine alphalipoic acid
with botam because they're a bit
synergistic alphalipoic
acid directly targets
inflammation as well as that oxidative
stress whereas botam does that as well
but it also uh supplies you with the
necessary B1 for the enzymes in the
mitochondria as well as directly
inhibiting the formation of that
glycation now inside your arteries okay
uh you have this inside layer of the
artery and it's it's called the tuna
intima which means innermost layer and
in that layer there's a superficial
layer of cells and they're just like one
cell thick that are exposed to blood
going through the arteries and that's
called the endothelial layer that layer
of cells boy that controls blood
pressure it controls all sorts of
hormonal interactions it gets hammered
with this oxidative stress and then you
start getting inflammation and you start
getting scar tissue and then you start
getting more clots one of the things
that it does is it helps to prevent
clots but if it becomes damaged you
start getting clots and there's also
micro uh blood vessels that are
supplying the artery walls those are
called Vasa vasorum which means the
vessels of the vessels so the blood
vessels also need blood to survive and
so all this high level of concentrated
sugar in that area starts to create
inflammation in those vessels which are
a little bit deeper and then you start
getting thickening of the arteries and
stiffness of the arteries which is not
just going to lead to blood pressure
problems but a constriction of blood
that's flowing through the arteries in
other words insulin is anti-
atherosclerosis in other words it
prevents this whole Cascade a problem
wait a second I thought that too much
insulin is bad well
it is but you have this other factor
involved it's called insulin resistance
so a lot of these complications that are
occurring from high glucose and high
insulin are occurring because you
actually have a deficiency of insulin
because of the resistance because the
body makes more but it never actually
gets to the right target to allow things
to occur and so by doing things to get
rid of insulin resistance you actually
get more insulin to heal this whole area
so by eating things that increase
insulin it never is a good solution we
have the arteries that are involved we
also have the kidneys that get destroyed
and so when you have this kidney filter
that gets destroyed you start getting
this leakiness in the filter so the
holes become bigger and then protein
kind of goes out and then sugar kind of
goes out and then you can no longer
recycle this and so the kidneys start
losing their filtration now in the eyes
you have this effect especially from the
retina which is nerve tissue that's
extending from the brain and it's
actually out in the open and so it's
very susceptible to this oxidation and
so this is why a diabetic could
eventually lose their eyesight and go
blind but guess what benine can come in
there and slow this process down from
happening and hopefully even reverse it
in certain circumstances now when we get
nerve damage from this process it's not
just the nerves in our feet it's not
just the neurons in our brain which is
also considered type 3 diabetes but you
also get destruction of the autonomic
nervous system there's something called
diabetic autonomic neuropathy it can
exist in any part of your autonomic
nervous system so in summary benot toine
can greatly help a diabetic in many
different ways it can actually help uh
reduce this filling up of the
mitochondria with this glycation and
products it can increase the number of
mitochondria which can increase the ATP
the fuel to these tissues but remember
you also want to get on the correct
eating plan at the same time and if if
you have any questions on that you need
to watch this video right here
