all right so you need this nap after you
eat or maybe you get sluggish
um mid-afternoon and you're trying to
figure out what you can do because it's
interrupting your production okay so
we're going to talk about that today a
lot of countries
um take siestas
um they take a nap after they eat and
that includes Mexico and the Philippines
in Spain Italy and even certain parts of
uh France and so I really needed a nap
in the past after I ate I was always
tired I didn't know why I thought I just
needed more caffeine because that didn't
work because I couldn't sleep that night
so I had a big problem with fatigue in
general in the morning I had a hard time
waking up
um it'd take me until 11 o'clock until I
woke up and then I would eat lunch and
then have to take a nap so it was just
driving me crazy so the term for this
the medical term is called post plan
deal
sambulance so post means after
prandial means related to eating or a
meal and simulants means drowsy or
sleepy you're sleepy or drowsy after a
meal there are multiple reasons for this
um I want to cover all of them there's
some theories that may or may not be
true I'm just going to give you all of
the information so then you can have a
plan to not be so tired after you eat
recently I did a trip in France in Italy
to look at various farms and actually do
some research that I'm doing on soil and
I looked at their soils I looked at
their farming methods and it was quite
amazed and I had a chance to kind of see
what both countries eat in the morning
and at lunch there were some really
healthy foods that people eat in fact
the quality is much higher there than it
is in America but of course there's some
added things that um kind of mess
everything up you know what I'm talking
about all the sugar the sweets the pasta
the pizza the baguettes the croissants
the bread the wine etc etc etc so what
happens at this lunch time when you add
carbohydrates okay especially if you're
doing a high carb diet and this could
even apply if you're doing high protein
with high carbs it's like the worst case
scenario so what's happening is you're
elevating blood sugar levels and you're
elevating insulin levels and initially
maybe you can handle it okay and you
don't get tired but over time your body
will start developing insulin resistance
and what happens with insulin resistance
in the cell is that it starts resisting
not just insulin but the fuel glucose so
with insulin resistance okay you eat
this meal and you don't get fuel into
the cell so the cell lacks the energy
right and if you don't have enough
energy boy you just want to take a nap
you just kind of like I'm just tired
right so that's one reason why you might
be tired
I'm going to get to a good solution but
glucose and Insulin itself makes you
tired for example if a diabetic takes
too much insulin injection they can
actually get really really really tired
mentally they used to do a therapy
called insulin shock therapy back in I
think the 20s and 30s where they would
inject you with so much insulin you go
into a coma and you'd wake up fat right
and they did this for mental problems
which is just crazy because it's
barbaric to put someone in a coma to
help them with their mental problems
doesn't make sense and then what happens
when the insulin goes up it pushes your
glucose down so you end up with low
blood sugar sometimes and that can make
you tired as well so it's it's what it's
doing to your brain right it's just
messing with your central nervous system
your brain high sugar low sugar and then
no fuel to the cells not good for your
overall energy especially your mental
energy but it's a amazing what people do
especially what I've noticed in in
Europe for lunchtime right after the
heat you know they have to have a shot
of espresso maybe two maybe three with a
little cigarette and to keep them awake
from the Gelato or the bread or the wine
that they just drank now another reason
why you might need to take a nap is um
let's say you just ate too much food
which basically happens is you have this
shift of blood flow
that goes from your brain to your gut so
now we have less blood flow in our brain
and we also have a stimulation of
something called the parasympathetic
nervous system which is all about rest
and digest okay so your body's like
ready to take a nap just from just too
much food
it usually happens after a Thanksgiving
meal in America but too much food can do
that now let's add one other Factor
let's say for example you don't have
enough hydrochloric acid in your stomach
to digest that food that can make you
tired because you're getting a lack of
digestion so sometimes a simple addition
of either apple cider vinegar before you
eat in some water like a tablespoon or
two can give you energy so you might
want to try that or even better yet to
take as a supplement betaine
hydrochloride you might need to take
five six seven or eight down that drink
that right before you eat especially if
you're doing the Thanksgiving meal
you're going to find that you're going
to be less tired and you'll have better
digestion less bloating a good
indication to know that you have low
hydrochloric acid is that you get
indigestion or bloating after eating or
maybe even acid reflux or heartburn or
even gerd that means you need more uh
betame hydrochloride and the apple cider
vinegar another reason why you're tired
is you're not getting enough sleep at
night okay I
for years I pushed myself because
um I did a lot of research a lot of
different things so I'd get up extra
early when I was in practice to be able
to squeeze that in so I'd be getting up
at 4 30 and I'd probably get like six
hours of sleep which is just not enough
so that right there can make you tired
in the midday what I did to
overcompensate is I took a nap but now I
try to get a little bit more sleep so I
don't need a nap but lack of sleep will
definitely make you tired I created a
video on sleep a couple of them that are
really good recent ones I'll put those
down below if you don't sleep because
just that right there can just make a
huge difference with your ability to
maintain your energy for the entire day
so you can not have to take a nap after
lunch or even mid-afternoon
now let's say for example it is
mid-afternoon and you are tired some
people
um get a snack
to give them energy that's a mistake
because now guess what you're going to
jack up insulin and now we're gonna
you're gonna find you're gonna be a
little bit tired let's say an hour and a
half later or you're going to be hungry
an hour and a half later because now we
we're messing up the blood sugars these
snacks are killer what you want to do is
you want to adapt to the ketones and
then running your body on ketones it's a
much better fuel system and you won't be
hungry between males and you won't have
a need for a snack if you need a snack
mid-afternoon all that means is you're
running on glucose and you're not
running on ketones and there is a really
great way to get your body around in
ketones and I will give you that link in
a minute if you're tired don't go for
food to wake you up that's not the best
thing to do as far as another thing you
can do
um
as a little kind of a hack you can
postpone the coffee that you drink in
the morning like push it up between 90
and 20 minutes later okay
and that can actually help with that
afternoon or after lunch dip in energy
because what caffeine does is it blocks
this this chemical compound called
adenosine and that makes you less sleepy
when you have adenosine that binds with
your cells that equals sleepiness and
this is why you have this at night so if
you take a antagonist to that or a
blocker to that like caffeine it can
actually make you less sleepy that's
what it does and by delaying that
process in the morning that can help
with the afternoon dip and energy now
one last thing that can make you kind of
tired and I'm talking mainly about tired
through the whole day it's called
chronic fatigue syndrome that's usually
a deeper viral thing going on that's
some virus that you had long ago like
Epstein-Barr virus or something like
that that's been reactivated because of
recent stress
so yes there's a lot of different things
you can take for viruses but the most
important thing is to get rid of
whatever that stress is do something to
improve it and that will put that virus
back in remission and all of a sudden
you'll have more energy and also vitamin
D will help as well so number one get on
the healthy version of the ketogenic
diet and that includes doing
intermittent fasting so you can adapt to
Fat fuel the ketones and then you
actually can go between meals without
that dip because if you're running a
glucose you're going to run out of
energy real fast if you're running on
ketones you have an almost unlimited
amount of energy you can run on because
it's fat fuel so number one get into
ketosis number two do whatever you can
to improve your sleep I'll put a link
down below for that number three delay
that coffee in the morning by 90 to 120
minutes and last point is to take some
apple cider vinegar or retain
hydrochloride right before you eat to
get more hydrochloric acid to digest
that protein and other foods to help you
prevent that sluggishness in your
digestive system all right I think the
best next video is this one on sleep
check it out I put it right here
