hey guys it's Dr bur here in this video
I want to share with you a new product
called cortisol support I just got it in
and uh it's mainly for those people that
have burnout adrenal burnout that needs
to be rejuvenated revived recovered and
it's great for anyone that has
inflammatory
situations uh anything with chronic
fatigue syndrome fibromyalgia that type
of thing okay and I want to share with
you what's in this product because I
think you'll be quite impressed the
first thing I put in it is vitamin B5
two different versions of vitamin B5
panthic acid that's the inactive form of
B5 and the active form which is called
panine okay now why did I put B5 B5 a
lot of times what happens during stress
mode is you deplete your reserve of
vitamin
B5 but the other problem that people
have with adrenal is they not converting
this into the active form so it doesn't
really work so it's kind of this is kind
of like a precursor so panine is the
active form and so I put both so if you
have a conversion problem or just a lack
of uh actual B5 I put both in there but
let me explain what B5 does it's crucial
for adrenal hormone uh production it's
crucial for stress reduction and by the
way stress depletes vitamin B5
so this puts it back B5 turns into this
thing called um Co a it's like a
co-enzyme a it's like a um it's kind of
like a helper vitamin that helps in the
conversion of food into energy
specifically uh fats but it also
converts uh sugars and proteins as well
into different body tissues but mainly
fat so let's say for example you have
you're going in a ketosis diet you're
eating more fat and you're trying to
burn fat and you get really tired what
that means is you're low in B5 because
B5 converts fat into energy and so um it
allows it to be burned so especially if
you're trying to lose weight it might be
a good idea to uh to use B5 so it helps
in the different Pathways the energy
Pathways so improves also oxygen
utilization by the cells and the red
blood cell um releasing O2 it also
reduces stress
directly and it also helps stabilizing
blood sugars okay so this is really
essential to support a healthy adrenal
this product by the way does not cure
cancer it doesn't cure any diseases it's
mainly there to support a healthy
adrenal okay so let me show you what
else is in here so the next thing I put
in here is grass-fed adrenal gland
extract the adrenal gland has two parts
an outside and an inside the outside is
all gland tissue the inside is all nerve
tissue so what I wanted to do is I
wanted to put the complete adrenal gland
extract in this product so that way uh
your body can pick or choose what pieces
or parts it might need to rejuvenate the
gland and I also wanted to make sure it
was grass-fed because if you take grain
fed um animal products you're getting a
lot of times GMO stuff you're getting um
um things that are not good for um
cattle to consume so grass-fed is much
better as far as a nutrient-dense type
product without the GMO and the
pesticides and all that so that's one of
the key ingredients that really will
help feed the adrenal if it needs
anything if it doesn't need anything it
doesn't do anything so specifically this
is a a key piece of the puzzle to help
support an adrenal and then we also have
grass-fed liver extract now the key word
is grassfed because we want an animal
product that is actually a healthier
product now why did I put liver extract
because not only does the liver have all
of the essential nutrients all the fat
cable vitamins vitamin A e d e k all
these different vitamins also it has B12
all the other B vitamins and by the
way um gland um animal glandular um
products have more nutrients than
vegetables uh personally I don't like
liver but in a pill I'll take it so this
is really key with the adrenal in that
if you have excess cortisol it's your
liver that helps to extract and deplete
excess so it helps eliminate anything
that's too high so the liver you could
look at as an organ that helps buffer
cortisol so it helps regulate um so
there's a lot of um
functions of the liver in relationship
to dismantling excess cortisol the next
three nutrients called amab Berry Camu
Camu Berry acerola Cherry are all three
of the things that have the most vitamin
C of anything that you can eat on the
planet amberry is the number one thing
that has vitamin C and so they're all
good for other things but I I wanted to
use these before the vitamin C complex
and again they're a whole food complex
vitamin C they're not synthetic and and
most of the vitamin C is stored in the
adrenal because it takes vitamin C to
make hormones of the adrenal so if you
take synthetic vitamin C you can
actually worsen the adrenal that's
ascorbic acid especially in high dosages
so I wanted to make sure the whole
complex was there even the Indians used
to eat the adrenal glands of the caribou
and they would never get scurvy which is
a vitamin C deficiency which creates
fatigue so vitamin C is very important
in rejuvenating a burnt out adrenal I
also wanted to put licorice root now
people that crave licorice usually have
low adrenals so I wanted to put this in
there because licorice root helps
regulate the adrenal if it's too high or
too low it brings it to a normal level
because you need some adrenal hormones
so it's really good for energy
endurance and it supports a healthy
adrenal gland and the last three things
I wanted to add are three of the most
important trace minerals manganese zinc
and copper now the reason I put these is
because the what we're trying to do is
we're trying to restore rejuvenate
something we're trying to repair a gland
and these are essential in the formation
of over well actually hundreds of enzyme
reactions in body chemistry in
rebuilding things repairing hormonal uh
breakdown and dismantling excess certain
hormones so it's really these are really
key and they work together to help
repair that adrenal in summary this
product supports adrenal burnout adrenal
fatigue
inflammation history of stress
menopausal changes that are not going
smooth chronic arthritis chronic sleep
problems and a lot of my clients are
taking adrenal night formula well that's
a separate thing that supports just the
sleep so it's not this doesn't not
necessarily just for sleep and then I
have an adrenal day formula which is
mainly for tension and nervous stress
during the day so it's completely
different product this one is more for
rejuvenating recovering adrenal someone
that's burnt out okay and you would take
one per day to three per day and you can
some people respond better of taking
them in the morning some people in the
evening so play around see what works
best for you um and you can even start
up with one a day and see how it goes
because everyone responds differently
some people need more depending on how
chronic the condition is so if you have
any of these conditions go ahead and
give this a try and send me your success
stories
