so I have a question are you not
satisfied after you eat on the Kido in
when you're doing in a minute fasting
well this video is for you so what this
means is either you're still having a
problem with insulin resistance okay or
you have a gall bladder issue and you're
not having enough bile being released in
which case maybe some gall bladder
formula with helped but typically people
have a problem with insulin resistance
that's the more common reason now
insulin resistance is where the insulin
is not connecting to the cell because
you have resistance and then the doors
not opened up so you can't absorb the
nutrients the amino acids or the fuel so
you might just have to give it more time
but let's just make sure that you're
doing it correctly you need a lot of
vegetables like 7 to 10 cups of
vegetables but we don't want to add a
lot of carbs in addition to this we want
to keep our carbs low because if we add
the carbs it'll worsen the situation it
got you in trouble in the first place so
we want to bring those down number 2
protein 3 to 6 ounces but that's it you
don't want to add a lot of protein to
this because again too much protein will
create this problem and worsen it so we
can't add more carbs more protein but we
can start increasing the fat okay now
I'd love pecans pecans are the fattiest
nut you can just start consuming them
take a handful take another handful
until you feel satisfied nut butters are
great with celery maybe even carrots you
know maybe you want to do a little dip
with that and then cheese brie cheese is
really good but we need to start
increasing more fats to satisfy the body
now apple cider vinegar is another
really important thing to take during
the meal because that will also help
insulin resistance and help you start
absorbing the fuel but I like to consume
in this order the salad my salad or
vegetable first then my protein and then
my fat okay and the main thing is just
to give it more time because it does
take time if you had a big problem it's
going to take time to heal that and
you're going to be more and more
satisfied as you do this alright talk to
you later
hey guys listen one of the challenges
people have is finding specific answers
to certain questions because I have so
many videos okay well I finally did it I
bit the bullet and I summarized every
single video on keto and fasting in one
simple document you just need to click
the link below and it'll upload
messenger where you can get an instant
download okay
check it out
