hey guys in this video I want to answer
the common question does ketosis worsen
your adrenal glands okay uh that's a
myth it doesn't because if you take a
look at it the adrenal glands make a
hormone called cortisol right cortisol
is triggered by
stress so cortisol actually increases
insulin so
stress will blow you out of ketosis the
whole goal of ketosis is to lower
insulin right so anything that increases
insulin would bad for ketosis so stress
would destroy ketosis so if it says does
ketosis worse than adrenals now it's
basically um the adrenals worse than
ketosis because what happens when you
actually decrease
insulin you lower stress and lower
cortisol so it's very helpful for the
adrenals lowering insulin by doing
ketosis does not increase cortisol
it doesn't it lowers it so it's a very
low stress way to actually lose weight
all right so I just want to bring that
point out this the answer is absolutely
not and uh it's just the it's just the
other way around stress will definitely
keep you out of ketosis all right thanks
for
watching hey guys thank you so much for
watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
