you know I've done a lot of videos on
the immune system today we're going to
talk about what to do once you get an
infection and what is the fastest way to
overcome this infection well the first
thing to do is to kind of figure out or
guess if it's more a viral infection or
a bacterial infection so with a viral
infection it's going to be more systemic
so you're going to probably feel more
body aches chills with bacteria it could
be more localized to like uh lymph nodes
or maybe urinary tract infection or food
poisoning a fever in a bacterial
infection goes a little bit higher than
a viral so if your fever is really super
high potentially could be more bacterial
if you get a sore throat with a viral
infection a lot of times you'll have a
runny nose and a cough but with a
bacterial sore throat you're going to
feel just like more pain and localize
without the runny nose that's a type I
used to have every single year growing
up it was terrible with a virus you'll
have more of a dry cough bacterial
productive cough which means there'll be
mucus involved typically when you have a
respiratory infection sinus or lung or
bronchitis think viral but if you have
pneumonia you can have both bacterial
and virus except sometimes in a
childhood illness you'll get pneumonia
viral pneumonia but if you have like the
common cold or a flu that's typically
going to be viral now as far as how long
these infections can go with a viral it
could be 1 to two weeks with the
bacterial it could be a little bit
longer and this all depends on your
immune system the mucus with a viral
infection usually is clear or white but
with a bacterial infection it's more
green or yellow there's a couple
remedies that I recommend for viral
Elderberry or olive leaf extract for
bacterial
I would recommend garlic oregano oil and
easia think about
eonia if you can catch this infection in
time and you take eonia you can
sometimes uh stop it from going into a
full-blown infection now at the very end
of this video I want to reveal something
very important about a sore throat it's
a technique you want to take a hot bath
or hot shower and dress very very warm
to the point where you're even sweating
why because we want to cook the virus or
bacteria we want to heat you up to the
point where uh we can kill off this
infection the side effects from this
infection really are your immune system
killing off the microbes and your normal
cells are also being affected so really
think about this is not a bad thing it's
just your immune system is working go to
bed early the more sleep you can get the
better a lack of sleep will really weak
weaken your immune system I think it's
really important to take zinc vitamin d
and vitamin C fasting I think is a very
very good thing that way you're
stimulating your immune system and
allowing your immune system to work and
when you fast you actually increase your
survival genes they start to kick in and
uh there's a lot of benefits from
fasting that go Way Beyond just your
immune system but fasting will help your
immune system sea salt is a very
important thing sea salt also helps
increase the Paras sympathetic nervous
system and decreases the sympathetic
nervous system sea salt can help you
sleep at night the other thing that's
really important is to do whatever you
can to improve your emotional state
whether you have anxiety or depression
you know go for a walk listen to music
do something to pull yourself up because
infections last longer in lower
emotional states the sun gives us many
cool things that go beyond just making
Vitamin D it also gives you you UVB
which is
anti-inflammatory also the sun gives you
infrared and infrared can do a lot it's
anti-inflammatory it can increase
melatonin it's immuno regulatory it
helps sleep repair enhance the
mitochondria it can increase killer tea
cells and it can even dampen the cokine
storm many many many times when people
get sick there usually is always some
type of predisposing factor like some
type of stress that allows this
infection to take over um so anything
you can do to reduce that would be very
very good this is why they give
predisone which is a synthetic version
of cortisol to any type of immune
problem that someone has and it gets rid
of it it suppresses it if someone is low
in vitamin D or zinc they can be more
susceptible to having an infection too
also you should make note that when you
eat wheat refined sugar or refined food
that can deplete zinc as well as Vitamin
C the chemistry of vitamin C is similar
to glucose and so if you're consuming
any type of sugar while you're consuming
vitamin C you're going to block the
absorption of vitamin C because the body
is going to take in the sugar as we age
the thymus gland it's a little gland on
top of the heart that really is so
important in training your tea cells it
starts to shrink as we age so when we
get older our immune system gets weaker
unfortunately if you have microbial
imbalance in your gut uh Flora or you
don't have enough microbiome diversity
that can put you at risk for having a
problem as well and of course you know
sometimes people have this idea that I'm
going to try to kill off this infection
by you know doing a shot of whiskey uh
no I wouldn't do that it's not going to
help you and another good remedy uh is
cod liver oil why because not only does
cod liver oil have the omega-3 fatty
acids which are anti-inflammatory but it
has vitamin d and vitamin A which
supports your sinuses your throat your
GI tract I used to have a lot of sore
throats and in practice there was
something that I came up with that I
think is mind-blowing and it's one of
those things that you just have to try
out to believe it and uh I have a video
that I'm going to put up that you can
watch it's a simple technique that
someone can do on you to help give you
relief of the soreness of your throat
infection now I'm not saying it does
anything for the infection but it'll
definitely reduce the pain and soreness
that you have if you have a sore throat
so what you're going to be doing is
you're going to have someone press on
the exact opposite part of where the
sore throat is so if you have a sore
throat like right through here you're
going to have someone pressing on the
back part of your neck to get a full
detailed uh understanding of what it
looks like and how to do it I put that
video right here check it
out
