so today I want to talk about this myth
that I hear a lot that you need to add
more fat to lose more weight okay
that's illogical it's not going to help
you lose more weight because what makes
keto keto is lowering your carbohydrate
not increasing your fat if you increase
your fat while your carbs are high you
will not get any ketosis okay to give
you ketosis you must lower the
carbohydrate the purpose of adding more
fat is to replace the loss of
carbohydrates and make it easier to do
this so you can go longer between meals
and do in a minute fasting but I
definitely recommend adding more fats
when you start a healthy keto plan
because it makes it more comfortable
fats are very satisfying however once
you adapt to fat burning okay you can
actually lower your dietary fats but
what I'm talking about is not adding
fats to your diet just consuming the
fats that are normally in your diet with
the protein so I wouldn't necessarily
want to add more MCT oil or add more
additional fat than you need because
what happens is then your body will
start using the dietary fat as your
ketones okay in the presence of low
carbs and it won't have to go after your
fat reserve but if your goal is to lose
weight we want to eventually kind of
adjust the dietary fat to the point
where your body starts tapping into your
own fat using this as calories and not
these as calories and realize it's not
just about having a bunch of ketones in
your urine
it's whether those ketones are made from
your fat or made from the dietary fat
some people can keep high levels of fat
if their metabolism is high but for the
average person that has slow metabolism
they're going to have to eventually
lower the amount of fats that they
consume to really get your body to
actually live off the fat calories and
the same thing goes with taking ketones
exogenous ketones taken as a supplement
can provide ketones okay and you'll have
ketones in your urine but it won't
actually improve or increase your
body's ability to make its own ketones
defeating the whole purpose so the truth
is that adding more fat doesn't increase
weight loss however it makes it easy to
do the program it does provide the raw
material you don't want to go low-fat
but you want to have enough fats just to
make a healthy body thanks for watching
hey before you go I'm gonna create some
new videos on food evaluation okay so if
you'd like to participate I can't
promise that you'll be the person i'll
choose so here's what you're gonna do
you're gonna take a picture of what
you're eating a close-up okay one day
how frequent you're eating like as an
intermittent fasting is it one meal two
meals and anything else that you're
drinking or supplements and go ahead and
add your height weight in age and any
major body problems that you're having
and what I'm going to do is I'm going to
analyze that to see what you're doing
correct and what you need to improve
alright so go ahead and click the link
down below upload your information and
again I can't promise that I'm gonna
pick you but I'm gonna pick several
people and I'll do the evaluations and
I'll post these as YouTube videos all
right talk to you later
