all right today we're going to talk
about a really good natural remedy for
gall stones and it's black Spanish
radish now you could potentially use any
type of radish but the black Spanish
radish works the best and here's why
this radish actually reduces cholesterol
and at the same time it will stimulate
bile flow if we take a look at a
gallstone a gallstone really occurs
because of two situations a super
concentrated cholesterol with a
reduction in bile
because bile salts actually have the
capacity to keep stones from forming and
just to recap if you don't know this
bile is made by your liver okay and it
flows through these little ducks down
here it gets stored in the gallbladder
and the gallbladder basically
concentrates the bile by a factor of 20
times so it's super concentrated but if
there's something going on with the
liver let's say you have a fatty liver
or some scar tissue or some other
inflammatory condition you're not gonna
be able to produce enough file and also
guess what triggers are released to bile
saturated fats so if you're in a low-fat
diet okay
guess what's gonna happen you're gonna
dry up your bile and not have enough
file
to dissolve the cholesterol and your
body does make a lot of cholesterol - it
makes 75% of all the cholesterol and
your body so you really need the bile
salts to keep the cholesterol from
forming stones but radishes in general
are very very healthy for you and they
have a lot of other great benefits one
is anti cancer another one which is it's
a very potent effect in anti-diabetic
effect it has the capacity to have
similar results to certain medication
for diabetes in laboratory animals so if
your pet rat has diabetes you might want
to feed that rat radishes because it can
actually help their blood sugars and I'm
being very sarcastic about that I think
radishes will help lower blood sugars in
humans as well radishes also have
antimicrobial
there are powder protective they
actually really help the liver against
all sorts of chemicals and they will
also help something called phase one
phase two detoxification radishes also
get rid of mucus whether it's in the
sinuses or the lung so if you're
actually having some mucus of some sort
definitely consume more ravishes now i
remember one time i was experimenting
with juicing and i took two huge daikon
radishes and i juiced them it came out
to about 12 ounces of radish juice and
one tiny little side effect of radish
juice is that it irritates your mucus
membranes why didn't i didn't know that
at the time so i plug my nose and i
drank this whole thing down and by the
time it reached my stomach it was too
late to stop drinking that it went
literally through my entire body and
burned all the way through so i wouldn't
suggest that but for gall stones and
some of these other conditions I highly
recommend a radish in general and if you
have the opportunity to consume black
Spanish radish definitely go for that
one thanks for watching
