today we're going to talk about the
number one vitamin deficiency behind
most nerve problems let's see if you can
guess in the comments down below let's
start with this one right here nerve
pain okay like sciatic pain pain down
the back of the leg or maybe even pain
down the arm where it comes to the neck
we also have Tremors if you have Tremors
there's usually a deficiency of this one
vitamin anxiety the feeling of Doom or
something bad is going to happen you're
constantly solving problems right that's
coming from a deficiency of a certain
vitamin ADHD attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder or Attention
Deficit Disorder so you're not going to
have very much attention you're going to
be kind of distracted all over the place
it's hard to get something done it's
hard to focus you have a lot of project
you started but you can't seem to
complete them OCD this is a compulsive
disorder which a lot of people have or
even psychosis the more deficient you
are with this one nutrient the more
severe
the mental issues are going to be okay
then we have the racing mind right
before bed and this is really going to
keep you from going into a wonderful
sleep so you usually have insomnia it
takes you a long time to get to bed
because you're constantly thinking and
you can't turn it off then you can have
something called lactic acid buildup
restless leg syndrome I had this for a
long time many years ago I had to
literally wake up in the middle of the
night and pound my legs because I had so
much lactic acid building up in my legs
lactic acid also affects your oxygen so
you're going to have air hunger so it's
going to be hard to breathe and get
enough air and you'll have low tolerance
to exercise burning feet now this has to
do with a term called peripheral
neuropathy because the nerves especially
in the bottom of your feet are
surrounded with a coating called myin so
this deficiency of this certain nutrient
is going to create a breakdown of the
myin or coding or protective layer
around the nervous system and you're
going to start at Short Circuit that
nerve and one big symptom is burning
feet but it can also be numbness or any
type of weird sensation that's called
paresthesia in the bottom of the feet
can happen in your hands as well it's
usually related to diabetes but it can
also come from many other things and
then we have something called the
autonomic nervous system that's the
system that works on automatic there's
two types you have the flight or fight
mechanism which is the sympathetic
nervous system and then you also have
the other system which is called
parasympathetic that's rest and digest
so if you have the problem with the
autonomic nervous system you're going to
find that your gastrointestinal system
could be slower you could also have a
problem with the valves on the top of
the stomach and get acid reflex there
could be a lot of problems with your
valves including the heart valves and
even the heart rate itself can be too
high or too low with this deficiency
vertigo there's these little hairs on
the inside of your ear that can be
affected by this deficiency and you can
have you know dizziness and vertigo like
you're spinning and because the retina
is an extension of your brain it's a
nerve you can also have vision problems
especially if you have diabetes did you
guess what the deficiency
is B1 deficiency without getting into
the woods of what we're looking at here
this is chemical reaction that happen
inside your cells this thing right here
is where you make energy the sugar that
is entering in from your diet comes
along through here and in order for it
to get from here into this machine it's
like a motor it has to go through this
enzyme right here this enzyme step
requires vitamin B1 so if you consume
carbohydrate glucose sugar that's in a
refined form without B1 then your body
cannot use that glucose unless it pulls
from other places so when you consume
refined carbohydrates you are depleting
a tremendous amount of B1 and so you can
get this thing to work and create energy
so if you keep eating this refined sugar
as in junk food alter processed calories
you're going to end up not having enough
B1 to use that carbohydrate and that's
where you get the buildup of lactic acid
the lack of fuel that's going to be
fatigue and the dysfunction of all the
other organs and the related symptoms
now I'm going to get into some other
things that actually create a vitamin B1
deficiency this is the big one alcohol
when you drink alcohol you're very
vulnerable to a B1 deficiency I mean
even if you drink a little bit of
alcohol and you wake up in the morning
with a hangover if you took some B1
you'll feel less of a hangover okay so
we have alcohol we also have refined
carbohy hydrates I already mentioned
that as in sugar and starches I'm
talking about things like modified food
starch
maltodextrin flour grains refined grains
things like that then we have just being
a diabetic when you have a lot more
sugar in your blood that's going to
create more of a vitamin B1 deficiency
this is why a lot of diabetics have
nerve problems that relate to the bottom
of the feet the hands the eyes and other
related uh problems especially with the
autonomic nervous system and then of
course we have stress The more stress
you have on a chronic basis the more
you're going to deplete B1 because like
I said before B1 deficiency is related
to anxiety a lot of mental thinking Etc
so this is why when you give someone
some B1 and they're in this nervous
tension state within minutes they feel
relaxed they can finally calm down they
can breathe better the type of B vitamin
I would recommend would be a natural
source nutritional yeast either you know
put some on your salad or even get them
in little tablets other things that can
create a deficiency caffeinated tea if
you're just drinking a little bit of tea
here and there it's not going to be an
issue but if you're a chronic tea
drinker and you drink a lot of tea well
you better make sure you take more B1
also raw fish can create a B1 deficiency
sulfites where do you get sulfites wine
also preservatives in dried fruit it's
basically a preservative but it
definitely will deplete your B1 ftic
acid is in a lot of the grains the whole
grains all these grains that people tell
you to consume that are so-called
healthy for you they have phytic acid
they can deplete minerals and certain
vitamins like B1 also certain
antibiotics can create a B1 deficiency
as well so I hope you have a greater
understanding and awareness about this
B1 deficiency it's very very uh
widespread with so many people and if
you haven't seen this video yet that
talks more about one I put it up right
here check it out
