hey Dr Berg here in this short video I
want to talk about the four foods that I
believe are the most powerful foods that
trigger the fat burning hormones I would
say most weight loss programs do not
talk about hormone uh triggering of fat
they're more like cut calorie portion
control but as you age you have to start
looking at the relationship between
hormones and certain foods especially
the fat burning foods so the four foods
that help you burn fat are number one
eggs why eggs because it's a it's such a
complete food it has every single
nutrient that you your body needs so you
could pretty much live on eggs if you
want but they're they have dense protein
that allows you to trigger the fat
burning process so eggs are at the top
ofis because they also do not contain
hardly any carbs so they're great
protein food they will stimulate fat
burning okay so we have egg number two
we have this thing called spir Ina I
don't know if you've heard about it but
spirulina uh you're going to hear a lot
about it but it's a sea vegetable this
stuff has 60% Protein that's more
protein per weight than red meat it has
94 trace minerals and elements it has
B12 all the vitamins so it's a great way
to trigger the fat burning process too
spirulina it's a vegetarian uh protein
and then we also have flax seed now
what's so special about flax seed black
seed actually has a lot of protein it
has all nine amino acids so it does
trigger um the fat burning um hormone
called growth hormone because it has
Arginine all right and growth hormone is
the anti-aging it's the main fat burning
hormone but it also has something else
omega-3 fatty acids all right and what
does that do it feeds the mitochondria
the mitochondria is the PowerHouse of
the metabolism like your metabolic rate
is is controlled by hormones but all the
metabolism occurs in your mitochondria
the structure of the mitochondria is
made from omega-3 fatty acids okay so
this supports the raw material to
restore a good metabolism as compared to
burning out and then lastly my favorite
which is kale now the kale that I'm
holding right here has been growing in
my backyard I've been it survived the
entire winter but kale is probably the
most nutrient food nutrient dense food
on the planet other than parsley but of
course you can't eat a lot of parsley
because it's kind of strong but kale has
a lot of vitamin A pottassium calcium so
follows the principle of get healthy to
lose weight not lose weight to get
healthy but consuming this will get rid
of Cravings it'll satisfy your body it
will also um prevent the storage of fat
okay because of the potassium and the
blood sugar situation so kale so we have
egg flax spirulina and kale those are
the four top ones so what I did in the
last 6 months is I came up with a way to
combine them and put them in a powder
and make them into a shake and so here
it is it's called drct BG's instant kale
Shake okay so it comes in a mint if you
like mint um and then it comes in a milk
chocolate so the reason why it took so
long to create these is number one The
Taste because to try to make something
taste good and have it healthy too
that's been a challenge had to uh fly
out to uh the manufacturing company and
go and spend the entire day to come up
with the exact taste because this stuff
tastes incredible you can even combine
the mint with the milk chocolate but it
has in here egg white without the
hormones it has organic kale leaf powder
spirulina flax and it's sweetened with
two sweeteners one is Stevia and one is
arthall which basically are zero
glycemic on the index scale so they have
no
effects on your blood sugar so we kind
of have the ultimate fat burner without
the with the sweet but without the
insulin Factor okay so because in the
presence of insulin you can't burn fat
so it's great to enhance the fat burning
process okay
so if you're interested in something
that's convenient something that's fast
you can just add water or almond milk or
even coconut um water or milk and it
makes a wonderful shake so check it
out
