I want to share with you a very
interesting powerful technique to be
able to go to sleep within minutes but
first I want to kind of remove some of
the other things that can interfere with
this technique number one overtraining
if you're exercising too much your
sympathetic nervous system will go up
and that will keep your adrenaline high
and you will not be able to go to sleep
for some people the best high-intensity
interval training exercise should be
done maybe twice a week versus even
every other day that can keep someone up
also if your room is a little too hot
that can interfere with your ability to
sleep if you do a lot of carbohydrates
that can deplete B1 which will then keep
you up at night a real simple remedy is
just to take some B1 right before you go
to sleep it helps so many people and you
will feel like within minutes like this
calmness vitamin B1 is essential for the
parasympathetic nervous system and also
it's not just the carbs that can reduce
your B1 it could be also Al stress and
too much tea that caffeine is still in
their system it might seem like a real
simple thing but it seems to work for a
lot of people if your gut microbiome is
not right that will greatly interfere
with your ability to sleep kefir as a
probiotic will greatly help your sleep
maybe half of a cup not to mention
giving you some calcium which also can
actually help you go to sleep as well if
you are insulin resistant you're not
going to be able to absorb as much
tryptophan from your diet turns into
serotonin and then into melatonin the
sleep hormone and that could be another
reason why you're not sleeping sometimes
when people do the ketogenic diet for a
long period of time or even the
carnivore for a long period of time your
insulin level will go really low okay
and you're going to become insulin
sensitive okay so that means your
insulin receptors are going to work
really well uh but you might be on the
low side with insulin and remember we
need insulin for all sorts of things we
need insulin to help us absorb more
amino acids nutrients but here's what I
noticed some people who have done the
ketogenic diet for a period of time and
then the sleep isn't as great will
benefit from adding maybe one to two
cups of berries with their last meal and
that's still going to be under that 50 g
of carb so that will be enough carbs
with the fiber
to raise that insulin a little bit to
allow more tryptophan to enter the
bloodb brain barrier and help you sleep
a little bit better you should try it it
might help you and then you have another
Factor if you're deficient in sodium
because maybe you're fasting you're
doing one meal a day and you're not
really adding enough sodium or salt to
the diet your sympathetic nervous system
will have a tendency to go up and that
can keep you from sleeping so a little
more salt during the day helps you sleep
now I'm going to show you the technique
and this is legitimate it's the actual
technique that is based on science what
you're going to do is you're going to
synchronize your heart to your lungs
basically we're going to breathe in a
certain way to create this optimize
synchronization between your heartbeat
your blood pressure and the rhythm of
your breathing with your lungs and it's
going to help you stimulate some
something called the parasympathetic
which will induce a wonderful sleep so
here's a secret and you might want to
practice this with a timer first because
it's hard to be exact but this is how
you do it you want to breathe in for
five and a half seconds and breathe out
5 and 1/2 seconds but if you synchronize
your breathing in and out at a 5 and 1
half seconds each that will give you
about 5 and 1 half breaths per minute
that creates this synchronization and
you want to breathe through your nose
you want to do it very gradually and I'm
telling you within minutes I go right
out and if you haven't seen this video
on more data about breathing and getting
enough balance between CO2 and oxygen to
pull yourself out of a panic attack um
you should check this video out right
here and
