hi guys I'm back I'm gonna answer a
question that came up from someone that
wanted to know what is the dietary
requirement for carbs okay this is not
going to be a long video but I will say
this the requirement is that there isn't
any there's none there is no RDAs for
carbohydrates there is no such thing as
an essential carbohydrate there are
essential amino acids there are
essential fatty acids but no essential
carbohydrates and in this definition
essential means that your body can't
make it it needs to get it from the diet
okay well guess what the question is can
your body make glucose yes it's called
gluco neo Genesis okay but when you read
textbook sometimes they'll even say oh
glucose is necessary for the brain for
the red blood cell and that's all true
but when you actually reduce glucose and
you cut down the carbs your body just
converts and starts burning ketones
starts burning more fatty acids and any
glucose that it needs it can turn the
ketone the fat the protein into glucose
so you do not need glucose now that
being said your microbes do like to eat
fiber and fiber is a carbohydrate but it
is the only carbohydrate that has zero
effect on insulin so fibers okay unless
you have a lot of digestive issues where
when you consume fiber it just tears you
up other than that I would recommend
vegetables to get your fiber to feed the
microbes and also the vegetables have
some nutrients as well so there are no
requirements going on a low-carb diet
will do a lot of great things for you
despite consuming more fat one of the
biggest misconceptions is that oh I
don't want to do a low carb diet because
that's a high fat diet what's
interesting is when you lower the carb
and you and you actually raise the fat
your cholesterol
ratios and things go into a really good
range your LDL so-called bad cholesterol
may go up temporarily but if you
evaluate LDL and for the two different
types of LDL large buoyant versus small
dense you're gonna find that the good
LDL is going to be high and the bat is
going to be low so low carb diet puts
you in a really good place with
cholesterol in general it's when you
consume a high carb diet that you worsen
your cholesterol ratios you increase
triglycerides you decrease HDL and you
increase the really bad version of LDL
and also you increase your risk of
diabetes and heart problems and I'm
going to put some very interesting
research down below you should check it
out but if you haven't watched my video
on the good and bad LDL check that out I
put it right on the screen right here
