hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about low blood Sugar's in a minute
fasting and your liver I recently did a
video on talking about the adrenals and
low blood sugars in a minute fasting
today we're gonna talk about the liver
there is another hormone that is
involved that I'm not going to get into
that at this point now what happens when
you have a hypoglycemic reaction or low
blood sugars there's two main things
there's other things too but there's two
main things that will keep your Sugar's
high so to prevent the drop in blood
sugar okay the adrenals are one and then
the liver is the other one so in summary
if there's an adrenal issue you need to
focus on your sleep your B vitamins
potassium decrease stress to improve
that so you can have the adrenal glands
help you compensate and not experience
the symptoms of hypoglycemia which is
dizziness irritability and a great
difficulty in doing an amine fasting
because you have to go a long period of
time without eating and you don't want
to crash and burn and feel kind of funky
the primary target for hypoglycemia is
the brain okay so you're gonna have all
sorts of cognitive issues and mood
issues okay so if there's liver damage
if you have a fatty liver or you have
cirrhosis it's scar tissue that can come
from the fatty liver which both come
from high levels of insulin or insulin
resistance okay
that's gonna inhibit your ability to
store sugar in the liver the great
majority of all the stored sugar that
helps you between the meal to regulate
your fuel is called glycogen and it's
stored in the liver so if your liver is
damaged you won't have the capacity of
stored sugar to release and keep your
blood Sugar's normal when you're not
eating
okay so let's number one because you
just don't have the quantity of sugar to
stabilize yourself between meals because
the liver is fatty or there's some type
of damage to it number two you have a
problem with this other hormone called
igf-1 that's insulin-like growth factor
number one now what is that
that's another hormone that is very
similar to insulin but it works when
you're not eating
whereas insulin
converts things into fat IGF does the
opposite and releases the energy from
fat and stored sugar into energy between
the meals so you have these two things
working back and forth insulin triggered
when you're eating and IGF triggered
when you're not eating for the purpose
of maintaining blood sugars okay but if
there's damage to this hormone the blood
sugars can drop to low and you can have
all the problems of low blood sugar okay
so there's several things that can
improve i GF number one number one
keeping your insulin down by cleaning up
the diet not eating sugar
number two increasing exercise that will
help this right here in a minute fasting
which we'll come back to and sleep these
are all things that could improve this
in addition to fixing your liver if you
have a fatty liver you need to eat
healthy you need to take choline to
strip the fat off you need to do keto
and them and fasting but also cirrhosis
that can be improved if you're doing in
a minute fasting and there's also an
enzyme you can take called Serra pep
taste I'll put a link down below for a
video if you have cirrhosis you can
improve it so anything that will improve
the liver will improve IGF number one
and this works very closely with human
growth hormone they almost have the same
job so the whole goal is to go from one
meal to the next do intimate of fasting
over a longer period of time and prevent
the low blood sugar situation okay by
improving the liver and the adrenals so
when you're trying to do intimate
fasting some of the things in addition
to adding fat outside of vinegar
potassium B vitamins and going at this
very gradual is you want to improve the
liver by increasing something called
vegetables okay large quantities of
vegetables or salad it's kind of a new
concept so the biggest problem that I
see with people doing in a minute
fasting and they're having a hard time
is they don't consume enough vegetables
so I know you might not have a problem
with this but you probably know people
who just don't like vegetables but this
is really a very important thing to
increase
when you're doing a minute fasting that
goes beyond just eating more fat if you
don't have enough vegetables they're not
talking about just increasing potassium
I'm talking about all the other things
that are in vegetables that will
actually heal the liver and allow you to
go a long period of time without eating
so if you're having difficulty doing
intermittent fasting because of your
blood sugars you need to make sure the
Drina are good and the liver by
consuming more vegetables thank you so
much for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press the button
below and I will keep you in the know
hey that runs
