everyone we're back with another great
before-and-after Skype with Vicki hi
Vicki hi how are you doing right listen
I wanted to share with our viewers your
story and if you could tell us a little
bit about you what happened to you as
far as your weight and then what you did
and then the after results can you share
a little bit about starting with before
alright yeah well I had a lot of
problems all after having children I you
know a lot of people gain weight after
having kids well that really wasn't the
case with me it was years after when my
children were in elementary school that
things started happening my thigh really
shut down I got put on synthroid and the
synthroid
didn't react to me like it's supposed to
all I wanted to do was sleep and the way
I felt was I just made me feel like a
zombie I had no energy all I wanted to
do was sleep so I just decided that I
would rather be fat and happy than
skinny and a zombie so I got off the
synthroid I tried multiple things
throughout the years from juicing I
don't want to name everything that I did
because I don't want to you know what
works for some people didn't work for me
so I don't want to you know talk out of
school but I tried for years the low fat
and I just kept getting fatter and
fatter I didn't quite understand what
was going on because if you looked at
what I ate a lot of great vegetables I
love organic I was really very choosy in
my shopping and but I chose low fats and
so on Facebook I had been watching a
girl named Rima and once she got up to
about a hundred thirty five pounds lost
I was very you know just what is she
doing oh I've got to figure this out so
she told me all about keto so I looked
it up I did a lot of research
it went against everything that I had
been told you know this food pyramid
that we're taught and so I thought well
let me give this a shot seven months in
I lost the bulk of my weight
I was 1820 size 18 and 20 and I kind of
try to focus more on size that I do on
weight because everybody looks different
at a different weight
everyone's body build I think is a
little bit different and so as I said I
think a lot of people focus too much on
how much they weigh you know I think you
should focus on how healthy do I feel
how healthy do I look I mean that's my
mentality because I feel so much better
my daughter is just ecstatic about it
she's 30 years old and so my son is 28
and my youngest son is 19 so they're all
very happy about me getting healthy how
old are you sorry old are you I'm 49 wow
that's awesome
I'll be 50 in March that's awesome so
but this is the first time in my life
that I remember really feeling a hundred
percent confident and 100% healthy and
I'm not at my goal yet so what's here
what's your size now right now we're a
size six eight that's really awesome
which I see sizes have really changed
over the years because I remember being
a size 9 and I was 100-107 to 120 pounds
and so now I weigh more than that and
Here I am a 6/8 so I believe sizes has
changed a lot it sounds like it I know
are you finding other benefits like with
your energy and the thyroid symptoms are
changed yeah my thyroid is 100% working
I've had a full physical they've checked
my thyroid they have checked all my
cholesterol everything my LDL
94 my HDL is 96 and my triglycerides are
53 so everything is perfect and I feel
you know just like I don't know how to
explain it but if I look at pictures of
what I looked like
even before I gained weight to what I
look like now
I look actually younger now than I did
20 years ago wow that's that's
incredible
I know I'm looking I'm like you don't
look like you're 49 you don't look like
you're old enough to have a 30 old child
basically thank you so another question
I had about your your your thyroid so if
you take the centroid a thyroid
medication and you don't feel better
usually that means your thyroid problem
is usually secondary to something else
so I have two questions because usually
thyroid comes from either a gallbladder
liver issue or high estrogen from an an
overactive ovary so you say that your
symptoms in the past or more cycle
related heavy cycles or more digestion I
think it was maybe a mix of both because
I ended up having my gallbladder taken
out and then I ended up with a lot of
other female problems that ended up
having a hysterectomy so I think it was
a mix of both yeah because without a
thyroid it's harder to convert the t4 to
t3 so that would explain a lot
interesting so how many meals a day do
you consume now it I eat when I'm hungry
so sometimes I get up and you know I get
busy throughout my day and it's you know
I go to the gym my workout I like to
workout before I eat if I go to the gym
after I eat I'm more I just don't have
as much energy I don't know how to
explain that it's like I feel heavy but
I really like to work out before I eat
and so I can have anywhere from you know
two to six meals a day I mean it just
depends sometimes I'll just have my
morning coffee and I put my butter
I use my Kerrygold butter in my coffee
and my MCT oil and my coffee in the
mornings and that's what I'll have
before I go to the gym and workouts and
so then I get home from the gym and I
get busy throughout my day I have a farm
I have milk goats so I have dairy goats
and so I make my own soaps and I do a
lot of things around the farm so you
know I get busy on the farm but you know
if I get hungry I eat which you know
that was that used to be a big problem
of mine is that I was a meal skipper so
give me an example you say in the
morning you have the coffee and then at
one's the next time you roughly eat on
average like what's usually around 2
o'clock 2 o'clock ok that seems to be
the time that I get hungry after I have
my coffee I go to the gym I workout I do
my farm chores it usually is around 2
o'clock and then I usually have dinner
around 6 o'clock at night cool I try not
to eat three hours before I go to bed
right and at 2:00 what would you eat um
usually I'll make sure that I always
have a cheese a protein and then green
leafy vegetables good that's what I like
to have good are you finding that your
cravings have gone down Oh most
definitely
because used to my biggest craving was
donuts maple doughnut yeah that's the
gall bladder problem and was there
anything in any of my videos that you
saw that you got some tips to tweak
either in a minute fasting or ketosis a
little bit better the intermittent
fasting was what did it for me is
because when I watched your videos about
it you know I was kind of you know leery
about it at first but I had hit a stall
and so I I watched more videos and
decided I was going to give it a try
because I had hit a stall for several
months but I was still losing inches and
I still felt fabulous so I was just I
wasn't giving up and I've gone too far
to give up
and so I tried it one morning and I
actually lost two pounds that day so I
was pretty amazed and I had gone to the
gym worked out came home and I ate
roughly around 2 o'clock that seems to
be my time that I get hungry and so but
then sometimes I'll get up and I'll have
my coffee and I you know I still do my
my butter and my MCT oil and then I will
not eat for the rest of the day until
that evening when I make dinner because
I'm just not hungry but I also think
that is you know it helps me get out of
the stall to do that fasting in between
that time and for those of you that
don't know we're talking about and it's
probably a new thing the reason why in a
minute fasting is so powerful is that
you're going longer between meals and
you're allowing insulin to go lower so
when insulin goes lower your body starts
pulling fat from its reserve every time
you eat you spike insulin so if you can
go longer and you can add bat like she's
saying with your coffee that sustains
you longer then you will be satisfied
and you'll be fine but by doing
intermittent fasting you can increase
growth hormone by up to 2,000 percent
that's the anti-aging hormone that's
probably why you're looking younger and
also it gives your gall bladder a chance
to reset it gives your digestion a
chance to feel better it decreases
inflammation and you combine the with
healthy Kido you're gonna be in good
shape so that's awesome are other people
like also commenting on like your like
how you're looking healthier they saying
anything like wow what are you doing I
have a lot of comments you know people
want to know what I'm doing but people
want to know you know if I've had Botox
you know different things usually no
this is Kido Kido is the Fountain of
Youth I'm telling you it is definitely
the Fountain of Youth because you not
only feel better on the inside you feel
better on the outside
and it's like through the years you know
seeing other people lose weight I've
seen people lose weight and then they
look twenty years older after they lose
weight and I really do think from all
that I've looked at in everything that I
read I believe me I have a lot more to
learn but everything I've read I really
think it's the high fat that makes us
look healthier and makes us look younger
you think about what our
great-grandparents ate they ate that
high fat diet you know I totally agree
with you of course there's this whole
movement to get everyone off fat but
you're gonna look older your skin so I
can look good I mean I'm going on 53 I
mean I don't have a lot of wrinkles I
mean I eat a lot of fat the fat is
needed for all the cells the skin your
brain but you just have to be able to
digest it and apparently you without a
gallbladder are able to digest it
probably because the intermittent
fasting you have a chance to you know
now has stressed that bile too much so I
think you did really well
I mean I'm impressed well thank you
that's been a big question for me a lot
of people have asked me with I don't
have a gallbladder I can't do keto I'm
like well I don't have a gallbladder
either and I haven't had any problems
with it so and I do take probiotics
every day so I don't know if that's what
helped me or I'm not sure I think I'm
still learning I think I think it's
gonna help you because you're doing in a
minute fasting and you're eating healthy
and you're not doing a lot of carbs your
liver is probably adapted and you're
probably as soon as you eat it releases
a little bowel because you have a little
tube that goes from your liver down to
your your intestine now you just don't
have the concentration so the liver must
be concentrating it the only thing I
would tell people if they don't have a
gallbladder is just you know watch to
see if you have any symptoms with fat
soluble vitamin issues like can't see in
the dark too well when you're driving
let's say your skin is getting drier
those are all indications that you need
some help in that case you could do some
bile salts
Goll better support and then you'll be
fine but I think if you don't seem to
need it and your skin is looking good I
wouldn't even worry about it but you
sounds like you're doing great
so ride the wave but a lot of people
don't understand about bio what it is
they they don't get it so they end up
looking older and they just have a lot
of digestive issues but you need that
bile to pull out the fat side with
vitamins vitamin A D and K so yeah so I
think you did really good awesome well I
want to thank you so much for your
interview your I think you have a lot of
similar symptoms that other people have
and similar a similar story to other
people and they can relate to that so
that's really good and just to know that
you've done it so I think it's gonna
help other people get some more ideas
about I mean they should probably take
action as well right and the one thing I
one of the things I like to always tell
everybody is when you start keto
everyone wants to talk about the keto
flu and I see so many people when they
go through it they just throw their
hands up and give up and you just can't
do that
you can't do it because if you just get
through it it's just gonna be right
around the corner and then everything is
gonna be okay yeah let me just let me
just kind of talk about that keto flu is
a symptom where all of a sudden you
start feeling tired it has to do with
the transition from sugar burning the
fat burning it's called keto adaptation
when you're building new cellular
enzymes from sugar to fat it's a
transition and it requires a lot more B
vitamins and potassium so and even some
sodium so if you're low on that going in
there because you're not having enough
vegetables or you're not having any B
vitamins from I recommend nutritional
yeast or some potassium supplement you
won't have hardly any symptoms if you
know what you're doing so on the videos
youtube I actually have every single
possible symptom that you could go
through in the transition and you can
watch those and just get ideas but yeah
I recommend nutritional yeast and you
should those things should just go away
like that and the other thing is that if
you start noticing muscle weakness
that's sodium loss so you need more salt
if you point your toes and notice that
you're getting cramps in the calf that's
more calcium so you could so I show you
basically what to do for different
situations and I just want to mention
one thing a lot of people watching I
already have my book the seven
principles but the new one is out this
is this is supposed to be out last
January first so it's a little overdue
there's a lot of pre-orders that are
people are gonna be a little upset
because it's not out yet but it's out
now and it has all the details about
keto in a minute fasting how to do it
right with a ton of qat
how to make healthy desserts and he'd
call keto bombs and it also has in there
how to add into your body type so if you
have a little more thyroid issues how to
tweak the diet to even be more strategic
in what you're doing so just all about
giving people better ideas to overcome
these issues so that way they can stick
to it longer so awesome I just tell
everybody to not give up just keep
moving forward and you know you're gonna
get through it now I you know myself I
didn't ever go through the keto flu and
I don't know if that has to do with that
I I started paleo first and I had lost
some weight gained it all almost all of
it back and so then that's when I
started keto so I don't know if it was
because of that transitioning that you
know the only thing I had was severe
headaches and so I didn't go through a
lot of you know feeling like you are
actually have the flu but I have you
know had friends that had it
I have a friend right now that she's
just started keto and she's two weeks
into it has lost 20 pounds my husband
actually just started it a little over
30 days ago and he's lost over 20 pounds
and so I'm very happy
I'm glad you just brought that up
because I have to make one more point
when you
20 pounds or 10 pounds in a week you the
most you can actually lose the fat
that's two pounds so you're losing a lot
of fluid right yeah fluid comes comes a
lot of potassium and sodium loss so that
means that you may end up with a little
some issues that you just had to put
that back and that's the issue with
people don't realize they need a lot of
sodium they don't have the sodium they
can't maintain the fluids that well so
it's really simple when you understand
it but yeah well that's a that's awesome
so thank you so much Vicki for sharing
your story and I love it I think you did
wonderful so keep up the good work and
your your I know do you have a you know
more goals to achieve but maybe in like
a couple months we'll do another one
like an update oh that would be awesome
thank you all right I hear the chickens
in the background so it sounds like you
gotta go alright thank all right great
day you too
