hi guys Dr bur here listen I wanted to
talk about the concept of doing a
maintenance program on a ketogenic diet
like what happens when you reach your
goal okay of weight loss well what I
want to talk about is I want to talk
about the ketogenic diet is really you
have to look at it like a tool when you
really understand how to do it correctly
it can create some real powerful effects
not just on your weight loss but for
your health longevity heart
cardiovascular blood pressure
cholesterol
cancer memory cognitive function energy
levels I mean there are so many positive
things so once you hit your goal with
weight you want to now have a new goal
what is your new goal my goal is to get
younger every year that I get older okay
I'm 70 years old right now so I want to
no I'm just kidding I'm 52 but I want to
get younger every year I get older I
want to feel better I want to get more
fit this is the goal that I have and you
have to kind of as you get old you have
to work harder at it so my goal on
YouTube is to educate you so well that
you can use this with certainty and
predict your health because it creates
some pretty powerful effects fairly fast
I've been reading a lot of your comments
and people are losing 30 and 40 pounds
they're coming off their medication I
mean that is like huge once that happens
you'll have the knowledge and the
certainty to know that it works and it's
going to be really hard for you to go
back to what other people do is they go
back to their old ways
because now you don't crave so really
the goal of a ketogenic diet which is a
certain technology is to use it as a
tool to build up your health Reserve so
high that you can afford to go off
occasionally if you want to do the fruit
you want to do the potato you want to do
the Sprout of grains go for it but now
you have the certainty and knowledge to
know that you know what maybe I can't do
that and maybe I have to do less of it
or but you'll have the certainty and
that's really what it's all about is
putting you in charge so you can be kind
of cause over your own health all right
thanks for
watching Press the Subscribe button and
I I can't even say this um press the sub
okay jeez let me do that over again
press the Subscribe
button press just press this button
right here subscribe okay that one right
there just do it right now what's the
next part what am I going to say take
five do it press the Subscribe button
and I will keep you updated on the
future events
