hi guys had another question is
intermittent fasting stressful to your
adrenals okay
someone was concerned about doing in a
minute fasting because they didn't want
to stress their Greenhills out because
they heard that doing in a minute
fasting will spike cortisol which is one
of the adrenal hormones okay so let me
just sort this out because you have to
look at the big picture of what's
happening now when you fast you could
end up with a low blood sugar situation
and cortisol normally comes in there to
raise the blood sugar to counter
hypoglycemia or low blood sugar it's not
an abnormal thing that's what the
adrenals are supposed to do counter low
blood sugar it's kind of like saying
would inflammation be stressful to the
adrenals well no because the adrenals
are the anti-inflammatory to help you
recover or would infection be stressful
to the adrenals now if you're doing
intimate fasting and you end up with a
low blood sugar that needs the help from
cortisol and it's not working that well
and you notice symptoms now when you
have insulin resistance you have a
higher level of fasting insulin okay so
that's going to be pushing the blood
sugars down so in a manifesting is not
something that is going to stress the
adrenals out it's a tool to fix the
insulin resistance however you might
need to support your adrenal x' to also
help the stabilization of blood sugars
and preventing the blood sugars from
going too low alright thanks for
watching so I want to know what you're
interested in as far as an video click
the link down below and share some ideas
I want to hear
