hey guys I'm back today we're going to
talk about Jason Fung and in a minute
fasting now out of all the gurus in
experts on fasting he is number one most
of you know about him some of you don't
if you don't I highly recommend getting
his book because his information is
spot-on he's a Canadian nephrologists
which is a doctor that specializes in
kidney disease he's an expert in fasting
he has three best-selling books one is
the obesity code that's a that's one I
would recommend starting with he's also
co-founder of the intensive dietary
management program the other founder is
Megan Ramos who works with them and
Megan came to my last keto summit and
she flew down did amazing presentation
on in a minute fasting and she gave some
incredible stories and some of the
things that they're doing in their
clinic postmenopausal women who are
doing fasting are getting amazing
anti-aging benefits and another
practitioner that works with dr. Fung is
Nadia pod iguana and she also came to
the summit and spoke on polycystic
ovarian syndrome and some of the great
success that they're getting doing
fasting with that condition now there's
a lot of data that he talks about but
what most people like about him is it is
very very simple in his explanations and
one of the key things that he talks
about is the calorie in calorie out
theory or Dogma is completely and
utterly false it's not a scientific law
at all
and it definitely does not work with his
kidney patients who have diabetes I mean
the mainstream concept of eating less
and moving more has been proven not to
be the thing that really really works so
the more people that are starting to cut
their calories especially fat calories
are basically setting themself up for
failure not only do they get even more
cravings and more hungry they just can't
lose the weight no matter how hard they
tried he also presents a lot of hardcore
credible studies on supporting fasting
and lowering insulin and doing a low
carb diet because when you lower carbs
you lower insulin the hormone insulin
controls whether you gain weight
or you lose weight so when you reduce
insulin you lose weight when you
increase insulin you gain weight now
this is one reason why a diabetic type
one that doesn't have any more insulin
will tend to be thinner then a case with
diabetes type two where they have higher
amounts of insulin they're actually many
times just overweight and the more
insulin that you have that it stimulated
the more that it creates insulin
resistance the key thing behind
pre-diabetes and diabetes and metabolic
syndrome and a lot of other other health
problems so it's similar to like
antibiotic resistance if you're exposed
to antibiotics your body develops
resistance against that well the same
thing with insulin so the simplicity is
just to decrease insulin to fix this
problem right here and the two ways you
do it is you reduce your carbs and you
stop consuming food so frequently you do
intermittent fasting fasting allows the
body to clear out the excess fat so it's
cleaning internally it's also cleaning
the fat around the organs and inside the
organs especially liver fat and dr.
Jason funk does not recommend keto
without fasting and that's something
that I emphasize as well because if
you're doing fasting in you're lowering
insulin why would you want to eat
something that raises and it kind of
counters the effect so the combination
of these together are very very powerful
so in summary if you're the person who
wants to do keto and intermittent
fasting and you're on some medication or
you're on some program with a physician
dr. Fung would be a great doctor to work
with to get that additional extra help
to deal with the medication aspect and
for those of you that are not familiar
with Jason Fong I would recommend the
obesity code you can go to Amazon get
the hardback or the Kindle version
alright guys thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next video so if you
want more knowledge on how to create a
healthy body subscribe now and get daily
notifications
