hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I'm
going to show you how to correct a short
leg okay a lot of people walking around
with a short leg and I'm going to show
you what not to do and what to do um
first of all there's a muscle um deep
inside uh your your abdomen okay and
it's from the last rib to your hip bone
right through here this called ilc Crest
and you got two of them they're these
big broad muscles on both sides they're
in your back and they connect the upper
rib to this area right here and it's
called the quadrus laborum okay what
happens a short leg is mainly uh
affected by one of these muscles it's
too tight maybe you fell in your
tailbone maybe you fell in your butt
real hard and you jammed it and caused a
spasm okay so what happens is one of
these muscles would tighten up and draw
up the pelvis on one side now let's just
pretend it went up on this side that
they hip went higher it's going to make
the leg seem short on that side right so
if you're checking the leg lengths and
you have a short leg in your mind you
might think oh I'm going to give the
person a heel lift on the short leg well
guess what that's going to do it's going
to make it worse it's going to drive the
hip higher okay so usually it's true
that you could have a short leg but it's
very rare unless you broke your leg but
typically what happens it's really a
pelvis that draws up up on the side
where it's short okay so we're going to
show you an exercise how to fix that but
the point is don't ever put a heel lift
in the short leg because it might be the
wrong side you should put it in the
longer leg because it'll drive up the
hip right here and why because the
problem is actually a muscle that's
drawing it up and it's making it appear
to be short all right so let's now show
you what to do to fix this okay so if we
look at the short leg we got a short leg
on the left side over here okay you can
see that it's short and that means that
his pelvis is drawing upward okay so we
got a spasm on his left pelvis up to the
his lower back so that muscle the
quadrus laborum is too tight on that
side because it's drawing up the worst
thing you can do is put a lift heel lift
on the short leg why because it's going
to drive the pelvis higher so this could
happened from a fall on the tail bone
fall on the butt whatever or on the knee
and jam that side so now the question is
how do we fix it
right now I found that if you try to
stretch the short leg it doesn't work
because the thing is in a guarding mode
so it's kind of like taking an injured
muscle and stretching it just kind of
like a rubber band it comes right back
okay so there's a much simpler way and
it's using a technique to pull a muscle
out of that protect mode that guarding
mode okay so we want to get it to relax
and what we're going to do is we're
going to actually work on the opposite
muscle so we're going to stretch the
opposite muscle okay so when we stretch
the opposite muscle it's going to send a
signal to the short leg and relax it why
because both of those muscles in your
back work together they're on the same
electrical circuit so what we're going
to do is we're going to work on the
other side to fix the short side okay
sounds might sound new to you but it
really works so this is what we're going
to do we're going to take take the long
leg okay and we're going to stretch it
downward towards me so just push drop
your pelvis down towards me yes as far
as you can push it yeah right there good
relax it good let's do that again good
now look what we're doing we're taking
the long leg and making it worse okay
we're exaggerating the long leg this is
stretching the good side and it's
sending signals into the tight side
you'll see when we're done okay we're
going to do this 10 times and you can do
this yourself while laying in your bed
all you need to help with is for someone
to tell you what leg is short
okay okay good now so that's you can do
it like 10 times so now what I'm going
to do is I'm going to recheck and you
can see the leg lengths are perfectly
balance isn't it amazing so this is how
you fix a short leg go ahead and make
your comments below and I will see you
on the next
video
