today we're going to talk about 10 fake
foods that you will never buy again once
you find out what I'm going to talk
about all right the first one is fake
steak now what's interesting is um
certain
restaurants uh Caterers use pieces of
meat that have been glued together with
something called meat glue and that glue
is called
transglutaminase now a couple problems
with this glue um they have to Rehand
the meat so there's increased risk of
adding more bacteria to the meat and
they don't have to actually tell you the
process of how they make this glue um
originally it was it came from blood
plasma from either a cow or a pig and
then they combine that with certain
things like a bacteria and then they
evolve to just fermenting a bacteria to
make this these enzymes to make this
glue but the problem is all of this is
not very transparent you don't really
know how they're making it eating any
anywhere where there's bulk fet Manan uh
you might want to ask them if they use
meat glue all right number two parmesan
cheese now unfortunately most parmesan
cheese doesn't come from Parma Italy
which I could just imagine having that
authentic parmesan cheese from that city
is just amazing but
unfortunately especially in the US uh
you're going to get a different version
of that cheese that is made with with
different ingredients it's usually a
mixture of uh cheap cheeses like uh
cheddar cheese or powdered uh mozzarella
cheese so it's definitely a way for
companies to make more money with
cheaper ingredients all right next one
is crab sticks okay they called it the
hot dog of the sea and I'm talking about
imitation crab another name for that is
Seri and they take like random fish
flesh or fish leftovers and of course
they add some starch whether it's from
potato wheat corn Tapioca And they mix
that in there as well with some MSG to
add as a flavor enhancer and then they
have to add crab flavoring because it
doesn't taste like crab and then some
protein but that protein is either egg
white protein soy protein and they put
some sugar in it
sorbitol and some soy oil or other
vegetable oils then we'll just sprinkle
little sodium benzonate as a
preservative to make it last longer and
of course they have coloring to make it
look like crab but the next time you see
imitation crab now you know how they
make it all right next one on the list
is fake tuna and I'm talking like the
precooked caned tuna or even packaged
tuna one company that did uh some
investigation into this found that
21% of the companies they found um did
not contain actual tuna it was actually
mislabeled so instead of having tuna
they had some other fish called
escula escula uh is known as butterfish
or oil fish and it was banned in Japan
from
1977 because they said it was too toxic
and they even have a name for it it's
called xlax fish because of the side
effect diarrhea or anal leakage so if
you see your uh tuna like extremely
white like a opaque white um it's not
tuna all right next one on the list
extra virgin olive oil and I've done a
video just on this topic but
80% of extra virgin olive oil is not
extra virgin extra virgin means it's
processed uh very quickly it's cold
pressed it's a much more high quality
process so you have more
antioxidants and when you consume it it
has a completely different taste and
smell it has a fresh smell and kind of a
taste that uh gives you a little tickle
in the back of your throat and so you
know it contains some of the
phytonutrients that you need but it has
that fresh grass type taste that is very
different than the fake stuff which is
just Bland in fact I didn't even know
what real olive oil tastes like until I
went to Italy but as soon as I found out
now I can identify fake olive oil just
by a simple smell test and about 80% of
the extra virgin olive oil is not extra
virgin they add sometimes canola or just
a blend of other oils so it's rancid
it's cooked it's heated doesn't have the
phytonutrients all right next one it's
maple syrup much of the maple syrup that
you buy is either made from dark brown
sugar or refined white sugar with maple
syrup
flavoring and artificial
colorings and some of it's even made
with high fructose corn syrup and of
course because these ingredients don't
have the natural antioxidants as a
preservative they have to add
preservatives like sodium benzoate and
sorbic acid to prevent this syrup from
spoiling next one on the list is truffle
oil truffle oil comes from a very
expensive um mushroom and so what they
do is they found a flavoring molecule to
make some other materials taste like
truffle oil and they use this in
restaurants a lot it's a way to save
money because the the actual oil is very
expensive all right next one is the
powdered instant coffee some of the
Blended ingredients include cereal
caramel starch maltt and figs in
addition instant coffee has something
called acry amide a potentially very
harmful chemical in instant coffee a
potentially very harmful um chemical
that's created when the beans are
roasted and instant coffee has more than
double the amount as other types of
coffee you know it can affect the
nervous system it can increase the risk
of cancer if you're consuming it on a
regular basis all right the next one and
I have done a video on this Wasabi okay
the vast majority of Wasabi in the US is
simply a mixture of horseradish hot
mustard and green dye it doesn't
actually come from the Wasabi plant so
it is fake there's been a report that up
to
95% of the Wasabi sold is not real
Wasabi and I'm talking about all over
the world even in Japan and this is
because Wasabi is very difficult to grow
and it's extremely expensive it's like
$160
a kilogram that's at wholesale prices
and when you take fresh Wasabi and you
pulverize it you grind up into a past it
really only lasts for like 15 minutes
and what I mean by lasting is it
basically loses its flavor but that's
not going to happen with horseradish
horseradish is going to last a lot
longer and the last one is commercial
guacamole just because it says it's
guacamole doesn't even mean it has a lot
of avocado in it un unfortunately these
impostures are made with skim milk
vegetable oil water emulsified egg yolks
and a slew of gums and gels and it's
even thickened with isolated soy protein
and of course to make it look green they
add food dye and so some of this
commercial guacamole only has like 2%
avocado incredible all right so the next
video I really think you should watch is
on olive oil there's a lot more to know
about this so I put it up right here
check it out
