so today I want to talk about the
relationship between your mood and your
food there's a huge relationship the
problem is that you never ever ever ever
ever want to treat a symptom directly
without understanding the underlying
cause and that's the problem of medicine
is they treat all the symptoms so if you
get depression they're going to treat it
they don't ask why anxiety it's a
treatment there's a lot of pills there's
no profit in curing these it's all about
managing these symptoms in fact when you
treat the symptom or you diagnose
incorrectly you make the patient worse
I'll give an example I had a patient who
was depressed and I said when we when we
depressed she goes when I was diagnosed
I said interesting I said I started
questioning more stuff and I said you
know what you're not depressed you're
just exhausted she goes wow that makes
sense because I don't sleep I feel
better thank you so I got rid of her
depression just by helping her realize
the underlying cause okay so let's talk
about this there's a couple of factors
and in the relationship to in affecting
your emotional mood and the food that
you eat and other things let's talk
about nutrition nutrition first you hear
the concept an apple a day keeps the
doctor away well that might have been
true in 1965 but not now it takes six
apples a day now to keep the doctor away
if you take the apples and shoot them
hard enough at the doctor I'm just
kidding don't do that but the point is
that it there soils are so bad right now
you need so much food to achieve the
same nutrient levels in Europe or in
Africa the food nutritional factors are
so much more that
that's why they have good teeth good
bone structure because they have more
nutrition in the soils so the soils are
bad in America that's the food is empty
so therefore you need to eat even
healthier let's just take potassium it's
one of the most important minerals in a
good relaxed body because potassium is a
physiological tranquilizer it calms the
nervous system down and you might say
that you eat a banana a day well that's
400 milligrams you need
4700 milligrams just to get your minimum
so that would equate to about seven to
eight to even ten cups of vegetables or
salad every single day how many cups the
vegetables are you eating every day so
potassium is very very important for two
reasons to calm the heart rate down
because if your potassium is low your
pulse rate is going to go high try to
sleep with your pulse rate just going
boom boom boom boom it won't let you
relax so potassium is very important to
calm the heart down it's also important
to establish good blood sugars and even
to help stabilize the sugar so they
don't drop down too far we'll get into
that in a second but I want to just talk
about the nutrient factors B vitamins
especially b1 B vitamins are used up
when you're in a stress State so when
you're pushing your body and you're
stressed out you're going to deplete
your B vitamins especially b1 and some
of the other ones when you deplete B
vitamins you become more anxious you
have that internal that restlessness
restless leg syndrome for example is a B
vitamin deficiency the best source of B
vitamin E
steel fist or get nutritional yeast take
a teaspoon I like to put it in plain
yogurt put in your calcium whatever but
those B vitamins are very very very
important to actually calm you down and
help you sleep and prevent nightmares as
well but don't buy them from a one-a-day
vitamin most these vitamins out there
are synthetic and you don't want to
consume synthetic vitamins you want them
food base I have one called super
nutrients that I use because it has good
cognitive function it's all food base
there's no synthetics and you could take
probably three of those and get enough B
vitamins if you wanted to do that called
super nutrients calcium calcium is
important to help you relax calm down
and reduce stress when you're under
stress you deplete your calcium calcium
goes through you you don't really absorb
it as well so calcium the best source is
not from a typical one a day or some of
the calcium supplements they sell at CVS
because all those are made from calcium
carbonate that's limestone be better off
chewing on the cement outside
and I won't mention any brand names that
use calcium carbonate sometimes silver
but a lot of these top name-brand
calciums they basically used rocks which
don't absorb so you need a calcium
citrate or have it from cheese or have
it from plain yogurt something like that
okay omega-3 very very important in
cognitive function and even especially
for children so omega-3 fish oils for
kids oh my gosh huge but the problem is
that there's something fishy about fish
oils and that would be that it's usually
rancid so get a higher quality fish oil
rather than just kind of like the
cheapest brand that you can find get a
good one and open up the capsule and
smell it and if it's not visually it
might be it's probably pretty good so if
you're going to go with fish oils make
sure it's a higher quality okay so
that's one thing and then I'm going to
talk about iodine when a child is
growing or when you're nursing or when
you're going to have a baby make sure
that you consume enough iodine as
from a seek seek help source I like sea
kelp that's the best source of iodine
and like especially pregnant females and
things like that because iodine supports
the thyroid
children that are mentally
usually I have an iodine deficiency
because the mother was deficient and it
transported over to the baby and i neva
know some adults that are mentally
as well because they don't have
enough iodine iodine supports the
thyroid the thyroid helps the cognitive
function of the brain but I like to have
it from the food base not a synthetic or
like a rock so take it from sea kelp
next thing blood sugar is very very
important if your blood sugar is not
perfectly level at 100 if it goes too
high you're going to get brain fog
you're going to have loss of memory when
the blood sugars go down you're going to
have irritability a DD you're going to
be edgy so just from blood sugars so the
blood sugar relationship to t between
cognitive function on a physical level
it's it's huge it's very very important
I used to have brain fog all the time
and then one day
I started to change my breakfast from a
carbohydrate cereal to a protein
breakfast I think I was having buffalo
burger or even a piece of fish and then
I went to eggs oh my gosh I felt so much
better like a like a helmet lifted off
my head so you want to make sure your
breakfast is protein because that
actually stabilizes the blood sugars
through the whole day if you skip a meal
skip breakfast or have a carb breakfast
in the evening you're going to have low
blood sugars now having low blood sugars
doesn't mean you're just you should eat
more sugar it just means that you didn't
set it up where you have good protein in
salad or vegetables in that potassium to
stabilize your sugar so when your blood
Sugar's drop down have a salad have some
don't eat sugar that's not going to fix
it and so we want to make sure that we
don't eat sugars because it's going to
spike and then come down you're going to
help with a low blood sugar and then
you're going to irritable so the bottom
line is you have to avoid sugar okay
seven cups of salad we talked about
potassium will help stabilize your blood
Sugar's and it's great for diabetics
protein breakfast very very very
important that kale shake and get the
recipe off the website kale shake in the
morning is wonderful to establish the
blood sugars through the whole day
hormones hormones influence your brain
as well serotonin it's a pleasure
hormone and that's how psych drugs work
too they recycle that last drop of
serotonin you have over and over and
over again tricking your body and
thinking it has more than it really does
so when you take these psych drugs they
end up causing a deficiency over the
time even more and the need for that
medication Rises over time so it doesn't
have a long-term good solution and
sometimes when the doctor doesn't have a
plan to get you off the medication then
you end up mean more and more and more
on different ones and to the point where
it really ruins the body so you want to
start building up serotonin with a good
diet before you even get these symptoms
now next thing is cortisol that's the
stress hormone and that comes from all
types of stress you push yourself over
the years you work two jobs you don't
sleep maybe you don't take care of your
maybe you party too much and you go into
the flooded fight mode and you will get
anxiety as a symptom from cortisol so
anxiety worry thinking all the time
that's a higher cortisol adrenaline
adrenal problem which needs to be
improved through natural means one ways
is through walking each day through
maybe acupressure stretching pulling the
stress out or sleeping or keeping the
diet good or avoiding stressful people
many many things you can do but if your
body is stressed out all the time
your course level behind you will be
stuck in anxiety but the problem is you
don't want to treat it directly you want
to find out why PMS is there a
relationship between your cycle and your
mood if so then you need to support the
ovary because I know some women that can
get very irritable that time of the
month or even certain times of the month
if there's a pattern to it tyroid the
thyroid if it's a physical problem you
you can get depression you can be
apathetic
like you don't care anymore so there's a
hormone aspects to your mood as well
that should be supported to nutrition
okay so now we want to talk about sleep
oh my gosh without sleep you're going to
have a lot of anxiety you're going to
have worry you're going to be in stress
mode because sleep is a natural repair
for for body stress without sleep you
can't rejuvenate you can't recharge the
body and you will have all sorts of mood
issues without sleeping you try to take
your kids to the grocery store when
they're tired they're going to be cranky
okay so and the question is are you
exhausted are you tired or are you
depressed I found mostly you're tired
and you're going to feel the press from
being tired so you don't want to take a
5-hour energy drink to stimulate the
body you want to get more sleep so the
more stress you're under the longer you
need to sleep so don't get seven get
eight hours okay so a lot of problems
with anxiety it can't happen when you're
sleep okay so
take a look at the relationship between
your mood and the physical part of your
body
versus just a mental problem and it's
huge and this is what's missed so if
you're having any type of mood problems
look at the nutrition look at the blood
sugars look at if there's a glandular
imbalance look at your sleep and
never treat a symptom find the root
cause
