hey guys did you realize that
pre-diabetes is way more common and then
you think okay there's an incredible
book by a medical doctor called Joseph
Kraft MD
it's called diabetes epidemic in you you
can get it on Kindle okay I recommend
you get it and read it because he
observed something called hidden
diabetes he was in practice for 60 years
okay and this observation he made was in
the 70s okay fast-forward now years
later you can imagine how big this
problem really is so here's what he did
he measured the sugar in the blood at a
fasting level and after the meal but he
also at the same time and the same
people measured the fasting insulin
before and after a meal over five hours
okay and only 20% of the population fell
within the normal range the rest fell in
three patterns look at how high this
insulin is okay this is levels of
insulin after five hours this is
incredible and here's the problem
doctors are diagnosed seeing diabetes
using the glucose tolerance test okay
not an insulin test and the problem with
that is the first thing that happens is
insulin resistance and high levels of
insulin because your body is
compensating because it's not connecting
it's making more to drive more insulin
into the cell okay that's the first
thing that happens and then over time
when it gets worse the body fails to
compensate and then the blood sugars go
higher and higher and higher and higher
so measuring fasting insulin is way more
important than measuring blood Sugar's
in detecting pre-diabetes so next time
you go to your doctor ask them to test
your insulin but do it over a period of
five hours alright thanks for watching
hi guys listen I want to thank you so
much for your wonderful comments and I
want to ask you if you wouldn't mind
giving me your review on Google I put a
link down below I'd really appreciate it
and thank you in advance
