hey guys I wanted to do a video on this
common question that comes up does dr.
Burke see clients anymore okay so I just
want to talk about that
I've done it for 29 years so what I'm
doing now to help more people is I teach
people how to do it themselves okay so
pretty much spent most of my time
teaching people on YouTube so giving you
the understanding of how to create a
healthy body so you're not dependent on
me because when I saw clients in my
clinic at the very most I would see 10
to 12 clients a day now from these
videos I can reach out to tens of
thousands or hundreds of thousands of
people and basically show you how to
deal with all sorts of issues because I
have 2,500 videos on weight loss keyed
out in a minute fasting digestion
heartburn bloating constipation
cholesterol heart issues pain and
inflammation in all different parts of
your body
ankle plantar fasciitis knee pain
shoulder pain headaches so I have so
many videos just about every possible
thing you could possibly imagine so when
you want to find something just search
dr. Berg in the browser and YouTube type
in the topic chances are you're gonna
find probably more than one of the
videos on that topic
I talk about nutrition on these videos
hormones
stress stress techniques how to get rid
of stress all different types of sleep
recommendations now I just wanna let you
know I do have it a membership site that
gives you advanced techniques especially
for those people that need more help
okay and I am going to be starting a
live Q&A on Friday just for this
membership site presently on my live
show I do answer questions from all over
the world in on social media so that's
for like one hour but the only problem
is that when you call in there's quite a
few callers so we may or may not be able
to get your question but you're more
likely in the membership site so the
bigger goal is to help you help yourself
rather than to depend on someone else to
get healthy and just realize there's
probably a lot more information on
YouTube that's buried that you didn't
find yet so keep studying keep watching
the videos
so you have the certainty in the
knowledge to help yourself
hey you know what I just want to say
something only 30% of the people that
watching this video actually make it
this far and you did so I really
appreciate you thank you so much
