all right so now we have another one
with the massage tool this is wonderful
for the back now I do this lying down
but you can do it sitting up so you want
to take the medium width all right
because we're going to be pressing this
on her spine and what we want to do is
take the long one not the shorter one
the long one down with the smallest one
on the top so we're going to put this
right here and we're just going to have
her lean back okay and hold pressure
there okay she's just going to hold
apply some pressure and maybe about 30
seconds and then she's going to just let
it lift up a little
bit now the question is how are you
going to do this to yourself okay so
what I do is I I'll basically take it
and push it on my back so if you can
just take this with your hand and try to
position push it in your back I mean
like just set it back there
see if you can do it yeah
perfect let me just help so what you
have to do is you have to kind of play
with it it's good if you have someone
else to help you but so we're going to
lower this a little bit right
here
okay and she's going to hold that for 30
seconds and we're going to go right down
the spine we're getting each segment
now there are two sets of muscles that
run along the spine and we want to just
come down here and just work each one of
them
out couple minutes and then we're going
to come down this
way okay now when we because the chair
dips we have to turn this around try
that now Rox is that better yeah so we
just have to adjust it depending on the
angle of the back of the chair so she
has her own little massage tool using
her gravity and we can go right down the
spine right here
and get every
segment okay now I'm going to turn this
around no actually I'm not it works
better just like right there so now you
could probably lean back a little bit
and put pre yeah right there and really
get that stress out of there if you do
this before you go to bed it's not only
going to make your neck looser it's
going to pull a lot of stress out of
your upper
back okay come
up and we're going to bring this right
here okay so so that's how you would do
a sitting maneuver with the massage tool
to pull the stress out of the
back
