hey it's me again in this video we're
going to talk about evaluation how to
evaluate someone evaluation is basically
taking all the information and digesting
it analyzing it to come up with some
type of outcome cause reason why
something happens uh this is rarely done
in medicine or even in alternative
healthare because what happens is
they'll take the symptom and then
they'll give you a treatment whether
it's a pill um a surgery or even a
vitamin right so so let's say for
example you have low vitamin D levels
well then you give you they give you
vitamin D why what causes they don't
look at aligning this like with an
underlying cause or why would you have
this symptom in the first place vitamin
D deficiencies can come from yes they
can come from lack of sun dietarily but
they also come from high cortisol which
is the stress hormone or it could come
from a lack of digestive juices to
absorb that vitamin because it's a fat
Cy vit
so let's say you have fatigue well we
can give you Red Bull uh or some
stimulant or we can find out wow maybe
it's your sleep problem you know or high
blood pressure uh maybe it's a buildup
of calcium on the arteries maybe it's an
adrenal issue but we don't do that we
just give the person a treatment and for
the rest of the life they they keep
doing it so here's what you need to know
symptoms are effects they're not causes
and when you treat the symptom you hide
this the real problem and you continue
the problem longer uh in medicine
they're basically made all the symptoms
effects actual diseases but they're
really symptoms and so that's why these
people never get off the
medication um so I'm going to take a
case here's a case a lady from She's
Paris France and I took her information
we're going to write all her information
on the board to show you how I digest
and analyze it and evaluate it and I
also have the blood test here as well so
let's see what we come up with in the
next
section okay so what we're going to do
is we're going to evaluate a case I'm
going to show you how we do this the
goal is to kind of take all information
and put it in buckets and see if we can
align it with an actual cause the
problem with most people is they start
treating each symptom separately so this
lady particular lady she's from Paris
France she actually has all of her
information right here which I gathered
and her blood test okay okay so we're
going to take all this information and
we're going to digest it and come out
and see what see what we find so the
first thing I'll do is I'll put it in
different categories or sections I might
put all the adrenal symptoms in a bucket
the thyroid symptoms the menstrual cycle
pain blood sugars digestion cognitive
circulation so I'm kind of sifting it
down and I'll now I'll take a little
piece of of something and then I'll try
to understand it we're trying to
interpret what the body is trying to do
with these symptoms so the first thing
I'm going to look at is that she has
liver high liver enzymes okay so that's
interesting and then she has acid reflux
bloating constipation bad breath
varicose veins is a liver problem and
coated tongue that's a digestive issue
so so we know bloating is
decrease
bile okay bile is that stuff in your
liver and your gallbladder that helps
you digest fats b i l e okay so that
actually helps you absorb a lot of the
fat suble vitamins okay so we we know
that right there acid reflux could be an
adrenal symptom okay so let's look at
the adrenal stress sleep apnea now the
interesting with sleep apnea is that is
deficiency of vitamin D and K2 those are
two fat typ of vitamins so that could
align with a lack of bile because
without the bile you can't absorb these
nutrients into the body causing sleep
apnea same thing with sinus all right so
that's interesting and then let's take a
look at she also has pain in the heart
that's chest pain that's angina and left
arm so that's more heart related now one
of the remedies if you research angina
is vitamin E and vitamin E
T4 to
T3 through the liver through the
gallbladder and guess what that's
involved with the bile so chances are
this thyroid problem could possibly come
from a low bile issue as well that would
align
with this the first thing I'm trying to
look at here now let's like take a look
at this H has to eat she has to eat now
and if she doesn't eat now
she gets un it's uncontrollable Cravings
okay sugar
Cravings well what happens that can
that's a blood sugar problem and what
stabilizes hunger or Cravings is the
fats that go into the brain when you eat
them especially the fat nutrients to
satisfy the brain so I do know that she
did mention that when she does protein
in low fat she has severe sugar Cravings
okay about an hour after she eats so
this is also a failure to digest fats
because especially if she eats and she
gets she's still not satisfied that's
really what's happening or you're
craving it just means that she's not
able to pull those fats into the brain
and digest them to satisfy so she's not
hungry anymore so that would explain
this right here this this cuz she craves
cheese um it could also be um low
potassium and it could also be adrenal
as well
now look at this high A1C so that is a
blood sugar is issue that's a higher
sugar but she has symptoms of low sugar
so we know she has a blood sugar issue
because it's too high or too low and
that is going to mess with your
cognitive function so if it look at
cognitive she feels out of it brain fog
no Focus no concentration so right
there what I'm going to I'm starting to
think with here is that she's not
getting the fuel to the brain see the
brain runs on sugar fuel Fuel and fat
Fuel and the problem with running in
Sugar fuel which I think she's been
running on she's going to have highs and
lows highs and lows uh brain fog uh
irritability all day long so we need to
switch her to um basically the better
fuel source which is going to be ketones
or fat so that's going to handle the
cognitive um okay so we have acid reflux
constipation well guess what if you
don't have this bile you have no
lubrication for the bowel so you're
going to get backed up okay and then
you're going to as a resultant of that a
chain reaction you're going to get
undigested food and bad breath coated
tongue and and also bile is very very
alkaline and it neutralizes acid so that
could be acid reflux could be a possible
symptom of low bile too okay so let's uh
let's take a look over here we have
circulation cramp crampy calves she she
mentioned basically she feels that she
has low blood flow severe deficiency of
blood flow to her
calfs but she really describes it as
severe muscle cramp to the calf so that
might feel like a circulation but it's a
serious calcium and magnesium
deficiency okay and those minerals need
Vitamin
D to absorb into the tissues so this
would make sense because if she doesn't
have the bile she won't pull in the fat
cble vitamin D3 to absorb the minerals
because the minerals are transported
with the fat cable vitamins so instead
of getting her
calcium I would or magnesium I would
just fix the bile because that would
help her absorb the food that she's
already eating and absorb the fat CYO
vitamin so I really see so far she has a
fat CYO vitamin deficiency because she
doesn't have the bile from the liver
okay so there's liver damage here for
some reason now there's also a lot of
adrenal symptoms right here can't sleep
at night extreme fatigue and that right
there is a high cortisol situation that
could cause the bile problem in the
first place the other thing that could
do it is this over here heavy Cycles
mean high
estrogen so it could be that the high
estrogen from the cycle being out of
balance that could also interfere with
the bioproduction because women that are
in HRT hormone replacement therapy
that's high estrogen or birth control
pills end up having gallbladder problems
down the road as one side effect so
estrogen will affect the gallbladder so
again that's it's all starting to
unravel this mystery is unraveling here
and so she's on Synthroid which is thyro
medication but it's not really working
and she can't sleep that's why she's
tired so really what I'm looking at here
is I would support the adrenal for sure
that seems to be at the root of it but
I'm going to give her some bile salts
purify bile salts that should take a big
chunk of this problem away and then see
what's left so when you evaluate you
always take a little pieces of it and
you see if it lines and yes this
definitely aligns with um the
gallbladder liver and the bile also even
if there's Scar Tissue on the liver like
therosis or fibrosis one of the great
treatments to to break that down is the
bile okay so that's what we're going to
recommend we'll change her eating we'll
make sure that her breakfast is high in
protein and fat but we'll give her a
little gallbladder support to digest
that fat and the other thing that we
might want to do is make sure that um
she's consuming food with vitamin D
vitamin K2 and vitamin E3 but what I'd
like to do is first give her this bile
and see if these symptoms don't go away
because she might just have an
absorption problem okay so I just wanted
to show you how I evaluate and just how
I look at things because the problem is
we don't want to start loading up with a
million pills and start treating
symptoms okay so I'll see you in the
next
video
