hey guys I want to do a quick video and
give you some tips on a condition called
tinea versicolor okay this is a type of
fungus that has the capacity to
interfere with your pigment okay and so
basically this fungus blocks the release
of melanin and you have these white
spots on the chest or the back it's not
as intense as another condition called
vitiligo and I'll post them side-by-side
so you can see the difference slightly
not as intense but it looks similar but
this fungus actually usually grows after
an antibiotic taking cortisone cream or
maybe you have your diabetic or pause
cystic ovarian syndrome or let's say you
got pregnant things that can create
nutritional deficiencies things that can
alter your body's chemistry and even
certain vitamin deficiencies can set you
up for getting this condition but in
reality it's really an internal problem
because the people that get this
condition have then an 80% chance of
getting in again because they didn't fix
the gut the microflora and by the way
you have about 400 different types of
microbes in your gut you have friendly
bacteria you have friendly yeast you
even have friendly candida as well as
from friendly fungus and when you lose
some of those strains you start
developing unfriendly fungus that can
start growing on the external part of
the body so you're really if you have
this condition you really want to start
building yourself up and start consuming
foods that have high levels of good
bacteria like sauerkraut fermented
vegetables and maybe a good probiotic
okay so here's some remedies that you
can apply oregano oil tea tree oil thyme
grapefruit seed oil are all really good
for funguses you can use one or more of
these and what you do is you would put
about four drops in about a tablespoon
of coconut oil mix it up real good and
rub it on the skin okay and I would
recommend doing this before bed so in
other words the application on your skin
is sitting there all night long it has a
chance to really work and then don't
forget to start working on building up
your friendly microbes your flora in
your gut because
that ultimately is going to make it so
you don't get it again alright thanks
for watching hey thank you so much for
watching keep spreading the word and
share this video
