hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about men estrogen and weight gain
okay this video is for men I want to
talk about the relationship between
estrogen and a male body because men are
becoming exposed to estrogen more and
more as time goes on primarily I think
mainly it's coming from the GMO foods
because if you take corn and
especially soy and you and it's
genetically modified that's basically
what the feed is for the cattle the
chicken the turkey all the meats that
people eat unless you're doing organic
and but it's an eggs you see a
vegetarian feed well it's still GMO soy
unless it's organic so we're getting a
lot of estrogen is coming through in
many different ways so we'll give you
some solution but here's what's
happening your fat on your body the more
fat you have the more estrogen you're
going to make so unfortunately your own
fat is working against you okay so
what's the solution is to lose the
weight then to produce less estrogen
okay prostate enlargement it's a huge
one for men prostate cancer it's coming
from estrogen so we have to lower it so
there's also an enzyme called aroma
taste which takes that last bit of
testosterone that you have and converts
it to estrogen which is not good for
you know low testosterone erectile
dysfunction urination at night because
the prostate feel enlarged so now here's
the question what can we do about it
okay first of all what will mess up this
hormone increase this enzyme so this
conversion is a liver problem mainly to
things through roses of the liver and a
fatty liver okay cirrhosis of the liver
comes from inflammation or a fatty liver
or bad eating over the years or
hepatitis or alcohol many different
things let's scar tissue then you get a
fatty liver that comes from high levels
of insulin over the years you've eaten
junk drinking alcohol you haven't eaten
enough good things maybe you have you
had you don't eat your vegetables or
you've been eating a lot of sugar for
many many years so now you have this
liver now you're getting too much
estrogen so what are you going to do
about it there's an enzyme called sera
pep case write that down Sarah Peck case
if you have cirrhosis I would get it in
200,000 I use I don't have a source you
have to find it and you take to an empty
stomach three times per day that enzyme
has a unique property of getting rid of
scar tissue and it's been really good
results with cirrhosis but you have to
also clean up your diet at the same time
or so it's not going to work now if you
have a fatty liver choline is your
mineral you need to start consuming more
choline it's a fats I will look at
terrific vitamin B vitamin that will
help reduce fat and liver of course
that's in addition to lowering insulin
which I put a link down below which you
really want to correct something called
insulin resistance because that's really
what's making the liver fatty okay the
best
tip or nutritional remedy for lowering
estrogen in men and women is cruciferous
vegetables but there's a concentrated
cruciferous which I really like called
dim I put a link down below for more
information but dim is like having two
pounds of cruciferous vegetables in like
two pills so that's a really good way to
help you regulate this right here and
then when you actually decrease estrogen
you increase testosterone also stinging
nettle root is another really good one
to help reduce estrogen and it's good
for
prostate it's good for balancing your
hormones okay fermented vegetables very
important pickles sauerkraut
consuming that on a regular basis you
don't need any much every day I would
start consuming that that is going to
help start bringing this thing into
balance as you lose weight and you have
less fat that means less estrogen so
your body will start coming back but
these are just some interesting pointers
to notice if you're starting to gain
weight and you wondering why it's
probably related to some estrogen all
right thanks for watching
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
