hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about the crack Corners in your
mouth right through in here this is my
representation of the lips and right on
the corners of your mouth you have these
cracks okay what is this it's a vitamin
B2
deficiency okay um and that comes from
consuming too many refined grains
because when they refine grains they
pull out the B2 and of course they
enrich it with synthetic but that's not
the kind that you want polished rice
which would be like refined rice um
birth control pills can do it liver
damage alcohol all those things
irritable bowel syndrome any type of
digestive issue can block the absorption
of B2 but you see people that have this
and you just want to help them I just
want to tell them take some B2 but I
don't do that I have to withhold myself
um but the the vitamins that are I mean
the food that is high in B2 would be any
dairy of course do grass-fed eggs
pasturised liver which I can't consume
some people like it uh gets the
grass-fed liver
um leafy vegetables legumes mushrooms
and almonds all those are very high in
vitamin B2 in fact it's actually really
easy to get vitamin B2 from your Foods
just having a normal diet but personally
I think it's consuming uh these things
is probably the most common cause
because you see people with the cracks
and they're usually consuming a lot of
refined grains all right okay well put
your comments below tell me what you
think hey thanks so much for watching
press the Subscribe button and I'm gonna
hold on one second who is this hold on
one second hey honey listen I'm right in
the middle of filming
here she wants to say hi okay I said hi
I gotta go Okay bye so if you like the
videos press subscribe and I will keep
you updated with the future events
