hey guys today I'm going to talk about
the relationship between potassium and
stomach acid okay like that's
hydrochloric acid another videos I'm
always recommending taking apple cider
vinegar for digestion to help increase
the acidity of the stomach and sometimes
batain how to chloride sea salt to help
the build-up the chlorides to make
hydrochloric acid
but there's another nutrient that is
critical in making stomach acid okay and
that is potassium if you don't have
enough potassium it's gonna be very
difficult to make hydrochloric acid but
let's talk about the symptoms if you're
low in stomach acid okay you're not
going to be able to digest red meat
you're not gonna like it's gonna make
you feel bad you're just not going to
want it okay and it's going to create
bloating gas belching burping
constipation and then acid reflux
eventually these are some of the
symptoms so in addition to taking
hydrochloric acid you want to make sure
you have enough of potassium as well
where do you get that
vegetables very key source
I mean potassium there's also in red
meat and other meats and even chicken
but not as much
avocados beet leaves so when you're
eating your salad realize you're helping
your digestion big-time okay eventually
but potassium is critical in the
stomach's ability to just make
hydrochloric acid the last point I want
to make is that people don't usually
realize the amount of potassium they
need they need a lot they need 4700
milligrams every single day 47 hundred
milligrams that's for a healthy person
if the person has rheumatoid arthritis
and they're stressed out they might need
5 to 6,000 milligrams they just need
more if they have insulin resistance or
they're diabetic they need a lot of
potassium it's kind of like a the gap
that I see between people getting
healthy and what they're doing they
don't consume enough vegetables they
just don't do it
and so you
may want to take an electrolyte powder
with more potassium or just force
yourself to eat more vegetables because
this is critical the amount of
vegetables that you need and a given
date to reach this would be about seven
to ten cups that's high quality greens
not iceberg lettuce but also you'll get
potassium from the other things that
you're eating as well even nuts even
some in eggs so it's not just all coming
from the vegetable but I want to just
make a note that stomach acid is very
very important in breaking down protein
absorbing minerals and killing pathogens
and you want to make sure you have
enough potassium to fortify this to make
sure that this is supported all right
thanks for watching so I'm doing a
survey for future videos on topics that
you are interested in this one is going
to be on your biggest keto difficulty if
you wouldn't mind filling out the survey
down below I put a link in the
description please fill it out thank you
so much
