hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about my version of a healthy keto and
intermittent fasting verses the ideal
protein diet okay now the good thing
about this diet is that it's it's low
carb it does help a person lose weight
the bad thing is not healthy okay it's
not a healthy it's not focus on
promoting health it's about weight loss
they have kind of a phase 1 phase 2
phase 3 like a lot of other diets like
you lose the weight and then you can go
back to the bad eating habits right well
if you've been watching my videos you
know that carbs cause weight gain you
also may or may not know that low fat
proteins will stimulate insulin compared
to fattier proteins now if we're going
to compare two different diets one we
have multiple meals that say you have
four or five or six small meals of low
fat proteins versus a higher fat protein
less meals spread out with more intimate
fasting less snacking this is going to
be the winner because you're going to
lower insulin okay now one of the
biggest problems that they use with
ideal protein is the quality of protein
is very low they're using soy protein
isolates for a majority of their
prepackaged meals now this is not
something that we're used to eating it's
not even fermented it's a low fat
protein powder okay this is really hard
on the liver the gallbladder and it's
not non-gmo okay so it's genetically
modified which is also going to irritate
the liver as well they're allowing for a
snack so you're actually four meals okay
so it's gonna spike in still a little
bit more so it might be low-carb but I
believe it's a high insulin diet that's
why you lose weight but maybe not in the
stomach and because the food is not very
quality you might lose weight but not
look healthy
you might just look kind of ragged
because of the quality of proteins and
other foods I mean the packaged food
alone is filled with synthetic vitamins
modified corn starts textured wheat
protein Agathe which is high with
fructose and that that alone will cause
insulin
distance malted dextran which has a
glycemic index of like way more than
sugar it's like double sugar and then
sucralose which is a very unhealthy
artificial sugar but it's very cheap and
all of its not organic so when you do
low fat proteins
you're gonna spike insulin more than
doing a whole fat protein now the more
low fat protein you go the more insulin
is spiked versus more of a fattier
protein which is much much healthier so
phase one is all about doing the three
protein packs with unlimited vegetables
but of course when you say unlimited
people are not naturally going to
consume a lot more vegetables I don't
like vegetables so you really have to
tell them how much to consume so they
may do a very small portion of like
vegetables or a small salad and they
don't realize that this is where you're
gonna get the vitamins and minerals so
they might crash and burn later now when
you get to Phase two you're going to
replace some of these protein packs with
some lean fish or chicken all right but
then you have phase three which you're
adding back the grains in there they
even recommend you can have a fructose
jam and cereal and fruit for breakfast
you can add crackers and fruit as a
snack so again you're gonna lose some
weight and then as you lose the weight
you're gonna come back add more of the
insulin triggers back in there gain the
weight back start over again it's a
continuing cycle so I just wanted to
give you my opinion on this diet it's it
will help someone initially lose weight
especially if you stay in phase one but
I don't consider it a healthy thing so
if you really want to look healthy as
you lose weight you want to put high
quality actual food real food in your
body not a protein powder with all these
unhealthy things thanks for watching hey
before you go definitely sign up for my
free keto course I put a link down below
it's on messenger in Facebook but it
will give you all the basics it's very
quick it's like three or four videos and
it's free check it out
