hey Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about my trace minerals
product now trace minerals are there's
two types there is plant-based trace
minerals and then there are non-
plant-based minerals which have to do
with salt-based minerals or metallic or
metal based minerals the difference is
that plant-based minerals are 15,000
times smaller and a plant absorbs the
rocks from the earth and converts them
into easily absorbable minerals so trace
minerals are those minerals that are
good and needed in very small quantities
so regular minerals like magnesium or
calcium or potassium are needed in
quantities greater than 100 milligrams
trace minerals are needed in very small
quantities much less than one M
milligrams 100 milligrams um the
challenge with getting trace minerals is
hon our soils are just don't have them
they're void of trace minerals because
the farming practices in the US are um
are not the greatest in the world
so these are made from minerals that
have been around for a long long time in
fact 70 million years ago um during the
dinosaur area these plants were broken
down into part of the earth and then
there was a company that pulled them up
and then dissolve them in water and
that's what these are right here so I um
recommend this product for all sorts of
different types of conditions but mainly
um the function of trace minerals are to
work at the genetic level at the DNA
level at the cellular level to provide
the body with the raw materials to make
enzymes to help make body tissue so it's
involved in a lot of body processes so
if you need a good plant-based Trace
mineral this is the one to try
