okay in this video I'm going to talk
about the fat burning hormones you have
six fat burning hormones I'm just going
to talk about three and three trickers
to these fat buring hormones would be
something like protein high quality
sleep and the and the exercise okay now
here's what you need to know there are
two hormones that will
nullify cancel out smash all the six
evaporating hormones one would be
cortisol that's the stress hormone so
stress has a capacity to nullify these
good ones so it doesn't matter what
you're doing it matters what is
countering what you're doing and that
would be stress because when you sleep
at night you might be sleeping but
you're not resting why because there's
accumulated stress so you have to use
the acupressure to pull it out very very
important all it takes is a little bit
of stress to knock out a lot of good
things all right now there's another
hormone called insulin now this is a
very powerful hormone it's probably even
more powerful than cortisol and it's
triggered by Sugar so a cookie a half a
glass of wine uh I don't know half a
glass of orange juice has the insulin
power to nullify 6 hours minimum of 6
hours but up to about 72 hours depending
on your metabolism of all these fat
burning triggers so you start triggering
all the fat burning hormones the insulin
comes in there and just squashes it why
because insulin is a dominating hormone
so the most important thing you need to
realize and focus on are avoiding the
bad things versus just doing the good
things so I have people that say well
yeah well I'm
exercising I want to eat what I want but
I'll just exercise off the extra
calories that will not work I'm sorry
all it takes is a little bit of bad
stuff to nullify a lot of good stuff so
take that to the bank make note and lose
weight
