today we're going to call my dad and
actually ask him some questions about
what people ate in
1948 hey hi is Dad there yep he's right
here he's ready great hi Dad
hi so now everyone knows my uh my name
you called me other than Dr Berg they
all call me Snooks so great thanks for
that how about oh no no anything but
that some people are gonna probably say
well why are you asking your 87-year-old
dad about what they ate back in
1948 when people don't realize you
remember every single name of every
single kid in your class in fifth grade
question I have is uh did you see a lot
of overweight people back in 1948 in
your class were there a lot of obese
kids in
48 no no not really at all was diabetes
common children uh I only know one I had
one friend that had
diabetes uh um but other than that no
what about like uh food allergies uh or
Autism was that popular back then no no
it wasn't yeah when you walked to the
grocery store and you looked for cereals
did they have things like Froot Loops
and Captain Crunch and Flintstone
pebbles no no
no uh they you'd have candy bars Baby
Ruth I remember that you know the the
original uh Baby Ruth and uh maybe
Snickers MH but but that that was not a
lot of bagged you know stuff like they
have now was high fructose corn syrup
popular in a lot of the candies and
sodas not that I
know didn't you tell me that you mainly
had oatmeal with milk that's that was
your cereal yes what about your teacher
did the teacher remind all the kids to
hurry up and take their midm morning
snacks because it's so important to
snack no no absolutely not what about
your mom did your mom ever tell you that
don't spoil your appetite by eating
something before dinner that yes yeah
yeah snacking was not a big thing back
then was it no my snacks I would have
maybe it would be a
a piece of fruit an apple or something
on that order wow what about the concern
of saturated fats being bad back then
was was that like a real big thing where
you have to avoid saturated fats no not
that I know that I had never heard of
that at that age really didn't your
parents cook with lard and beef fat taow
yes uh lard was the the main one I would
think what about uh red meat was was
that a a danger thing like people would
say Don't eat red meat because it's
gonna cause cancer no
no how about um was there such a thing
as uh at the grocery store did they have
sweetened and flavored yogurts uh not
that I know of they had they I think
they had yogurt and my grandparents
would make theirs didn't most people
have a garden back then yes and they did
canning right that was a big thing for
Wow preparing for the the foreseeable
future everyone had a cell phone back
then too right no
no I don't think he even had a TV wow
well thanks for the interview dad I
appreciate it and uh I'll talk to you
later okay good to talk to you back in
1948 you had literally less than 1%
obesity with children now it's off the
charts it's probably 25 30% if not more
food allergies asthma autism
non-existent now very common is it all
the C-sections infant formulas or was it
the introduction of fluoride in our
water in 1945 when you go into the
grocery store the largest area of junk
food or alra processed food is under a
category called snack foods problem with
snacking in general is every time you
eat anything you create a spike in
insulin regardless of what the food is
and of course if you're eating
carbohydrates you're creating a larger
Spike of insulin currently not only are
we snacking but we're snacking on the
worst snacks you could possibly consume
we're getting a constant elevation of
insulin through the entire day that
insulin level doesn't ever have a chance
to come down to normal that Port
pancreas has to constantly put out so
much insulin to take all that Sugar from
the blood and get it out of the blood
insulin resistance is literally behind
nearly every chronic illness from uh
fatty liver high blood pressure diabetes
obesity inflammatory diseases not to
mention all the mood disorders and the
dementia and The Chronic cognitive
decline if you compare the grocery
stores in America then you go to Europe
like France or Italy a lot of people go
to the food market on a regular basis
they have raw cheese they have meats
they have vegetables they have fruits
and yes they do sell bread but it's not
the refined bread that you would get in
the American Grocery Store the quality
food in Europe is just way better than
America icial bread right you have dough
conditioner preservatives to increase
shelf life even high fructose corn syrup
they put that in the bread homemade
bread flour water yeast salt in America
we have restaurants in fact you don't
even have to drive to the restaurant
they'll deliver to you you have these
kids that go to the fast food
restaurants they superp siize it
drinking these huge liquid candy made
from corn corn sugar and high frose corn
syrup these are all new ingredients and
we're doing this huge massive experiment
back in
1948 we did not have Ultra processed
food calories now a teenager consumes
over
65% of all of their calories being ultr
processed food calories an adult's
calories are over 50% and a toddler's
calories for Ultra processed food is
45% yes Sugar's bad but I think there's
a bigger problem in the area of ultra
process food calories that I want to
share with you the number one alter
processed food ingredient that makes the
most money of all of them seed oils let
right seed oils over $240 billion a year
talking about corn oil soy oil cotton
seed canola
25% up to 30% of all our calories are
seed oils somehow seed oils have been
made to be heart healthy this next
ingredient is number two on the list and
it generates 220 billion dollars a year
grain based starches the highly
processed industrial starch modified
food starch modified corn starch it's
the molto dextrin it spikes your blood
sugar sometimes a lot higher than actual
sugar yet it's not classified as a sugar
you're focused on gluten-free sugar-free
what about the starches when you buy
gluten-free products what do they
replace it with rice starch tapioca
starch maltodextrin like I said before
it's it's just bizarre to me that you
have heart healthy seed oils but you
have something else that's super
interesting about whole grains right
they're perceived is being healthy you
get this little seal of approval from
the American Heart Association certified
says it can help you lower your
cholesterol and help your heart on top
of everything our children are told 60%
of their calories should be grains in
the meantime our children are not
getting healthier they're getting sicker
if you're over the age of 50 or 60 or 70
please comment down below and tell me
your experience of what you did back in
1948 or 1950 or or even before that
