hey guys it's me again and this video
we're going to talk about afternoon
sleepiness you know right after you eat
you're just like you just want to take a
little nap so there's two situations one
is uh at 12:00 noon you'd say you eat
and you get tired right after or
sometimes people get tired an hour later
or at 3:00 they just want to take a nap
right there are three main reasons for
that number one it could be your blood
sugars are too high cuz you just had
this lunch and that chances are if
that's the case I'll tell you what to do
we need to cut out certain things that
you're eating for lunch okay it could be
that you're eating bread like sandwiches
or your juice or some sugar or you want
to out to eat at some Chinese restaurant
that had MSG um so you really need to
have more greens Protein healthy fat but
not any type of bread or sugar or bun or
c up anything like that okay so if
that's the case you need to handle like
your pre-diabetic situation because
that's one of the symptoms of something
called insulin
resistance which I have other videos
about is like you get you're not
satisfied after you eat you get tired
after you eat you can't go for a long
period of time without being really
hungry so that's that situation okay
number
two um and that and if this is the case
you usually you get tired within an hour
after you eat okay but it can happen
later number two low stomach acids so
let's say that your stomach is not acid
enough and by the way if it was not a
acid enough you're going to probably
have indigestion constipation bloating
maybe heartburn acid reflux or gird yeah
that's the symptoms of low stomach acid
so if that valve I'm sorry if the
stomach is not acid enough the valve
won't close and the food will just sit
there and make you tired because it's
not digesting so if you eat and you have
any other symptoms of low stomach acid
like I just mentioned bloating acid
reflux gird uh indigestion burping
anything the food just sits right there
then all you have to do very simply is
take an acidifier okay I use something
called apple cider vinegar plus it's a
combination of apple cider vinegar and
Bane hydroch chloride so you take it in
a pill and get on the website or you can
drink apple cider vinegar a tablespoon
with water and drink that with the meal
not a bad idea so you could do that and
you will find most people will find
their energy starts going up and they're
not so tired between this these this
time period lastly it's just your
quality of sleep you didn't have a good
night's sleep So eventually you're going
to get tired and it probably is going to
happen right about 3:00 so then we need
to work on the sleep and that could come
from a whole different range from
adrenal stress to your pillow isn't
great um which is interesting uh last
night I uh I used a new pillow it's
called My Pillow you probably saw that
commercial it's so funny this guy
advertises this this is the best pillow
you're going have best night sleep I
actually had a really good night's sleep
with that pillow so I'm actually going
to uh recommend it but the point is that
you need a good pillow you need a good
bed you need to maybe sometimes you need
to take some adrenal support before
before I go to bed say I have a very
productive day and then I have to turn
off you know at 10:30 so I take my
adrenal uh night formula I'll take one
I'm out within a few minutes I do some
ACU pressure on my body and that seems
to work for me but anyway we want to
improve the quality of sleep I have
videos just on sleep watch that and then
you'll be less tired in the midday but
those these are the three most common
things and it could be a combination of
these two but go ahead and apply these
and let's get your energy up between
right after you eat for lunch and at
least through midafternoon okay all
right I'll see you the next video
