[Music]
hey guys we have Tara back on the line
in hi Tara how are you I am great how
are you good
we did an initial kind of an online
consultation with you a while ago and I
wanted to do a follow up but I want to
first start with a little summary of
what problems you had before when we
talked initially can you kind of like in
a thumbnail sketch what were some of the
issues you were dealing with
sure I was dealing with complete
amenorrhea or infertility so total loss
of my menstrual cycle I was dealing with
kuratas nighttime itching and I was
dealing with lots of a lot of gut issues
mixed type IBS I had had hair loss a
couple times previously and was
diagnosed with PCOS and low t3
hypothyroidism
so not the Hashimoto's thyroiditis I
don't haven't ever been diagnosed with
an actual pathology right and so when we
talk less there were several things that
I recommended right I recommended I
think supporting your gallbladder with
some purified bile salts you was there a
couple other things I mentioned as well
yes you told me to get the acupressure
tool which I did okay good and that
that's been helping a lot I had it had
took me a while to get the hang of it
and understand what to be doing and
don't remember what else you recommended
because I do so many things now I can't
remember what where it comes from so
totally fine so tell us some of the the
progress so far what's happening with
your body since we talked
sure well so immediately when I started
taking the ox file which I still do I
the paratus disappeared and I also found
oh and I had um
what am i mom had always called hot ear
to wear my one of my ears would always
turn bright red and hot very inflamed at
like five o'clock every day that sucked
and I did have the upper right it was it
right or the left I haven't had it in a
long time so that went away the pain and
I did find my digestion was improved so
but the main thing was that a month
after I started the ox file my period
came back which I hadn't had a period in
three years Wow so I thought that was
really neat I don't know if it was the
acupressure I don't have to lose the Ox
file I don't don't really know what it
was but I definitely attributed it to
what you the suggestions you've given me
just because like I hadn't there wasn't
anything else I changed right you know
let's let's talk about that for some of
the viewers that that may have a similar
problem now when you talk about ox bile
like people kind of freaked out like ox
bile isn't it this isn't a waste product
I'm like no it's not bow it's by OB i le
it's purified they just take the salts
of it it's a the same chemistry as our
own body's bile and when when you don't
have enough bile oh there it is
yeah it's a new brand I usually use a
nutria ecology this is allergy research
group okay cool yeah you can you can get
it anywhere and so the bile salts help
support the gallbladder and the liver
and if you don't have enough bile what
happens is you can't convert t4 to t3 so
if you have a thyroid problem which can
easily affect your fertility it could
affect your digestion it can affect so
many things by adding bile you can
actually improve the thyroid function
just from a different angle from the
conversion factor and then if the
thyroid works better all of a sudden you
become a more fertile the other thing
you start absorbing more fat soluble
vitamins which are also necessary for
fertility to about a man a like if
you're deficient about them an A or D or
even E
you could become infertile just from
that alone so that's huge so many people
are deficient and vile it's just creates
like kind of like a people don't even
talk about it I don't even know what it
is but the way he become deficient
there's a couple reasons one is you
you're not eating correctly of course
your liver is damaged you also have high
levels of estrogen you have you're on a
low-fat diet because the fat triggers it
so people are confused with that because
they thought that fat is really bad for
the goal butter but you need some
saturated fat to release the bile but if
you have too much it overwhelms the
gallbladder and then you you get
congestion or irritation the gall buddy
you won't get you won't get stones but
it just starts hurting especially if you
do a lot of nuts so adding the bile
helps to help the fatty liver it helps
breaking down fat it also helps to build
up your bio Reserve so you can start
recycling it because bile is recycled so
if someone is for example bulimic and
they vomit a lot and they lose all their
bile then they can't build it back up
then they're deficient and they're like
now it's hard to get it back so it just
it's kind of like the icing on the cake
it allows everything just to fall in
place and help you start absorbing
especially vitamin A and vitamin A is
really important in the eyes I don't
know if you notice any difference in
your eyes but like even when you eat
kale there's carotenoids which are good
for the eyes but that's the fat side of
a vitamin so you need the bile to help
absorb that so so yeah so you basically
did really good on that and then you
were already you were already eating
healthy right I mean you weren't like
yeah keto and intermittent fasting for
three almost three years at that point
yeah which was I started watching your
videos three years ago and it was right
around that time when you started
posting about keto so that was cool
um but as as far as the gallbladder I
also I found out that I have the
double-double of the hunt homozygous p
EMT single nucleotide polymorphism so
my my gallbladder if if that's if that
gene is turned on that can cause
congestion of the gallbladder as well
and so that was interesting to find out
like I it may not be just like my
history of anorexia and bulimia but it
may also be that that but she might be
turned on and then there was some stuff
well if we get into what's been going on
recently that it's effects that as well
Wow so so what's what's happening
recently okay so two weeks ago I was
Sonya a new integrative medical doctor
who looked at my labs and he had me do
the visual contrast sensitivity test and
based on that and my Milan insight
stimulating hormone level being low he
says that I have chronic inflammatory
response syndrome so that would mean
that I have genetic susceptibility to
not be able to cross this out biotoxins
and I've been living in a moldy home for
the last year and a half and there was
mold in my previous apartments when my
memory has stopped ever started and
hypothyroidism and all those sorts of
things so I I feel like um it was just a
huge epiphany you know the between the
gallbladder and then finding out that
this biotoxin pathway it greatly affects
the gallbladder which is why the first
step of treatment is to get away from
the mold but the second step is to take
a binding agent that colossi Ramin that
that it sequester's vital because the
body process that process processes the
toxin through the liver goes to the
buyer or goes to the gallbladder and
then it just gets reabsorbed and colon
because the body doesn't recognize it as
a as a toxin or something I don't
understand it fully but it's it's scary
you know because it kind of means I'm
gonna have to live a lot differently
but it's good to know because you know
now I have more more insight into what I
need to do yeah so yeah yeah let's uh
let's talk about that there's a there's
a couple things that and I think you're
already you have a plan of action but a
lot of people have like this hidden mold
and their environment and you can starts
going in the body it can create some
serious serious problems and then when
you if you if you try to detoxify it the
wrong way you can end up even being
sicker it's because of the die-off so
there's certain trace minerals I'm gonna
release a video probably tomorrow on
certain trace trace minerals that
actually build up the cell membrane to
handle the deep they die off from mold
and fungus and Candida I'm gonna release
that tomorrow but I don't want to give
it away now but there's some there's
several things that are really good for
that I'm always the guy that experiments
on these things myself and I'm doing an
experiment right now before I actually
even create a video on it but I'll tell
you if you want to know what it is
mm-hmm so I think I might have mentioned
in my last email borax oh yes very
interesting right so you know first of
all when I say that people like like a
cleaning detergent like what are you
talking about Bora or axe is a mineral
and it's either from Turkey or
California and there's a guy in the I
think the 60s or 70s nutritionist who
was studying plants and he found that on
deficiency created all these problems in
plants and so if it's not and it's not
in the soil it's not going to be in the
plants it's not going to be in our
bodies and boron is very important in
cleaning fungus is out of the body so in
molds so so I just want I always like
want to take it so I'm so you have to
take a teaspoon of the stuff and by the
way it's as toxic as salt is so it says
no different than table salt okay and so
what I did is I I took a teaspoon
and put in a liter of water and I mix it
up and I diluted up and I had a leader
and then I drank the whole thing right
well I put some in my Amazon cart oh did
you all right yeah I'm convinced well
here's the thing I misread it you're not
supposed to drink the whole liter
you're supposed to take a teaspoon of
the leader but nothing really happened
so I'm still alive so so now I'm my
wife's like you did what I said here
taste this you got to taste it now
so I basically take just a teaspoon and
I I swear I feel like really clean like
I feel like joints are better like it's
just like a creating a really cool
effect but I want to do this longer
before I do a video on but I I know
people are gonna go oh my god you're
crazy to do that but if you actually
research it's really good to clean
funguses out of the body and help with
arthritis and mold so it's something to
look at investigate to look at but I'm
not gonna I'll probably won't do a video
for several months because I really want
to not just to myself test it on some
other people the other thing of course
you probably know this too grape grape
grape seed extract okay that's really
important and helping protect the cell
membrane against mold oh wow okay and
that would be really good for you to
take too
yeah so there's some cool things but I
would not take for mold I would not take
oregano extract because it's too
powerful it'll credit detox so you'll
feel like you kind of feel funky in sick
so and these things that you know you
always start really low and you take a
little bit and see how your body reacts
but yeah yeah you know last summer I I
diagnosed myself with SIBO and and my
other doctor she she kind of just
believes me
because I tend to be right not to sound
pompous but you know I just investigate
and I I diagnosed myself with
whoa and so I treated myself for SIBO
with herbal antibiotics because my
insurance company would cover the
pharmaceutical but anyway part of that
was oregano oil and I went a little too
hard I just took all the all of them
really like a lot and I had some serious
hurt Shimer reaction and I did it for
three months straight I'm not sure but I
think I mean my gut hasn't been the same
in a good way but also in a bad way so I
would suggest you were assaulted that
you know I know I'm the human guinea pig
I've done this so many times and end up
sick for two weeks in bed with a fever
and runny nose and lung congestion so
yeah I know it's kind of like a human
experiment I'd yeah try it let me try it
yeah right well you know so many things
I've tried right it's natural so I can't
do any harm right yeah oh yeah it's just
some liquid here and some herbal detox
all right yeah that's crazy
yeah so also Tara you know even the way
I've met you is I was online and I saw
that you had a really great keto product
and then I ordered it and then I think
you saw my name and you you contacted me
or something like that so it's really
good it was a it's kind of like a
healthy granola you want to just tell
people what that is sure um thank you
it's a it's called Kirpal and it's like
Kapow like from comic book but granola
like crap out but um technically doesn't
have grain so the name is kind of a
misnomer either way it is grain free and
sugar free and it also has cookie chunks
in it and the cookies are meant to
replace the oak clusters since its grain
free sort of things they'll kind of give
you that cluster and then it's made with
just all-natural non GMO ingredients
many of which are organic and it's
basically just coconuts nuts and our
throat on stevia coconut oil and you
have a couple flavors right you have
yeah we have
peanut butter and jelly thumbprint which
is a cookie from my childhood that no
one seems to know what it is anyway
there's that one and then there is our
new flavor which is salted caramel
brownie and that's some doctor double
chocolate chip cookie chunks and an
all-natural caramel extract that is
extract it's it's a flavor and that's on
the granola part so you got this play
off with the two flavors well I just
wanted to mention that because I know
you you basically make this by hand it's
handmade it's like not by huge
manufacturing company probably work out
of your kitchen it's a high quality
product for people that want something
convenient the tastes really amazing you
can you could put it with like almond
milk the only one suggested I'm going to
tell my viewers is have it as a dessert
not in between the meal as a part at the
end of the meal I think you're going to
enjoy it but especially for kids like
for an alternative cereal I think it's
genius and it's like there's no sugar in
it so I'm glad that someone I'm glad
someone like you made something like
this so I wouldn't have to go through
the work of creating them from scratch
because it's pretty convenient it's
pretty awesome so it goes very well in
Kenny's ice cream there you go
the Cubbies one meal a day
it's the perfect top to goes together
perfect yeah yeah I agree I agree most
most of the people follow me to do like
a two meal
some people like a smaller percentage do
one meal a day but yeah and after a
while it's kind of like you know it's
nice to have something right after the
meal whether it's a fat keto bomb or
granola that's not really granola at one
time I wanted to produce a granola but
without oats but it's obviously you did
it really good the kind that I created
at home just turned out to be like
terrible but yeah so it's you know thank
you very much it's really I know that I
don't know how the heck you put that
together because I'm like wow this is
really amazing
that's corley
thank you so much yeah it's really good
but but so you're on your way you're
doing better than you were last time and
then now you're gonna basically do with
this mold thing yeah yep I'm gonna go
take a sabbatical I'm gonna go to the
desert and do what they call a mold
sabbatical to try and get completely
away from the humid where the mold you
know there's lots of mold spores just in
the air they say that I'm the EPA I
think says that there's a hundred
percent of buildings have some kind of
mold spores so I don't really feel safe
I bought a van and I'm Stan using that
as my home for the time being because I
can't just get a metal home like a metal
house but metal is more resistant to
mold than than any other materials so so
it is what it is and hopefully it'll be
temporary but I'm gonna put all my
efforts behind this and you know keep
taking all my supplements and following
your work and what my doctor says
hopefully next time we speak I'll be
better yeah that's awesome
what the this cell and for anyone
watching if you ever want to do research
on like molds it destroys the cell
membrane that's really what you need to
strengthen is a cell membrane so and
that's a double layer of fat it's a
phospholipid wrapper of fat so one thing
you don't want to do is go a little fad
diet you don't want to eat junk food but
if you can support the cellular membrane
in any way possible you're gonna you're
gonna come out on top and then the cell
will be strong and the integrity be
there and you can resist allow that the
mold issues but yeah so I'll release
that video tomorrow I think you'll find
it interesting but I don't want to I'm
just kind of don't want to give it away
because it's it's a really cool video so
I spent a lot of research to create this
like three minute video it's like okay
so your hard worker put all you all of
it in I really enjoy it it's a lot of
fun so well thanks Tara
thanks for the interview that's a great
update and we'll let's do this in a
couple more months and see how you do so
this will be like a part two well thank
you so much you're welcome
reshoot it sure okay have a good day
I bye
