hey guys I wanted to do a quick little
video on salt deficiencies on keto okay
so normally when a person is burning
sugar the running on sugar fuel that's
called glycolysis and then they shift
over to ketones burning fat what's going
to happen they're going to dump a lot of
electrolytes the need for salt will go
up when you're running on sugar you're
retaining a lot of fluid and you really
shouldn't be consuming a lot of salt but
when you're on keto you should be
consuming at least one to one and a half
teaspoons of salt each day some of the
symptoms that which indicate that you're
deficient would be low blood pressure
dizziness when you stand up leg cramps
especially in the lower part of the leg
the calf area or even in the foot okay
also general weakness and fatigue those
are all classic signs of low sodium and
also chlorides as well so the next
question is what type of sea salt do I
need now the new two most popular ones
are the Himalayan pink salt which is
from a mountaintop in Pakistan and it's
pink because it has a little bit more
iron but it's very pure it's a very
ancient it's awesome and then you have
Celtic salt okay and that's gray because
it has some clay in it it's from a
certain ocean and it's very healthy too
if we compare these two it's a little
lower in sodium little higher magnesium
higher in phosphorus and a little higher
in potassium however they're both so
similar I wouldn't recommend one more
than the other it's really just up to
you but consuming a good high quality
sea salt will handle this deficiency but
you just make sure you knead it in a
little bit higher quantities but when
you're consuming other foods like cheese
or olives or you're doing bacon that's
salted realize you're going to get some
salt in that as well but if you don't
you're going to have to add this you
know put it on your you know your eggs
or your meats or your even your salad to
make sure you have this salt to prevent
some of these symptoms alright thanks
for watching
hey I appreciate your attention and if
you're enjoying these videos go ahead
and subscribe and I will definitely keep
you updated on future events live events
and webinars that we're going to do very
soon
