there are 11 common mistakes that a lot
of people make when they take
supplements now the first thing I want
to mention is that I hear this a lot we
don't really need to take supplements
because we can get all we need from our
diet and it's almost impossible to get
vitamin D from food so it's not actually
very easy to get all of our nutrients
even if we ate a really good diet not to
mention certain foods that deplete us of
nutrients especially if you're doing a
lot of refined carbs okay number one
let's talk about timing okay during the
day when should you take your
supplements personally I like to take
almost all of my supplements in the
morning because I want all these
co-actors to be available in the first
part of the day when I need more energy
in fact I switched my intermittent
fasting pattern where I'm doing two
meals one is breakfast and then a late
lunch and then I don't have a dinner
that seems to work and the reason I did
that is because it gives me more energy
during the day rather than doing fasting
and then eating late at night when I
don't need the energy before I go to bed
now as far as taking electrolytes right
before bed I don't really recommend it
because electrolytes can push fluid out
of your body now as far as Vitamin D
goes some people do better to take the
vitamin D in the morning some people do
better right before bed it tends to help
them sleep better you can experiment
with that the other thing I want to
mention about the timing is that you
don't want to take any calcium
supplements right before you eat because
calcium neutralizes the stomach acid and
it's going to inhibit your digestion the
next mistake I want to talk about is
taking too many supplements at one time
and trying to swallow them I personally
use myself as a human guinea pig for a
long time I've tried pretty much every
single nutrient vitamin cleanse
Alternative Program you can imagine and
um one time long ago I decided to do a
gallbladder flush in this gallbladder
flush you take beet root supplements and
olive oil I took a hand of these
beetroot supplements put them in my
mouth and washed them down with 12
ounces of oil big big mistake I should
have used some water and I should have
taken a little bit at a time because
those beet supplements got stuck in my
esophagus and it was like I started
getting chest pain I thought I was going
to die like a heart attack oh my gosh
I'm going to die from taking supplements
so I just kind of laid it a ball and
just push through it and somehow I
survived but I don't recommend that
those it's very very scary some people
do better just taking their supplements
with a meal it seems to go down easier
next mistake is this if you're trying to
solve a health problem whatever it is
and you introduce a lot of different
supplements at one time you're not going
to know what worked so always introduce
them one at a time especially if you're
trying to solve some health problem the
next mistake is thinking these vitamins
are going to work if your diet sucks I
have a personal example of this yes I
was eating too many carbs at one time
but I wasn't consuming enough protein
especially for breakfast and no matter
how many vitamins I took I was still
tired what I really needed was protein
once I had protein I'm like oh my gosh
everything works now but also if you're
eating too many carbs and things like
that you're going to get a lot of
bloating and um I don't care how many
vitamins you take for this or that this
not going to create the effect next
mistake is going for the cheapest
vitamin possible especially these one
aay if you read the label which I have
right here I'm going to show you the
first ingredient calcium carbonate which
is the type of calcium in cement so
they're putting the cheapest vitamins
you could possibly imagine mostly made
from petroleum and chemicals a lot of
the vitamin companies out there um are
owned by either chemical companies big
Pharma or some of the junk food brands
what I'm observing is they're not going
for Quality ingredients they get the
cheapest possible especially when you
get into antioxidants like beta carotene
for example and you're taking it
synthetically there's some side effects
it shows that it increases your risk for
cancer of course they're not doing a
comparison with that study and using
antioxidants from actual food no it's
the synthetic version it's probably not
the best way to do it and the other
thing you'll notice with the synthetics
is the rdas are the same so applying
100% 100% 100% in nature you don't have
that and of course you have fillers you
have uh colorings and sometimes people
think that there's no difference between
vitamins the synthetics are the same as
natural well I don't think so now there
are a couple vitamins that I think are
fine to take synthetically one is niin
and then the other one is benot toine
but for some of the other vitamins I
would try to go more natural or get the
vitamin in the natural complex that
nature has provided now let's talk about
the mistake sometimes people make with
supplements in drug interactions they're
on a medication that's creating an
effect okay and then they want to take a
supplement that also creates the same
effect doctors don't like that because
then that might make the problem worse
so if you're taking a medication for
high blood pressure and then you take a
supplement to also help lower your high
blood pressure and you end up with low
blood pressure then that might be an
issue so you need to check with your
doctors so they can monitor that because
I mean my thought is why not introduce
something natural I'll give you an
example let's say you're diabetic and
you're taking metformin well berberine
also creates an effect very similar to
metformin why not work with the doctor
to just take less of the metformin
because that could have some side
effects one thing I want to say about
antibiotics is that you should always
take a probiotic when you're taking an
antibiotic so you can can at least
Salvage the good bacteria but here's the
thing if you're on medication let's say
for example for high blood pressure and
you're taking magnesium and all of a
sudden your blood pressure starts going
too low is that really a bad thing why
not just get with the doctor to take
less of that medication because
magnesium is such an important uh
natural remedy for everything related to
the heart one of the worst medications
you can take for your liver which is
over the counter is Tylenol you might
want to try milk thistle an herbal
supplement that can actually minimize
the damage of your liver from some of
these other medications next mistake a
lot of people make with supplements is
that there's certain vitamin or mineral
interactions that people need to know
about for example if you're taking high
doses of vitamin
D3 without
magnesium this could be a problem you
need magnesium for vitamin D to do its
job and without magnesium vitamin D
can't work and also taking high levels
of zinc over a long period of time you
can end up with a copper deficiency so
just realize that a lot of times these
minerals go in uh pairs like sodium and
potassium if you're consuming a lot of
salt without potassium that could be a
problem this is why I don't recommend
taking one mineral for a long period of
time especially if you're doing high
dosage I would rather you take the one
mineral in a blend of other minerals or
trace minerals just to make sure that
you don't create enough problem all
right next point I want to bring up is
taking advice from someone that gives
you an opinion about vitamins that's not
really based on a a good evaluation
there's not enough time in school to
really fully understand bi chemistry all
you have time to do is memorize things
like this kreb cycle pass the test and
move on to the next subject so there's a
big difference between learning
understanding and memorizing they're not
the same thing so you really want to get
opinions from people people that have a
lot of experience in the area of what
you're trying to get an opinion on like
you wouldn't want to take marriage
advice from someone that's never been
married and one last point about this I
think it's really important a lot of the
institutions and journals do not like to
publish anything positive on vitamin D
now why would that be because it
competes with the drug companies and
vitamin D is very inexpensive because
you can get it from the Sun all right
next uh mistake I'm going to mention
with supplements is not taking
high enough doses there's two reasons
why people take supplements one is to
compensate from not having enough from
their diet the other reason is to create
a therapeutic effect and there's a lot
of other reasons why high doses of
certain vitamins are good there's
actually quite a few genetic weaknesses
that make it more difficult to absorb um
certain nutrients I recently had over 20
people get their DNA testing on vitamin
D D and 100% of them had at least one
genetic problem or weakness with either
absorbing vitamin D or converting so the
solution is just to take a little bit
more another common vitamin that I think
people are not taking enough of is
vitamin B1 I mean the rdas for vitamin
B1 is ridiculous ridiculous it's not
going to do anything like they're 100
years old and they're just based on what
you would need to prevent a deficiency
they're not based on correcting
something or to create a therapeutic
benefit the other thing is if your
stomach is not acid enough it's too
alkaline you're not going to be able to
absorb the minerals you're not going to
be able to break down B12 because you
have to break down that Protein that's
connected to it in which case you would
need to take you know Bane hydroc
chloride to acidify the stomach so you
can absorb some of these nutrients all
right the next point I want to talk
about is if you are a vegan right you're
not getting animal sources so you really
want to make sure you take additional
nutrients on top of your diet because
you're going to be deficient you would
need to take B12 you need D3 omega-3
fatty acids if you don't want to get it
from fish sources you can get it from
algae iron zinc iodine and calcium now
let's get to the last one dosing and
when I'm talking about dosing I'm
talking about how many times a week do
you need Vitamin D this is so so so
important simply because vitamin D is
the most important vitamin because of
what happens when you're deficient the
rdas that they originally came up with
which is you know 600 IUS is sufficient
but there's another system that a lot of
people do not know about and this system
is called the paracrine autocrine system
so this system is mainly dependent on
either the sun converting the
cholesterol in your skin to vitamin D or
the vitamin D in your food or the
vitamin D in your supplements and the
halflife for that is like 24 hours So
after 24 hours it's it's pretty much
gone so if you're trying to support your
immune system you need to be taking
vitamin D every single day or getting
Sun every single day or it's very likely
you're going to be deficient the amount
that I would recommend as a maintenance
would be no less than 10,000 I use
that's not unreasonable
it might sound like a lot it's not but
the dangers of having a vitamin D
deficiency are much much greater than
having any excess and since we're ending
off on this vitamin D topic if you have
not seen this interview with Professor
Hollis who is the Pioneer in vitamin D
research you have to check it out we go
into this topic a lot more in depth and
I put that video up right here check it
out
