hi guys I had another question about
eggs is there a big difference between
commercial eggs and pasture raised eggs
okay I'm not talking about pasturized
eggs pasture raised where they're out in
the pasture and green and they're eating
grass yes there is a big difference okay
first of all commercial Eggs Factory
Farm chicken eggs uh high amounts of
Omega 6 that's
inflammatory okay could be a problem
they're fed GMO corn and GMO soy
okay there's also felhide in the feed
it's not good pasture raised eggs much
better High omega-3 fatty acids
anti-inflammatory fed grass if you get
organic pasturised eggs which I
recommend so it's about six bucks a
dozen okay this is $3 still it's worth
it for the extra money I mean the amount
of work that a farmer has to do to to
raise these chickens and the eggs I mean
it's incredible so I'd rather support
the farmer than try to
support my illness down the road right
in the hospital when I'm having problems
high amounts of carotenoids which is
really important in the eye uh to help
with the prostate help with the heart
help with your immune system it has one
of the richest sources of choline guess
what that's for prevent a fatty liver so
here you are and that's in the egg yolk
so here you are consuming this fat from
the egg yolk that is actually good for a
fatty liver which is interesting it also
has lethin so it has its own antidote
for this cholesterol and by the way the
cholesterol in eggs um is like um is a
precursor to make adrenal hormones for
stress so you need that it's healthy uh
there is no negative studies on pasture
raised eggs causing any problems with
your heart zero at all okay um um all
right has all the fat CYO vitamins
vitamin A E D K2 it's in the yolk uh
high amounts of Lucine which is good for
Muscle Recovery so if you're working out
very good it has doubled amount of
vitamin E to commercial eggs vitamin E
that's increasing your oxygen carrying
capacity it'll help you exercise longer
uh helps just increase oxygen and muscle
cramps not just in the legs but in your
heart is as well
uh it has 38% more concentrated vitamin
A than commercial eggs too so I highly
recommend it go for these avoid these
very simple thanks for watching hi guys
Hey listen I created a pretty amazing
evaluation quiz down below that actually
analyzes your symptoms to find the cause
the root cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause so take the quiz
now and we'll send you report
