hello Dr Burg here I'm going to talk
about diagnosing diabetes of course I'm
not telling you that you should go out
and diagnose diabetes but if you wanted
information on some of the values blood
test uh to determine diabetes that's
what I'm going to talk about number one
um and this is I'm going to show you the
values of the American Diabetes
Association okay the same organization
that recommends 40 to 60% of your
calories should be
carbohydrates all right which I'm just I
disagree with okay so um do a fasting
glucose test uh 126 is the cut off point
that you have diabetes okay if your
blood sugars are 126 or greater you have
diabetes okay if it's 100 to 125 you
have insulin resistance which is the
precursor the thing just before diabetes
if it's 100 to 110 you're in the gray
area okay if it's 100 you're normal now
if you didn't watch my other videos on
what that means that's one teaspoon of
sugar per all of your blood that's one 1
and 1/2 gallons or usually like between
1 and 1/2 or 1 and 1/3 gallons of blood
so that one teaspoon for that much blood
is very diluted that's not a lot of
sugar an average American consumes 31
tpoon of sugar the American Diabetes
Association recommends I think it's like
more than that it's like 52 if I'm not
mistaken teaspoons of sugar within all
the food not added sugar but if you add
in all the carbohydrates and things now
I um when I get the feedback from a lot
of people who are doing uh ketogenic
diets intermittent fasting and they're
doing very well with their blood sugars
it comes lower than 100 it's like
between 70 and
86 I consider this normal I would use
these numbers 70 to 86 that's a half a
teaspoon of sugar in all of your blood
and I'm not talking about from the diet
you're consuming a half a teaspoon of
sugar I'm talking about your body's
ability to make its own sugar it's
called gluconeogenesis your your liver
can make it out of your own fat or
dietary fat or dietary protein you don't
need sugar okay so that's that piece of
data now you could still have normal
fasting glucose and still have a problem
with pre-diabetes if you have higher
levels of in fasting insulin
so like a high a fasting insulin would
be 10 but there's a lot of people that
have even 203 even 40 which is very very
high and have normal glucose because it
takes time for it to show up uh in the
glucose in the blood but it's happening
throughout the body it's happening with
insulin so you have insulin resistance
at the cellular level and then it gets
worse and then it starts to affect the
blood sugars and then it creates more of
a problem so if you if you have normal
um fasting glucose that doesn't mean you
don't have insulin resistance you would
want to check your fasting insulin test
to see what that is the point I'm trying
to make is that you want to not rely on
one test you want to take several tests
to really determine if you have this of
course you want to look at the symptoms
too do you crave sweets oh that's a
problem uh if you can't go from one meal
to the next that's a problem if you get
sleepy after you eat that's another
problem that's all insulin resistance so
a tingling in the fingers numbness in
the hands that's all uh pre-diabetes or
diabetes so just don't go by one test
then you have A1C which again is okay
test but there's variables that
sometimes are not as accurate because it
could be other factors relating to that
especially if they do the test and
you're stressed or you drank coffee or
you're dehydrated or you you exercise
the night before or you didn't sleep all
these factors can affect the time that
you took the test so again you know take
multiple tests but the American Diabetes
Association says you should be below six
well I think they recommend that because
the amount of carbohydrates they're
recommending they're never going to get
get it down below six I recommend 4.6 to
5.3 that would be a normal okay you want
to keep it even below
five a really good test would be the
postmeal glucose test all right so you
just check your blood glucose 2 hours
after a meal and use a glucometer which
is basically a glucose meter and it
should be between it should be like less
than 120 of course the American Diabetes
Association said us it could be it's
normal if it's below 140 okay but again
because they're recommending so many
carbs um they're just they're they're
raising the values there um so the point
is that you would want to get it down
below 140 that's a good test so if you
were to test all these you have a real
good indication to see if you had
diabetes or not so anyway thanks for
watching put your comments
below hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you
report
