the next body type we're going to talk
about is going to be called de
adrenal now the adrenal gland sits on
top of the kidney right here you got two
of them go ahead and put your fingers on
your
adrenals now the adrenal gland is a
stress gland how many have ever
experienced stress before got 1 2 3 4 5
6 give me an example of what stresses
people
out work traffic children kids
husbands being overweight School Rel
relationships life finances wow you guys
can relate to that um how many have ever
had a stressful relationship before at
least once twice okay we'll stop right
there um so the adrenal reacts and
adapts the body to stress so if you
pretend like you're being chased by a
tiger for the next 10 years and how your
body would react to that that's what
happens with the adrenals over time when
it burns out well if you're being chased
by a tiger you're not going to be able
to sleep okay you're not going to be
able to reproduce so you're going to
have problems with hormones reproductive
hormones you're going have problems with
digestion you're going problems with
blood pressure and cholesterol and all
these other things with blood sugars
because you're running on sugar so I'm
going to go through all of them but the
adrenals regulate stress and stress
does accumulate yes you're like a bucket
and you filled up in fact there is
always some
stress that has occurred right before
you started developing a stubborn weight
issue always if you ask a person they
think it's just calories right well if
you take it back when did you start
gaining weight what happened just before
that you're going to find that they had
a baby c-section a surgery a
hysterectomy tubal liation they got
married they got a divorce all on that
same date now they have just a lot of
different stresses I've had people even
as kids be be overweight and many times
it comes after an asthma attack or or a
ear infection or a throat infection so
many things that can stress the body out
but stress does accumulate and over time
you develop too many applications on
your desktop computer which is your body
so all these things accumulate and
you're just like a bucket of stress um
you're kind some people when we measure
the inside of you are so jacked up they
can't sleep they can't relax so I would
say um probably the biggest thing that
stresses people out are other people is
that true there's certain personality
types that kind of get to you you got
the Wier right they're like um will you
please help me will you please help me
do they ever accept your help no you
just want to help you just want to like
okay let me push you downstairs now do
you want my
help so it's like you have whiners you
have the antagonistic person who's
rude you have um the real depressed
person that brings you down you'll give
them a solution they say no that will
never work or you have those really
happy people that are always this happy
that doesn't stress me out but sometimes
it's like if you're depressed you don't
really like these happy people they're
just too positive all the time but
there's one personality type that really
gets on my NES and they call it the um
passive aggressive called underminers
now let me show you what they what they
look like so everyone look at me very
very hostile right
now you're
smiling look at me very mean okay now
smile hi nice to meet
you they're going to backstab you to
your face they told you they stood up
for you but they actually ruin your
reputation they love Gossip how many of
you know anyone like that they give you
a compliment but they follow it up with
a sharp critical
comment they'll say something like hey
that's a nice uh jacket was it on sale
I'm like who would ever say that it's
like oh that's a nice haircut did you
get at cheap
cuts my uncle I mean um actually yes it
was my uncle um he goes uh
congratulations you graduated as a as a
chiropractor congratulations hey why
don't you want to become a real
doctor so um you have people that are
bringing you up and people are bringing
you down right so those people they
bring you down covertly so they're very
introverting they'll they'll um do
something like this are you feeling okay
you look really tired are you sick and
you're like I was fine until you said
that so I do have a way of getting back
at these people if you'd like to know
about that anyone want to know the
technique okay just reverse the flow
just do it back to
them
have you had has that been growing for a
while you don't have anything in your
face they'll be in the bathroom for
hours looking out their face going is
there anything on here because they're
introverting you so yeah okay so let's
move on to something less stressful but
if you're in a relationship like that or
someone's connected and you're trying to
reason with them don't hold your breath
you can't reason with them that's what
frustrates you because you just want to
get them to see can't you see that
you're crazy no they're not going to see
that they have to be right they'd rather
be right than successful so you just
better off just ignoring them okay so
adrenal when the adrenal gland gets
burnt out your tolerance or stress goes
down you don't tolerate people anymore
people get on your nerves you become
edgy um especially incompetent
people people that make mistakes you
kind of like you might react more than
you should right right you're not going
crazy okay it's the adrenals because the
tolerance of stress your ability to
tolerate St stuff this kind of buffers
it so sometimes that buffer goes down
and you're and you're just kind of on
edge all the time um the way you think
it's not linear it's like popcorn
thoughts just come in there like this um
your memory starts the adrenal affects
the GPS in the brain so it's kind of
like you're going downstairs you're like
um what am I looking for again got a
backtrack
okay um you'll be talking to someone but
you're actually having another
conversation in your head you might be
waiting for the person to stop talking
so you can talk because you're kind of
thinking too fast it's going too fast
what you're doing you're solving
problems 24/7 you can't stop solving
problems in fact you can't stop thinking
so with adrenal they do a lot of
thinking and uh because they're in a
survival mode it's called flight or
fight mode that is uh the problem with
that is it stir up up the adrenals even
more what they should be doing is just
turn it off for at least I don't know
like a half hour a day go for a walk
look at a tree a bird a cloud and just
get Space don't get the headphones on
and you know look at your computer all
the time how many of you sit in front of
a computer more than uh 5 hours a day 16
16 hours a
day wow um that what happens is that it
really kind of the computers and
everything kind of will stress your your
body too especially if you have the
computer right next to your body I would
try to get as far away as possible um
and even when you go to sleep at night
make sure there's no electrical stuff
right by your head um you got cell
phones you know all that stuff I I'm
very sensitive to um energies and I can
pick up like I don't like talking in
that cell phone somehow it just like
feels like there's a microwave in my
brain so I'm like okay I gotta go you
know just that's why everyone's like
what's your cell phone number uh I never
pick it up CU I don't like that cell
phone so the adrenal when the adrenal
gets
stressed you can't tolerate stress and
you start increasing hormones that are
going to cause belly fat all right so
this is an adrenal body type shape right
here the weight is right there now why
is it in the belly
primarily because your body's in
survival and as a stress mechanism
you're going to hold it around the most
important organs which happen to be in
your midsection your body's trying to
survive it's trying to help you it's
protecting you against starvation that
low calorie diet that you're going to go
on yeah so it's like going to put it
right here how many situps will it take
to flatten that
belly it's not going to happen why
because it's coming from a
hormone your problem is not your weight
it's your hormones you have to reduce
that cortisol the things that people do
to lose weight end up destroying their
metabolism and their hormones we don't
want to Jack that up anymore so people
take stimulants you're already
stimulated you don't want to jack it up
more um so it goes there now over time
instead of burning the belly fat off as
energy it's going to burn off your leg
muscles before it even touches that fat
in other words your body's going to use
up your proteins in your in your thighs
so guess what that's connected to your
knees that's why you have a lot of knee
problems with with adrenal and you have
a lot of collagen because all the the
glue that holds the body together falls
apart so you have loose skin it's called
pendulus abdomen it kind of sags right
here and when you get it from a seated
position you kind of like getting up
climbing is a problem your legs are
heavier don't worry it gets worse so
after these legs become
dissolved then your adrenals will go
after another muscle called the glutamic
Maximus what muscle is that your
behind so so what happens is not only do
we get us thinner legs and bigger trunk
but we get no butt so you got no butt no
legs all
belly you've seen people like that right
so
so you have something to look forward to
I'm just Kidd I'm telling you you got to
you have to um got to start now just PR
pre preventing okay um I've had
relatives that before menopause oh my
goodness waste like this after like that
so
yeah so adrenal um glands will cause all
sorts of problems with stress responses
and it affects their ability to sleep
normally when you go to sleep at night
you're supposed to go through four waves
of sleep from a light sleep here to a
deep sleep
here now down
here in the lower parts this is called
the Delta wave sleep right here that's
where you burn 98% of all your fat not
during the day all the fat burning
occurs right there
if you're not sleeping you're not going
to burn fat but in your mind you're
thinking you're wasting your time I
should be walking while I'm sleeping
just to burn off those calories so let's
talk about calories for a second um yes
exercise does burn calories that's true
but not necessarily fat calories let's
take a look at something when a normal
person
exercises they they actually stress
their body out okay it sounds pretty
interesting but what all the benefit
from that exercise occurs in the
recovery 14 hours to 24 hours later when
you're in the deep sleep if you're
sleeping if you let yourself recover you
ever hear that workout called the P90X
or the insanity
workout I normally see people are like
45 they start doing that you ever see
the videos they have like 18y olds if
you have low recovery like low endurance
low Fitness and you do that something
that high you're going to hurt yourself
you're going to pull a hamstring I see
it all the time my son I took him to
wrestling practice and he's like 16 17 I
was wrestling in college we go there and
all the followers are in a around the
mat they're standing around the
perimeter with their shoes off with
their socks on waiting to jump in there
because they're in their mind they're
still
18 one guy breaks the rib this guy you
know he runs out of almost like had a
heart attack it was hilarious so so
mentally you might still be 18
physically you may not be quite that
level so it really all the benefit
occurs in the recovery after the workout
so when you exercise you stress your
body and then you're supposed to recover
and that's when you burn the fat not
during the workout if you don't believe
me go work out three hours and weigh
yourself before and after you'll burn
900 calories but no actual weight
loss okay so it's all right here if you
can recover adrenal cases don't recover
that well so they don't adapt so the
exercise only as good as if you can
change or adapt to it so that's really
what we're dealing with is how do you
get your body to change from the things
you're doing it how many found when
you're 18 you can pretty much eat
anything you want really you can just
get away with it right how many found
you can't quite get away with it
now what is the difference the
difference is your metabolism the rate
your metabolism okay that's really
what's
broken you really have to exercise based
on your ability to recover from it it's
better off for adrenals if you go
walking on a flat surface than to get on
that treadmill to burn off the calories
so the thing that people
do cut calories starvation exhaustive
exercise is the exact thing that's
keeping that weight there and they're
frustrated because they've been taught
that oh everyone knows that you just
have to exercise and diet oh really well
those people are saying that I've never
probably worked with one person I bet
I've been there in the field of weight
loss for 25 years I worked on 35,000
different people I believe a patient
because I observe them they're eating
good and it's still not working they're
doing the treadmill still not working so
it really has to do with the internal so
we want to adjust the workout to um your
ability to adapt that's why you have to
you can't put everyone in the same
program everyone needs their their own
program so with adrenal either they
can't get to sleep cuz they're so wound
up and they can't relax cuz they're
thinking so much or they get up in the
middle of the night like two and just
like they're more awake at two than they
are during the day in fact right after
lunch or 3:00 they're just ready to go
to sleep so either they can't get to
sleep they can't stay asleep or the
bladder which actually is controlled by
the adrenal has to eliminate you know so
they're getting up urinating several
times a night that's adrenal the best
sleep for the adrenal is a half hour
before the alarm clock goes off right
there right when you finally get to
sleep that's when you got to get out can
anyone relate to that yeah don't worry
it gets worse um so we got the adrenal
will affect the Sleep create an
inability to see change from a
workout and it also will affect your um
cognitive it affects a lot of other
things as well it affects blood pressure
yeah that's one of the symptoms from the
adrenal is high blood pressure
especially of the top number the
systolic before the diastolic so always
look at the top number if the top top
number is high we know it's adrenal so
because your your body is you lost that
recovery mechanism to kind of keep the
pressure down so you have blood pressure
we have blood sugar yes diabetes is a
symptom of
adrenal because they control the sugars
blood
cholesterol is
adrenal yeah cholesterol is needed to
make adrenal hormones during stress The
more stress you go through the more
cholesterol you need to be able build
those hormones and then you have all
allergies are adrenal including the
sinus low vitamin D
levels are are adrenal you you know your
doctor saying go take vitamin D you're
deficient but they're not asking
why okay AR arthritis all the iises in
fact anything connected with
inflammation is
adrenal poor
handwriting and that's me um I could
write the first part of the the word but
the last just kind of gets all lost so
this means blood pressure blood sugar
blood cholesterol allergies vitamin D
inflammation and um cognitive issues um
insomnia other than that you're
perfectly healthy now here here is the
problem what happens is that the medical
system
treats treats these they don't ask why
there's no
evaluation what they'll do is take that
symptom okay these are symptoms this is
what symptom is and then they make it
the problem okay they confuse the
symptom with the problem it's like one
of those obvious things I'm like is it
just me why is anyone asking question
because if you ask your doctor what
caused this what they'll do is convert
it to a very scientific complex name
okay you have lumbalgia what does that
mean low back pain oh okay you have
fibromyalgia what does that mean you got
you're hurting all over your body uh you
have pler fasciitis what does that mean
you got pain in the foot you have dto
Kinesis sounds pretty scientific that
means you can't do this with your body
you can't rotate it back and forth you
have spond a thesis what does that mean
you have a you have a broken back
there's all these labels post-traumatic
stress syndrome you means you you got
some stress in your
past they have one now called um
non-compliance to treatment disorder I'm
serious I'm not kidding non-compliance
to treatment disorder if you don't do
what the doctor
says I told my son that and he said oh
Homie don't play that I'm like I said I
said what does Homie don't play that
mean he said that means um I'm not going
to do what you say I'm like oh okay then
you're going to get a diagnosis from the
doctor CU he's going to go you have
non-compliance to treatment distor well
maybe you didn't want the surgery maybe
you want a second opinion and they'll
put this
label they have a manic depressive what
does that mean it means that you're
happy and sad what's wrong with being
happy you know you have a clinical
depression it could mean that you're not
sleeping people that don't sleep get
depressed so it's just amazing and then
it's treated with a poison I'm sorry a
medication um my whole thought is that
what's really missing in healthcare is
the health part it's kind of like that I
mean I don't know sometimes I'm like did
I just think of that is that an original
idea or does everyone know that I mean
it's bizarre there's no health and
Healthcare it's all disease care there
are underlying principles to all
subjects
in life that are very high principles
that everything kind of must revolve
around okay my whole principle in weight
loss is getting healthy to lose weight
not losing weight to get healthy you
have to focus on your health now that's
pretty powerful because if you don't
know that you're very susceptible to the
next unhealthy diet that comes along or
a little gimmick that might not be
healthy but if you look at it from the
Viewpoint of okay is that healthy yes
okay that might
work let's just take the word food
how many of you eat food okay yeah how
many of you never looked up the
definition of the word food before okay
I'm going to tell you what it is is that
which is eaten to sustain life provide
energy and promote the growth and repair
of tissue it comes from the Latin word
which means nourishment nutrients so
food is nutrients that's why we supposed
to eat it we're not supposed to eat food
for necessarily anything other than
health and nutrients but so when you go
into the grocery store you can ask now
H what am I in the mood for no no no no
don't ask that because you're going to
get a brownie um but if you say what can
get me more nutrition what's what can of
eat that has more nutrition that's very
powerful because then you get a state of
trouble I guarantee all the junk Foods
don't have a lot of nutrition they don't
other than synthetic
vitamins in politics you have underlying
principles that you use like the I guess
the principle in politics or the
underlying senior principle would be
something like um don't spend more than
you have right in the budget would that
be kind of a smart thing to get out of
trouble so I guess we don't have to
worry about that one just being
sarcastic um and then you have um what
about in
um um in the area of Health in general
you have to or healthc care you have to
create your
health can you imagine if we just put 1%
of the of the uh money we put in care or
Health Care into just prevention or
creating Health it's over it's over I
mean prevention the problem is the
doctors will say okay let's check you in
six months okay and you keep coming back
let's check you let's check you sorry to
tell this you have cancer get your stuff
together and uh it's we're going to do
chemo what was to be done to prevent it
what was done to create the health
there's nothing what are they going to
do an aspirin a day I had to get life
insurance okay Rec I'm still stying to
figure out why my wife wanted to get
life insurance so I go to the doctor my
cholesterol is uh 180 it's pretty good
the doctor says well it's normal but
we're going to prevent we're going to
we're going to practice some prevented
medication like what what are you
talking about it's normal I goes I know
but we're just doing on everyone right
now I'm like no thank you no so he goes
no no I have a free sample lipor I'm
like no that is side effects he goes oh
no that's you can't believe the Articles
you can't believe I'm like
like like are you get a kickback so the
point is that there's a lot of
corruption in the area of
pharmaceuticals and drugs you already
know that but the point is that you have
to start creating your health because
the doctors just don't know how I train
doctors I train over 2400 doctors
they're not taught how to get someone
healthy other than the food pyramid
drink more water eat more fiber you know
it's just like this not significant so
you really have to learn how to create
Health yourself and start building
Health cu no one else is going to do it
for you cancer takes 20 years to grow in
your body I mean all of you probably
have some cancer cells in your body it's
what you're doing in your environment
that's countering that right now to
protect you you literally you have to
create your health every day so I look
at people a little differently like what
I'll do when I'm listening to people
I'll just dissect them in half and I'll
go okay what are the things they're
doing to create their health and what
are the things they're doing to counter
create their health because doing
nothing is counter creating right so and
it's amazing it so makes it so simple
I'm like wow like wow look at this like
you don't have you don't realize that
many people don't realize that the
Cravings are a very simple nutrient
deficiency potassium when you have low
potassium you will crave sugar
guaranteed when you get your daily
amount of potassium you will not crave
sugar it's that simple how many have
crave sugar okay if I tell you what to
do would you would you do it to get rid
of Cravings within 24 hours or actually
48 Hours okay so do this thing right
here normal amount of pottassium we need
is 4700 milligrams a day now what food
are is high in potassium bananas right
that's 400 okay how many bananas would
it
take 12 12 bananas right so you're not
going to do 12 bananas okay so the
amount of potassium you need is so high
you don't even realize it there's a lot
of pottassium so what you can do is you
can have all the leafy greens you would
need seven
cups Just seven cups it's not hard
couple salads a day and you will fulfill
your daily amount requirement for
potassium you won't you will not have
cravings it's wonderful to help protect
against diabetes this right here because
when you have that potassium it helps
stabilize your blood sugars but how many
of you really don't consume seven cups
of salad a day hardly anyone does how
the heck are you ever going to get your
potassium so um this is the problem is
we don't really know what foods have the
right nutrients and and the soils are so
depleted if you would if you wanted to
get your basic nutrients of trace
minerals okay those are little minerals
that you need in small amounts in your
food right now with the soils the way
they are you would have to consume
27,000 calories of
food yeah so that's going to be PR hard
isn't it that's a lot of food eating
every day so you're going to have to sub
or uh enhance your diet with something
just make sure it's the right nutrients
plant-based you have to concentrate but
yeah that's this is the problem is that
people don't know how to create health
and so it's kind of crazy so so we have
the adrenal we have uh with the problem
with the adrenal is you get fluid
retention because all the electrolytes
are controlled the sodium pottassium is
controlled by the adrenal in other words
when you have adrenal problems you lose
potassium
your salts and elect all these things
that keep the fluid moving are gone so
the fluid's going to pull in your ankles
when you press your ankle it leaves a
little Dent that's fluid retention you
shouldn't have that okay go ahead and
press your ankle and see if you have
any indentations
there can you call
911 so fluid in the ankles is purely an
electrolyte problem because the adrenal
it's the backing up fluid
so we have that we're going to have salt
cravings for adrenal too salt Cravings
that's adrenal salt is the is the
mineral that recharges the battery
that's why you need a little chip at
night when you go home I mean just to
recharge your battery because you're
drained most of you are like a car in
the freeway the battery is dead and
you're putting gas in the car why
doesn't this thing start now you're
pushing the car it's getting kind of
heavy so electrolytes fluid now how much
water should you drink
a a classes right who told you
that they told
you someday I'm going to find out who
they is because that is a
myth I was taught that you drink I still
can't find the where do you find this
information only drink when you're
thirsty here's what I found the more
water you drink the more dehydrated you
become why because it flushes out the
electrolytes that are supposed to hold
the water there there's a condition
right now that I think it's called um
hypon nutria which is actually too much
water which is Flushing electroids and
you can die die by drinking too much
water so drink when you're thirsty I
have a machine I measure fluid in in
person's body normally people that drink
the most water the most dehydrated
W don't worry it gets
worse
so they um is everywhere it's nowhere
it's like I don't know who they is so
you have um fluids we have calcium
calcium is controlled by the adrenal not
just bone loss not just muscle cramps
but you need calcium to have to wind
down at night without good adrenals your
calcium will deposit not in the bone but
on the bone as arthritis btis tontis
tartter in the teeth cataracts kidney
stones gall stones btis all the itis is
and twitching in the left eyelid right
here
yeah that's calcium so again what do
people take calcium carbonate Limestone
it's in the one
days anytime you get a vitamin that's
prescribed prescription at a pharmacy oh
my goodness that's like how low can you
go it's just way off the deep end it's
just going to be
rocks you need plant-based minerals this
is how it works the plant is supposed to
break down the minerals like rocks in
the earth and absorb them into the plant
and make them easy to digest the
plant-based
minerals are 10,000 times smaller than
rocks and metallic minerals that you
would get like sea
salts yeah 10,000 times smaller so that
would be the equivalent to a um a golf
ball to the Empire State Building so you
absorb these plant-based minerals so
much better you find that when you eat
food you don't feel satisfied like it
just doesn't quite even water just
doesn't satisfy you because the
nutrients aren't there why do you think
you keep
craving so it's just it's a
deficiency so we have uh sinus problems
oh that's another diagnosis sleep apnea
what does that mean it means that your
sinuses are blocked like very I mean
it's just amazing how it's gotten out of
control um and so right now the answer
to healthcare is not spending more money
on it it's just to do more prevention
the whole philosophy is broken but
there's no money in prevention it's too
cheap I mean
it's very cheap in fact I can take every
one of your grocery bills and probably
find $100 every two weeks of of food
that you could just switch over to
healthier food and just and just take
that and create Health it's not that
hard it's just choices of what to eat in
the grocery store why do I know this
because I go in the grocery store and I
see what they have it's so bad it's
amazing I'm like wow people must be
buying that because it's there I mean
trying to find food in the grocery store
it's not easy it's like um so we have
adrenal any other question about the
adrenal body type it's kind of an
interesting type snoring is that snoring
because the sinuses there's a nerve that
goes in the back of the sinuses that if
the adrenal gland shrinks it because the
cortisol and it actually makes this
thicker so you're like you know
snoring so we have uh adrenal now um the
other thing is that of course my wife
says that sometimes I make that sound
I'm like no don't and she goes okay I'm
going to record you I'm like okay you
can prove it so that's
adrenal
