I want to show you how to dramatically
reduce your cortisol stress with
ashwagandha now what is ashwagandha it's
an herb that's been used for 6 000 years
and so it's been around a long time and
has stood this test of time with minimal
side effects which I want to get into
some of the side effects that are on
social media related to it I will get to
that but I want to just tell you the
benefits first it is hands down one of
the best adaptogens or herbs that help
you cope with stress as well as
depression it has been shown to increase
stamina especially with endurance when
you're exercising there's been a study
with favorable results in the hormone
cortisol with the stress hormone which
is reduced with ashwagandha is probably
the reason why it's helping shrink
fibroids because it lowers cortisol
ashwagandha also has anti-inflammatory
properties now here's the question
cortisol is typically an
anti-inflammatory hormone so if we're
reducing this anti-inflammatory hormone
why would you have more benefit from
ashwagandha as an anti-inflammatory you
would think a person with high cortisol
would not have inflammation because all
that high cortisol is an
anti-inflammatory but the confusion lies
in the difference between acute stress
and chronic stress because when you're
chronically stressed you have this High
elevated amount of cortisol very similar
to when you have high levels of insulin
you develop cortisol resistance just
like you would with insulin insulin
resistance and cortisol resistance is a
situation where you have high levels of
cortisol but the cortisol is not
activated penetrated into the cell so we
don't really get the benefits of
cortisol we we get the opposite
sometimes and so with a lack of cortisol
you'll tend to have more inflammation so
probably what ashwagandha is doing is
making cortisol more sensitive and so
now the feedback loop can connect and
the body doesn't have to produce so much
more cortisol anymore it can it can be
lowered this is why ashwagandha is also
good for the immune system and cognitive
benefits to improve situations like
Alzheimer's Parkinson's things like that
and there's also some benefits that it
can help lower blood sugars now why
would it do that because stress
activates the release of more sugar
anytime you're in stress mode the body
body will start burning more sugar okay
so just realize even though your diet is
sugar-free you're actually living on
sugar when you're going through chronic
stress so in one study that showed
significant decreases in cortisol which
is a comparison between 27.9 percent
decrease and 7.9 decrease in cortisol
with the placebo control group and so
this is based on a randomized
double-blinded placebo control study
which I'll put a link down below so they
showed significant decrease in cortisol
with minimal side effects now you have
to realize that any natural thing out
there that works is going to be attacked
by probably big Pharma and so you'll see
that ashwagandha is having more and more
side effects people are feeling dizzy or
lightheadedness or
too mellow like emotionless right and so
we we better beware because these
natural remedies are not FDA approved
like that really means anything to me
first of all the Committees that approve
these drugs have a lot of conflict of
interest and secondly I mean just watch
a commercial right with the massive
amount of side effects that occur with
medication and they'll tell you you know
may cause death vomiting yet people keep
taking them but they're FDA approved do
you have any medications that are taken
off the market after they're FDA
approved and then we're going to be
hesitant about taking some natural thing
that has minimum side effects I mean I
just want to tell you a quick story a
lady reached out to me uh she wanted
some help she had a lot of problems
after her gallbladder was removed and um
they put her on I think starting out
with 17 different drugs okay I think
she's down to 14 drugs right now
but she's in her 40s 14 different
medications and she wants help because
she keeps experiencing problems with
loss of memory and digestive problems
and so they keep sending her to another
specialist another specialist going
round and round and round and I looked
up what these medications are and then I
cross-referenced them to all the side
effects that they create and many of the
side effects produce symptoms that she's
on medication to try to relieve I can
get in trouble if I tell people to come
off medication but I basically told her
that she needs to have a serious talk
with her doctor and show the doctor all
the interactions and all the side
effects and does she really need these
medications how the heck could anyone
ever create Health when they take
poisons I'm sorry medications I mean I
really think she needs to do a reset you
know and see what causes what and only
take those medications that are
absolutely necessary but I will say all
those medications are FDA approved so
anyway I got sidetracked let's talk
about the dosage of ashwagandha if
you're doing strengthening type
exercises or endurance type exercises I
would recommend taking roughly about 300
milligrams twice a day you know in the
morning and before you go to bed and
also you might want to take it for a
period of time and then come off of it
for a while and just see how you feel
because it's for stress and it's very
powerful and maybe you might not need it
once you really change your lifestyle
and get rid of some of the stress but
the point is you want to use these
things as tools take them as needed
they're not meant to be on for the rest
of your life but if you don't exercise
you're a bit sedentary you probably only
need like 100 milligrams once a day so
if you wanted something that could
potentially dramatically lower your
cortisol levels definitely look at this
ashwagandha herb it's been around for a
long time also since we're on the topic
of stress if you have not seen this
video on stress which shows you a manual
technique to get rid of stress you
really need to check that out I put it
up right here
