hey guys we have another great
before-and-after Sheryl's with us I
think from Indiana right Cheryl correct
okay great hey why don't you just just
jump right in and share your history of
I saw the before pictures I want to know
like how long ago was that and what
actually happened well a little bit long
story we'll make it as short as possible
that I was always thin as a kid and even
after having four children remained size
six probably at my biggest and about ten
years ago I moved to Indiana from
Kentucky and got into a little bit of a
situation where I get depressed and I
got very stressed and weight just
started packing it on it was a big
surprise to me one of those things where
you know you don't notice you're getting
big or at least I was kind of thankful
that when I looked at myself in the
mirror I didn't see what was actually
there because that would have beaten me
even more depressed I don't know it's
just a big a big weight gain over over
eight to ten year period for no reason
but stress it may have been a little
diet but my diet really didn't change no
after having four kids being a size six
you know I was a little more active but
I didn't think it make that big of a
difference maybe my metabolism after
turning 40 some 45 now so I'm really
still not sure what caused the weight to
pack on except for maybe stress and
depression
what toe what was your age at that time
where you you started just like you've
gained a lot of weight
38 38 okay so you went through all this
stress were you sleeping at the time or
now did you say sleeping yeah now my
sleep has always been a problem it's
really interesting that you bring that
up you know I I work a night shift job
currently and sleep is still in she get
six to eight hours but I'm lucky
sometimes I'll work two jobs when I call
me into my other place of employment and
I'll get four or five and that's like a
collective sleep so the things I do need
to work on is my sleep so I always hear
I hear you in the back of my head you
know recovery recovery and burning
things and sleep and right yeah that's a
struggle from you probably saw the
adrenal body type video where I talk
about stress being like something I
think it's kind of a ignored area with
weight gain but it's very common did you
see that video that I had on the
adrenals I did yeah that's probably your
video for you because he the stress can
activate a hormone called cortisol did
you did you gain weight all over was it
mainly in the midsection it was kind of
all over yeah you see in my pictures I
have a lot of face fat arm fat you know
my shoes even fit better when I started
keto I started losing weight you know on
my rings I had to actually take off and
put on a key ring because they wouldn't
fit my fingers so amazing it was all wow
yeah cuz it's almost like it's a it's
amazing how because I saw you before
picture and then the after it was like
before during and after
what was your peak weight that you hit
that your maximum weight that you're
weighing your worth oh I kind of stopped
looking about 220 hmm and I stopped
taking pictures
probably well before that it was just by
chance I found a couple that were at my
peak rate but I'm guessing it had to be
at least 230 Wow I honestly didn't want
to step on a scale it didn't want to be
in front of a mirror I definitely didn't
want to take photos and it just got
really bad so those pictures that you
see the majority of them that the
heavier weight was a year ago possibly
two years ago and but the comparison of
the weight loss that that happened with
in the first three and a half to four
months being on keto Wow that's amazing
what what prompted you to or motivated
you just say you know what I got to find
a solution here oh I think I faced
reality and realized that
you know I am big and what in the world
happened it's like I woke up literally
you know woke up one day I'm like this
just can't happen I can't I can't allow
myself to go out like this
and I guess a bigger motivator is I am
raising my four-year-old severely
autistic granddaughter
I'm completely nonverbal and totally
depends on me 100% stressing me and my
husband but you know when I would change
her diaper and I struggled to get on the
floor just with my belly being in the
way of my thighs at a 90-degree angle
that that that wasn't right that that
really pushed me to if I can't sit on
the floor properly at a 90 degree angle
then there's a problem Yeah right so so
then what did you did you do some
searches have you gone there no how did
you find out about Kido
well it's interesting there was there's
a guy at work a younger gentleman and
you know I well
background a little bit I used to do
some weight training so fitness
competitions back in the day messed up
my knee my meniscus which wasn't new
severe but you know it was a downward
spiral of getting out of that kind of
lifestyle
hmm and though I saw this guy at work
and he's young he's lost a lot of weight
since high school they actually featured
him in a local newspaper for doing such
a good job and all these things so I
just asked him one day was he was on his
way to the gym and heading out of the
building and said well you don't how can
I lose fat what's going on nowadays
because I'm out of the loop you know
that's been 15 years ago or more and he
said well just try this keto diet I'm
like what that's what so he said it's
called ketogenic he sent me a text and
how to spell it and all this good stuff
and I started doing searches I found you
almost instantly and your explanation of
things and why and how and stuff and in
this short your short but informational
videos was very helpful to me because I
don't have much time so I'm like I can
just scroll through your stuff all day
long which I have already and I think
I've watched every single one of your
videos and yeah that's how I found it I
just
you know it's really interesting he he
told me about the ketogenic diet and I
promised you that I probably almost
stayed up for two days just listening to
things that everybody has to say
positive negative
I started dropped in the negative videos
almost immediately the the results you
know that I watched some testimonials
and these before and afters and it just
blew me away I couldn't believe that
that could happen Wow
Wow yeah it's awesome so you started and
then you started obviously within
several months you just started losing
weight obviously right Oh immediately I
mean I'm not real sure a three of my
four daughters have currently been on
keto as well one of them is still on
keto with me and you know she's thin but
you know thinner her but she's already
lost 15 pounds in the past couple months
and you know she's amazed by it you know
she really can't tell very well but when
she tries on clothes she couldn't fit
before and they're almost loose she's
like whoa I'm like yeah awesome and then
did you add intermittent fasting with
ketosis at the same time or which how
did you do those two well in the
beginning I was kind of fumbling around
and still learning I I did the whole
bacon eggs cheese couple olives that
kind of thing you know making sure that
I was getting fat in probably getting a
little too much fat but still losing
drastic weight I didn't really start in
a minute fasting it kind of just
happened I mean even now I'm kind of
curious as to whether I'm really doing
in a minute fasting I'll eat twice a day
it's I would like to squeeze that into a
four hour window or five hour window but
as it stands I'll eat at 7 p.m. and then
I'll eat at 3 o'clock in the morning
when it's my lunchtime at work and
usually when I get up I'll do my and my
butter coffee so I mean I kind of slid
in passing just because I'm not hungry
you know I guess the fat is such an
appetite suppressant for me that I just
I'm not
that's so that's so awesome because I
think it's probably the number one thing
with people like they can't really do a
program because they're always hungry
and they're always craving so you're not
going to stick to anything especially if
it's like Weight Watchers and try to do
anything long-term
so yeah I think with everyone I'm
interviewing they say very similar
things like the hunger goes away it's
easier to do go from meal to meal and
then so did you see any other health
benefits when you started doing this
well yeah I have severe knee pain I used
to have neuropathy in my right leg
pretty severe to the point where I was
gonna go get scallions and and things to
figure out what was wrong because it was
so painful you know it's hard to
describe we have this numbing thing and
people are like well if it's numb it
doesn't hurt I'm like no it's nom it
does hurt and I was really concerned
about circulation and it that that went
away I totally don't have any more
neuropathy in my legs my knees don't
hurt they still pop a bit and I have
some weakness but I think getting into
the gym will help me fix that and
strengthen myself back up Wow
but that's that's the biggest thing I've
noticed the the aches and pains and
shocks from the neuropathy in my legs
have gone away wow my media clarity is a
little bit better I have to admit I'd
suffer from from a TD so I bounced
around a lot mm-hmm but the clarity is
better yeah and then do you what about
how much do you weigh now I am right
about one seven right 173 175 awesome I
think I started off right around 2:30
220 was was the I just continued to get
bigger after I marched the 220 and I'll
just chop it up to 230 and it may have
been more it made me more about don't
think it was the less that's fantastic
yeah because I saw also some earlier
pictures after you have for kids he
didn't seem to gain any weight there so
the whole stress thing wow that's just
really just pushed you over the edge I
used to
Jim quite a bit I wasn't Jimmer out
there for a while when I was you know
doing the fitness competition I would go
2 to 3 hours a day 5 a.m. and I loved
that it was good for me at the time
right now I haven't even started any any
workout whatsoever
this is strictly just just diet and you
know I was wondering if it's a
possibility if somebody is actually
allergic to gluten if the effects show
up faster within myself because one of
my my daughters it's a little heavier
she tried it and she lost but she didn't
lose near as fast as I did yeah I'm
really really good about watching my
carbs those hidden sugars the glycemic
index you know things that our diet
doesn't mean it's keto and I think being
very mindful and knowledgeable about
that thanks to you I am able to tweak it
up you know almost perfect Wow so in
other words so she might have a gluten
intolerance so she might squeeze in a
little bit of gluten here and there well
I think I had a gluten intolerance and
that's what helped me lose so quickly
and she was you know I'm one of those
people if I read the ingredients label
and it says sugar I'm out and I went
shopping with her one time when I went
to visit and she's like I was only
wandering around a sugar I'm like is
that sugar no so I'm pretty strict on
the sugar bit if it says sugar I don't
care how little it is I usually won't
take it in and my idea a cheat meal is
like going somewhere where I know
there's SG in the food you know so you
know the glycemic index there on the MSG
just freaks me out and I'm like that's
that's too much hey once you once you
experience it it's like no one has to
convince you it's a lot easier because
you know the effects and where other
people are probably around you're doing
this you're like yeah no thanks I
already know what my body needs it's
kind of like a great experiment and just
to see what works on your body and
within like three months you just lost
some serious weight that's incredible
pretty much that was insane and and for
losing that much eating on my skin
actually
back and I was listening to some of your
other interviews about how you know the
keto diet everybody kept telling me that
you know that looks like a mother and
daughter picture it doesn't even look
like you you look you know ten years
younger not only did you lose way that
you lost years and and that was that's
interesting you know because you see
other people go through any other
program and their skin hangs and sags
and and things like that and I really
don't see that in myself now I'm five
years old have four children lost almost
60 pounds and Wow
you know I'm glad you brought that up
because um I just wanted to tell people
that when you're doing the combination
of this you're dropping insulin so
therefore you're fixing something called
insulin resistance and that means that
you're gonna start pulling in more
protein amino acids that are available
now to make your connective tissue
tighten up your skin so you don't have
this flabby skin like a diabetic would
they have a lot of loose skin not to
mention in a minute fasting and the
growth hormone that then helps you tone
as well
it's the anti aging and it's also it's
called a protein sparer so your sparing
your proteins your retaining protein
you're not losing protein and that's why
you can go from meal to meal comfortably
without losing any muscle mass you
actually gain muscle mass so I think
it's like you're a perfect example of
that what I'm doing is I'll just kind of
point this out as an experiment I don't
know if you noticed any improvements in
your your vision but I wanted to say
that instead of the keto Coffee thing
what I'm doing now in the morning is I'm
doing kind of a kale Kido kale
shake with I mean just call it a kale
shake and I add the coconut oil in there
because you have these phytonutrients
called xanthine and lutein in the kale
it's like off-the-charts which basically
feed the macula and the retina and the
brain and so I'm drinking massive
amounts of kale in the morning and with
the coconut which actually help
to absorb it because those kind of
nutrients are a fat-soluble they're not
water-soluble so you need a little fat
so that's why you need to put like olive
oil on your salad so I'm doing that in
the morning and nothing else just a kale
shake and with the coconut oil oh my
gosh like my vision is like completely
different so just an idea for those
people out there that have issues with
the vision possible macular degeneration
any problem the retina give it a shot
for like a week and just see the before
and after it's quite interesting with my
glasses on I've been noticing that
things are blurry and I'm thinking my
visions getting much worse what's going
on and seriously just a week ago I
decided to lift up my glasses and try to
read something from a distance like I
usually do now it wasn't clear but it
was a lot clearer than usual like that
spider-man effectors in the beginning of
that movie when he takes off his glasses
and he can see puts them on in a blurry
it was literally almost like that so I
can't wait to get back to the eye doctor
and see what improvement has happened
because like I said I was I was very
nervous that my vision was getting worse
for some reasons no like people are
telling me oh it's your sugar levels
it's this it's you know your blood
sugars you know like a diabetic and your
eyes are getting worse and as a matter
of fact I think it's getting better
because it's just yeah if I explained
that properly totally you did and that's
that's what I'm noticing with a lot of
people because take a look at a diabetic
what what happens they go blind why
because the blood Sugar's affect the
vascular part to the nerves and around
the retina so this potentially could
actually I'm not saying reverse it but
it can improve it greatly and so if
you're a diabetic or pre-diabetic I
would give it a shot I'm speaking in
nerd there was a couple of questions I
should have written down but I had
forgotten but you brought something to
like I I have spinal stenosis and I saw
your video recently on spinal stenosis I
also have had my gallbladder removed
probably five years ago I'm really
horrible as time lines but I wonder some
times if I'm pulling enough nutrients
out of my fat or if I'm able to do so to
be able to possibly repair that that
that nerve column for my spinal stenosis
so let me just tell people with spinal
stenosis is is basically it's a
situation where the spinal column is not
providing enough space for the spinal
cord because there's spurring or
degeneration or calcium buildup so you
have this you know pain and either in
your neck or your lower back or your
mid-back so that's a vitamin k2
deficiency another fat-soluble vitamin
just like what I said before the the
lutein and the xanthine xanthine which
are basically vital nutrients in the
kale so vitamin k2 is a fad Seibel
vitamin in grass-fed animal products and
dairy it's also in NATO which is if you
want to do the fermented soy but here's
the point if you don't have a gall
bladder if you have a sluggish gall
bladder you're not gonna have enough of
bile to pull those things in like you
did before when you had it so I think
with you Cheryl
might be a good idea to even get some
get the gall bladder formula with some
purified bile salts just take like one
your first meal right after the first
meal that will give you a little that
will actually substitute some of that
bile salt to start pulling in the k2
that then will start removing the soft
tissue calcium from the joints from the
spinal column and that way I think that
would be the best route for you because
you could take the k2 it may work but
it's gonna work really good if you have
bile and you take it at the same time
things on my Christmas list let's go
through your store and get your kale
shake and your wheatgrass and your your
gallbladder formula and numerous
different other things I'm really
excited to be able to try them and see
how that kicks in along with what I
caught kitto 2.0 you know I haven't went
to the gym yet and I can't wait to start
doing the you know twice a week let my
body recover you know do 20 minutes of
high interval you know watching you jump
around on the stumps in your back
I was great I'm not sure if I could do
that but maybe we'll get there right
exactly yeah did you see the one where
I'd jump on a 5 foot actually about five
or six feet up in the air it was
absolutely insane I was kind of scared
for you yeah it's just to let people
know I really didn't jump that high
I basically stood on that platform and
jumped backwards and then reverse the
camera I did and I should have had a
blooper video because I almost broke my
neck jumping backwards off of a five and
a half foot platform well you fooled me
what's that you fooled me I thought you
actually went up yeah I know it's like
it's amazing you just reverse the camera
but I I was like let me try this thing
okay get the camera out and I jumped
backwards and I go what did I just do
and I just like almost broke my neck so
anyway it turned out good but I should
have had the blooper video on that right
for those of you watching I'll put a
link down below of that video so you
could see it but it's a it looks pretty
real so quick question about basil and
besides a spice in my foods how can I
add that in could it be just the green
refugee my salads yeah you want to add a
couple things you could do parsley is
like really good parsley is good
kale is good put in your salad I don't
know if you do in the kale shake yet but
that would be also really good as well
yeah for sure does that make sense yes
and as far as building muscle when I get
back into the gym you know since I used
to do the fitness competitions and I was
really lucky and I actually lost my
cycle because I was at 6% body fat and I
felt great during that time I want to
get back into shape I want to put muscle
back on you know I went through a lot of
the muscle atrophy I've got the the
dimples and the dents and things like
that I watched some videos of yours on
how to repair that Celia MS or whatever
called I forget is there anything
besides your your videos that you could
you know currently point out that that
would help that you know I don't want to
up my protein too much so I don't want
to turn into too much sugar you know
those kinds of things but what's good
for a building muscle on keto and my
next to point oh well I think um I just
released a video today on that in fact
to build your muscle the it really
requires all the nutrients especially
you know vitamin C and vitamin B and
some protein but the two nutrients that
are the most deficient after you fix
your insulin resistance which it sounds
like you did would be potassium get any
uh potassium from the greens and then
number two the trace minerals which is
kind of hard to find so I would get that
in a liquid but make sure it's
plant-based because all those enzymes
that convert protein into body protein
tissue muscle collagen joint which some
people have a problem with requires the
trace minerals I'm talking to like
selenium iodine chromium so you take
that your enzymes will finally have
enough to start to get your protein nice
and tight and lean and strong I'll give
you an example let's say you're
deficient in manganese for example
you're gonna have problems with your
disks you're gonna have a slip disc you
have a weak joining your back so each
mineral does a certain thing to a
certain part of your body so b12 is for
the blood that's cobalt that's the trace
mineral cobalt that goes with that so
the trace minerals in general I think
will make you have the unfair advantage
so when you add your exercise that'll be
awesome now if you get sore after your
workout d-ribose is is the remedy that I
recommend to increase recovery that's
mainly for a muscle though and skeletal
muscle recovery and cardiovascular
muscle recovery which you may not have a
problem with that but if you just want
to grow muscle how the lean muscle have
tight skin I would do the trace mineral
that's like going to be really important
plus your hair
your nails and your skin will be like a
lot different you know underneath the
chin things will just try to tighten up
now when I get those right now usually
doing the like overdoing the pink
Himalayan salt and I always do my
asparagus or my spinach or my cabbage
you know artichokes Brussels sprouts
things like that and I have make sure I
have that with every meal or at least
with dinner and is there is that the
best way to get in my trace minerals are
you well you have trace mineral product
is it correct yeah the problem with the
vegetables right now but they're growing
on soils that are devoid of trace
minerals because the farmers aren't
putting them back into putting three
minerals phosphorus nitrogen and one
other mineral but trace minerals mainly
come from the sea or where I get it from
it's uh it's an ancient 71 or 72 million
years ago the prehistoric plant life
that's where I get it from this layer
and the earth they mix water but you can
if you buy food that's grown on soils
close to the ocean you might get some or
if you can buy food that's grown like an
some soils that have a volcanic you know
ash that that would be another one but
it's it's kind of really hard to find
all the trace minerals in in the food
nowadays so that's probably what you're
running into you could do sea kelp
seaweed but it's it's just it's
difficult it's probably the number one
missing nutrient that Americans at least
Americans have but if you live on the
coast of Africa or something like that
you're gonna get all your trace minerals
that's probably why Africans have
perfect bone structure and their teeth
if they don't even go to a dentist I
mean their proteins are good their
tendons are good their muscles are good
then you then they come to America right
amazing with you and the gentlemen in
Africa that had had lost so much weight
he's turning starting this keto movement
there in this education process of his
own that was that was amazing yes
yeah it's amazing it's very cool well
we'll have to share we'll have to do
another interview maybe like in several
months and after you include your
workouts and just take it we'll do it
another one and just we'll talk it's
very yeah that would be awesome well I
want to thank you for this interview I
think you're gonna give a lot of people
great ideas and it's there's a lot of
women out there that had kids and went
through stress and now they're like wow
maybe I can do it as well so thank you
so much delicious why anybody would pass
up the opportunity to put you know bacon
fats and creams and all these good
things the course grass-fed but you know
wow they used to call it heart attack on
a plate but now it's healthy for you so
that the the information out there is
just mind-boggling you know everybody I
see I look at their waistline and I
think you know insulin resistance that's
insulin resistance or I'll pick up a
magazine at the at the checkout just
just to look at things and it was a way
to Weight Watchers magazine and it was
pasta here a pasta there and I'm like
below you know what are these people
missing and why and I just really I
guess I'm a conspiracy theorist as well
I think that the industry is set up to
make you stick to to get money and Big
Pharma and you just pregnant so but no I
appreciate you and all your information
helping set the set the level straight
and get me back on track that's awesome
well thank you so much Cheryl thank you
you have a great day okay have a good
one
