so I wanted to create this video on the
mechanism of why menopause can make
someone fat okay okay so let's start
with the ovaries the ovaries make
several hormones to being estrogen and
progesterone now when you go through
menopause at age 52
sometimes it's earlier sometimes it's
later you're basically stopped releasing
eggs
okay so an average woman releases 400
eggs and after that last one it's done
right so we go through this menopause so
they're going in retirement
now even though both of these hormones
decrease the ratio of estrogen is still
much higher than progesterone leaving
someone in a state of estrogen dominance
the estrogen dominance will trigger
another hormone up in the brain
hypothalamus okay stands for
corticotropin-releasing hormone okay
which basically is a hormone that
communicates to the pituitary another
hormone called ACTH which then talks to
the adrenal so we kind of if you think
about like this you have the owner of
the football team
that's the hypothalamus then you have
the coach which is the pituitary then
you have the quarterback which is the
adrenals okay so basically you have just
the three levels of communication you
don't really need to know that all you
need to know is that when you have
higher amounts of estrogen and even when
you take birth control pills or are
doing hormone replacement therapy or
exposed to too much estrogen from the
environment you're going to trigger more
cortisol and cortisol is the main
hormone that creates the problem and by
the way your own fat if you have too
much of it can also make cortisol so
excess cortisol is very catabolic which
means it breaks down muscle tissue it's
very destructive to your muscles and
it's going to break down the muscle
tissue and turn that into glucose sugar
which then is converted through insulin
to fat and this is why women that go
through menopause end up with a lot of
atrophy lost
muscle and fat and in their minds they
think this is all just excess fat when
in fact is a combination of loss of
muscle and fat so when they do a program
a lot of times they get frustrated when
they stop losing weight that's because
what looks like fat is really atrophy so
what they need to do is restore the
atrophy okay and number two they need to
deal with the actual fat but I think
what's most importantly is to address
the adrenal now this video is just on
the mechanism I put some links down
below on what to do to support healthy
adrenals and what to do for muscle loss
so click the link below and check out
the second part so we've been getting a
lot of success stories but I don't have
your success story yet so click the link
down below and upload you before and
after I want to actually hear about your
success story I want to see your before
and afters and every week we do featured
success stories so click the link down
below and share your success
