so many people are having digestive
issues and they're changing their diet
and they're doing all these things
they're taking supplements but it's not
really working and that's probably
because there's something else going on
that I want to share with you today it's
kind of a hidden source of digestive
problems that you need to be aware of
and when I tell you this it'll make
sense and you maybe already knew it but
it's called
stress okay and I'm going to talk about
the specific types of stress that
influence our digestion the most but
this stress digestive problem link is
huge so I'm going to go through exactly
what happens when you go through stress
and this will kind of be mind-blowing
when you think about it but if you even
look at the autonomic nervous system in
relationship to the two different
systems well actually there's three you
have the sympathetic flight mechanism
and then you have the parasympathetic
nervous system which is also called rest
and digest most of the healthy digestion
occur in a parasympathetic low stress
state
but you also have another part of the
autonomic nervous system the system that
works on automatic called the enteric
nervous system and that's another system
that's directly embedded into your
digestive system and that links right up
to the uh this thing called the vagus
nerve that goes up to the brain and this
is why whatever's going on down here is
going to affect up here but it's a
two-way street whatever's going on up
here as in stress can go down here as
well and that is what we're going to be
focusing on today when we talk about
digestion if we take a look at the
foundational part of digestion it's a
cell and it's a single layer cell in
your small intestine in the large that's
called the introcyte okay now in the
colon It's usually referred to as the
colonocyte but basically it's a little
cell that absorbs things minerals trace
minerals vitamins amino acids and longer
amino acids called peptides and lipids
which are fats and b12 and even bile so
these cells are constantly absorbing
these nutrients okay and of course
they're broken down from the acid in the
stomach the enzymes in the stomach and a
lot of the enzymes within the small
intestines well as the pancreas as well
as well as the bile does help break down
the fat to a certain level so then the
enzyme can break it down even more but
at some point it needs to be absorbed
into these little cells one interesting
thing about the these cells or this
layer of cells is the surface area is
massive the body's very smart and
strategically the way that it increases
surface area is by kind of having these
folds okay like if you took an accordion
or like a slinky for example and you
stretch it out it would be a lot longer
right well same thing with the
intestines you have these little Villi
which are little
um pouches that kind of come up and down
like this so basically it can actually
increase the surface area but within
each Villi or a little
um pouch you have these tiny little
cells and then hairs which are like kind
of a micro uh version of these Villi uh
extending from that little cell so if
you were to stretch all that out you're
going to get a tremendous amount of
surface area to do the job of absorption
now these colonoscience or these
enterocytes aren't the only cells
there's other cells I don't want to get
into that but they some cells that
produce mucus a mucous layer as a
protection
between like pathogens and microbes and
then the actual surface area as well so
that's just a side note all right so now
let's talk about the consequence of
stress
in your digestive tract well number one
there's a conversion of the bacteria to
something called biofilms which are
these colonies of microbes that band
together and they start to develop
either a slime or even a calcium a
little protective mechanism so they can
go underneath the radar with your immune
system and because a lot of these guys
are pathogenic and they create a lot of
problems but you're going to get more
biofilms
developing when you have more stress
that's their survival mechanism number
two you get an erosion of the mucosal
layer now if it keeps eroding more and
more and more you end up eventually get
an ulcer and maybe you've heard the link
between H pylori and ulcers and that's
because of the microbial infection you
see the H pylori is normally in your
stomach
hanging out not creating any problem
okay but when you stress it
it comes out of remission and it starts
to hammer you and create immune
reactions and they don't know exactly
why that mucosal layer becomes destroyed
but it does and then you start getting
an ulcer and so the way they treat it is
with antibiotics
that gives you a bunch of other problems
I'm going to recommend a much safer
remedy sulforaphane which is in broccoli
Sprouts or it's in cabbage and radish or
zinc carnosine zinc carnosine helps you
re-establish this mucosal layer in your
stomach in the top part of the intestine
and even the large colon
and another thing it can do is potently
inhibit H pylori and it's a really good
anti-inflammatory and apparently stress
inhibits this zinc okay but zinc
carnosine is the best to take for an
ulcer or for gastritis or for an eroding
mucosal layer these microbes are very
strategic and very smart and sneaky
because H pylori produces this enzyme to
make more
urea which then turns into ammonium and
the pH of ammonia is really super high
it's very very alkaline and that's how
it counters the acid in your stomach to
survive
so if you can understand that and keep
your stomach strongly acidic you can
kind of keep this H pylori at Bay but it
can start doing more damage in an
alkaline environment just remember that
so with stress you get more biofilms you
get this erosion of the mucosal layer
you get decreased transient time of food
particles going through the digestive
tract this is called constipation I mean
even think about this when you go
through stress what do you feel you feel
like a knot in your stomach maybe
nauseous because it locks everything up
it takes a very relaxed state to be able
to digest and have things travel through
nicely the actual bacteria during a
stress date start to feed off these
enterocytes and it can start to break
them down to the point where you start
getting leaky gut which now there's
spaces or an increase permeability and
this is not good because
food particles and proteins and all
sorts of things can then travel through
and they don't go through the normal
immigration and this creates an immune
reaction because your body now senses
even good things as bad things
potentially incorrectly identifying them
as pathogens and now you have antibodies
against maybe some good things with your
own tissues foods that are good for you
and now you're allergic to those as well
so allergies and autoimmune diseases
really stem from this leaky gut
situation you get an alteration of the
ratios of bad to good you get more bad
pathogenic microbes versus good you also
get a decrease diversity of microbes you
get decrease of total microbes so the
relationship of these microbes starts to
change when the environment is stressful
of course this is going to lead to
inflammation so these are all the
different things that can happen I
recently did a video on
um stress relating to damage to the
heart muscle right because adrenaline
causes hypoxia a lack of oxygen well now
we're talking about how stress affects
the digestive system directly now let's
touch on the type of stress that creates
these problems probably the biggest
thing is emotional stress this can
happen after a loss of a loved one a
loss of a job loss of money loss of
anything or an ongoing emotional stress
that you're stuck in and can't get out
of it that's the worst type of stress it
could be related to the environment the
world relationships anything it has a
profound effect over your digestion and
anything you can do to improve that
would be very beneficial to your gut
issues I have a ton of videos on how to
cope with stress you know nose breathing
controlling your breath especially when
you're sleeping going for a long walks
there are so many things you can do
exercise wise there's just many things
now another big stress for these
microbes and your lining of your colon
in your small intestine
is antibiotics okay and uh also things
that act like an antibiotic like
chlorine and tap water artificial
sweeteners GMO foods that have
glyphosate glyphosate is an herbicide
that is classified as an antibiotic and
then you also have all the foods that
are sterilized okay pasteurized milk
products pasteurized juice
pasteurization canned foods box Foods
preservatives processed foods but the
more the food is cooked the more it's
dead it lacks enzymes but more
importantly it lacks microbes okay good
microbes and they do this to increase
shelf life and that comes with the
package you're creating a an
encouragement of sterilization of your
own microbiome anytime you take an
antibiotic you better at the same time
start taking a probiotic but there's
some other interesting stresses that I
want to talk about that directly relate
to your digestive system and one being
intravenous feeding when you're in ICU
in the hospital or for other situations
you have to be
fed through an IV boy does it create a
lot of problems with your digestive
system big to end your liver if fatty
liver liver disease increased risk of
infections blood clots severe
deficiencies of all sorts of things and
I'm just bringing that up because if you
have to take this or you know someone
taking this
you might want to look for a more
quality
type of intravenous food because what
they use for the calories is they use
soybean oil wow you're going to inject
some of the soybean oil and that that's
very very high in omega-6 it creates a
lot of problems in the liver like I said
a fatty liver and there's a lot of
research to back that up if it creates
that many problems injected what is it
doing in our diet right crates
some other issues it's not a safe
product and also in this intravenous
feeding they this glucose they put
glucose synthetic vitamins
minerals that are probably not in the
right form not good now um I mentioned
ICU right
um critical care this creates a lot of
digestive problems because when
someone's in that state of critical care
a lot of times they're they're fed their
nutrition through an IV which I already
mentioned all the problems with that but
they a lot of times put someone on a PPI
and that acid type medication which
creates more stress within the digestive
system itself and then they put you on
an antibiotic right so you're just like
just putting massive stress on these
microbes
at the worst time a critical care
situation and sometimes they feed you
epinephrine and they have to but you
have to realize what that's doing to
your gut Flora it's creating um hypoxia
okay it's creating more stress because
what is epinephrine that's a stress
hormone you inject it right in the
person now sometimes you have to but uh
boy you better be doing something to
kind of counter some of the the bad
effects and then let's say they use
opiates right opiates really shut down
your GI system so now
we have all these pathogens that are
stuck there you have constipation as a
side effect and I even know when you
have like an anesthetics they put you
out a lot of people wake up and they
they can't urinate they can't eliminate
there's just so many problems with
surgeries and ICU that I think more
attention needs to put on this this
critical time where you're in the
hospital and it's just amazing how
anyone survives that and just as a side
note when you take antacids or anything
that addresses the pH of your stomach
whether it's ppis or or other types of
medication
and you start raising the pH of that
stomach above 3.8 okay normally should
be between one and three when it goes
above 3.8 you start getting overgrowth
of bacteria in the wrong place in your
small intestine and so now every time
you eat fiber guess what you have
microbes in the wrong place that's going
to start to ferment in your small
intestine and create a lot of bloating
so I'm just bringing this up because the
the solution of fixing one problem ends
up giving you another problem so the
question is now what can we do about it
number one do whatever you can to reduce
this stress and I put some links down
below of things to help you cope with
stress in addition to eliminating the
source of the stress right okay number
two
L-glutamine is really beneficial to heal
an inflamed gut as well as a leaky gut
L-glutamine that's a really good remedy
all right number three
probiotics
and
fermented foods as in
kefir if you don't have a dairy problem
uh like in some allergy or lactate
intolerance problem
um sauerkraut is really awesome but
here's the thing if if you have
sauerkraut or kimchi or some type of
fermented vegetables like pickles for
example and you have more bloating from
that then you're going to have to do the
carnivore diet for a while because
that's one way to address severe
inflammatory problems in the bowel as
well as
sibo small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth where you have a lot of
bloating because every time you have
fiber it feeds some microbes and these
microbes are in the wrong place now if
you haven't seen another really good
video on digestion you should check this
out which gives you a lot of the
remedies that are not necessarily
related to stress but other things and I
put that up right here check it out
