hey it's me again I want to answer the
question if you have arthritis should
you avoid the nightshade vegetables that
would be potato tomato pepper and
eggplant okay these foods contain a
natural pesticide called
solanine which is mainly in the leaves
in the stems but it's very small small
Trace Amounts in the actual potato
tomato Pepper or eggplant so the answer
is no you do not have to worry about it
I mean if you if you have an allergy to
this chemical or you have a sensitivity
which is very rare you're going to
notice a worsening in your arthritis as
soon as you take it but you're probably
going to notice more GI problems
migraines cramps things like that with
one exception of the potato if the
potato is sprouting or turning green
that means it does have more of this
chemical and you would want to avoid it
your body has the ability to detoxify
this naturally and the benefits from
these Foods minus the Potato by the way
because of the starch is very very high
in nutrients phytonutrients and in
anti-inflammatory properties thanks for
watching hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
