there are seven very surprising signs
that you're eating too much sugar I
think most people know the classic signs
of eating too much sugar which is
fatigue brain fog belly fat cravings for
carbs cavities but I need to clarify
exactly what sugar is and the difference
between a sugar and a carbohydrate
because there's a lot of confusion in
the area of like complex carbohydrates
or simple carbohydrates or simple sugars
like it's a big blur for a lot of people
a carbohydrate consists of three things
sugar fiber and starch but starch is the
hidden sugar that no one's talking about
now of course you have like starch in
vegetables but then you also have starch
in this stuff right here right or this
stuff right here so what actually is
starch starch is sugar okay it's just a
bunch of sugar connected together and so
the word that they use to describe it is
poly which means many SA Ides which
means sugar so when you're eating starch
you're actually eating sugar okay and
when we talk about starch in the grocery
store we're talking about this stuff
right here powdered starch we're not
talking about potatoes or vegetables
we're talking about ultrapress Food
calorie starch and this starch will
spike your blood sugars way way way
higher than actual sugar will on the
glycemic index you have table sugar
which is 65 you have glucose which is
100 but there's starches like
maltodextrin which can go up to about
185 that's like a massively High Spike
and it's not just maltodextrin it's like
modified food starch and modified corn
starch and it's pretty well because you
can make starch from corn you can make
seed oils from corn and you could make
sugar like in glucose syrup or corn
syrup from corn you can buy one metric
ton of corn for
$198 now from that investment how many
boxes of cornflakes could you make and
cornflakes are mostly made out of corn
and you can buy those from Walmart for
about $4 a box so $200 of corn will turn
into
3,636 boxes of corn flakes giving you
profits of
$14,500 that's a
7,1
15% profit margin now what other
investment can you get over
7% profit from a raw material to a
finished product can you do it with meat
no meat has like a 30% margin so somehow
Corn Flakes and Cheerios and even
vegetable oils are not attacked for
being unhealthy they're heart healthy
but meat for example is vilified that's
that will cause cancer but anyway I
digressed from the topic but I think
it's important to know that the biggest
reason for ultrapress food AKA junk food
is massive profitability all right so
now let's dive into seven surprising
signs that you're eating too much sugar
okay number seven is reduced collagen
when you consume too much sugar you're
going to produce less collagen and
that's going to show up in loose skin
more wrinkled skin and people that eat
more sugar are going to age prematurely
number six a chronic white tongue so you
have a white tongue that just doesn't
seem to go away that is a form of
candida because you're eating too much
sugar you're feeding this fungus and
it's continuing to grow I do not think
you can get rid of this candida without
eliminating sugar from the diet because
it loves these simple sugars and number
five we get into chronic sinus problems
most chronic sinus problems are a fungus
called as for Gillis is the the usual
type and that microb actually feeds off
of sugar too so again I don't think
you're going to be able to get rid of a
chronic sinus infection unless you
completely get rid of sugar because it
keeps living off the sugar that you
consume all right number four red or
pink gums you brush your teeth and you
see a little pink in the toothbrush that
is a very mild version of scurvy where
you're having a vitamin C deficiency so
when you eat sugar you block vitamin C
and one place that it shows up is in
your gums all right number three is low
testosterone that's right sugar will
lower testosterone that can lead to
erectile dysfunction decrease libido and
also difficulty building muscle as well
because testosterone is involved in that
number two susceptibility to infection
that's right uh having too much suggar
will weaken your immune system to the
point where you're more vulnerable to
acquire an infection and the number one
sign that you're eating too much sugar
and this is actually very surprising
high levels of adrenaline too much sugar
damages the cell's ability to make
energy in the mitochondria and so the
way that the body compensates for that
is by increasing adrenaline not just for
energy but to help mobilize glucose and
to make new glucose for fuel that's
called gluconeogenesis high adrenaline
doesn't come from mental stress it comes
from physical stress or stress that
happens in your cells because you're not
able to make enough energy and so this
is why you might notice when you're
fatigued that you have a lot of nervous
energy restlessness that's the big
symptom of a mitochondrial damage and a
low vitamin B1 because the motor is
broken and vitamin B1 is a spark plug to
help uh activate it and the more sugar
or starch the more requirement for B1
and and then it kind of puts out the
flame so now you get this nervous energy
or this lactic acid buildup so this
leads to insomnia restless leg syndrome
and also the adrenaline is going to
affect your digestion and also increase
clotting in the body heart attack and
stroke now since I did mention alter
processed food calories if you have not
seen this video on maltodextrin you
should check it out I put it up right
here for
