[Music]
let's talk about sugar now there's many
different types of sugar I'm going to
show you a couple different types this
is called refined sugar as you may have
already known and what sugar does when
it's refined it's taken out of the sugar
cane and sugar cane naturally has a ton
of vitamins ton of potassium ton of B
vitamins and then when refine it they
take out the all this good nutrition and
that's called molasses okay and they
toss that or they sell it and then they
they this is what they use to put in a
whole bunch of things now there's also
high fructose corn syrup which is very
very cheap uh sweet uh sweetener and
corn syrup and we want to stay away from
all that we also want to stay away from
this because when you consume this it
depletes minerals specifically potassium
that's why when you eat something sweet
you fill up with fluid your ankles get
uh uh all puffy and your fingers get
puffy because you're you're going to
retain water why because this depletes
potassium we already have a problem with
the pottassium I mean you need 4700
milligrams a day you don't even get near
that and that would be like 10 bananas
so um adding this to the picture is
really going to put you in a situation
deplete potassium and be
vitamins and you're going to have
problems with um I mean nightmares and
um low blood sugar problems so when the
blood sugar goes down it doesn't mean
eat more sugar okay it means that your
blood sugar is are low and that means
you're going to get irritable so try not
to eat and go to a grocery store you're
just going to be thinking about sweets
you're going to be dreaming about sweets
and that's really uh why people crave
because they have low blood sugars now
when the blood sugar goes High you get
tired and sleepy like after you would
eat you might want to just take a nap or
a Thanksgiving meal okay so now there's
different types of sugar right here too
this is natural uh sugar or it's just
basically sugar with a little bit of
molasses in there okay uh that's what
this is um like brown
sugar and then we have something else
called turbinado sugar which is raw cane
sugar this is a little bit
better um than the other ones because
has a little more
molasses and again I'm not telling you
to eat this by the way I'm just showing
you the different types of sugar this
one here is unrefined sugar this is like
masses crystals it's very earthy I mean
it's the least of all evils I mean
you're it's not that bad if you're going
to eat sugar this would be the thing you
want to eat but the thing is when you
make stuff with this you can't eat a lot
of it because there's so much nutrition
it'll your body will just like okay I
had enough it's very earthy it is an
earthy
taste um now we have um also honey
uh honey is we're coming up in the
things that are a little bit better for
you even even this the only reason I
would recommend this is coming off your
sugar this would be a little bit better
because this is more of a diabetic sugar
it's called
turbinado I'm sorry it's not turbinado
it's called Tupelo Honey okay turbinado
would be this stuff over
here Tupelo is uh a type of honey that
is absorbed very slowly in the body has
has a certain type of sugar because the
little honeybees take
36,000 trips to The Beehive to make one
pound of honey and then we rip it off
and then we give them the white sugar
but if you're going to do honey do uh
Tupelo Honey and uh do very small
amounts of it especially with your kids
but it's it goes in very slowly okay so
that would be um on the scale of things
it's better than white sugar but still I
would prefer you did um our favorite
Stevia or fruit fruit like peaches or
bananas that would be even better if you
really need to have sweeteners I
personally don't like sweet uh sweeten
any sweeteners simply because my body is
so used to not eating sugar my taste
buds have adapted and that's what's
going to happen with you once you come
off this sugar for a week or two your
taste buds when you eat sugar they'll be
too
sweet so we want to change the way you
perceive and taste food people that are
used to eating sugar you have to eat a
lot of it to create the same sensation
so we're trying to get you off this this
sugar but Stevia is a really good thing
it's very sweet put a drop in in
anything that you want to sweeten and
it'll be very sweet but some people
don't like this because it's kind of
earthy uh so you can use the organic
stevia extract here's a powder form
right here don't add a lot there's it's
very very sweet but this is acceptable
sweetener you can have as much of of it
as you want now the other thing about
sweets is there's hidden sugars like in
vanilla yogurt
there's a lot of sugar in there or
flavored yogurt ton of sugar uh juice
orange juice is a ton of sugar so you
have refi you have oranges and then you
the refined pasteurized orange juice
which by the way is just like sugar
water um and then you have um you also
have the vegetable which is not very
sweet it has all this fiber and then you
can break it down into vegetable juice
which is better uh better than that
stuff but it's still sweet you know if
you have like a lot of carrot juice but
if you have celery juice that's going to
be okay so we're looking at the sugar
content we want to lower the sugar
content simply because when you increase
sugar you increase insulin in the
presence of insulin you cannot burn fat
all of the fat burning hormones are
nullified when you have just a little
bit of sugar that means a little bit of
alcohol wine before bed I don't care if
it's white wine or dark wine or whatever
just NYX the alcohol right now because
we want to get you off that if if you if
you can't get off of it right away then
what you want to do is take that uh
Kombucha tea that I recommend and drink
that instead because it will give you
that same relaxing feeling so we have
orange juice and then we have um um
different juices that people have and
sodas and things like that with added
sugar just avoid all that stuff I would
recommend eating the whole food and you
can blend it blending your uh vegetables
and fruits are much much better as
compared to a juicer all right even if
it's vegetable juice so you can take the
I on my sight I have all these recipes
you can take you can take orange and
banana and blend it you can take kale
and and blueberry and papaya and blend
it that would be a lot better so what
we're trying to do is we're trying to
lower insulin because insulin is one of
the hormones that are negative and the
thing that will stop your fat burning
hands down so even that little bit you
know even that little bit of sugar in
your coffee every day uh even that
little glass of wine before bed that's
enough to blow the whole week
so try to cut the sugar out if you're
craving sweets all that means it's a
pottassium deficiency to get rid of
potassium deficiencies what you want to
do is you want to increase your
vegetable to about 10 cups of salad a
day that's what I do so I have a salad a
big salad for lunch and a big one for
dinner it's not that hard I mean salads
are fluffy you can take the salad baby
green salad and just compress it into
like a little ball and if you still have
Pro problems with that just take your
salad put it in the blender put dressing
put nuts put apples and blend it you'll
be surprised it's actually quite pasty
with a little bit of grape in there it's
delicious it's like a little
KLA so those are some tips I hope you
enjoy it
