now what is the difference between
whether you get baker's yeast or
nutritional yeast I mean they're created
from the same exact microbe they're
created from a yeast why would they be
that different brewer's yeast is
typically grown on beet sugar whereas
nutritional yeast is normally grown on
molasses which is the byproduct of sugar
cane and by the way there's a lot of
nutrition in molasses there's trace
minerals there's minerals there's
vitamins
but the problem is there's also a lot of
sugar but when you put the yeast on it
the yeast eats the carbohydrate the
sugar and also the nutrients and those
nutrients can then end up as a
nutritional yeast product now the same
thing happens with burziest when you're
growing it on beet sugar it's going to
consume the sugar as well as the
nutrition in that beef the problem with
I think over 90 percent of all beets in
at least in the U.S they're GMO so they
could potentially have traces of
glyphosate which is an herbicide so this
yeast is very interesting it's a common
microbe in our gut and yeast is not a
bad thing we have friendly yeast and
there's also unfriendly yeast so as a
part of our microbiome we have a lot of
different organisms that are in our gut
not just bacteria it's when you start
using antibiotics and you kill off the
bacteria that then you get this
overgrowth of this yeast so as long as
you don't stress out your microbes
you're fine those bacteria are there to
keep the yeast in check and to keep them
from overgrowing but if there's anything
that yeasts love it's sugar so if you
ever do have a yeast infection you have
to cut out the sugar if you ever want to
get rid of your yeast but this friendly
yeast in our guts is pretty interesting
because it actually helps defend against
pathogens it helps make glutathione a
very powerful
antioxidant that helps regulate
cholesterol and it helps build some
immunity against certain pathogens as
well now when you consume either bruis
yeast or nutritional yeast you're
consuming an inactive yeast it's not
alive so it's impossible for you to
develop a yeast infection if you consume
either baker's yeast or nutritional
yeast it's not going to happen so what
are the differences between baker's
yeast or nutritional yeast baker's yeast
is typically a byproduct of making beer
nutritional yeast is more of a product
that people take to enhance their
nutrients now there are several things
in both of these yeast that I want to do
a little comparison there is more
protein in baker's yeast than
nutritional yeast that's for sure but
personally I'm not trying to get my
protein from yeast but typically I get
my protein from eggs Meats Dairy cheese
things like that now if we compare the B
vitamins nutritional yeast has more B
vitamins then baker's yeast and that's
pretty much the main reason I consume
nutritional use for the B vitamins but
not just regular B vitamins
the natural B vitamins so we can tap
into that by consuming nutritional yeast
but I want to make a very important
point
um many times they enhance uh especially
nutritional yeast with synthetic B
vitamins okay they Spike B vitamins they
add B12 a folic acid and they're in a
synthetic version so I'm going to
explain shortly why that is a very very
bad idea especially for a significant
population in fact if certain people
consume these synthetic B vitamins
especially the 12 and folic acid they're
going to have all sorts of negative
reactions and they'll definitely say
that oh nutritional yeast may be worse
or they gave me a yeast infection or
whatever when in fact it had nothing to
do with that at all variation or change
within our genes a very specific part of
your genes okay not the whole thing but
just a very small part of it that if you
consume certain amounts of synthetic B
vitamins
you're not going to convert those into
the natural forms and that's going to
create a lot of issues so I'm just going
to give you the name of this Gene and
you can get more information about that
if you're interested but it's called the
MTHFR Gene and the term for this
variation or this difference in this
Gene is generally called polymorphic
change so basically that means it's just
an altered shape and if you have based
on genetic testing this alteration in
this specific Gene which by the way 20
to 40 percent of whites and Hispanics in
the U.S have this problem and I think
it's also one to two percent in the
black community so it's actually much
lower
but if you have this problem okay this
problem in your genetics you're only
going to convert a fraction of these B
vitamins uh specifically it's like B12
and folic acid now typically what will
happen is you'll start having symptoms
like racing mind anxiety like a hyper
brain you might have a problem sleeping
but the point is because you don't have
the enzyme to convert these hormones
into the active form you're going to be
deficient in B12 and folic acid and that
is going to give you a lot of problems
especially with the cardiovascular
system you start building up more
homocysteine you can't recycle that
which leads to problems with your heart
you have problems with clots not just on
your arteries but the Deep veins as well
hardening of the arteries dementia mood
disorders and inability to detoxify
things so you're going to hold more
toxins so you can see there's a lot of
problems with a defect in this Gene and
that's all real interesting but that's a
side note I want to get back to this
topic of when you consume yeast that is
fortified or enriched they're enriching
it with synthetic B vitamins usually B12
folic acid and B6 and other B vitamins
and that is going to create a problem so
I would recommend if you're going to
consume either brewer's yeast or
nutritional yeast to always get them
unfortified because those yeast made
these forms of B vitamins in a natural
form and even if you don't have a
problem with this Gene these B vitamins
are wonderful to reduce stress because
it is just so hard to find a natural
form of the vitamin in our food now it's
in grains but the problem with grains is
that they have other problems like
gluten and carbohydrates so yeast is a
really good source of B vitamins and you
can get a good amount of B vitamins from
baker's yeast it's just that nutritional
yeast has a little bit more now as far
as a woman who is breastfeeding a lot of
times they'll take nutritional yeast to
help fortify and increase the breast
milk production nutritional yeast can
actually work better than brewer's yeast
because it has more B vitamins and it's
usually the B vitamins it could also be
the combination of the trace minerals
and other things in that product that's
doing it but the B vitamins are a
significant factor in increasing the
quality of breast milk now there's
another interesting compound called beta
glucan that is a product that does help
regulate cholesterol it does help with
your blood sugars and that is present in
both nutritional yeast and burners yeast
and another interesting thing about this
top topic is that plants actually get a
significant amount of their nutrition
from these microbes in fact they eat the
microbes that have this nutrition in
them they extract the nutrition and they
will also spit out part of this bacteria
that without a cell wall that has to
kind of recombine and do this whole
cycle so there's this whole exchange
going on in the soil between the microbe
and the plant and this is why a plant
typically is not a pure vegan plants to
my knowledge don't eat vegetables but
they definitely eat bacteria so to me
it's very fascinating to just study the
yeast in the bacteria of what's going on
in their Universe because it's quite
interesting you have to realize that the
DNA in our bodies okay the code that
makes certain proteins the code that
makes certain enzymes that same code
that same Machinery is in plants as well
as in bacteria and yeast this is why
they can even make certain
phytonutrients and antioxidants because
they have the Machinery that is the same
in our bodies so when we eat this yeast
we're extracting nutrients that are made
from this machine that they have that
can actually make B vitamins from the
environment and because this Machinery
is built on certain genes that we have
we can utilize that nutrition and those
phytonutrients now since we're on the
topic of B vitamins which is a
fascinating topic if you haven't seen
this video on B vitamins that I've done
at one of my Summits check it out I put
it up right here
