hey guys today we're gonna talk about
fasting and stem cells now I hate to
break the news but you are going to die
eventually okay hopefully not anytime
soon but this video is about extending
your life a little bit longer okay and
increasing the quality now as far as
aging goes in the cell it has to do with
an inability to repair okay so when a
cell can no longer repair at ages fast
now if we can actually replace these old
cells that can't repair then we can live
longer and we do that through what's
called stem cells a stem cell is a cell
that doesn't really have a purpose yet
okay it turns into something when the
body needs a certain cell now there's
certain parts of your body that turn
over new cells very quickly others take
longer and some never turn over any new
cells okay but the hippocampus in the
brain is the part of the brain that is
involved like a relay switch with your
memories and stress responses and this
is one area that you can actually have a
turnover of new cells so you can
actually regenerate cells in this part
of the body thank goodness for that
and then even beta cells there's been
studies in mice that you can actually
have stem cell replace the beta cell
which is that's where insulin is
produced and and if you have insulin
type 1 you have some severe damage to
that cell even bone the immune cells in
bone can be replaced : cells they
replaced very very quick the skin cells
get replaced pretty quick so what really
triggers the stem cells is prolonged
fasting okay
like I'm talking like 72 hours or even
longer so if you were to do periodic
prolonged fasting
you're gonna greatly improve stem cell
the fat-burning effect that occurs with
fasting really helps to fuel these stem
cells now there's something called PKA
okay this is a gene that needs to be
shut down for stem cells to spread and
rebuild and guess what we'll lower this
prolonged fasting and there's a few
reasons why fasting will increase your
lifespan the stimulation of stem cell is
definitely one of them so I'm gonna be
covering a lot more of this in the
upcoming summit I'll put a link down
below for more information
hope to see you there hey before you go
I'm gonna create some new videos on food
evaluation okay so if you'd like to
participate I can't promise that you'll
be the person I'll choose so here's what
you're gonna do you're gonna take a
picture of what you're eating a close-up
okay of one day how frequent you're
eating like as in in a minute fasting is
it one meal two meals and anything else
that you're drinking or supplements and
go ahead and add your height weight and
age and any major body problems that
you're having and what I'm going to do
is I'm going to analyze that to see what
you're doing correct and what you need
to improve all right so go ahead and
click the link down below upload your
information and again I can't promise
that I'm gonna pick you but I'm gonna
pick several people and I'll do the
evaluations and I'll post these as
YouTube videos all right talk to you
later
