all right so today we're gonna talk
about why you do not include veggie
carbs on keto now there's mixed
viewpoints on this some people do some
people don't I don't recommend including
your vegetable carbohydrates in the
formula for the carbs and I'm gonna tell
you why
so let's take for example one cup of
salad okay usually going to do leafy
greens in a salad on average one cup of
leafy greens is 1.5 grams of
carbohydrate okay now if we - the fiber
which is one gram we get point five
grams of net carbs okay
so we're dealing with 1/2 of a gram now
I do recommend 7 to 10 cups of salad or
vegetables per day that would equal 3
point 5 to 5 grams of carbs extremely
low you're allowed 20 grams to 50 grams
okay and you're a huge salad that
provides a lot of benefit is only gonna
count for 3.5 to 5 grams just a very
small amount so the overall calories and
grams of carbohydrates in the salad that
you eat are just such a small amount
it's almost insignificant the glycemic
index for a green salad is very small
it's 15 the glycemic load which is
basically the amount of carbohydrate -
the fiber is 3 that's extremely low -
because less than 10 is low 10 to 20 is
moderate and greater than 20 is high so
it's low in the glycemic index it's low
on the glycemic load it has a
significant amount of fiber which
actually causes the overall carbs to be
less so we're dealing with 0.5 grams now
let's talk about some key benefits of
vegetables and leafy greens into this
key to a plan
well number one they provide the
nutrients the main nutrients vitamins
minerals and trace minerals it's very
difficult to get all of your nutrients
just from meat so we want to add the
vegetable family ok provides the
phytonutrients that's all the additional
nutrients like
carotenoids are a beta-carotene that add
additional help to the body and
antioxidants very important it also
provides the fiber the right type of
fiber that is soluble and some insoluble
but mainly soluble to feed your microbes
which then allow the microbes to
exchange back the beneficial fatty acids
like butyric acid which then feeds the
colon cells so you're able to feed the
colon cells with the fiber without the
fiber you don't feed the colon cells
okay I don't know what else they're
gonna eat and butyric acid helps improve
insulin resistance and it will actually
help indirectly lower insulin which is
incredible the vegetables will also
because they're alkaline will buffer the
acidic pH from the meat that you consume
which is another benefit and lastly
it'll help the fat travel out of your
body if you're consuming just fat and
meat without the vegetables okay and
you're mobilizing all this fat from the
fat cells and it's going through the
liver without the vegetables there's a
chance that some of the fat that can
actually that's coming out can get stuck
in the liver so the vegetables do help
in the elimination from fat through the
liver out of the gallbladder and through
the colon so we don't want to put a
restriction on vegetables because
they're a carbohydrate so instead we
want to put a requirement that you need
to do vegetables seven to ten cups and
that way it can make keto healthy
thus the healthy ketosis thanks for
watching
hey guys I want to introduce you to my
new doctor Berg app it's right here
it's I'm really excited about it you
need to download it it's free has a lot
of great data it has all my videos it's
updated on a regular basis I also have
the audio version of the videos audio
episodes I also have a mini course that
you can take I also have a button for
new content so you can really know of
all the recent content that I'm
downloading and I also have something
called PDF resources which gives you
additional cool little one-page PDF
documents on all sorts of health things
so download it check it out and tell me
what you think about it and don't forget
to give me a review
it's dr. Berg app
