hey guys Hey listen I want to talk about
the loss of the neck curvature okay uh
the neck is called the cervical spine
and so many people lose the normal
curvature in their neck normally your
head's like 12 to 15 pounds now think
about your skull heavy skull resting on
a straight spine with no cushion think
about what that does to the the muscles
and the tendons and ligaments and the
discs it can definitely create more
stress in your neck okay so you need
that curve and what destroys the curve
is usually a whiplash you know either uh
someone hitting you or you hitting
someone and your neck whipping back and
then the whole thing goes in a spasm and
you lose the curve in the neck I've had
many whiplash injuries I've even fell
upside down on my head okay and uh that
does not help the curvage of the spine
okay so I'm going to show you a great
stretch to put the curve back in using
this little tool right here so come with
me and let's let's uh show you how to do
it okay so we have this little tool
right here it's very simple we take the
widest part right here and on your couch
you lean back and you put this right in
the mid part of your neck and you sit
back and you let gravity push your head
back into this device and you do this
before you go to bed for two minutes and
it actually puts the curve back in and
it makes your neck really really calb
and it helps your sleep so this is the
way that um
the method that I use to help put the
curve back in so give it a try and let
me know how you like
it
