[Music]
you
[Music]
guys we're talking to Amy Berger and
basically she's touching on amyloid
plaque
there's a couple points about that
sometimes it shows up sometimes it
doesn't it's not the common thread it's
not the thing there's a lot of ministers
about it there's more data it's becoming
but that's actually fascinating and then
just to kind of summarize a couple
things the unique thing about
Alzheimer's is there's there's there's a
sugar problem there's a lack of sugar
and it can be picked up on a PET scan of
like an absence of sugar so it's obvious
somehow it's a the cells mitochondria
cannot get sugar and they're basically
starving right yeah that's in a basic
overview that's the problem in the brain
and when they starve then they lose the
connections right you got these
communication connections and synapses
and they just kind of you know lose
their communication lines Oh exactly I
mean if people if people aren't familiar
with the shape of a neuron I mean very
basically like let's say it looks like
this it's got the cell body the main
part it's got all these little
projections and the projections are how
these cells communicate with each other
the messengers are passed out of one and
it's received at the ends of another and
because of this energy shortage this
fuel crisis in the brain it takes energy
just to maintain the shape of this cell
just to maintain the structure requires
energy so when the brain is starting to
lose the ability tech to have enough
energy in order to keep the main part of
the cell alive the cell body these
neurons actually retract these
projections are called axons and
dendrites the cell will actually retract
these into the cell body in order just
to keep the cell alive so what I liken
it to a vacuum with a retractable cord
like you just suck that cord back in for
storage but now all of these synapses
all of these places where these cells
are supposed to communicate are gone so
those cells are no longer communicating
with each other it makes perfect sense
that that person is going to have memory
loss and behavior changes and
personality disturbances but
but the beautiful thing is even earlier
earlier on in my own research I would
say that these cells were starving to
death right they were dying they're
actually not dying the fascinating
promising thing in Alzheimer's research
is like again when we give these people
ketones whether it's through a ketogenic
diet or these new exogenous ketone
substances they have improved cognition
now if those cells were completely dead
they wouldn't get better no one would
ever have any improvement because if
those cells were dead it wouldn't matter
if they could take a peak times or not
because it did but the fact that when we
get these cells this great fabulous
alternative fuel they sort of come back
to life they come back on language it
goes to show that those cells weren't
dead they were almost like hibernating
they were in a low-power mode waiting to
get enough fuel to come back and do what
they have to do so so but I'm imagining
there's not a lot of research just
because who's going to fund this because
then there's no money right I mean yeah
there's not a lot of research but there
is some and it's really really promising
a lot of it is being done in Canada by a
doctor named Stephen Cunnane and his
colleagues fascinating and thank
goodness it's not just in rats and it's
not just in mice and petri dishes but in
human subjects with Alzheimer's and with
the precursor which is called mild
cognitive impairment now people that
that are very elderly or have very
severe Alzheimer's do not show as good
an improvement as someone who's in a
milder state but there is still a
noticeable improvement Wow yeah
now what about intermittent fasting
because that kraits neurogenesis no
what's what's you take on that I think
fasting can be a very helpful tool I
don't think everyone needs to do it and
especially specifically in the
Alzheimer's world some of these people
are already going to be underweight and
frail and I don't recommend fasting for
them they should not be fasting they
should not be calorie you know calorie
restricting but for someone who's
younger like we said maybe 50s and 60s
with this early onset Alzheimer's
especially if they have other side
of metabolic disease if they're you know
have metabolic syndrome type issues um I
think fasting can be great because
anything that reduces insulin levels
reduces blood glucose forces you know
not forces but helps the body transition
more into that fat using state I think
should be helpful for any metabolic
disorder including Alzheimer's I mean
even the the topic of etapa G you know
you're gonna recycle these damaged
proteins that folded proteins all the
different defects I mean I could imagine
that that's probably gonna help but I
can see your point if someone's frail
and they're you'd have to have it really
supervised and really watching closely
fascinating now just guys if you haven't
got this yet I wanted to emphasize one
point you don't just wake up with
Alzheimer's every night it's a gradual
thing
you can even have you could start to get
this in your 30s I guess there is or 40s
right I mean and how many people's go in
a room and you're like okay what did I
come in here for they start to have a
little bit of that I mean oh we're not
monkeys memory issues so I mean it's
kind of a start of that it's so if you
take care of yourself now you could
actually be in better shape because once
you get it it's so hard to backtrack you
know I went to this the home or my
mother-in-law they put her and I'm
looking around there's this this place
that they just take care of Alzheimer's
patients only and I'm like oh my gosh if
you could only just have you know let me
just be these people because they're
feeding them every hour and a half
they're putting and their snacks and
they have to keep feeding and feeding
I'm like massive insulin so and it's
just sad because I think probably the
worst thing that happened to anyone is
to lose your mind stuck in your body
lose your mind go from someone that's
brilliant to someone that's completely
you know not even there that's like the
worst I'd rather be hit by a bus myself
but I mean Alzheimer's disease is one of
the most feared dreaded illnesses
because at least unlike so many other
conditions there's literally nothing
there
nothing available to you therapeutic li
there's all of the drugs that are
available for Alzheimer's are useless
they do nothing it's like here take this
pill good luck I mean it's very sad but
that's the truth there's nothing for
them and it's you know at least as far
as we know there's nothing you can do
you get it you're gonna decline to climb
decline and die but you know hopefully
if people come to the summit or even
just watch this video I certainly
believe there's so much we can do about
this we are like I am very clear to say
there is a lot that's not fully
understood yet but just that doesn't
mean we don't know anything that doesn't
mean we don't have enough information to
start taking action you know what we
pretend like we're totally clueless
about this this illness why is it that
over the last 50 or 60 years we've had
explosive increases in things like
obesity type 2 diabetes cardiovascular
disease even infertility PCOS all these
things and yet when it comes to
Alzheimer's disease we just want to
pretend like oh this couldn't possibly
be a diet and lifestyle disease when it
comes to all those other conditions even
in the conventional medical world nobody
questions that there's a role for diet
and lifestyle in that if not the primary
driving role nobody even pretends like
that's not it anymore like oh oh it
doesn't matter what you eat if you're
diabetic doesn't matter what your diet
doesn't cause heart disease right but
when it comes to Alzheimer's we just
dismiss even the mere possibility that
this could also be every bit a metabolic
dietary lifestyle illness absolutely and
I I see that my practice over and over
and over again of course it's not an
official study but I've observed I know
there's a huge connection I know there's
something to it now guys at the summit
Amy's gonna talk about something that's
pretty exciting and it relates to having
who you are having normal blood Sugar's
right thinking you're fine but you're
not fine there's some things that you
guys need to know about that that relate
to not just your brain but even men's
health and a lot of other conditions so
she's gonna talk about that she's gonna
cover his topic in depth if you don't
already have her book
Alzheimer's antidote it's awesome
awesome you need to get it son it's
actually on a Kindle I don't know if
it's hardback but it spindles for sure
right yeah there's a Kindle version
there is also a paperback that they can
get from Amazon there's no there's no
audiobook yet I've had some requests we
just haven't had a chance to do that yet
yeah that's a lot of work I know people
are like what are you gonna do that I'll
in my spare time yeah well I just want
to say thanks Amy for taking the time
for doing this I think it's gonna help a
lot of people and you guys you'll be
able to see her at the event I put a
link down below for to get more
information all right well thanks so
much Amy I really appreciate it yeah
thanks for having me take care okay good
