let's talk about the best carbohydrate
that can actually help you lower your
cholesterol now in some cases
cholesterol is not a problem if it's a
little bit higher especially when you're
starting the ketogenic diet because
you're mobilizing a lot of cholesterol
from the fat cell but let's say for
example your LDL especially the one that
is pathogenic the small dense
lipoprotein is too high or you just have
very high levels of cholesterol and you
want to lower it naturally what do you
do there's one specific
food that can help you but I want to
give you just a tiny bit of background
before I reveal that food the first
thing to know is that your body makes
cholesterol in fact it makes way more
cholesterol than the cholesterol that
you consume number two the primary mode
of elimination of excess cholesterol
happens through your bile ducts with the
help of bile salts bile salts are like
detergents they help you break down fats
they help lubricate the colon so if you
don't have enough bile you can get
constipated and just being constipated
can back up the flow of this excess
cholesterol your liver mix bile it's
stored in the gallbladder and bile can
help to bind to cholesterol and then
help move it out of the body and it also
gets rid of toxins as well and there's
two types of bile you have primary
and you have secondary primary bile is
made by your liver
secondary bile is made by the friendly
bacteria in your large intestine and
they're both in communication very
closely
in their regulation so for example if
you don't make as much in your colon
then the liver is going to make a little
bit more if you don't make it as much in
your liver the colon should make a
little bit more they both are in
communication the next question is what
carbohydrate can help you reduce your
cholesterol because typically
carbohydrates will increase your
cholesterol like sugar for example
you'll end up with high not just
cholesterol but high LDL high
triglycerides but there are three types
of carbohydrates sugars starches
and fiber fiber is a carbohydrate and
fiber is the food that can help reduce
your cholesterol now I'm not talking
about the fiber in wheat bran or Oat
Bran or psyllium seed or the pectin in
apples
those fibers actually produce a very
small almost insignificant effect on
cholesterol I'm talking about the fiber
in
vegetables okay those things that you
probably need to eat more of now I
recommend consuming a good amount of
vegetables in addition to a moderate
amount of animal protein on the
ketogenic plant
in fact I recommend if you're eating
salad to have anywhere between like
seven to even 10 cups might sound
difficult but it's not really too
difficult if you just have one salad for
lunch and one at dinner the thing about
the fiber in vegetables is that
vegetables have the lowest amount of
sugar and they have the highest amount
of fiber as well as phytonutrients and
vitamins and minerals fiber in general
does help bind with cholesterol it does
also help modify the absorption of
lipids and fats but fiber also increases
the production of bile
so you have this pool of bile salts in
your body fiber increases that pull as
well as getting rid of the bile that's
connected to the cholesterol it helps
you get rid of that through the bowels
and so the carbohydrate fiber has zero
effect on your blood sugars Zero Effect
on insulin and that alone will help
lower your cholesterol and the other
thing that's very interesting about
fiber is that it is the food for your
microbes and when you feed the microbes
this fiber it lowers the production of
cholesterol interesting not to mention
it lowers insulin it helps if you have
insulin resistance and it can help lower
your blood sugars so in summary if you
have high cholesterol you should be
consuming more vegetables to increase
the release of bile to feed the microbes
and of course at the same time make sure
you're not consuming any sugars or
starches now if you have not seen this
very important video on LDL okay the
so-called bad cholesterol
there's a lot more to learn about that
and I put that video up right here check
it out
