so I wanted to talk about glutathione
it's one of the most powerful
antioxidants in your body your body
makes it and you can also get it from
your diet um because it's a sulfur
compound it's high in foods that are
high in Sulfur
like cabbage broccoli cauliflower uh
radishes all the cruciferous vegetables
okay so glutathione helps prevent the
damage to your cells it has an
anti-aging properties it helps detoxify
xenobiotics or chemicals in the
environment I mean every year we have
like thousands of new chemicals in the
food chain in your environment in your
lawn let's say you're a golfer you're
going to be exposed to you know the
chemicals on the grass so it's you're
constantly being exposed living on
planet Earth so over time glutathione
gets depleted when you get older when
you get stressed out when you get
infections when you consume junk food
when you eat sugar when you're exposed
to a lot of
pollution and if you had an infection
okay so it over time it gets depleted so
when to take this that's the question
well let's say you're you're on
medication right now and uh you know
that's going to create some cellular
damage I would highly recommend taking
it if you're on a medication like a lot
of people on a lot of medications or
you're in environment there's a lot of
pollution like last weekend I went to LA
and I couldn't believe the air quality
was so bad bad I mean I just I could
feel it in my breathing so if you live
in LA I would definitely consume uh more
glutathione or start consuming the
cruciferous vegetables or if you want to
get a concentrated version you can do it
in a pill form as well so you want to
start increasing this in your diet so
you'd also want to take it if you
experience more stress in your life if
you have some disease let's say you have
Parkinson's or Alzheimer's or diabetes
or any of those diseases or chronic
inflammatory diseases or r arthritis
this is going to really help you counter
those effects or let's say
radiation uh radiation can uh destroy
yourselves let's say you're a pilot or
you fly a lot in high altitudes you're
going to get exposure to more radiation
or you had a lot of x-rays uh I was an
X-ray tech uh before I was a chiroprator
I used to go in nursing homes and take
X-rays and I would never and I know this
is bad I would never wear a shield I
would just take an x-ray like a a foot
away because at nursing homes you have
people that couldn't hold the breath so
I had to be really tricky to come in the
real fast and catch an exhalation to get
the uh chess x-ray or there'd be
movement so I didn't have time to you
know prepare I probably should have but
I didn't but I was exposed to radiation
so uh this is something that I consume
on a regular basis that is actually I
know it's helped me or you're exposed to
mold so it's very important to take this
to slow down the damage to your cells
all right thanks for watching hey you
probably already subscribed but if you
haven't press this little button down
below and I will keep you updated
