my name is shaine Josie and the reason
why I came to Dr Bird's office was
because I had a concern about
energy not getting enough rest and just
the overall health
concern my first evaluation I came my
first visit was on June the 22nd of this
year 2012 and my experience was my
concerns were they were Rec confirmed
after after going through the the test
such as the stress test the your
analysis and as a result Dr Berg uh
recommended a plan for me so I was
really excited about that I'm an adrenal
type and uh because of being adrenal
type there are concerns in terms of my
eating habits the types of foods and the
main goal is getting my body healthy to
start to address the issues that I had
I've always had a passion for learning
in terms of Education about health and
uh being more healthy eating and it's a
lifestyle change so I was really excited
about coming in for my visit and getting
my issues
addressed well
initially when I came in I of course I
had to feel out paperwork addressing my
needs concerns Etc the next phase was
the test such as the stress test the
your analysis Etc and as a result the
results that were given to me um he was
able
to pull from that information to put a
plan in place for me
to get my stress level
down we have to invest in our lives uh
we invest in so many things such as
material things but I firmly believe
that investing in my lifestyle and my
health and my concern was really worth
it so I definitely would say it was it
was definitely worth it most of the time
when we see different commercials Etc
it's focused on diet plans but his
philosophy is that you have to become
healthy and address those issues in
order to lose the weight so I firmly
believe in his philosophy because if you
don't know what's wrong with you I can
get on any plan but it doesn't mean that
it's going to rectify the problem that I
have I would tell someone who's
hesitant don't feel the unknown uh if
you have concerns uh if you have issues
don't procrastinate because
procrastination can lead to a lifelong
to me a Devastation because you don't
know so I would say don't live in the
fear of the unknown is free the
information is great and that would be a
stepping stone for changing your life
and it's a lifestyle
change
