hey Dr Burg here we have one of my
friendly patients right here so she's
came from Connecticut for a few days and
uh just kind of like a little snapshot
of your situation like kind of where you
work and the stress that you go through
um you kind of had some some flight or
flight going on right a lot of fight or
flight going on yes yes um constant
constant fight ORF flight um could not
take any more stress could not tolerate
anybody um Everybody annoyed me
everything and everybody including my
dog annoyed me so yeah I'm in fight ORF
flight um work in the prison system a h
a psychotherapist so um a little bit of
stress oh yeah just a little bit um so
yeah uh but um
I'm very much addicted to coffee yeah so
how how how much coffee maybe would you
have in a given
day well like I told my regular
physician when um she asked how much
coffee I drink and I said three to four
and she thought I meant three to four
cups but I'm three to four pots of
coffee and so I came to Dr Burg's office
yesterday uh today's my second day and I
had one cup cup of coffee this morning
and I don't even need anymore right now
I am
so energized but not from coffee right
right now did you um normally there's
some sleeping issues occasionally right
big time sleeping issues um either
couldn't get to sleep or couldn't stay
asleep um usually I'd be going to
falling falling asleep at 2:30 3 o'clock
in the morning um I would sleep little
cat naps throughout the day and then six
o'clock pretty much give up when I heard
the birds so so so the flight or fight
mechanism is something in the uh in the
adrenals that stays wired all the time
and that's why the co I mean those so
burnt out that you needed coffee to kind
of stay awake but you can't sleep to
rejuvenate so you needed coffee to wake
you up so I know it wasn't perfect but
last night um how did you sleep after
the first day of working on
uh amazing uh I crashed at 10:00 um
10:00 I fell asleep which is ridiculous
um I woke up at 3 um for about 5 minutes
and got right just tossed over turned
the other side fell right back to sleep
and then at 6 o00 this morning so now
from 10:00 till 6 o00 is 8 hours 8 hours
of sleep with the exception of just the
waking up the one time but at 6:00 a.m.
I was out of bed and like I told you
this morning I was ready to clean every
room in the hotel that I'm staying in I
was wired in the shower at 6 I mean it
was just and I've been like that it's
4:00 and I would have had probably I'd
be on my second and a half pot of coffee
and I had one cup this morning in the
hotel it's amazing you sound like me in
college I need the Cuban coffee by the
PT too I have that t-shirt uh but the uh
yeah because see when you pull the
stress out and I'm telling you when you
get sleep you can start recharging you
can start feeling feeling better and you
don't really need as much coffee if
you're sleeping but you're just trying
to stay awake you know no my routine
literally was get out of bed straight in
the morning um go straight to the to the
kitchen start the pot go back to the
bathroom for two minutes go back by then
I can at least get that first cup to get
me enough energy to get in the shower
and then it was just this Perpetual you
know then another cup and I'm talking
mug and I drink the high octane like I
told you the high octane so I'm not
drinking cups I'm drinking mugs of
coffee then you take one in the car you
know and then 3:00 4:00 another you know
mug and I'm drinking it till 10 11:00 at
night I mean it was wow it was just and
I don't know why I was trying to stay up
right but I think I was in that yeah the
flutter fight and her her biggest
concern
was how is she gonna come off the coffee
right wasn't that a big that was my huge
concern when I spoke to you on the phone
and then when I got down here yesterday
and I said Dr Burke I'm really concerned
I want to get off coffee yes I know what
it's doing to me um but I was afraid of
the migraines right and um what are we
going to do with that and so I haven't
had a headache I think I just had a
Little Tenderness up here from the
acupressure which is phenomenal oh my
gosh give me more you need you needed
that stress reduction there and then the
other thing too is that you um your back
has been chronically in pain for a long
time and one of the things things that
we do for pain is we always always
always work on the opposite side no one
does that but it really works so we
worked on your abdomen and to fix the
back and uh because if you work on the
back you're going to be on that thing
for a long long time they don't really
teach us that in school but it's
something that just works so um that's
where we're going to fix your back by
working on the front part by working on
the front yeah yeah it's it it it's been
amazing I mean and I just got just
realigned just a little while ago and I
cannot believe where my head is turning
I mean I would just do to here and here
but no popping no and I was saying after
I was aligned in one of my first ACU
pressures said did he get brighter in
here everything is brighter you know
it's amazing some of the already one day
I know I know I'm shocked yeah this is
awesome you just have to kind of like
pull all the stress out get your body
calmed down so it can generate energy
and really what stress is it's stuck
energy so when you release it it becomes
available to you as like not a nervous
energy but like just an energy that's
good yeah well I told you you you gave
me homework yesterday and I went to the
park this morning before I came here I
went to the park and after my treatment
at 4:00 I'm going back to the park
because that en I don't I I'm I'm jacked
up yeah but I'm not jacked up on coffee
it's it's it must be whatever is
flooding through me and I'm keep looking
at the clock like okay I should be
having coffee right now what's going on
but it's like a memory thing yeah yeah I
have to recondition I guess because I'm
just you know it's a habit that was a
bad toally habit for a while that was a
bad
know bad habit yeah so I think the
coffee Andy's going to go out of
business now and I that I'm not going to
be you know but yeah the energy level
already and I haven't even done the
liver cleanse so when I get home I know
I'm doing the you know chapter 10 yeah
and then starting the program so I can't
even IM it gets better than this yeah it
does it'll keep getting better yeah it's
just it's just kind of like um if you're
tired you're trying to get energy from
something else whether it's food or
caffeine or stimulants but why not just
let your body generate energy it's the
source of the energy or you're the
source of the energy so why depend on
something external so you know right
thank you so much thank you so much Dr
ber and staff as well thank you thank
you
