hey guys I want to answer the question
what is insulin now I've done a lot of
videos on insulin resistance ketosis
talked about sugar but I think I forgot
to do a video on actual what is insulin
whoops better late than never but let's
talk about what it is um insulin is a
hormone made by the pancreas so the
pancreas is a gland underneath the left
rib cage and insulin is a hormone so
hormones are communication particles
that are made by glands that travel
through the blood okay so the purpose
the main purpose of insulin is to lower
blood sugar okay so insulin lowers the
sugar in the blood now normally you have
about a teaspoon just a small amount of
sugar in all of your blood so an average
person roughly has about a gallon and a
half of blood okay that's only one
teaspoon diluted in a gallon and a half
of blood so anything more than that
would be excessive and your body would
have to get it out of the blood and it
uses insulin to do that okay so the
average person consumes 31 TPO of sugar
every single day so you can see that's a
big problem um and what I mean by normal
sugars I'm talking about like 100
milligrams per deciliter that's one
teaspoon per 1 and 12 gallons of blood
so anything more your body uh activates
insulin to get it out of the blood so so
it allows cells to absorb glucose you
can think of um insulin like a key that
unlocks the cell opens a door to allow
glucose to go into the cell to feed the
cell okay so that's what it does now it
also stores sugar in the liver and the
muscles and that's called glycogen which
is a like a string of uh sugar molecules
string of glucose um that's called
glycogen so you have that stored sugar
to be released if you need it for quick
energy um okay so it stores sugar and
then anything extra it converts to Fat
so it's a fat making
hormone especially the visceral fat in
the gut it also helps you absorb amino
acids that's
protein wow that's interesting isn't it
it also absorbs potassium so this is a
real key mineral involved in so many
functions insulin is necessary to help
you absorb potassium it blocks fat
burning in the presence of just a little
bit of insulin you are not going to burn
fat okay it retains sodium that's why
after a sugar meal you could gain like a
pound of fluid and you feel like you
gain more weight okay so basically
stores sugar stores fat reduces blood
sugars got that so far now what happens
in the body is um you become a diabetic
or a pre-diabetic uh that's called
insulin resistance so when insulin
becomes dysfunctional it starts to be
resisted in the cell so now the key
doesn't work so if we were to block that
entry it's called insulin resistance
okay so now we're going to actually have
less insulin in the cell and less
glucose in the cell now what's going to
happen signals are going to go back to
the pancreas and tell the pancreas to
release more insulin so with insulin
resistance you have high levels of
insulin but it's not working that's why
you have all the damage okay if insulin
is blocked guess what's going to happen
to the blood sugars it's going to go
higher and higher and higher and that's
diabetes so high sugar is diabetes
hypoglycemia uh so you have a situation
where you have autocontrol blood sugars
yet your cells of starving of insulin
and glucose inside the cell that's why
you crave sweets okay
and a lot of other damage insulin
resistance will cause a lot more
conversion of fat into your gut into the
other cells of the body it will also
starve the cells of glucose in the brain
that's why you're going to lose your
memory you're going to have all sorts of
problems with that you won't be able to
absorb the amino acids that's why a
diabetic they lose their muscle strength
and muscle mass they won't be able to
absorb potassium so guess what their
blood pressure goes up their energy goes
down their sodium goes up because it
retains more
sodium uh and they're not able to lose
weight because they have too much
insulin and that's blocking any chance
of burning fat okay all right so you
know what insulin does now it's very
very very important isn't it but it's
the problem is if you have too much of
it that's where the there's a problem
because it it blocks the absorption so
your body just likes a certain amount
what controls the level of insulin um is
the sugar in the blood so whatever's in
the blood so let's talk about what
stimulates insulin sugar and anything
that converts to Sugar refined
carbohydrates breads pasta cereal
crackers alcohol things like that if you
combine sugar with protein you'll
exaggerate the spike of insulin even
more so it's a Compound Effect excessive
protein will also stimulate insulin so I
like to recommend between 3 to 6 ounces
of protein per
meal um MSG monosodium
glutamate and as modified food starch
that's in a lot of junk foods that will
increase insulin by three
100% okay eating in general stimulates
insulin so let me just show you one
thing on that here's my favorite book
guidance physiology and I want to just
show you this one little point it says
other factors that stimulate insulin
secretion
gastrointestinal
hormones okay what does that mean
gastrointestinal hormones it means every
time you eat anything you stimulate
insulin and this is why intermittent
fasting is so powerful because you're
cutting down the times that you eat the
frequency of eating and you're dropping
insulin you're actually correcting the
dysfunction okay so it actually just
goes beyond just cutting out your carbs
cortisol will increase insulin that's
the stress so stress converts your
muscle protein into amino acids which is
then converted into glucose so it
basically changes your proteins in the
sugar and then it exhausts the cells of
the pancreas and then you get become a
diabetic other than that you're
perfectly fine and then we have nicotine
in excessive amounts will also increase
insulin and then you have caffeine that
in a large amounts if you drink coffee
all day long it'll affect the adrenals
and increase cortisol but if you're just
doing like 1: in the morning you're
going to be fine but excessive amounts
of caffeine will stimulate uh insulin
now the things that inhibit insulin turn
it off would be cutting out the sugar
and the refined carbs uh fasting
intermittent fasting will greatly help
uh fix insulin resistance consuming fat
has kind of a neutral effect on insulin
uh apple cider vinegar improves insulin
sensitivity
potassium in foods and as a supplement
will increase insulin and so will
chromium okay so I just want to give an
overview of exactly what insulin is now
you have a foundation to understand even
more the other factors thanks for
watching hi guys listen I created an
evaluation quiz it is quite long it's
104 questions but it's very thorough
click the link below and take it and it
will help you to find out what's really
behind all your symptoms
