so lately I've been doing a lot of
research in the area of autoimmune
diseases specifically rheumatoid
arthritis and I found some amazing
natural remedies that have some hardcore
research behind them so I wanted to
expand the list because in the last
video I talked about these remedies okay
in a minute fasting vitamin D potassium
ozone zinc oregano and doing healthy
version of Aikido okay and these are
really great things but there's some
additional things you may want to
consider if you have rheumatoid
arthritis which is a really terrible
condition and you want to do everything
you can to minimize the pain and the
swelling okay borage oil amazing amazing
results with rheumatoid arthritis
it's an omega-6 fatty acid it's a gla
type fat it's also good for exam a
dermatitis and something called ARDS
acute respiratory distress syndrome okay
cat's claw very powerful for rheumatoid
arthritis but it's also good for
inflammation of the diverticula would be
diverticulitis also it's good for ulcers
colitis inflammation of the colon
and by the way diverticula are those
little pouches in the large intestine
allergies okay so you can see cat's claw
really dresses this common theme of
inflammation okay ten cob liver oil very
powerful for rheumatoid arthritis and
also heart issues and then we have
hydrotherapy which involves water
therapy at different temperatures you
can do steam there's even a cold water
version hydrotherapy but it's fantastic
for rheumatoid arthritis and also COPD
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease so
you wouldn't think that it would affect
the lung but it does and lactobacillus
is a friendly bacteria that helps you
make lactic acid so it's very good for
rheumatoid arthritis but it's also good
for diarrhea
increasing the absorption of iron
decreasing colds and the flu in
constipation and especially abdominal
pain and children and young adults and
hay fever as well so don't forget that
if you have abdominal pain you may need
some more lactobacillus it's also good
for SIBO small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth because you would think by
taking microbes that's going to make it
worse but apparently this specific
microbe actually improves that condition
all right and 13 Thunder God vine okay
that's an interesting name that's a very
powerful for rheumatoid arthritis and
ALS which is another autoimmune
condition an MS which is an autoimmune
and even Crohn's as well so this is
really good for inflammation and if you
haven't seen the original video on RA I
put it up right here check it out
