today we're going to talk about the
difference between the egg yolk and the
egg white there's a lot of people that
just are eating that whites and they're
shooting the yolks away thinking that
the yolks are unhealthy because it's
going to clog the arteries because it's
so much fat well that is a big mistake
because most of the good nutrition is in
the yolk egg yolks are loaded with
cholesterol but here's the thing that
cholesterol will not clog your arteries
in fact it's not going to increase your
own body's cholesterol when you increase
the dietary cholesterol guess what your
body makes less so if you take a look at
all the cholesterol that's in someone's
body 75% of it is actually made by the
body only 25% comes from your diet so
your body makes most of the cholesterol
that it has so it's tightly regulated
when you actually eat more your body
makes a little bit less and we need this
cholesterol to feed the brain the
nervous system all your cell membranes
the hormones especially testosterone
estrogen the stress hormone called
cortisol the egg yolks are loaded with
fat soluble vitamins vitamin A D E and K
2 also egg yolks contain trace minerals
b12 ful late which is really important
to prevent DNA damage and does a lot of
other things as well phospholipids which
help support the membranes of your cells
and calcium then we have immunoglobulins
igy and basically these are our
antibodies so these greatly help your
immune system especially in their gut
and there's some very interesting
research I put the links down below but
they're even concentrating this antibody
and giving it to people who have certain
gut diseases and getting pretty good
success it's also great for antibiotic
resistance this is why the egg yolks are
really benefit
so if someone is I don't know rundown or
they're sick eggs are a really good food
to consume now on the flip side the egg
white has most of the protein not all
but most there's also a chemical called
evident in egg whites that blocks biotin
now that's only if you eat the egg
whites raw and you really don't have to
worry about it even if you do eat raw
eggs because you would have to consume
20 eggs a day and I'm talking about raw
before you would become deficient
because biotin is in so many different
foods plus the good bacteria in your gut
make biotin now there are people that
are deficient in biotin but that's
usually for another reason they have a
alteration in their genes that is not
allowing them to absorb it and the only
way to handle that is to take more of it
one of the symptoms of a biotin
deficiency is alopecia another one is
brittle hair and thinning of the hair
also skin issues but for the most people
they don't worry about biotin so if you
do raw eggs and they're high-quality you
don't have to worry about that
deficiency now the other thing about egg
whites is that it has a good amount of
b2 okay and b3 and has more magnesium
than the yolk and more potassium as well
and it's really important to eat the
whole egg if we take a look at the
insulin index from low to high so
basically the insulin index is a scale
that shows all the foods that are not
carbohydrates that affect insulin so
you'd have certain proteins and fats so
fat would be low protein like in egg
whites would be higher than the whole
egg which is lower so in other words
when you consume the whole egg it has a
lesser effect on insulin than if you
just consume the egg white so eating the
whole egg will help your blood Sugar's
now the last thing I want to point out
about the egg is that it's not muscle
protein like all the other proteins that
people are consuming its in embryo so it
has a lot of other factors for the
immune system it's more nutrient-dense
it's much easier to digest and out of
all the protein not counting breast milk
whole eggs provide the best quality
protein and I'm talking about the
protein that actually ends up in
repairing the body tissue and it's a
higher quality protein than any muscle
protein out there so definitely eat more
eggs I consume four eggs a day I make
sure they're pasture-raised
I make sure they're organic oh and by
the way if you haven't seen the video
that I did on the dangers of eggs based
on this one study that a lot of people
use to so call prove that eggs are
dangerous check it out it's on this page
