you know dogs pretty much will eat
anything if they fall on the floor so
it's really important to be aware of
what your dog eats because
certain things that you eat can be very
harmful if not fatal to your dogs so i
wanted to create this video on the 10
things that you definitely need to be
aware of if you have a dog because if
you drop some food on the floor
you need to know if it's poisonous or
not
certain things that are not poisonous to
us
are poisonous to dogs simply because
their metabolism is a little bit
different let's talk about number one
avocados there's a certain natural
fungicide in avocados called person
which is in the leaves it's in the outer
skin as well as the pit and our bodies
have an enzyme to break it down but dogs
don't so if they're exposed to this it
can create some
digestive issues it can create some
heart problems it can even increase
fluid around their heart so if you see
your dog chewing on an avocado
definitely get it out of his mouth
there's a little bit of this fungicide
in the actual avocado
meat but it's very very minor all right
number two
caffeine now caffeine is in soda tea
coffee
even some in chocolate and a dog's
digestive system absorbs caffeine very
very rapidly so it could start to
increase the pulse rate and create
arrhythmias and if in large amounts even
a seizure now i know my dog will
definitely
consume coffee if we leave it around but
there are some variables like the size
of your dog how much they consume but
usually within two hours they're going
to be excessively thirsty and you may
even see a lack of coordination because
it affects their nervous system all
right number three the actual chocolate
that has the caffeine chocolate also has
another uh stimulant called theobromine
and so the darker the chocolate the more
unsweetened it is the more toxic this is
to your dogs especially if they get a
hold of baker's chocolate it can lead to
heart problems and even a heart attack
and many times a vet will see
a spike
in chocolate poisoning during holidays
where people are eating more chocolate
so just make sure your chocolate is well
hidden from these dogs all right number
four
grapes
or raisins believe it or not there's a
chemical tartaric acid in grapes and
raisins that is pretty toxic to dogs and
just a handful will create a very
negative reaction it could lead to
extreme thirst and eventually kidney
failure but again it does depend on the
size of your dog as well as how much
they consume all right number five
alcohol you do not want to give your dog
alcohol they cannot tolerate it even in
tiny amounts some of the symptoms might
include fatigue
lowered body temperature they get colder
and you may find that they lose muscle
coordination and a significant amount
will be fatal all right number six
salt now this might be surprising but
salt can be pretty toxic especially if
it's more than four grams per kilogram
in weight but you usually see this in
dogs eating
nuts like salty nuts salty popcorn salty
chips that are laying around i know this
might be surprising but dogs have the
ability to
rip open a bag of chips and eat the
whole thing in one sitting so this
excess salt can lead to a condition
called
hypernatremia that's too much sodium in
the blood and they can have edema which
is swelling in the brain and even
tremors or a fever all right the next
one number seven is uncooked dough now
of course if you've been watching my
youtube channel you don't worry about
this because you're not going to be
eating dough or making things out of
dough but if you have dough that you're
making bread with and it has yeast in it
and the dog eats it the dough can very
easily in their stomachs which is nice
and warm start creating an excess amount
of fermentation and not only generate a
lot of gas but a lot of ethanol as an
alcohol which will create severe
toxicity and alcohol poisoning all right
number eight and you probably already
know this one but you never want to
expose your dogs to
xylitol which is an alternative
sweetener that you use on the ketogenic
diet this can be deadly because what
happens it can
severely drop your dog's blood sugars
way down
and that can lead to
coma
seizures liver damage and even death all
right number nine
garlic onions and chives the softer
compounds in these vegetables can affect
the red blood cells and create anemia
and your dog potentially could
need a blood transfusion if they consume
a lot of it and they're a small dog all
right and number 10 the seeds from
apples
cherries
apricots peaches and
plums
the seeds in these fruits have cyanide
now your dog would have to chew them up
because if they swallow them they're not
going to get much cyanide they'd have to
chew on it and the cyanide could be
released and it could be very very
deadly to your dog the symptoms would be
difficulty breathing
and eventually convulsions and you might
also notice that their gums become very
very red because the body is starving
for oxygen now since we're on the topic
of dogs i created a very interesting
video on should your dog do intermittent
fasting
check that out i put it right here
you
