hey guys Dr Burke here in this short
video I want to talk about calcium
magnesium so let's talk about the
function first of all calcium yes we
know it's for your bones it's for your
teeth but really it's for the muscles
the nervous system and mainly cellular
communication it's one of the main
minerals that helps the cells
communicate okay and so many people have
either too much calcium or not enough
okay if you have too much calcium you
have SAU tissue calcium you have uh heel
spurs kidney stones tartar on the teeth
Harding of the arteries you're going to
get blood pressure that goes up you're
going to get stiffness in the joints
you're going to get arthritis btis
tontis all the iises and that's uh
coming from too much calcium now if you
did not take enough magnesium with it
the calcium will build up in the body
that's why you should always take it
together so for someone that take just
straight calcium I would never recommend
that okay so because you need magnesium
to help mobilize and make calcium uh
function so it controls the muscle the
nerve function even blood clotting as
well so magnesium on the other hand
helps the muscles relax uh helps the
nerves transmit especially in the heart
if you're deficient in magnesium you'll
typically have arrhythmias atrial fib
and problems with uh the nervous system
in relationship to connection with the
with the muscle muscle itself it's a
central nervous system brain uh relaxer
okay so it's great for sleeping so now
in order to absorb these two minerals
you need Vitamin D see people are
associate vitamin D absorption with just
calcium but you magnesium needs it just
as much as calcium so what does vitamin
D do it helps absorb calcium magnesium
by 20x in the in the small intestines so
it absorbs it and it brings it up into
the
blood um and by the way as a side note
when you're deficient in vitamin D3 you
can get nose bleeds and you can have
excessive bleeding of the menstration
like the menstrual cycle so just realize
one of the remedies to help heavy
bleeding or nose bleeds is take some
vitamin D3 you can get it from the Sun
or just take it as a supplement okay so
that's What vitamin D does it helps to
transport these minerals up into the
blood but you also need to go further
into the bones right and to do that you
need another vitamin called vitamin
K2 okay vitamin K2 is a fat soluble
vitamin so as Vitamin D3 so vitamin K2
is different than vitamin K1 it
transports calcium from the joints from
the arteries into the bone so if you
have soft tissue calcium build up it
could be that your magnesium is fine
it's just that you need Vitamin K2 so
how do you become K2 deficient we just
avoid all fats cuz vitamin K2 is in all
the grass-fed butter and the animal
products okay it's also in a vegetarian
product called NATO which is a fermented
soy make sure you get non GMO but the
point is that vitamin K2 is essential in
the full transportation of these two
minerals into the right place okay so we
need we need these two in a certain
balance we need these two in the body
but we also need this last thing right
here which is an acidified stomach so
many people as they age if they have
heartburn gird constipation they have an
alkaline stomach it's too alkaline they
need an acidic stomach to be able to
absorb these minerals so if you have
heartburn for example or indigestion we
know your stomach doesn't have enough
acid and that valve won't close so if
the valve won't close the acid comes up
so if you have a nice enough strong acid
in your stomach the valve closes and
everything's cool
but if you have that problem that means
you don't have enough acid so you can't
mobilize these minerals and they don't
really get absorbed so what you have to
do is take some Alid of vinegar pills or
the actual appside of vinegar and some
water drink it with a straw and start to
acidify the body to pull these minerals
into the tissues okay now what are the
ratios of calcium magnesium number one
um you know people say well you need two
to one ratio too much two two uh two
times as much calcium as mag magnesium
well I disagree because so many people
that I've come across they have I
already have too much calcium they're
like they have their stiffness they have
joint issues they have Spurs they have
all sorts of calcium issues if we dump
more calcium into the body we're going
to have a problem unless they have
osteoporosis if they have osteoporosis I
might do a two to one but everyone else
I would do a one to one ratio why
because not very many people get enough
magnesium because they don't have enough
leafy green
that's where you get it from all the
vegetable family you get calcium from
broccoli and other things but realize
that broccoli and uh even kale have
they're a little bit higher in oxalates
so sometimes that might block the
absorption of calcium so and even
spinach as well so that's why you need
the lemon juice I have that in the other
videos so there's a I don't want to
confuse you but here's the point I like
to get my calcium from a little Dairy so
maybe uh some grass you know cheese or
something like that a little bit each
day and you have enough calcium so I
don't like to take too much calcium um
but if you're going to take it take a
small amount one to one ratio and you
can take more of it if you're doing some
program or detox or you know you have
osteoporosis or you're maybe you're
trying to sleep or get rid of a a cramp
in your calf which that's an indication
that you need this uh but the point is
that I want you to understand that
there's a lot of different factors
involved in the The Balancing of these
two minerals the absorption of these two
minerals from the stomach having the
stomach pH it's not just a matter of oh
I'm going to take this vitamin because
someone told me to take it you have to
think with it and take it when you need
it and so you're not taking too much all
right so I just wanted to kind of review
all that I'll put some notes below and
definitely
um uh continue to watch my videos and
make comments below I'll see you in the
next video
