hi guys in this video we want to talk
about will diet sodas kill ketosis okay
and the answer is yes they will they
will slow down ketosis why because the
artificial sweeteners uh have a tendency
to raise insulin and ketosis is all
about lowering insulin so anything that
increases insulin like sugar and refined
carbs will will basically block and slow
down ketosis not to mention a lot of
other issues but I'm not talking about
the artificial sweet like nmo Zol I'm
not talking about Stevia I'm not talking
about nmo
arrol I'm talking about aspartame neutr
those type of sweeteners all right I
hope this helps put your comments below
what's the next part what am I going to
say take five do it
and where am I going with this hey if
you're enjoying my videos press the
Subscribe button below and I will keep
you updated on the future events thank
you so much
