hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about your fat and your genetics
okay I know it kind of almost pisses
people off sometimes to see other people
eating junk they're not gaining any
weight they look healthy but are they
really let's take a look at what happens
there's kind of two groups that people
fall into people that get fat and other
people that don't get fat and this is
only 10% of population this is 90% of
the population let's talk about this
group right here what happens for most
people is the fat cell starts to
hypertrophy it starts getting bigger and
bigger and bigger and bigger it can
increase my volume by eight thousand
percent I mean to the point where you
can't cram any more fat into that cell
because the body's trying to store all
this energy and this sugar that's being
converted in there and with this
particular person they have inflammation
they have immune reactions they have
cellular death and they always have
insulin resistance that's the common
thread and there have mass amounts of
high insulin 24/7 the fat will first go
in the subcutaneous right below the skin
and then it goes into the viscera around
the organs and this is now it's going to
start spilling off into the liver the
muscles the pancreas and the blood
vessels and they have all sorts of
problems this is typical for the
majority of the population now when we
get to the 10% of population who has a
different genetics they don't
necessarily show visibly on the outside
at first they're not getting fat because
instead of the fat cells expanding
they're getting shooting off multiple
fat cells it's called hyperplasia they
don't issue a get inflammation they
don't initially get in some resistance
because they're just making some new fat
cells they're kind of gaining a little
weight but it's not really showing on
the outside and rarely do to get
subcutaneous fat okay their stomach
might start bulging out more like
protruded kind of like they might even
have definition and look lean but their
stomach is kind of swollen because
they're getting a lot of visceral fat
they're getting fat that's spilling off
into the liver eventually the muscles in
the organs as well and these people
eventually be
diabetes okay so they have a lot of
problems with blood sugars and they have
high levels of insulin but they look
completely different than this group
over here so the point is that when you
see someone that is eating junk and
they're looking at skinny realize a lot
of the damage is occurring deeper inside
the body if they were to get an
ultrasound and look at the liver and
around the organs you would see a lot of
damage if they were to get their insulin
tested it would be high okay but not
initially but over time it would be
because I just wanted to clear up the
difference between these two categories
because a lot of people kind of get
scores because they see some people
getting away with it but they're not
really getting away with it all right
all right see you next video
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has a hundred and fifty six
images three hundred seventy eight pages
full glossary I talk about keyed out in
a minute fasting the body types in
detail I have a new stressed chapter I'm
going to show you exactly what to eat
any comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
