today we're going to talk about the 14
bad habits that can potentially ruin
your heart let's get to number one
believing everything you read on labels
let's start off with this one right here
corn oil how can this be heart healthy
what in here helps your heart this is
industrial processed seed oil that has
been highly refined and apparently this
stays in the shelf for a long time do
you realize that an average person
consumes eight of these every year
that's like between 25 and 30% of are
calories this is a gallon and this is
supposed to be healthy for our heart
here's another one that's healthy for
your heart instant oatmeal you're
talking a lot of sugar in here and it
said heart healthy and here we have
another one honey and nut Cheerios just
different combinations of ingredients
including sugar I like this Grandma
makes my heart happy that's that's good
marketing both seed oils and these whole
grains are high in Omega 6 and Omega 6
is pro-inflammatory it creates
inflammation and on top of that they're
going to add all this extra sugar and
refine starches I highly doubt it's
going to lower your cholesterol in fact
it may just increase your cholesterol
but I think you should personally just
consume it and then retest your
cholesterol and see what it really does
all right number two stay out of the sun
use suntan lotion Sun can cause cancer
stay away from it well this is going to
reduce our vitamin D thereby increasing
our risk for heart attacks by roughly
32% based on a study that I'm going to
put down below in fact one of the best
remedies for high blood pressure is
vitamin D so avoiding the sun is not a
good idea let's get to number three
excessive sitting or a sedentary
lifestyle there's a fascinating study
that shows an increased risk of heart
disease by 147% and not only heart
attacks but Strokes as well now if we
compare sedentary people versus people
that exercise sedentary people have an
increased risk of dying from a heart
attack by over 50% exercise improves
your Fitness that's that extra buffer
that extra resource to help you cope
with stress and live longer number four
the overuse of certain medications
sometimes we normalize medications it's
normal to be on medications over the age
of 50 we don't tend to look at the side
effects as much because everyone's on
medication and your doctor told you to
take medication so it must be fine but
even over-the-counter medications can
increase your risk of getting heart
attacks by over 50% I mean there's so
many medications that stress the heart
chemotherapy will definitely increase
the risk of eting a heart attack and
especially HRT hormone placement therapy
can increase the risk of getting Heart
Attack by 29% so work with a doctor
that's open to using Alternative forms
of remedies for various conditions
number five snacks especially the late
night snacks especially if they're
carbohydrate snacks I used to do this on
a regular basis I loved chips I would do
ice cream and that snack before bed
ruined your ability to burn any fat
through the night you burn most the fat
when you're sleeping if you don't eat
anything but that doesn't happen if you
eat something before you go to bed
especially if it's carbs also growth
hormone spikes mostly at night so growth
hormone is the anti-aging hormone it
helps burn fat and it'll be nullified
when you eat these carbs before bed
unfortunately so don't eat any snacks
between the meals and especially after
dinner number six drinking a lot of
water but also at the same time being on
a low salt diet what you're doing is
you're diluting a very important
electrolyte called sodium what might
happen is you might develop a condition
called hypo nutria which is low sodium
in the blood hypon neuta actually can
cause a heart attack swelling in the
brain and all sorts of side effects all
the water is going to create a lot of
pressure on the kidneys in the heart
because your body has to get rid of the
water and then you end up being
dehydrated because you don't have the
salt to retain that fluid the thing to
do if you're salt sensitive is not to
necessarily decrease sodium but to
increase pottassium potassium will
protect you against any dangers of
sodium all right number seven ignoring
Dental Care believe it or not in certain
studies where they dissect the plaque in
the arteries they have found in that
plaque Dental bacteria now what is this
bacteria from your mouth doing in your
arteries well there's there's something
called gum disease we can develop
infections underneath the teeth
especially if you had a root canal and
there's a lot of lymphatic tissue down
there and then that can leak into the
lymphatic system get into the blood
supply and it can circulate throughout
the body the last thing you want to do
is is create an infection underneath the
tooth that's very very difficult to to
identify these infections underneath the
teeth can actually eat up your bone and
you have to do a special a 3D x-ray to
identify necrosis of the bone all coming
from an infection number eight mouth
breathing it's a bad habit and I'm
talking mainly when you're sleeping you
should really practice breathing through
your nose now why is this so important
there's a physical phenomena that's
called the bore phenomena where you're
breathing in oxygen okay but that oxygen
that goes into the red blood cell cannot
be released unless you have a certain
amount of CO2 so this is why when you
hyperventilate and you get all this
oxygen and you go into a panic attack
breathe into a paper bag why so you can
get more CO2 to allow the oxygen to go
into the tissues so by nose breathing
you're actually adding more CO2 it might
feel like you're getting less oxygen but
you're actually getting more oxygen when
you breathe through your nose because
you're mixing more CO2 some people get
this little tape that you can put on
your mouth that's available too but nose
breathing can greatly enhance your
ability to sleep it can help as sleep
apnea it can also help with snoring
number n
microplastics now you can be exposed to
a lot of microplastics from many
different sources consuming water and
plastic bottles that are especially
heated plastic chemicals on the inside
of certain cans they're now finding that
an average person has a lot of these
microplastics very tiny pieces of
plastic in their blood where is all this
plastic coming from well it's coming in
our fluid Supply because a lot of the
Plastics get into the soil there's a lot
of microplastics in the ocean but a lot
of these Plastics don't get filter out
unfortunately number 10 feeling out of
breath very easily when you start to
exercise let's say you've been
exercising for a while and you're
exerting yourself and you get out of
breath super easy you have an
intolerance for exercise this is a
classic sign of congestive heart failure
there's something wrong with the heart
that you need to evaluate don't ignore
that all right number 11 jet leg which
greatly affects your sleep cycles also a
lot of people when they fly their ankles
or their body starts filling up with
fluid so they start getting fluid
retention and they get this huge
expansion on their feet and so if you do
fly frequently what you should do is you
should be taking nasin nasin helps to
support the mitochondria it's very very
important nutrient it's vitamin B3 I
would recommend taking about 250
milligrams every day at least make sure
you take the one that creates the
flushing sometimes you have to start
with a smaller amount and gradually
increase it another thing to take with
jet leg is higher doses of vitamin D3
about 20,000 IUS of vitamin D3 before
you started flying you would find the
jet leg being a lot less because vitamin
D3 helps to readjust the Circadian
rhythm regulation number 12 excessive
cardio without enough rest when you
exercise a type of exercise that's
really hard on the body is this
sustained postrate exercise you are just
bringing the Pate up and you're
sustaining it over a period of time the
point is that it can create extra stress
on the heart this is why you see a lot
of these Runners who look like they're
in shape they have problems in their
arteries and so if you are a runner it's
called a CAC test it stands for coronary
artery calcification score it's not that
expensive it's very valuable in the
predicting your overall mortality number
13 secondhand smoke but secondhand smoke
can also be a problem because you're not
usually you know you don't have a filter
in your mouth you're just getting it
that can actually increase your risk of
getting Heart Attack by 25 to 30% and
this is probably because it decreases
oxygen into the body not to mention all
the chemicals there's over
7,000 different chemicals when you smoke
and 70 of them are carcinogenic so avoid
secondhand smoke and and also firsthand
smoke number 14 refined Foods out of all
the nutrients that are super important
for the heart magnesium is at the top of
the list because number one most people
are not getting enough magnesium from
their diet and they're eating things
that are depleting magnesium and it's
virtually impossible the test accurately
your magnesium levels you can't rely on
the blood test like 99% of your
magnesium is not in the blood most of it
is inside the cell magnesium is involved
in 300 different enzymes especially in
helping you sleep lowering your risk for
cramping as well as decreasing your risk
for arrhythmias and also preventing
calcium building up in the heart one
really simple way to lower blood
pressure is to take not just vitamin D3
but magnesium with it good habits you
should also add to this cold showers or
even cold immersion produces so many
positive changes watching comedies
laughing more all of these things are
super important in lowering stress and
improving sleep now since we're on the
topic of cardiovascular function if you
have not seen this video on heart health
you should check it out I put it up
right here
