I wanted to create this video and answer
a question that keeps coming up over and
over and over we'll losing weight reduce
my insulin resistance okay now this
could be also pre-diabetes or diabetes
insulin resistance is kind of the thing
that comes before pre-diabetes but if
you have pre-diabetes or you have
diabetes you also have insulin
resistance so insulin resistance is a
situation where your your cells are not
absorbing insulin anymore they're
rejecting it and your body is now making
way more insulin than it should
okay and insulin what it does is it
blocks the ability to burn fat so you
can't lose weight and also it caused you
to store fat and it will keep you at
that certain set point like that Plateau
so you may lose weight but then you
plateau at a certain amount like let's
say 180 and you just can't seem to get
past that point that's because you have
insulin resistance so now the question
is if you lose weight can you improve
this and does it put your body in a
state where you can actually lose weight
more easily here's the answer it really
depends how you go about losing weight
okay now let me explain that if you try
to lose weight incorrectly let's say you
do it with move more less calories but
you don't change your carbohydrate level
so you're like the Biggest Loser for
example where they're watching their
calories and they're exercising like
crazy all day but they haven't reduced
the this thing internal okay they
haven't tried to target this as a cause
of the obesity they haven't fixed it so
they're losing weight to a certain point
just with the fact that they're
exercising so much and trying to burn
the calories but they still haven't
fixed this what's gonna happen they're
gonna gain the weight right back and
that's really what happens if you don't
do it correctly and that also explains
the fact that people on so many
different diets if they on the wrong
diet they lose gain lose gain into the
point where they will not lose any more
because they developed so much insulin
resistance so I'm sort of talking about
a side
topic with this but I think it's
important because if you know how to
lose weight correctly and that would be
healthy keto and in a minute fasting
you're gonna correct insulin resistance
and it's going to make it very easy to
lose weight and bust through this duck
metabolism Plateau
okay so now over here if someone's obese
and they lose weight will they improve
insulin resistance if they do healthy
Kido in a minute fasting now if you have
too much fat in your body and you are
severely overweight your fat cells will
release something called cytokines and
cytokines give off these little
signaling molecules okay these things
right here you don't really need to know
anything more than they create
inflammation okay so now we have more
inflammation in the body and we're
giving off too many free radicals and
that's creating destruction to the body
and then this right here can worsen
insulin resistance so being overweight
can cause instant resistance but here's
the thing insulin resistance can also
cause inflammation because of the high
insulin having in some resistance will
increase more insulin which will then
cause more fat cells so it's a two-way
road once you actually gain all this
weight now it's going to be very very
difficult to lose it simply because the
fact that you have so much fat is
creating this sequence and this
generating so this thing right here so
what does all this mean how can we use
this information to achieve our
weight-loss goals what I would recommend
is not trying to lose weight to reduce
your insulin resistance
I would instead fix insulin resistance
to lose weight because it's much easier
as soon as you start reducing your
insulin what's going to happen you're
going to start to burn for that you're
gonna stop storing fat and then you're
going to fix your metabolism and you're
also going to reduce your hunger and
cravings to make it easy to do this if
you try to lose weight without fixing
this
just the hunger alone is going to keep
you from being successful if you're new
to my channel and you want to know how
to do this I put a link down below it
really boils down to healthy keto and in
a minute fasting thanks for watching
