today I want to talk about neutralizing
uric acid and some of the conflicting
information that revolves around that
topic uric acid is formed when it's
trying to break down purine which is
another compound found in foods mainly
in like organ meats and meats but it's
in certain vegetables as well uric acid
can also act as an antioxidant in your
body and that's one of the reasons why
it might elevate when you're doing
fasting as a way to enhance your immune
system now when the pH of your urine
becomes too acidic this uric acid can
leak out into the joints and cause gout
it can leak into the kidneys and cause
uric acid kidney stones so what is the
solution
one thing you could do is you could
alkalize your body okay you can do that
with the tasin citrate which is alkaline
you can do that with by consuming more
alkaline vegetables you can also consume
baking soda you can also consume some
other alkaline minerals like magnesium
and calcium as soon as this pH starts
going up a little bit
you'll notice that your symptoms for
gout for example will go away
now this is where the confusion comes in
because apple cider vinegar seems to be
very good to help neutralize uric acid
but this is an acid so it's a little
confusing but this is just an exception
to the rule ALP Center vinegar will help
neutralize uric acid now vitamin C from
lemons or lemon juice will also help
reduce your acid also reducing glucose
and fructose will definitely decrease
uric acid and this is why a diabetic has
a higher risk of having gout because
their blood sugars are just too high now
also organ meats if you have gout you
might want to decrease the amount of
organ meats and sardines and just go a
little lower on the protein that you
consume now the vegetables that will
aggravate uric acid are asparagus
spinach and green peas as well as
cauliflower and check out some of these
other videos on your cast if you just
want more data thanks for watching
