hey guys Dr Burke here in this short
video I want to talk about this
interesting herb called Jima now um it's
basically called the sugar Destroyer
herb because it blocks your taste for
sugar it's great for sugar Cravings it's
good for blood sugars it's good for
diabetes um but a while ago I had this
product in a liquid form and you would
spray it in someone's mouth and then you
would have them try to consume something
sweet and they can't taste it because it
blocks The Taste or perception of of
sweet
so you could ruin a party like this and
I actually have ruined some parties
where I've just you spray it in their
mouth and try to eat something sweet you
can't you can't enjoy that anymore so
it's great for people that are addicted
to Sugar because if they spray this they
get no more enjoyment out of sugar for
about several hours and that includes
like a crispy cream doughnut would taste
like baking soda a Coke would taste
disgusting wine would tastes like
vinegar so you could really um you know
help yourself if you're really a to
Sugar so I just wanted to point this out
you can get it in little capsules or
little tablets and you can just chew on
it keep it in the mouth for like 10
seconds and then try to consume
something sweet you will not be able to
do that okay it's just too disgusting
all right I just want to bring this out
for those people that are addicted to
Sugar thanks for watching hey guys thank
you so much for watching please click
the Subscribe button and I will see you
in the next video
