today I'm going to give you 11 really
bizarre wild vitamin D deficiency
symptoms now of course most people know
the usual vitamin D symptoms lower back
pain depression high blood pressure
inflammation autoimmune diseases things
like that but I will guarantee you do
not know these now I'm going to break
this up in two sections the first part
of this video is for the person who
wants just Bare Bones information they
don't want anything too tactical and
then the second part of the video I'll
go into those people who want the
science behind it the mechanism Behind
these symptoms and like the underlying
reason why they develop in the first
place you have about 25,000 genes in
your body and 10% of those genes are
greatly influenced by vitamin D not to
mention when you get your blood tests
with vitamin D they're only showing you
the inactive vitamin D they're not
showing you what's happening in the
cells and so the blood levels of vitamin
D do not correlate very well with the
vitamin D that are in your cells an
active suppression of anything positive
about vitamin D in the news in medical
research because it directly competes
with the top selling drugs I got up and
presented this data to you know these
were the top vitamin D researchers in
the world all assembled there it was
vicious the attacks of how Vitamin D
doesn't do this how could you say this I
said I'm just presenting the data that
we have assembled you're walking on guys
careers that have spent their whole
career doing this stuff they never
conceived that this could be true so
let's dive in okay number one head
sweating now typically you'll see this
in infants but you can also see it in
teenagers adults but if you notice like
a child or yourself sweating just more
in the head suspect a vitamin D
deficiency number two sweating more at
night even if your temperature is cool
now this can also show up with your
pillow being moist in the morning so
excess sweating especially at night is a
vitamin D deficiency number three
mood swings a person going from a
condition or emotion of Happiness down
to feeling irritable down to angry and
then they get sad because vitamin D
controls the regulation of your mood and
it heavily influences emotions and this
has a lot to do with how Vitamin D
affects your brain but if you notice
that yourself or loved one is just like
roller coastering with these emotions
could be a vitamin D deficiency number
four procrastination being backlog
and you just don't feel productive I
mean it's pretty wild that someone's
motivation is connected to a vitamin D
deficiency all right number five panic
attacks now in other videos I talk about
panic attacks being a vitamin B1
deficiency and it can be but you also
have a vitamin D connection to this as
well a panic attack is a very severe
fear or a very high anxiety condition
and it definitely relates to certain
hormones and neurotransmitters like
serotonin but for those people out there
that have panic attacks resort to drugs
they might want to consider trying high
doses of vitamin D3 I've done videos on
certain breathing techniques that a
person can do as well like breathing
through your nose and I will put that
link down below but don't forget vitamin
D number six achiness in your pelvis in
your lower back in your hips and your
upper legs vitamin D is intimately
connected with the formation of bone and
One symptom of that is literally pain
but not sharp pain this achiness that's
the inside of the bone because that's
where you're losing the bone on the
inside it's sad because it's so easy to
fix but you would have to take higher
amounts not lower amounts I'm talking
like 10,000 20,000 at least if you have
any concern about 20,000 I use of
vitamin D3 being toxic I just want to
let you know that being out in the sun
in the summer for 40 minutes will give
you 20,000 iuse of vitamin D3 is that
toxic no 20 100,000 IUS of vitamin D3
taken over months that's when you get
into the Toxic effect not 20,000 IUS so
then we have number seven which is loss
of muscle strength vitamin D has a
direct effect on calcium itself and
without vitamin D calcium is going to be
deficient in the muscle calcium allows
the muscle to contract but not only
contraction it's also involved in the
production of muscle itself so without
vitamin D and calcium you cannot create
muscles and we also get this weakness
with within muscles that control Power
and strength primarily your legs and
your shoulders and on top of that
vitamin D also controls and regulates
pain number eight stiffness and the
stiffness usually occurs in the knees
and in the fingers and of course this
definitely relates to inflammation but
it also has to do with What vitamin D
does to your cartilage and your collagen
so you might find that when you stretch
backwards and create tension on the
cartilage in your breast bone you might
feel stiffness in that area as well and
that can also affect breathing things
like that number nine chronic fatigue
this has a lot to do with those little
energy factories in your cell they're
called mitochondria and how important
vitamin D is to support that little
Factory and if you don't have enough
vitamin D you just can't make energy
number 10 your ability to think quickly
is to diminished basically you have too
many applications open on your desktop
computer but related to your brain and
number 11 it's just very difficult to be
satisfied when you eat a meal it could
be that the food is just nutritionally
empty and you keep eating to get these
nutrients it can also be certain things
in the food that cause you to be
addicted but if you're low in vitamin D
you're just not going to feel satisfied
you will definitely have a tendency to
overeat so now that you know the general
information let me just kind of give you
another layer of of this data on each
point which is actually very interesting
okay number one was head sweating
there's something different about the
head versus the rest of the body as far
as certain sweat glands we have a lot
more sweat glands in our head than other
parts of our body it affects the
autonomic nervous system causing this
excess sweating in the head now this
also relates to number two when we
talked about night sweats but there's
something else going on with night
sweats vitamin D suppresses an
overactive immune system and just think
about the immune system of all the
things that happen one would be like a
fever right that's a normal response and
so when you're deficient in vitamin D
and you have a slightly overreactive
immune system this whole mechanism of
sweating is controlled by this little
tiny computer chip in your brain called
the hypothalamus and when you have a
vitamin D deficiency in this
overreactive immune system it's going to
trigger excess sweating to compensate
for this immune imbalance situation and
one aspect of this is a fever your body
is generating more heat and with that
comes more sweat to compensate State all
coming from a vitamin D deficiency all
right number three is a mood swing okay
now when we kind of come up and down on
this emotional roller coaster you have
your adrenals involved now the adrenal
gland starting with the hypothalamus
pituitary and adrenal is on this HPA
axis this circuit thing going on but
when you're vitamin D deficient cortisol
is going to go up now I don't know if
this is just because it's trying to help
you get rid of inflammation I don't know
about that but with a vitamin deficiency
you're going to have a disregulation of
this cortisol pattern
and if you have too much cortisol it's
going to put you more in a different
emotional state let's go to number four
which is low motivation to do in the
brain there is this little center it's a
tiny little nerve bundle it's quite
fascinating it's called the nucleus
accumbent and this is the heart of a lot
of things including addictions it kind
of runs on dopamine and yes dopamine is
involved in addictions but it's also a
neuro transmitter that's involved with
motivation reward doing things getting
things done that type of thing all right
number five panic attacks a high level
anxiety a very strong fear panic attacks
from a physical standpoint in the body
are related to that structure I talked
about in the brain called the amydala
that's more like an adrenal in the brain
it's kind of like it regulates fear that
needs vitamin D we have several things
going on we have serotonin which is kind
of like a a happy hormone and so vitamin
D is is necessary to balance these two
things all right number six achiness in
the pelvis area in the lower back and
the upper thigh muscle now this relates
to a condition called
osteomalacia now what is osteomalacia
that's a severe vitamin D deficiency
that's affecting the calcium in the bone
now think about this vitamin D
deficiency is the number one cause of
osteomalacia this is basically where the
bones become very soft I I think this is
going on in a massive scale in society
right now but they have a subclinical
version of osteomalacia I think I had it
in high school because I was eating
poorly and I I know I had a vitamin D
deficiency and I I started getting
fractures but the bones are soft certain
proteins that are just not developing as
well you have to realize that vitamin D
you know controls calcium absorption by
20 times in the small intestine and in
other videos I talk about the two
systems of vitamin D you have the one
controls calcium and the other system
that is non-calcium yes you can check
the vitamin D in the blood if you tested
that chances are that's going to be
pretty low it's probably going to be 30
or less in which case you just need to
start taking vitamin D3 and I would take
a lot of it I would take at least
10,000 to 20,000 I use per day until you
can get your levels a little bit higher
for this bone problem you could probably
get away with taking it sporadically
like once a week if you want to do that
but I wouldn't do that if you had the
problem so that's number six let's go to
number seven loss of muscle strength why
because vitamin D controls calcium and
calcium controls the contraction of the
muscle if you're missing calcium because
you don't have enough vitamin D and you
can't contract what's going to happen
with that muscle pain that's kind of all
over it's hard to pinpoint it's just
achy all right number eight is stiffness
mainly in the knees and the finger
joints because the cartilage needs
vitamin D and it's not getting vitamin D
so it's going to be more inflamed in the
weightbearing joints on your knees could
be the hips as well but also if you use
the computer a lot or your fingers
you're going to notice in the fingers
this can definitely lead to
osteoarthritis this is a lack of vitamin
D vitamin D is essential for maintaining
this cartilage and maintaining the
ligaments and the tendons and think
about this your ribs attached to the
sternum with cartilage so you're going
to notice it right through here too and
so this is why stretching is so
important to really keep this rib cage
opened up because it'll tend to be
contracted inflamed and pull you forward
down here so you end up having bad
posture and kind of a hunchback and not
just take vitamin D but they need to do
a lot of stretching to reverse that all
right number nine chronic fatigue
syndrome there's two different reasons
for chronic fatigue syndrome one is that
your vitamin D controls the number of
mitochondri that are produced the
mitochondria or the energy Factory so
you're going to have less mitochondria
it's less energy so without vitamin D
you're going to have dysfunctional
mitochondria but the second reason for
chronic fatigue syndrome is the immune
connection if you are low in vitamin D
certain viruses will come out of
remission and be active these viruses
especially the Epstein bar virus will
start to come out of remission and be
active one of the symptoms that they
produce is fatigue so it's not like you
have this full-blown infection now you
get certain aspects of that infection
like chronic fatigue nearly 100% of the
people that have this reactivation of
this Epstein bar virus or chronic
fatigue syndrome it came after a severe
loss loss of a loved one or a loss of a
job or something like that but also it
could be a vitamin D deficiency which by
the way if you have vitamin D deficiency
and you go through a loss boy that
stress is going to hit you a lot harder
you just need a lot of vitamin D I would
take 50,000 I use a vitamin D3 every
single day to pull yourself out of
chronic fatigue syndrome all right
number 10 mental sluggishness or
slowness with decisions thinking focus
is distracted vitamin D has a profound
effect in the front part of the brain
which kind of our relay system and even
communication between one neuron and the
next needs vitamin D3 and then we get to
the last one feeling satisfied so letin
tells the brain that you're full if you
don't have enough D it's not going to
work that well vitamin D helps make
leptin work better then we also have
insulin if you don't have enough vitamin
D insulin doesn't work as well and
you're going to be hungry insulin allows
all the nutrition to go into the cells
so if you have insulin resistance
because you're low in vitamin D you're
not going to be satisfied so just by
taking vitamin D insulin becomes more
sensitive and you start getting more
fuel to the cells you get more nutrients
to the cells I hope this helped you to
understand these bizarre unusual
symptoms of vitamin D deficiency start
taking vitamin D make sure you also take
magnesium vitamin K2 zinc and B6 as the
co-actors to prevent any issues and just
to help it work better thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
video
