[Music]
hey everyone I'm really excited to bring
you an amazing interview that Ivor
Cummings okay so if you haven't heard of
this guy you have to check them out
because he's like the the science of
keto and low carb and cholesterol he's
done his research I just want to tell a
quick story I am I was searching around
because I I pretty much read everything
out there related to keto and I was
looking at Kindle books and I noticed
this book it was called eat rich live
long mastering the low carb keto
spectrum and I said I've never seen that
before I just noticed a hot over 100
reviews 97% 5/5 star so I'm like what
I've never seen that high percentage
like there's it's amazing so I had to
get it had to read it I was thoroughly
impressed and so and then I started
watching your videos so I'm really
honored to have you to interview you
because I'm I I really were on the same
wavelength
so mr. Cummings is a engineer and what I
like about that is that you think in
logics
you look at cause and effect honestly I
believe that medicine really does not
it's not very scientific
conventional medicine it's not very
logical it's mainstream is just like
completely illogical so unfortunately
you know other people from the outside
have to come in to try to figure this
out and dissect it and you looked at
this from an engineer standpoint cause
and effect to make it really simple for
people to understand so I really
appreciate that
hey thanks a lot Eric and I'm delighted
to be a to be in an interview here so
it's an honor for me also for sure
awesome well we're just gonna dive right
and I have some questions the first
question I have is them from your
experience from your research what is
the single common denominator with most
health problems chronic health problems
nowadays the use you're seeing like
what's the com
if you had to like pick one thing
yeah well Eric it's hard to big warm
thing because I find that multifactorial
is often used as an excuse like in heart
disease it's multi factors as 300
factors and that kind of gets people off
the hook would be but not clarifying
what you need to do but in fairness this
health problem is multi-factor too but
if you're going to pick a few of the top
items or Pareto items we like to call
them so the Pareto principle is the top
20% of causes that lead to 80% of your
problem so I think the triumvirate for
myself and dr. Jeff Gerber my co-author
is processed food and bringing as it
brings in refined carbohydrates sugars
and vegetable oils so industrial seed
oils so if you're allowed to dodge the
question you'd say those three together
are the Nexxus that's driving a lot of
modern chronic disease if you had to
pick I'd say sugars refined carbs as
being a head of the vegetable oils but
it's a very hard call because there's
great science on both as to how they can
drive dysfunction obesity and liver
problems and insulin resistance over
time but I think the key message is for
people if you eliminate sugars refined
carbs and the industrial seed oils the
vegetable oils if you just did that
alone you'd be way ahead of the puffy oh
yeah so then what so for those viewers
that are under trying to trying to grasp
their wits around this what do those
consuming vegetables and triggers do to
the body like what what do they
influence what's the thing that it does
to the body right well the vegetable
oils there's many many hypotheses and to
a greater or lesser extent some of them
are proven out so one thing about the
vegetable oils is their promise to
oxidation in the body so their own
stable polyunsaturated aaalac put it
very well we need some of these
polyunsaturated vegetable oils and the
percentage you need in your diet is very
low because they act as signaling
molecules and cell men
brain fluidity molecules so they're kind
of technical components that you need
but you should not be using them as fuel
because when you take in excessive
amounts you have excessive
polyunsaturated in the body a proneness
oxidation and damage and oxidative
stress and then inflammatory cascades
which dr. K's in deep nutrition Ventris
in great detail and all of the evidence
behind us so there's the whole
instability of these molecules when
taken to excess certainly when you cook
them and eat them even more so and then
there's also emerging theories that they
drive obesity through enhancing
influence sensitivity of your adipocytes
or your fat cells and enabling them to
enlarge and gather more fat than
otherwise would occur so I think there's
some great animal model experiments on
vegetable oils that people may not be
aware of in one area they did rat
experiments where they gave high
percentages of vegetable oils like
soybean oil and linoleic acid is another
big component and they found that when
you fed them quite a lot of vegetable
oil in their diet
if you subjected them to alcohol they
got massive liver damage but in the same
experiments when they had very low poly
on a trip and high saturated animal fat
like beef tallow they gave the same
large amount of alcohol but had almost
no liver damage that's just that's an
interesting one so one of those papers
was entitled that vegetable oils are
essentially required for liver damage
from alcohol not just that they make it
worse but you almost need to have them
in the diet and they went through all
the mechanisms and then you've got
obesity so there's many recent
experiments quite recent on mouse models
where they fed 8 to 10 percent of these
vegetable oils versus one percent which
is what humans traditionally had and
they saw hugely increased liver fat
obesity and other issues in the mice at
the 8 to 10 percent and they raised the
issue that we've been told to eat
vegetable oils
we're eating eight to ten percent we
tested this in an animal model and we
see it causes obesity and liver fatty
liver the very things that humans are
experienced in the last 40 years as weed
more vegetable oils Wow so one could go
on but there's so so much evidence and
we have it in the book especially in the
appendix we don't want to go too heavy
and the main body of the books who even
appendix from vegetable oils going
through this and much much more and
human human trials the Sidney Hart trial
had the data was essentially perfectly
put aside thirty years ago and it was
basically rediscovered by a team in the
UK in the British Medical Association
and they published that the people on
the higher vegetable oil had twenty to
thirty percent more cardiovascular death
and all cause mortality and in the yeah
the Veterans Administration trial they
saw a slight improvement in
cardiovascular events from the man with
the high vegetable oil but no
improvement in all cause mortality and
quietly a year later they published a
paper explaining that the reason there
was no improvement in all cause even
though the heart events reduced a little
whilst there was an increase in cancer
and cancer death which was significant
so there's all of these human trials to
but as you well know the ones that go
against the dogma that the Polly's are
gods and the satyrs babs they quietly
disappear and that's the way the bias
works Wow amazing and then as far as the
and you you talked extensively
extensively about this the topic between
some people people consuming high
cholesterol foods and heart disease can
you touch on that a little bit because
it's been ingrained in almost
brainwashed into our minds that oh yeah
cholesterol oh my gosh you're eating all
those eggs it's gonna cause a heart
attack well yeah at the forty lead off
Eric I'm sure you see the recent report
coming out showing that eggs actually
cause no harm for heart disease even in
diabetics and the whole the whole
literature is a bit of a mess but very
simply at many
kids go and Sookie's decided he was
researcher that saturated fat drove up
cholesterol in the blood and the
cholesterol in the blood was a causal
driving factor for heart disease now
that's all kind of a half truth and not
correct but hey it even Ansell thirty
years ago or forty years ago he realized
quite quickly that dietary cholesterol
didn't change your blood cholesterol so
even that guy simply a wiped dietary
cholesterol intake off office table and
yet you're right the myth still is here
i think the u.s. is one of the last
countries in the civilized world to
remove cholesterol as a cause for
concern in the diet just a year or two
ago the rest of the world knew this for
decades so the dietary cholesterol is is
meaningless because if you eat less
cholesterol you're never will make more
cholesterol the crucial components as
you know and if you eat more cholesterol
you will either passage into bile salts
or whatever our annular liver will make
less so it makes no difference so the
remaining question is of course the
dietary fat is that a problem yeah mmm
yeah and that brings up the next
question relating to you have this whole
group of plant-based people and then you
have the meat eaters and there's you
know several so-called credible doctors
who are saying no it's the fat it's the
fat that's causing the insulin
resistance it's not the sugar what's
your thoughts on that
yeah that's a tricky one because this is
a complex topic and it is relatively
easy for people to twist data so there's
a hint of truth in that that if you eat
large amounts of fat and they've done
this in human experiments especially in
people who have some insulin resistance
or overweight and they hit them at a
large amount of fat
often with a little bit of sugar
alongside you do see a spike in insulin
resistance but there are mechanisms by
which if you take a large bowl of so
fast
and your body has to become infamous
a cellular level right to keep sugar out
as a fuel source and to use the fat for
fuel so there's an element of truth in
us but the key thing is that chronically
over time it's the refined carbs and
sugars which really cause the insulin
spikes that with time lead to insulin
resistance and through their action in
the liver and one of the best ways to
show the falsehood in what you've just
mentioned about those doctors is
Professor vol ik and professor Finney
have done many human trials and they do
know that if you eat a lot of fat with a
lot of refined carbohydrate the
carbohydrate must be metabolized first
the fat does not get metabolized
properly and it tends to go into storage
or arrays energy levels or fats in the
blood however when they switch people
who are challenged like diabetic people
are obese people and they switch them to
a very low carb with a very high fat
diet then they get dramatic improvement
in their body markers blood markers over
the following week four months and their
blood fat levels actually drop right
down by eating a very high fat diet but
the key is they're not eating sugars and
refined carbs they're switching to a fat
metabolism absolute absolutely I mean if
you I think people they're not gonna
read the studies themselves but you
you're aware of the the rodent that my
studies they're they're high fat diet is
not really standardized it's it's oh hi
sugar and high fat well in they calling
an eye fat so right there you're gonna
you know alter the data there that's a
massive kind of scam I I so strong word
to use but to be quite honest Eric it's
an incredible scam I have gone through
endless medicine rat studies and you're
absolutely right the high-fat diets
they're called hft they got an Akram hft
we we put in hft and oh look they got
fast oh look they got in so resistant
which are absolutely right there full of
dextrose and vegetable oils or an 8%
soybean oil a mixture of sugar and
vegetable oils along with a load of
large an absolute toxic bomb and but
then they blame it all on the fashion
friendly to all the people well no you
shouldn't eat eggs it's insane it's
insane it's totally insane and and then
the other thing is that you'll see this
I don't know who's behind it but they're
pushing this thing where oh well yeah
kudos good for weight loss but we don't
know the long-term effects it's probably
dangerous long-term I'm like what what
why do you say that where does that come
from like mm-hmm
they try to you know they're trying to
different angles of course you know you
have something that's so powerful but we
have thousands of people with amazing
results but then you have you're gonna
have the opposing side you're gonna have
you know mainstream and you're gonna put
these little doubts in people and so
they're a little scared well I want to
do it long-term I'm like what are you
gonna go back to the carbs like sugars
it yeah it's crazy and one way they
Trude out on keto as well was the
epileptic kids over the past decades
they were in ketogenic diets and they
showed some evidence of some issues over
time but I went through those studies
and I challenged people to give me clean
studies and they're not out there they
have a fused studies and the kids had
lots of Polly's because of course these
poor guys believe the fat fat is bad so
they put a lot of poly in there as
they're fast which we've already said is
not a good idea they've also got
medications concurrent they're taking
multiple medications so you look at
these kids that maybe don't do so great
over time but it's a really bad
your diet under on multiple meds and
they already have medical issues by
definition because they had epilepsy and
other somewhat comorbidities so using
that as evidence is farcical but they do
you're right they do users along the
long term thing you see the onus of
proof is on them at to say there's a
long term problem because it's a
perfectly natural diet proven
evolutionarily and in many many
populations very healthy populations
with no chronic disease traditionally so
the default is it's fine prove it's not
but you're right they bring this thing
up they bring up doubt but they're pass
that they said high carb low fat has
been proven to fail at the population
yeah we've done that experiment yeah it
wasn't just to fail I did it's it's a
catastrophic explosive fail and we got
60 52 percent of the adult American
population last year in the paper are
acknowledged to be pre-diabetic or
diabetic now they're all essentially
diabetic Wow you know yeah they all have
hyperinsulinemia they have glucose
metabolism issues hypertension which
goes with us all the classic stuff so
the majority of adult Americans are now
essentially essentially diabetic more if
you measured with insulin and we tell
them to eat more carbohydrates even
though by definition their carbohydrate
intolerance because they're diabetic
it's it's the most obvious thing to me I
just like sometimes I'm like is it Maya
a planet an alien plan here can't people
see it I want to bring up this point dr.
Kraft you were able to interview him
before he passed away this guy he wrote
I mean did the research for I don't know
how many years can you can you just tell
us a thumbnail sketch about dr. Kraft
and who he was and what he discovered or
observed right Eric yeah so dr. Kraft we
discovered in 2014 I think from
professor's grand show field in New
Zealand and when I looked him up I
thought wow I gotta talk to this guy
because what he found
with me so powerful from my five years
of research I'm basically was a medical
captain in World War two would you
believe actually stationed in Panama he
came back he was a pathologist and he
became a doctor of nuclear medicine
which the running a few in the states in
the 50s and 60s trained to use radio
nucleotides and radioactive substances
in the body so very special guy and
pathologists are amazing generally I
find because they really root cause and
they do the analysis Nate they go deep
so long story short he found he had
access to the new insulin tests he
researched diabetes massively he
discovered that diabetes type 2 is a
disease of high-end forum and that this
was known from the 60s with the work of
yellow and Bernstein and he realized
that the whole diabetes world was
treating it as a disease of high glucose
but that was only a symptom so what he
did was he eventually went on to test
15,000 patients with a five-hour glucose
insulin assay where he fed them glucose
and he measured the glucose and insulin
over five hours around seven
measurements and he realized after a
thousand patients that there were five
special patterns that people had even
though he had thousand people there are
only five patterns of insulin response
you could have and he realized Truths
research only one of those patterns was
healthy non-diabetic and all the other
ones were a form of diabetes
he called it diabetes in situ and
basically he realized that we are not
diagnosing the vast majority of
diabetics because the glucose measures
they used to diagnose for the time the
low glucose has gone up your way down
your diabetes journey it's the rising
insulin after eating carbohydrate that
shows you when you're first diabetic and
he realized essentially that 90% of the
people who had passed a fasting glucose
test could fail his insulin test Wow and
yeah and even 50% of his people who
would pass a glucose tolerance test
could fail his insulin test so he
realized was an enormous amount of
diabetes out there and his test was the
one to use yeah he's a great we
interviewed a man couple years ago he
died at 95 last year but an amazing man
Christian nine children devout hugely
wanting to get the message out but he
was he was robust no one wanted to hear
the American Diabetes Association no one
wants to hear I mean just the fact that
you know doctors rarely ever check
insulin if ever and to know that you can
have diabetes with normal blood sugars
which is so bizarre it's high insulin
that's the chain at the first chain of
event that occurs BAM hi yeah that's it
and and after time some people down
across their insulin will flag as their
pancreas becomes problematic so they
won't show up at high insulin because
they're further down their journey but
the beauty is by looking at insulin
you'll always catch people at the
earliest stage you are heading into
trouble because yeah and he his other
statement which was a little strong was
those with cardiovascular disease not
identified with diabetes are simply
undiagnosed though is essentially saying
that most cardiovascular disease is
diabetic type dysfunction it's just for
not diagnosing it and now I think myself
and dr. Garber there are many many other
drivers but I think it's in fairness to
dr. Kraft the line share of of
cardiovascular disease problems
particularly severe ones are tied to
this physiology and the euro aspire
study last year in Europe or two years
ago they essentially found out that just
measuring glucose seventy-five percent
of heart disease victims from ages 18 to
80 across 25 countries 75% have diabetic
abnormality which is incredible
three-quarters and they didn't measure
insulin so a huge amount of
cardiovascular disease is diabetes
not all of
that in the US or a world water that was
across 25 European countries and ages
yeah and they picked cardiovascular
disease patients from ages 18 to 80 so
in engineering world we call that a
really good pole you're pulling all the
ages randomly all the countries and
you're getting a big picture of you and
they wanted to see how much glucose
metabolism issues like diabetes is in
heart disease victims and they found out
they got a shock
I think together shark I didn't right
yeah so what's your what's your kind of
guess at how many people have higher
levels of insulin one of those patterns
in the US what do you think it's because
he he found this in the seventies in me
he did and it's very important he was
taking in many patients who had
suspected diabetes but we're not failing
the tests in fairness he was taking
walk-in patients so he didn't have a
random sample so his group proved his
methods they were a great group to prove
his methodology in his test but they
didn't represent the states so myself
and dr. Gerber if 52% are published as
being pre-diabetic or diabetic and
that's two years ago and they didn't
really look too closely an insulin or
anything we reckon and many other
doctors in this low carb field in our
network estimate 60 to 65 percent of
adult Americans have not got normal at
you insulin emia or good healthy insulin
response so you may be up to two-thirds
would not pass our criteria and I guess
we see that when we walk out in the
street race you know it you know it's
not a shock and the other countries are
all catching up you know Mexico massive
issue Brazil enormous issue particularly
in the population centers China has gone
from 1% in the decade I think to 12%
full-blown and their papers talking
about a catastrophe coming
so this this is blossoming all over the
world Wow
when I tell clients they want to know
they want to get the insulin test even
the doctor doesn't want to do it or they
don't even never even heard of it I mean
I don't understand why this test isn't
it more available yeah I think it's
because it's well craft found he was
swimming upstream and all the guys on
his side the the ear nose and throat
doctors actually got involved because
some of those guys discovered that 98%
of their Meniere's disease and kinases
are tinnitus patients ninety-eight
percent plus were failing the craft test
so they discovered all there's many
errors in balance and tinnitus is
massively to do with glucose metabolism
issues but all of those guys were
pushing and having conferences but the
established Orthodox world doesn't
really want to look at insulin insulin
is problematic if you start looking at
insulin you find your way towards low
carb you find your way towards keto if
you look at insulin too much you begin
to say well hold on a minute what are
their cholesterol their cholesterol is
far they're all comfortable focusing
even though insulin is vastly more
important so I'd only get the conspiracy
I just think all of the industrial
pharmaceutical food industry and even
research and medical research are all
kind of gently always pushing towards
the bad cholesterol and the high carb
guidelines and this stuff all is
uncomfortable to them and I think we're
seeing it unfolding now it is they have
a great inability to be wrong and I have
to be right they really have to be right
about this like just because it would
just be devastating if they were wrong
so it's have to maintain this logical
rightness even though it's completely
insane yeah and they'll die right
exactly I reckon I reckon they'll
they'll change slowly they can't change
quickly for the exact reason you said
but we'll see the guidelines changing
will see more insulin focus but it'll
have to be slow to protect essentially
all the reputations so
everyone fill out 30 years in the
orthodoxy has been you know going from
warm him she's and it's suddenly over a
year or two we say hold on a minute
we're completely wrong to look at
cholesterol we talk about the moments
the the blood cholesterol and we should
have been looking at insulin
we're completely wrong about high carb
it's crazy we should have been looking
at just vegetable carbon fibers real
food carb and higher healthy fats it's
all that changed within a year or two I
mean everyone has egg in their face
I mean it's so bad like I would like to
be them either would I in fact you know
I do a lot of educational videos and one
of the where I get a lot of my material
is I basically get it from mainstream
medical sites health care sites because
they basically you just look at their
data and you could you know for a fact
it's it's 180 degrees backwards I mean
like you just do the opposite you'll be
very successful it they always have it
wrong it's just very ironic so it's
incredible and it came up the other day
actually that I mentioned to someone
I've said this before the only thing
they were really correct on on the big
series of things like cholesterol fat
carb you know salt all of these big
things they talked about the only thing
they were really right about was smoking
right hiccups alright but even then it
took them 30 or 40 years after the data
was in to get it right so they were
slowed down yeah all of the other ones I
mean it couldn't happen by chance that
you'd be wrong on six seven things in a
role like it's six coin tosses heads and
I think that's where it just sue should
everyone to go with the initial
hypothesis and just be an echo chamber
and stick with us and then together all
wrong well even you being an engineer I
wanted to be an engineer but I was
terrible at math and you have to know
math so you'd be engineer you you
wouldn't survive if you didn't get it
right I mean you you couldn't you
couldn't function you have to be able to
find the truth the causing the foot I
mean like so if they got away with it
for this long it's just it's insane yeah
well end
you're absolutely hit the nail on the
head you to succeed in the engineering
business you must get root cause and you
cannot just do band-aids or mitigating
fixes like you know the drugs that hope
your blood pressure that will never
succumb header will kill you
so everyone is forced to to be violently
going after the route calls find out the
mechanisms find out what's causing it
and eliminate the calls there's no point
putting a bandaid on us or sticking a
drug on it it's it's not good enough to
survive but in the medical business
ironically it's kind of the opposite
because the business booms if you don't
prevent and if you have to do procedures
and you have to do stents and you have
to do bypasses and it's kind of driven
the opposite way it's not anyone's fault
in a way it's just the way it is the
business booms if you steer clear of
Route cars and unfixed paths show up
after the event mostly as long as I
medication lasts for 24 hours we're good
we can just take the next pill yeah
what's your thought about the calcium
score son with the vascular system and
what's good with where does that come
from you think yeah well that's a really
important one and one of my big goals
when dr. Gerber as well and we features
in the book and explained there is the
calcium scan as the ultimate test for if
you have significant arterial disease so
just briefly for people a calcium scans
a high-speed x-ray it sees the calcium
in your coronary arteries and the
calcium is brought in by your body to
repair essentially shore up or repair
inflamed arteries that are in danger of
of tearing and causing a clasp on a
heart attack
so it's a natural evolutionary process a
response to injury where basically the
exact same mechanisms that create bone
are used in the artery to strengthen
areas that's it
the beauty is the CAC scan the CT scan
of the heart is a five minute scan low
radiation nowadays like a mammogram
really hundred dollars and in a moment
you can see the calcium and when you see
the amount of calcium you know the
amount of disease you
going on four years and your risk with a
zero score compared to a very high score
but a few percent of middle aged people
will have you can have a 30 plus times
higher risk of a cardiac event or death
with a high score so a view of a high
blood pressure you might be two or three
times more likely or if you have a
really high cholesterol or some blood
sugar two times three times more likely
in the next ten years if you have a high
calcium score it can be 30 times more
likely so hopefully people realize that
gives you the answer so we feel very
strongly a middle-aged person you know
the calcium scan will immediately tell
you your risk level and if you really
got to work hard but if you do work hard
and you go low-carb you get some
exposure low stress sleep magnesium and
all the things that you'd be very well
aware of keto fasting all the good
things done together and they're not
hard and you'll feel better and you'll
lose weight and you'll feel fantastic
all of that together can actually stop
the calcification increasing so even a
high scoring person like my support or
David Bob at an Irish entrepreneur he
had to score 4000 but he is practically
not risen over the last six years with
exactly the things we know about and if
he didn't do those things he would have
kept rising at 20 or 30 percent a year
until the event happened so the beauty
is even a high score you can take action
and that's that's the fantastic thing so
I guess there's a movie the Widowmaker
if people's gonna ask about that motion
yeah yeah well my my supporter David
Bobbitt and the Irish heart disease
awareness charity set up they founded a
big-budget movie the Widowmaker and if
you google my name and Widowmaker you'll
pretty quickly hear a version you can
watch straight away and it tells a
fascinating story after calcium scan and
high for 30 years it didn't get adopted
a bit like insulin and it's narrated by
Gillian Anderson and Larry King as in us
and all the professor's of imaging so so
it's a great watch Wow
that is I recently saw the magic pill
but
I want to put I'll put a link down below
for for that movie and I do want to
mention to everyone
I rarely recommend books you guys need
to get eat rich live long mastering a
low-carb keto spectrum for weight loss
longevity I'll put a link down below
check this out because it's just filled
with incredible data all the secrets are
right there and I was impressed what's
your thoughts on in a minute fasting I
interpret a five-second reaction I love
and I guess it gives to do i IC fasting
as essentially a performance drug and I
know that sounds funny but I've said it
before when people resonated when I go
on stage speaking at a big event or
anything big coming up or I need to be
at my best
I almost never eat for 24 hours before
that event I go into it 24 28 hours and
to be quite honest I'd I'd actually feel
not so happy if I didn't do that because
the edge it gives the mental acuity is
the feeling of energy and vibrancy it's
huge so that's just warm advantage and
fasting basically for longest periods
brings down your insulin brings down all
your hormone levels allows your body to
normalize especially for people who have
high insulin or diabetic dysfunction
fasting is very reparative or are very
helpful and over longer periods we'll
bring in our top adji so it'll kind of
use up old damage less healthy cells and
recycle them break them up reuse them
for new proteins a beautiful process of
self-healing basically and and fasting
it just you can't really do it when you
are on a high-carb food pyramid diet
because when you're a car burner and you
go without food you know you feel bad
but the beauty is when you become fat
adapted and you've been a low carb or
keto diet for a while and all the
enzymes have been made to smoothly burn
your body fast fluidly then you can fast
with
unity and I I just love happy Hallows
berg I love us I love the feeling in the
afternoon when I haven't eaten since the
night before and I know the meal I get
at 6:00 p.m. it's gonna be really good
ancestral healthy fats you know some
vegetables low carb and it's gonna be
delicious
it's gonna be even more delicious
because I've been fasting in in Ireland
we used to say hunger as a good sauce
but if you're a fat adapter the hunger
is very manageable you feel great but a
little bit of hunger though does make
the meal when you when you have a
special and you relish it
so I'm kind of rambling but I just love
fasting it's I'm all over it might as
well myself a cognitive function
elevation of mood I mean it's like and
then you start eating and I was like no
I don't feel as good now I'm like you
know I can go longer so yeah I am I'm
all over it
I'm in termina fasting and keto and
that's awesome
did you have anything else that you
wanted to talk about in your recent
studies things that you're you're
researching or any interesting things
that you're involved with well yeah I
I'm I'm gonna be in Prague actually next
week at a conference food news and
that's gonna be fun and Czechoslovakia
and it's a sign that things are moving
because it's essentially a low-carb
biased conference they're not calling a
low-carb too much they're trying to keep
it as an healthy food and question
processed food then in the public health
collaboration PHC in the UK in London a
few days later and then there's loads of
events in the US this year going to
quito fest and north carolina
I think that's July and ancestral health
and low-carb USA and San Diego and
Keyshia Kahne in Texas so I think it's
great that really the whole low-carb
keto thing is blossoming and the forces
that try to push against that the
invention derly ER they're beginning to
have an issue I think so it's great
times
but I will just mention one other paper
I got the other day 2014 and I was
amazed I didn't have it already and
actually I'll send it on to you if you
don't have it and it was the metabolic
syndrome it's much bigger than you think
by a team of doctors and profs and what
they did was they knew that the
metabolic syndrome which is huge in the
world was kind of defined by insulin
even though they don't even measure
insulin and that they measure HDL and
glucose so they said well let's go and
look at all the metabolic syndrome
papers and pull out the ones where they
measured insulin because like you said
Eric they don't measure insulin much so
they had six hundreds they got to answer
sixty or seventy where they have insulin
measurements and they were addressing
all different diseases cardiovascular
disease cancer you know if you think you
can rheumatoid arthritis all these
inflammatory diseases and what they
found out insulin stood up as being
higher for the people with the problems
and I think around fifty eight hundred
sixty-one papers in other words
hyperinsulinemia which is metabolic
syndrome which is type 2 diabetes
syndrome is all kind of the warm thing
you measure what high insulin and high
insulin showed up in nearly every paper
as being highly linked to all these
different diseases and they basically
said this is huge and are correct but
like you say Eric very few doctors
realizes this is the big thing in the
next ten years is to put
hyperinsulinemia at the center of
chronic disease and get everyone looking
others and the likes of the calcium scan
for middle-aged people to find out where
they are and then take action yeah there
are two big things I I'm just like when
I go over a metabolic syndrome II
there's this oh there's associated high
in sign I'm like no it's causing it why
can't you see that it's just it's very
ironic and it's just it's frustrating
especially since people are going
they're going to them for advice Wow
oh yeah I want to get that paper for
sure
I'll pick it onto your straightaway
awesome well I want to really thank you
for your time and your what you're doing
telling the story of you know giving
people the truth about their health I
also want to recommend everyone needs to
get the book I'm gonna put a link down
below watch Widowmaker got to check that
out I haven't watched the whole thing I
watched the preview I'm gonna is it a
Netflix - or is it Amazon yeah the full
movie is it might be still on Netflix
but I did the short version is is
accessible they give you a link for that
and of course the full version is on a
couple of different formats I think but
it's kind of been out a couple years and
it didn't get really widely circulated
there was a very ironic twist where it
was put in for the Oscars a few years
ago and there was a mistake made it was
put in for Maine fella instead of Maine
documentary and it could have worn
what unfortunately was put in the wrong
category anyway so that's an aside but
yeah and the book we go into CAC
in detail in the book and cholesterol
and answers other questions about why
people believe cholesterol is important
and why it has some importance but but
not what people think and I think we're
on iTunes or on Amazon or in Costco
we're in Barnes & Noble it's it's
available all over I think awesome
Wow well thank you so much I appreciate
this thank you so much Eric and and
thanks for you having me on I'm
delighted pleasure absolutely great
and then of course you have the I guess
here the only thing I know about Ireland
is the butter Kerrygold yeah we take
that for granted but the other thing in
Ireland is the nature of Ireland with
its enormous amount of grass fields and
it's economically viable and default to
just have cattle on the grass so not
because we're amazing green people we
just happen to have grass Felda fed as a
default and we have to carry gold
grass-fed butter as a default it's all
just default now I'm sure in the coming
years corporates and unfarmed
corporations will try and turn it into
something even more profitable but for
the moment you leave amazing food and
interest in Eric you love this it's ten
say it's ten dollars let's say for two
pounds of lean premium mince or ground
beef so say say it's ten dollars for two
pounds right beside that there's the
high fat generic same cattle same cows
but it's high fat it's not healthy not
lean and that's four dollars for two
pounds so it's less than half the cost
for the very product that I will have to
get crazy it's reversed and eggs are
quite cheap because of the feeling that
eggs are not so healthy it keeps the
price down it's basically you're getting
all this high fat high quality product
for a really good deal essentially yeah
and if the world turns it'll get a
little more expensive but in fairness
that's that's a small price to pay to
the curb the epidemics but but yeah
that's interesting
Wow yeah I'll pay more for the more fat
any day absolutely nutrient density and
healthy fats exactly
