hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about something called insulin
resistance of your brain okay now
insulin resistance is a condition where
you have the pancreas or other parts of
the body producing too much insulin
because it's not connecting into the
cells so we have a situation where we
have insulin there but it's not
available so it creates all sorts of
problems another name for insulin
resistance would of the brain would be
called peripheral insulin resistance now
in the brain insulin controls your food
intake your metabolism your setpoint and
it's also intimately involved with
cognitive function and memory okay when
there's too much insulin or sugar in the
brain you're going to destruction of
various parts of the brain you can have
neuro degeneration which is breakdown
inflammation of the hypothalamus
destruction of the hippocampus which is
the structure in the brain that acts as
a relay switch into your database your
file cabinet of memories so you're going
to get dementia and poor memory okay
there's even a new treatment called
nasal insulin spray which fights
forgetfulness okay so they're basically
bypassing insulin resistance spraying it
right through the nasal passages right
up into the brain it crosses the
blood-brain barrier goes right in as a
way of bypassing insulin resistance and
it creates significant improvements in
cognitive function which is fascinating
the problem is you add more insulin it's
not getting rid of the cause of the
problem it's a temporary fix and it's
going to actually make things worse
because what kraits insulin resistance
is too much insulin okay you get a
little relief but then you have a lot of
side effects down the road so there's a
lot of brain problems with dysfunctional
insulin but in order to develop some of
these symptoms from insulin resistance
it starts in the mitochondria
mitochondrial dysfunction okay and one
of the key nutrients that protects the
mitochondria from becoming dysfunctional
is vitamin b1 thiamine if you have
enough b1 into the cells you're gonna
have a lot less symptom
if any from high levels of insulin and
high levels of sugar and it also
protects the nerves too as in peripheral
neuropathy of the fingertips and the
toes now there's even a condition called
korsakoff's syndrome which is a b1
deficiency a very severe b1 deficiency
and take a wild guess what kind of
symptoms that these people have memory
problems apathy dementia so I believe
that without this b1 you can't protect
the mitochondria and you can develop all
sorts of dysfunctional cells that can
affect all sorts of things memory nerve
damage you name it now how do we become
deficient in b1
carbohydrates okay high carbohydrates
alcohol will deplete it liver damage
chemotherapy now if you look up some of
the studies on brain insulin resistance
here's one high-fat diet induces brain
insulin resistance and cognitive
impairment in mice now wow they're
saying high-fat diets cause insulin
resistance wow that's a ketogenic diet
isn't it well let's go ahead and read a
little further and find out what these
mice really ate high fat diet forty
percent of energy from fat okay with 42
grams of liquid sugar this is not the
ketogenic diet okay it's a high fat plus
high sugar diet anytime you add sugar
with fat or sugar with protein you
dramatically increase insulin okay you
worse an insulin you magnify it
exaggerates the problem so unfortunately
the media takes hold of this and now the
next thing you see is ketogenic diet is
dangerous for the body and creates
diabetes and insulin resistance no it's
not the high fat it's the high sugar and
it's the high sugar in combination with
the high fat so if you're doing a
ketogenic diet and you're doing it
correctly there's not going to be any
damage in fact you can improve insulin
in the brain dramatically how do you do
it by doing keto and then mmm fasting
with taking vitamin b1 but make sure
it's in the
of a natural source a nutritional yeast
that would be really important so if one
of my relatives had dementia what I
would do is I'd put him on the keto
program I'd put him on instrumented
fasting and I would put him on a very
strong vitamin b1 in the form of a fat
soluble version of B one it's called
been thought to mean let me spell this
then vote to me this is a fat soluble b1
you can get it from the health food
store and I would recommend taking this
four times a day so you're taking a lot
of it but it's going to help innervate
the brain because it's fat soluble it
goes right through the layer of the fat
cells and it's great for peripheral
neuropathy it's also good for shingles
so there you have it insulin resistance
on your brain thanks for watching so I
want to know what you're interested in
as far as video click the link down
below and share some ideas I want to
hear
