you know there's something about
breathing and getting oxygen that's very
good for your survival and when you
don't have enough oxygen it can really
put a person into a panic attack or an
anxiety attack so today we're going to
talk about uh difficulty breathing or
air hunger or another term for that is
dpia and traditionally people know about
this symptom coming from asthma or some
type of pneumonia or lung infection or
COPD or maybe anemia or even a heart
condition but what if you don't have any
of those problems right you rule those
out and you still have this problem with
your breathing which can really affect
your ability to sleep there's some great
uh information on this topic by two
people Craig Stewart and Steve August
and I'm going to put a link down below
for their video because they have some
really great data on this topic you
could probably call this condition
pseudo dpia which is kind of the
opposite when you rest it gets worse
but when you exercise it gets better so
let's cover the four main reasons for
this condition the first reason which
actually was uh Craig Stewart's reason
he had something called silent reflux
where there is some acid regurgitating
up through his esophagus but the silent
part means that you don't have the
heartburn but you might have some of the
other symptoms and you might not even
feel them as well because they're silent
but they're there so what does acid
reflux or silent reflex have to do with
your breathing well apparently there's a
lot of um sensory nerves in your
esophagus that go right to your brain
and that will give your brain certain
information that it's not getting enough
oxygen which will cause you to feel like
you have air hunger it will cause you to
breathe more and gasp or air it'll cause
you to yawn more and when you breathe
more sometimes it creates almost not
like a hyperventilation but you get too
much oxygen and not enough CO2 two okay
now you would think that would allow you
to breathe better but what's interesting
about the relationship between oxygen
and CO2 is that you need a certain level
of CO2 to allow oxygen to go into your
red blood cells and so if you have just
straight oxygen without enough CO2 you
won't be able to get enough oxygen into
the cells so you need this balance so
this extra breathing actually doesn't
help oxygen going into the cells and so
uh Craig's solution was to take a
certain medication to heal the esophagus
right and try to get rid of some of this
silent reflex and that tend to help him
my solution is going to be a little
different because it's going to involve
not taking a medication but just finding
some chlorophyll you can also use uh
some wheat grass juice powder and you
can put in some water and drink that a
few times during the day on an empty
stomach to have that chlorophyll uh line
the esophagus and slowly heal those
tissues over a period of time that's
also a good remedy if you have an ulcer
or gastritis because you need to heal
that uh before you really can correct
the underlying cause which by the way
ironically is not enough acid a weak
acid in your stomach will cause the
valve on the top of your stomach to open
up too much it won't close and what'll
happen is acid will regurgitate you'll
get gird and it kind of comes up to the
esophagus so most people you know
logically just take an an acid when in
fact um if you took an acid like Bane
hydrochloride or maybe even appleid of
vinegar you may find that those symptoms
go away because now that valve can close
in other words a lot of the heartburn uh
especially indigestion and acid reflux
in gird comes from a lack of acid not an
excessive amount of acid now you're
feeling the acid coming up through your
esophagus but the actual stomach part
doesn't have enough acid I mean if you
just think about this logically this
concept of acid reflux or heartburn
being too much acid or too acidic well
what is the normal pH of the acid in
your stomach what should it be normally
well it's at the bottom of the pH it's
super acid like between one and three
that's like battery acid and so you
think your acid reflux or your heartburn
is coming because you have like more
acidity or too much acid well normally
you should have that acid to break down
the protein so it doesn't really make
sense that it's too much acid when you
really know and understand the real pH
of your stomach a normal pH and also the
treatment and acids dilute the acid
making it weaker and then think about
all the consequences of that not being
able to digest protein so anyway if you
have this difficulty breathing this air
hunger really assess do you have this
silent reflex do you have a digestive
issue and so if you do have this
irritation your sophus obviously you
don't want to add more acid you want to
take some chlorophyll that will help it
but if you don't have that and you still
have acid
reflex then you want to take pane h of
chloride like five before a meal and
maybe some Alid of vinegar diluted in
water drinking it through a straw but
here's the other thing I want to mention
about this and that is called alkalosis
okay where your pH becomes to alkaline
and you have two types you have the
metabolic alkalosis and also the
respiratory alkalosis interesting both
of these conditions have a indirect or
direct effect on the CO2 again so when
the pH of your blood changes it affects
your CO2 and your oxygen and your
breathing where does that come from well
one cause is you're you're losing your
stomach acids when you have a condition
called achlorhydria which is a lack of
stomach acids or even hypochlorhydria
which is a diminished stomach acids one
of the side effects is an alteration of
your pH your body becomes more alkaline
you could have breathing problems from
this damaged esophagus issue you can
have breathing problems also because you
have this heartburn issue or a lack of
stomach acid which it affects your pH
and that alone can cause you to have air
hunger again the same solution is
acidify the body and betain
hydrochloride and apple cider vinegar
can help do that the other cause and
this is something that I see quite
frequently is a problem in your the
tubes that connect to the gallbladder
from the liver and that go into the
small intestine and those tubes are
called bile ducts and a lot of times
those tubes Can U be filled with bile
sludge this causes like a a lack of flow
through those Ducks not necessarily even
developing a stone it's on the road to
developing a stone but it hasn't
developed a stone yet usually it's just
Sledge and it's really hard to diagnose
uh but the point is that that when you
obstruct those ducts and you don't allow
the flow of bile to go
through it backs up into the liver and
it swells up around the
gallbladder and it affects the diaphragm
which is right underneath the rib cage
and it can also affect the franic nerve
basically it's a nerve from your neck to
the diaphragm now think about what
breathing problems involve right the
diaphragm so you here you have this
gallbladder B duct issue congestion
whatever you want to call it that backs
up that that breathing apparatus and
that can affect your breathing big time
and this usually can be easily corrected
by changing your diet to the healthy
version of the ketogenic diet within and
fasting but it is an immediate remedy
you want to take something called tdka
it's a type of bile salt that is very
unique because it helps to increase the
flow of bile sludge through the bile
duck so you would take two of these in
the morning on empty stomach and then
two in the afternoon on an empty stomach
and within a few days you'll just feel a
lot better if that is the problem now
you can go get a functional test to look
at this and assess it it's very very
expensive a much cheaper way to do it is
just to buy a bottle of Tuka and then
just take it and see if that doesn't
solve your problem
uh you just saved a lot of money so
that's cause number two cause number
three was discussed by Steve August
which I'll have that link down below and
that is a problem uh with your ribs in
the articulation to your back okay
because a lot of times this breathing
problem is associated with
costocondritis which is inflammation in
rib cage on the front part which can
mimic a heart problem but really the
problem is in the back part right so you
have have the spine you have all these
different ribs that connect to the spine
but this articulation between the rib
and the spine and your back if it's
restricted can affect your breathing
very easily now how could that occur
well easily from an injury I personally
had many injuries to my back I remember
in um when I was in sixth grade in
football the coach actually surprised me
and ran into my back knocked the wind
out of me I don't know why he did that
but ever since then I had this damaged
middle thoracic spine issue another time
is um I broke a rib in the back uh
another time um I broke a rib in the
front I've had a lot of damage through
wrestling and other injuries motorcycle
accidents to my thoracic
spine and so what happens when you had
that not to mention car accidents as
well and falls and blows and things like
that you develop scar tissue tisue
around the joints and so you go to the
chiroprator you make it adjusted but it
doesn't last very long because they
don't really stretch out that uh scar
tissue that is involved in the
articulation between the rib head and
the spine okay they just might give you
an adjustment but it doesn't go further
more out to the spine and so there's a
couple different uh devices and
techniques that you can get to massage
your spine and I will put uh that link
down below but also stretches to your
thoracic spine rotational stretches back
and forth I like the mobility stick
which is a great tool that you can get
into these positions and stretch your
spine really good I'll put that link
down below so if you have this problem
you can start stretching and expanding
this rib spinus connection that's
affecting the lungs in other words if
you have an old injury to your thoracic
spine or let's say that you spent years
hovering over a desk and you have poor
posture boy does that affect your
breathing in a big way uh I have that
problem and so I have to work at
expanding my rib cage by doing all these
stretches and and uh using certain
devices to do that and then the last
cause of this thing is from uh coid a
long haul coid symptom of difficulty
breathing here's the thing if you have
the coid issue and you have this
difficulty breathing the remedy for that
is higher levels of thyine B1 because
vitamin B1 is intimately involved with
the brain stem which is your breathing
centers and so that is the remedy for
breathing so in this video I covered all
four reasons why you might have uh this
kind of pseudo uh breathing problem
that's not related to your heart or
lungs directly from some type of disease
State there's a very interesting and
helpful video on what you should eat to
solve that problem involving cabbage now
because of the censoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other
side
