hey guys let's talk about some
interesting data on differentiating
fructose from fruit to high fructose
corn syrup which by the way is made from
corn not fruit okay now when you consume
fruit you get fructose you also get the
fiber and you get all the nutrients and
the phytonutrients the minerals the
vitamins all that so this is a
completely different experience so
regular fructose from fruit is not even
close to the same fructose as high
fructose corn syrup which is made
artificially from GMO corn so you got
the glyphosate in there which is an
herbicide here's some facts fructose is
metabolized differently than other types
of sugar it does not influence insulin
directly it doesn't go into all the
cells it shunted to the liver okay so
the liver eats it up immediately and
converts it into fat fat on the liver
fat around the liver fat around your gut
it's called visceral fat and of course
the fat in your arteries fructose also
has a capacity to increase the growth of
pancreatic cancer cancer cells can eat
fructose okay but not normal cells and
this is very interesting
fructose does not supply any energy to
the brain and muscles so number five
fructose does not satisfy hunger that's
why some people can eat large amounts in
the supersize drinks in the sodas it's
amazing okay number six table sugar is
50% glucose and 50% fructose agave
nectar is like 97% fructose so check
this out in the year 2009 an average
American consumed thirty five point
seven pounds of high fructose corn syrup
every single year I can't imagine what
it is right now so it's in a lot of
foods it's in juice it's in soda it's in
a lot of processed foods so out of all
the changes that you can make to improve
your health avoiding this would be on
the top of the list thanks for watching
hi guys listen I want to thank you so
much for your wonderful comments and I
want to ask you if you wouldn't mind
giving me your review on Google I put a
link down below I'd really appreciate it
and thank you in advance
