alright guys so I wanted to do a quick
video on something called glycogen
because there's some confusion with
because it sounds like glucose and
glucagon and all these other similar
terms okay so we have glycogen is
basically the storage of sugar it's the
storage of glucose so we have glucose
molecules all strung together connected
collectively is called glycogen okay now
to store glycogen you need potassium and
this is why if someone's on a low
potassium diet they don't store glycogen
as well so what happens when you
actually consume carbs your body
increases insulin and then it starts
storing glycogen as a first thing that
it does and then at a certain point
anything extra it starts to route it to
fat okay so it converts carbs into fat
because we really only have a small
amount of storage of glycogen about
1,700 calories roughly about a day
supply and then we run out and then our
body is supposed to tap into fat so then
the question is what is normal blood
Sugar's and what is too much and when do
you start to go from storing glycogen to
storing fat well normal blood Sugar's is
about 80 so that basically means out of
all of your blood about a gallon and a
third it's only really one teaspoon of
sugar okay it's very very small amounts
and you can get that sugar from the
conversion of fat into sugar or protein
in the sugar so we don't need sugar to
actually make glycogen your body can
make it also just FYI stress like
cortisol the hormone cortisol activated
by stress will also increase the storage
of glucose so in the liver it'll just
start making more sugar out of protein
and make more glucose if you need some
okay and especially during a stress
State now out of this total amount of
glycogen the muscle pretty much holds
about 75% of the glycogen and the brain
does not have a glycogen reserve it
doesn't store sugar it gets its fuel
from the blood so whatever
happening in the blood if there's low
blood sugar or high sugar it'll pull
from that but the point is that the body
doesn't store it okay it gets it from
other places but the brain loves to run
on ketones now in a little bit of sugar
but again that sugar could be made from
other things it doesn't have to come
from sugar but it loves ketones same
thing with the heart the heart loves
ketones as a fuel
better than glucose and it also loves
fatty acids so it can run on a few
things and it doesn't have to run on
glucose there's just a couple parts of
body that do need some glucose but again
your body can make it through something
called gluconeogenesis the formation of
new sugar and when we run our body on
glucose exclusively because you're on a
high carbohydrate diet we give them the
trouble because number one we get the
conversion into fat and then we create
insulin resistance and that creates more
insulin so we have a lot of problems but
this video is mainly just to educate you
on exactly what glycogen is and how it
can be created in the body all right
thanks for watching
so we've been getting a lot of success
stories but I don't have your success
story yet so click the link down below
and upload you before and after I want
to actually hear about your success
story I want to see your
before-and-afters and every week we do
featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
