hi guys in this video I want to share
with you a really amazing technique for
this condition trigeminal neuralgia okay
if you have this condition it can be
debilitating severe pain that can come
in like one minute intervals or even up
to an hour or could be constant or a
burning okay so it can come from a
trauma a surgery maybe a dental surgery
or maybe an extraction of a tooth wisdom
tooth or even a virus the virus that
turns into the chickenpox actually could
lie dormant in the nerve root and this
is the the fifth cranial nerve that
comes out of the brain stem and it
originates there's two of them
originates right about here and there's
three Tri meaning three branches that
come down to the eye down to the nose
and down to the mouth mainly um two of
the top ones are sensory which is more
feeling and the bottom one is sensory
and also motor so it controls like
chewing all right so um a lot of times
it could be Dam to one of the branches
or all of the branches and normally 95%
of the time or 98% of the time it's
going to be either on one side of the
face uh not both sides okay so in this
video I'm going to show you how to
relieve the pain on one side of the face
okay so let's just pretend uh it's on
the left side okay and you have this
severe
uncomfortable pain and you want to get
rid of it now what you want to do is
realize the nerve rout is actually right
comes right about here and it's coming
out you want to actually do uh pressure
points or trigger point therapy on the
opposite nerve okay now you all you have
to do is you have to just kind of sense
where you're getting the pain on this
side and press on the opposite side
that's the Simplicity of it so let's say
it's like right through here and it's
shooting into your eye you would press
on this side and press and and just kind
of map out where you hurt on this side
and just kind of trace the nerve to the
eye and massage the nerve itself okay
the branch or through the sinuses or
through the the jaw okay so wherever
hurts on this side you press on this
side okay that's one thing now what you
should know is that when you press on
the good side it's going to be
excruciating it'll be very very painful
why because it's always twice as tender
on the good side um
so that means that you're on the right
spot so normally won't hurt unless you
press on you'll press you're like why is
that so sore and just keep working that
out until all this pain is gone all
right um You might knock out let's say
80% of the pain but still there so it
might take a series of these in a row to
completely clean it out and that's
usually from a trauma okay now if it
doesn't fully get rid of it you might
have to uh you know massage a little bit
back or on top or below to make sure
you're getting the whole area okay and
just go within your tolerance of
pressure points um now if it's a
virus it's still going to help you but
you may want to uh work on the adrenal
glands uh and I'll put some links down
below as far as to build up the adrenal
because the adrenal if the adrenal is
weak it lowers your resistance and
viruses come out of emission so let's
say long time ago you had a virus that's
just hanging out on that nerve root just
waiting to come out and kick your butt
when you're tired old and sick or times
of stress it comes out and and starts uh
activating so you might have to work on
the adrenals to put that back in
remission okay and that's all about just
getting healthy and just follow the
adrenal protocol that I have but
generally speaking just using the
opposite side pressure point uh therapy
should totally uh improve the pain
probably more than anything else you've
done but the worst thing you can do is
work on the same side of where you hurt
okay so if you heard on this side you're
going to be working on this side okay so
it's always opposite all right go ahead
and apply this technique and share the
comments below thank
you okay that's s of crappy press to
subscript why can't I say subscribe
subscribe press hey if you're enjoying
my videos press the Subscribe button
below and I will keep you updated on the
future events thank you so much
