hey guys I'm gonna talk about two really
important minerals in depression okay so
if you're depressed or you know someone
who's depressed haven't watched this
video okay so let's start with chromium
if you research chromium depression
you'll get a lot of data a lot of
research on the connection between
chromium and a depression but they don't
really tell you why it works and there's
also if you type zinc and depression
you'll see a lot of other data as well
but they're not really telling you why
it works and the reason why these two
minerals are very effective is because
they both are intimately involved in
stabilizing blood sugars chromium helps
the blood sugars become stable a lot of
diabetics pre-diabetics take chromium
and they do very well if you're gonna
take chromium you want to do 600
micrograms per day okay and zinc is
necessary for the production of insulin
in fact the cells that make insulin
absorb a lot of zinc out of all the
cells in the body most of the zinc is in
these cells that make insulin that's
called beta cells in the pancreas so
that's interesting so if you were gonna
use this I would recommend 30 milligrams
okay so these two are really effective
so let's go a little bit further if you
look at the blood sugars and let's say
you have low blood sugar okay because
the insulin is high because you have
insulin resistance and the body's just
making more because it's not connecting
okay so you might have hypoglycemia or a
subclinical version which doesn't always
show up on a blood test now the brain is
the number one target for hypoglycemia
and the question is why well because the
brain does not store sugar like the
liver and the muscles it doesn't have
glycogen so it's dependent on the sugar
in your blood okay so if there's low
sugar in the blood the brain suffers
big-time and your mood goes straight
down and you have another factor of
insulin resistance which is behind this
whole cascade which is involved with not
absorbing a protein that will not
absorbing amino acids which are
necessary for the building blocks of
neurotransmitters like dopamine
serotonin although like GABA all the
different
transmitters that elevate your mood so
we really have a double-edged sword with
this depression so these are just two
minerals that you can take in addition
to doing keto and in a minute fasting
thanks for watching hey tell me what you
think about this video go ahead and
comment below and give me your feedback
