today we're going to talk about the keto
friendly condiments now it seems really
straightforward but there's a lot of
exceptions to the rule things that show
up on the label that are gonna confuse
you so I'm gonna actually go through
quite a few things to help you
understand but typically the ones that
you have to watch out for barbecue sauce
has so much hidden sugar ketchup of
course is loaded with high fructose corn
syrup and sugar there are versions of
sugar-free ketchup that you can find
mustard usually is okay but sometimes it
has sugar I will show you mayonnaise is
filled with soy oil you want to avoid
that I'm going to show you the one that
I'm going to recommend herbs are totally
fine
pesto most the time it's okay I have a
pesto we're gonna cover that dressings
are a big problem I'm gonna show you
what I recommend for that hot sauce is
usually okay because they don't add
sugar of course salt might seem okay
right especially if you're doing sea
salt but I was at the grocery store last
week and guess what they put dextrose
which is artificial sugar in salt go
figure
so a condiment is a sauce or an herb or
a seasoning that enhances the flavor of
your food alright let's go through the
list and because the print is so small
I'm gonna use these right here okay the
first thing I want to show you is the
yellow mustard okay it's organic
both of these are organic Trader Joe's
and this is just 365 now if you look at
the ingredients on both of these what
you're going to notice is this one has
no sugar all organic ingredients pretty
good but this one they add the sugar now
the problem is you can look at the sugar
grams and it says zero so you're
thinking there's absolutely no sugar
just realize it's less than one gram so
the number of servings and this is 52 so
if you actually can make the sugars less
than one gram and not show up it might
appear to be low but if you're adding
quite a few teaspoons because one
teaspoon equals five grams you could be
adding a lot of hidden sugars and not
even annoying it so you want to read the
labels get the one without sugar okay so
this one here is a dressing Italian hemp
dressing Sal
it's organic organic chem seed oil
organic apple cider vinegar organic
fresh basil organic onion xanthan gum
organic garlic organic Italian seasoning
this is totally fun now I can't promise
that it tastes good but it's totally
edible all right here's a really good
brand the primal kitchen most of the
things that primal kitchen puts out is
really good
chipotle lime Mayo real mayonnaise with
avocado oil it's non-gmo let's take a
look here
avocado oil organic eggs organic egg
yolks organic vinegar water sea salt
organic lime chipotle powder lime
granules organic garlic powder organic
rosemary extract no sugar no soy so
that's really good all right Trader
Joe's Thai green curry okay let's take a
look at this water coconut milk okay
this is a problem corn starch soybeans
anything with soy that's not organic is
GMO okay this one says sugar cane so
this one you just have to avoid it okay
so let's put that right here okay here
is an organic green pesto sauce all
right this has basil extra virgin olive
oil so far so good
sunflower oil cashews and then we get
two potato flakes I don't like that it's
probably not the end of the world but
it's not perfect all right here we go
imported country mix pitted olives green
olives
prune olives water sea salt wine vinegar
oregano virgin olive oil this is perfect
this is good not a problem with that
okay this one this is basically the
probably the only dressing at the
grocery store that I found that didn't
have bad things in it this is bold
parmesan and garlic
this one has expeller press safflower
oil Parmesan cheese Dijon mustard sea
salts gar
like anchovy paste and then we have
sugar black pepper so unfortunately this
has hidden sugars so we almost have a
good product but they have to put the
darn sugar in there okay here we have
empanada
which has olives olive oil and capers
totally fun okay here's the dressing
classic buttermilk ranch dressing first
ingredient is canola unfortunately
canola is most of the time GMO so we
have corn oil we have soy oil cottonseed
oil and canola are all usually GMO like
95% of the time so if there's an oil
that is the first ingredient that is the
majority of this product so I'm not
gonna recommend that one all right we
have sir Kensington okay classic ranch
with a hundred percent safflower oil so
if safflower oil cucumber juice
distilled vinegar water egg yolks salt
garlic lemon juice celery seed dill
black pepper mustard extract this is
totally fine this is actually really
really good
so that would that would be something I
would definitely consume check this out
here kimchi sauerkraut organic cabbage
red bell peppers water onion sea salt
garlic ginger ooh cayenne pepper mustard
seed chili pepper lactic acid this is
really really good I think I'll have
some later all right so now I have the
Sunbelt plantations creamy roasted red
pepper salad dressing first ingredient
is soybean oil and then we have corn
syrup okay GMO we're not going to
recommend that one alright so now we
have Newman's Own organic oil and
vinegar so this seems pretty good and
it's organic let's just take a look here
first thing is organic extra virgin
olive oil so far so good next one is
organic soybean oil now this is the
confusion because it's organic which
means it's non
so it's definitely a lot better
do I like consuming a lot of soil even
if it's organic
probably not but this is much better
than the regular one so if I had a
choice between this and some of the
other ones that would I would go with
this right here and then we have the
vinegar mustard Organic onion this is
pretty good except for that little bit
of soy and as a side note I'm not
recommending soy oil at all even if it's
organic but if you were at a restaurant
or something or you're in a pinch and
you had a little bit it's gonna be fine
okay here we go st. German mustard Dijon
mustard okay
this one has distilled vinegar water
must recede salted garlic spices and
turmeric this is totally fine okay and
lastly we have Victoria Emory fine herb
mayonnaise it's handcrafted and guess
what it's all natural
okay so we have sunflower oil egg yolks
lemon juice extra virgin olive oil egg
whites water white vinegar salt spices
chives dill onion powder mix to cough
roses vitamin E this is this is really
good totally fun so I just wanted to go
through quite a few different condiments
just so you had some idea of what you
should be doing when you read labels
you have to just read a lot of labels
everywhere you go because they hide the
sugar in there they have the different
oils but if you have the time I highly
recommend that you make your own
I put some really great recipes down
below and on this screen right here
check them out
