you know I want to talk about what would
actually happen to your body if you were
to only eat carbohydrates for about two
weeks and of course when you eat food it
never comes in one thing it always comes
with a little bit of protein a little
bit of fat things like that there's
nothing in nature that comes just as a
pure carbohydrate what's interesting is
that an average person at least in the
United States consumes roughly 65
percent of their calories in this form
refined carbohydrates now as far as
looking at any research on this it's
very difficult to find research simply
because there isn't any who's going to
volunteer to only eat refined
carbohydrates for any period of time
however there's some other data that we
can take a look at there are certain
prisoners of War
from the second world war that were only
fed white rice for example and there's
data from Japan in the late 1800s where
a good portion of the population was
consuming a tremendous amount of refined
white rice they did not eat the whole
brown rice right they polished it with
certain machines and so they took out
the outer portion and that led to a lot
of problems now what's interesting about
white rice is that you have a very
concentrated carbohydrate food there's
not a lot of protein there's not a lot
of fat there's a lot of starch okay and
that starch is going to turn into sugar
really quick first when they notice a
big problem when they went to this
polished rice a lot of people were
getting sick especially in the military
especially in the Navy and they noticed
that they had several problems with
people okay they had
problems with the edema and swelling
they had problems with lack of appetite
they had problems neurologically they
started having numbness and tingling and
pain in their feet and their hand to the
point where they went paralyzed and then
eventually the heart gave out and they
ended up with a cardiac arrest a heart
attack and that was called berry berry
okay which is a severe B1 deficiency
that originated from this polished rice
now you can also get berry berry
otherwise from drinking a lot of alcohol
they tried to solve this problem for
quite a few years until one doctor was
able to help solve this in the early
1900s where they fed these Sailors
barley and some meat and now first they
thought it was a deficiency of protein
but it wasn't until later after they
discovered vitamins that they found it
was a B1 deficiency but to describe this
condition called berry berry you have
wet berry berry and you have dry berry
berry wet berry berry involves the
cardiovascular system them your heart
you're going to experience a lot of
Edema and swelling in your legs you're
going to experience an increase in pulse
rate okay you're going to experience
cardiomegaly where your heart enlarges
which is very very dangerous dry berry
berry involves the nervous system and it
shows up in the feet in the hands
numbness extra pain and then paralysis
and because of lack of B1 affects the
nervous system out of all the different
systems and the vagus nerve is one of
the biggest nerves you're going to have
a lot of digestive problems you'll have
constipation you'll have a loss of
appetite I mean even that vagus nerve
without the B1 can't make hydrochloric
acid and so if you were to just put
someone on a white rice diet they
probably would not last
one to two months before they had a
heart attack now this is all dependent
on the person's genetics how much
nutrition they have built up and of
course what else they ate the point is
that when you eat only carbohydrates
there's a lot of health problems that
are going to occur let's talk also about
the lack of protein right in refined
carbohydrates when someone consumes
refined grains or sugars without the
protein Source because typically plants
do not have the same quality protein as
animal protein and so there's always
going to be a problem with protein in
general amino acids in its
bioavailability and its ability to turn
into body tissues and we need a
sufficient amount of protein for our
bones our muscles our nerves but more
importantly our immune system is
dependent on protein and then our DNA is
dependent on protein all the enzymes in
the biochemical Pathways need protein
without that quality protein wow you're
going to have ulcer sorts of issues so
let me just run down a list of protein
deficiency problems okay number one
apathy depression your mood is going to
tank you're going to feel lethargic
you're going to be tired chronically
your memory is going to go you're going
to have a hard time sleeping you'll have
diarrhea flaky skin you'll have a lot of
Edema you'll have muscle loss and like I
said before your immune system is going
to suffer you're not going to be able to
fight off infection you'll have problems
with repair of DNA which leads to cancer
and all sorts of other issues other than
that you might be okay oh except for
some hair loss you will lose your hair
now let's also talk about a lack of fat
okay so if you're doing all these
carbohydrates without high quality fat
and I'm talking about saturated fat
cholesterol fats that include the
omega-3 fatty acids like DHA which your
brain desperately needs and by the way
your brain is about 60 percent fat okay
so if we start to cut down the fats in
the diet and let's say we do carbs and
protein but we go lean protein and we
don't add enough fat boy you're going to
have other problems because we need
these fats for our hormones we need fat
to make bile salts to help you digest
fats we need fats to extract our fat
soluble vitamins vitamin A D E K1 K2 so
some of the fatty acid deficiency
symptoms would be dry hair okay and dry
skin your ligaments will be very very
weak your collagen in your joints will
be insufficient so you have a lot of
arthritis you'll even notice that your
vascular system okay which is made out
of protein will suffer so you'll have
spider veins red eyes you'll be
susceptible to getting an aneurysm and
even a stroke because we need the
strength of that vascular system and we
need fats to build up hormones that keep
our mood up for example if you don't
have enough fats you'll probably be
depressed and your immune system will
greatly suffer and then the other thing
about consuming a pure carbohydrate diet
is you're going to just jack up insulin
all day long and that is going to lead
to insulin resistance really quick and
now we have a problem with absorbing
fuel absorbing nutrients all the
nutrients that you need to get healthy
and we get metabolic syndrome symptoms
and you get diabetes type 3 which is
dementia now I want to Circle back into
this B1 deficiency because one way to
create a vitamin deficiency especially a
B1 deficiency is to consume a lot of
sugar and refine carbohydrates it
doesn't necessarily have to be refined
rice because you need Vitamin B1 to
metabolize
sugar and carbohydrates so what's going
to happen they're going to start getting
subclinical B1 deficiency symptoms and
by the way just because we're on the
topic of B1 B1 is very protective
against a lot of the damage from a high
carbohydrate diet one great remedy that
I always recommend for people if they're
a diabetic and they have high sugar is
benphotamine which is a type of B1 that
can protect the person against all this
collateral damage that's occurring
because they have high sugar now of
course it's not going to fix the blood
sugars but it will
minimize the symptoms of being a
diabetic now since we're on the topic of
carbohydrate okay if you are on a
carbohydrate diet which is basically a
vegan diet or a vegetarian diet and you
have lesser amounts of protein it's
possible to do that healthily but you
really need to know what you're doing
our bodies were developed from consuming
fatty meat our genetics are totally
based on hunting animals and of course
there was times where we ate plants as
well because we pretty much ate anything
that was available but our bodies were
designed to metabolize animal products
and you can look at it from another way
as well okay when you start cutting away
animal products right and you're doing
more carbohydrates or plant-based it's
much more difficult to get the key
nutrients like B12 B12 is mainly made
from animal products you also have zinc
high quality zinc comes from red meat in
animal products then you have omega-3
fatty acids right it comes from fish oil
and I'm not saying that you necessarily
have to eat those now I'm just saying
that if you are sick if you have
weaknesses within your genetics okay if
you have problems within your digestive
system
it's going to be very very difficult to
get healthy going on a plant-based diet
in fact if you take someone with GI
problems people with genetics that don't
allow them to digest gluten for example
oh my goodness they go plant-based
they're going to tear up their stomach I
mean even polymorphism for vitamin A
because now you can't convert
beta-carotene which is in all the plants
to the active form of vitamin A which is
retinol which is in egg yolks it's in
liver and other animal products
and then you might think well I'll just
go ahead and take a supplement well if
you take a synthetic supplement you're
not going to have the same effects but
it's possible to do and I'm not saying
don't do it I'm just saying it's much
easier with animal products the more gut
problems you have the more carnivore you
need to be as well okay now I'm not just
talking about eating lean steak I'm
talking about the healthy version of the
carnivore diet organ Meats
seafood fish eggs a good amount of fat
with that protein and there's also a
huge wide range of nutritional factors
in animal products as you go from grain
fed to grass-fed to grass-fed grass
finished but overall the point is that
if you're going to try a carbohydrate
diet you're going to not do well
health-wise you cannot survive on a pure
carbohydrate diet for too long now for
the correct information on what diet to
be on to promote health I put that video
up right here check it out
