today I'm going to create an updated
video on oxalates especially in the
relationship to Flushing out oxalates
from your kidneys to prevent kidney
stones and other forms of
crystallization of oxalates which could
show up as maybe a pseudo gout or some
type of inflammatory condition there's
actually quite a few problems related to
oxalates let me just kind of run through
the symptoms that a person could have if
they have oxalate dumping or they're
absorbing too many oxalates okay of
course kidney stone are number one the
most common form of kidney stone is the
calcium oxalate Stone you can also have
these oxalates build up in the bone the
skin the joints and your blood vessels
and I already mentioned gout before um
gout doesn't necessarily always have to
come from uric acid it could come from
the oxalates irritating that joint you
can also have headaches for oxalates eye
pain urinary pain genital pain muscle
pain as well as intestinal pain so
here's the thing there's a lot of foods
with oxalates okay I mean it's in a lot
of different plants it's in fruits it's
not in Meats uh it's not in Dairy but
it's it's very high in like almonds
peanuts spinach especially it's in
chocolate kiwi strawberries beets tea
and bran but dietary oxalates are not
correlated with oxalates in your urine
so in other words they have not found
that just because you consume foods high
in oxalates that you're going to have
high oxalates in the urine to develop
these problems there must be some
pre-existing damage to either your
kidneys liver or your metabolism in some
way that you're not able to process or
deal with these oxalates like you should
and one aspect of that is in your gut if
you have disbiosis if you have a lack of
certain microbes especially the
lactobacillus microbes okay and there's
quite a few different ones you may have
a big problem degrading or breaking down
oxalates in the intestine and then they
get reabsorbed into the blood and they
end up in your kidneys but you can also
have a problem with the kidneys from
having diabetes pre-diabetes insulin
resistance years of eating carbohydrates
etc etc so if the kidneys or liver is
damaged you may have a problem dealing
with oxalates and many people that on
the ketogenic diet and they start
adapting to fat burning and ketones get
rid of their problem with oxalates but
not everyone so I want to give you a
list of very important things that I
think could really help you just by
understanding this number one of course
I would limit the uh foods high an
oxalates especially the almonds peanuts
chocolate spinach the beet tops but if
you do have these Foods if you add some
cheese with the calcium that calcium
will bind to the oxalates in the
intestines and prevent the absorption
into the blood and into the kidneys so
that's one way that you can kind of
lower the amount of oxalate damage to
the kidneys now soy which I never
recommend consuming does have a good
amount of oxalates but it also has a lot
of Phat which tend to uh minimize the
effect but of course Fates will prevent
the absorption of um zinc and other
minerals so that gives you a whole set
of other problems number one thing I
would recommend is find a probiotic with
a mixture of all the lactobacillus
microbes those are lactic acid bacteria
that actually help reduce oxalates but
the next thing that's very very
important is maintaining higher levels
of magnesium okay and citrates both of
those are really really important in
weakening the bond between calcium and
the oxalates but I think magnesium
doesn't in a bigger way I just released
a video on magnesium and I talked about
what foods are high in magnesium but but
if you really look at what it's going to
take to get your magnesium from Foods
you're going to find out it's not as
easy as you might think so I will put
that link down below it's a very
important video so you may want to take
a magnesium glycinate supplement to help
lower the risk of oxalates ending up in
your kidneys the other thing with the
citrates is I would make sure that I
would consume like maybe a lemon a day
or lemon juice put some water in there
maybe a couple drops of stevia
electrolyte powder and I'll blend the
entire lemon with water and drink that
down other times I don't have lemon so
I'll just put some lemon juice in my
appleid of vinegar drink and I'll drink
that down but the citrates are very very
important now the other really important
thing is vitamin D vitamin D increases
the absorption of calcium by 20 times in
the
intestines which is going to help you
take that calcium make it more available
to be able to bind with the oxalates in
the gut so it doesn't end up in the
kidney as well now I just want to
mention a problem that a lot of people
have with vitamin D I did some DNA
testing I think might have been 20 some
odd people I tested with the DNA and
every single one of them had a problem
with vitamin D genetically whether it's
converting vitamin D or absorption of
vitamin D or the vitamin D receptor 100%
of those people had a problem
genetically and the name for that is a
vitamin D polymorphism which is a
genetic issue dealing with vitamin D and
a vitamin D receptor polymorphism is a
bioindicator of calcium oxalate Stones
which is interesting so in other words
there's a very high correlation between
people that have stones and have a
problem with vitamin D probably because
of the calcium absorption problem so in
addition to taking the probiotic with
the lactic acid bacteria lactobacillus
and the magnesium and the lemons I would
also recommend vitamin D probably at
least 10,000 I use every single day and
then on top of all that I would
recommend consuming minimally two and a
half liters of fluid every single day
just to keep your urine diluted enough
so you don't have any type of super
concentration or uh consolidating effect
of that calcium binding with that
oxalate if you keep your urine diluted
then you won't get a kidney stone now
because of the censoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
cont content and there's a lot of
content that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other side now since magnesium is
so important for so many things if you
have not seen my video related to
magnesium and getting it from foods you
should probably check it out I put it up
right
here
