I had another question from someone that
wanted to know what do I think about the
fasting mimicking diet okay so this is a
diet that was developed by a guy by the
name of Valter Longo okay and he has the
patent on this program and basically you
consume 800 calories for five days okay
I have a certain diet and then you go
back to your regular eating the rest of
the month and then you do this each
month for three months okay so you're
going to lose weight you're going to
have positive changes so the macros are
90 percent protein
44 percent fat and 47 percent carbs okay
that's way too high okay then we have
this this meal pack you have this box of
these powdered things and you're going
to mix them with water you have
vegetable soup you have energy drinks
energy bars chips snacks tea and you get
supplements okay
it's $249 so I was able to find some of
the ingredients there's a couple things
that I really don't like in the
minestrone and quinoa soup first of all
has 5 grams of sugar and it contains
rice flour and potato flakes it's very
high glycemic and then the elbahr Coco
Crisp bar
3 grams of sugar it has inulin which
produces a lot of gas
brown rice sugar brown rice syrup rice
dextran and grape juice okay yeah
now the supplement is all synthetics and
it doesn't look like there's a lot of
natural anything and then supplement
here's what I have a problem with okay
number one it's way overpriced okay if
you were just to replace this with
really healthy ingredients it would be a
lot better and a lot cheaper number two
it contains sugar and low quality foods
that stimulate insulin why would we want
to even add those in there I have no
idea number three it's a low calorie
diet it's not fasting it's a fasting
mimicking program but it's really not
fasting so it's really a low calorie
diet and it's very painful to do the
people that are doing this are really
suffering through it and the
reason is because they don't go through
a nice gradual adaptation process they
just cram you right in there and you
really never adapt and because you're
eating less calories you're going to
lose weight and you're gonna probably
have some other benefits too but you're
not going to feel real good a much
better way to do this would be to
gradually go into keto and then combine
in a minute fasting and slowly get your
body to adapt to fat and then when
you're adapted to fat your hunger goes
way down cravings go way down you have
mental clarity and it's not painful
it's very pleasurable but the thing that
I really don't like about this program
is it just does not teach you healthy
lifestyle changes okay you eat this food
go back to your regular eating for a
whole month and then you eat this diet
for five days and you go back and you do
that three times
so what do you do after that so despite
you losing some weight and having some
benefits I think it'll be much better if
you get on the healthy ketosis and in a
minute fasting more on a consistent
basis and get educated so you can do
this long-term and really be healthy
thanks for watching so we've been
getting a lot of success stories but I
don't have your success story yet so
click the link down below and upload you
before and after I want to actually hear
about your success story I want to see
your before-and-afters and every week we
do featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
