so I had another question do medications
slow down your keto and intermittent
fasting results okay let's just kind of
look at some of the top medications
number one if you're a diabetic you're
taking either metformin or insulin or
other drugs that increase insulin okay
now both of these right here will
definitely slow the results because the
goal is to lower insulin okay and this
is kind of acting as a crutch to help
insulin resistance but it's not
correcting it it's kind of like
temporarily kind of patching him then we
have steroids like in prednisone or
cortisone injections for inflammation or
skin problems this is an adrenal hormone
this will definitely block your keto
results in fact this will greatly
stimulate insulin and that's why one of
the side effects of taking
corticosteroids or prednisone is
diabetes antidepressants will also slow
your results actually one of the side
effects is weight gain because it
increases insulin statins also increase
insulin resistance it worsens the result
but here's the thing what you want to do
is you want to continue the medication
get with your doctor as you improve
because these two actions right here
keto intermittent fasting will decrease
the need for these medications your
blood sugars are going to improve your
incident resistance is going to improve
to the point where you need less and
less of these okay and because you tell
when intermittent fasting greatly
improves inflammation the need for
steroids will go down as well if you're
taking it as an inhaler for asthma the
need for that will go down as well and
you can get with your doctor to make the
adjustments so you'll take less and then
the results will speed up
antidepressants one of the great
benefits of keto within a minute fasting
is elevated mood I've seen so many times
someone who is depressed and anxiety ATD
any type of lower emotion greatly
improve when you do this because your
brain now can run on a different fuel
source so it's wonderful for mood
elevation
so the need for this will go down also
make sure that you're doing healthy
ketosis with a lot of good high-quality
foods very very key because you want
those nutrients to speed up the results
stands why do people take statins for
high cholesterol well that's the easiest
thing to lower when you put someone on
keto and in the fasting so the need for
this will go down and as you get off
these medications the results go higher
and higher and higher but don't just
come off the medications get with your
doctor and make the adjustments graduate
over time and but the goal would be to
eventually come off these alright thanks
for watching
so I'm doing a survey for future videos
on topics that you are interested in
this one is going to be on your biggest
keto difficulty if you wouldn't mind
filling out the survey down below I put
a link in the description please fill it
out thank you so much
