hey guys in this video I'm gonna tell
you why you should replace matcha tea
with your coffee okay matcha tea is a
super concentrated green tea beverage
and it's they use the entire leaf that
grind it up so it would be the
equivalent of consuming 10 cups of green
tea but with only half the caffeine a
black coffee and like 31 milligrams and
that would like some coffee has like 300
milligrams so so it's pretty low and
plus it has something called l-theanine
which is an amino acid that's a very
calming so this beverage will not make
you feel jittery it'll make you feel
calm it will give you way more energy
than coffee mental clarity endurance
plus it has a hundred and thirty seven
times the phytonutrients is just one cup
of green tea so it's a kind of a green
tea on steroids it's very very healthy
you might want to try it out it's also
good to decrease inflammation and
support your immune system and one more
point when you come off coffee a lot of
times people get headaches and they have
withdrawal symptoms well if you
transition to maca tea with the amount
of caffeine you really won't have any of
those side effects at all so go ahead
and try it and let me know how you like
it hey I appreciate your attention and
if you're enjoying these videos go ahead
and subscribe and I will definitely keep
you updated on future events live events
and webinars that we're going to do very
soon
