hi guys in this video I want to talk
about bladder stones okay now blood of
stones can come from high oxalates that
occur from certain foods like spinach
and peanuts and chocolate and things
like that or also you might have a
kidney stone that drops down to the
little tubes into the bladder and gets
stuck down there a lot of times there's
no symptoms but a lot of times it can
create problems with low back pain
difficulty urinating frequent urination
painful urination here are some things
you can do to help yourself
here's a great herb called chauncey
Piedra which basically means breaking of
the stone okay you would consume that in
a tea or in a tablet potassium citrate
is another great remedy because a lot of
times these stones develop when you're
deficient in citrates in your body it's
a natural compound that your body makes
and utilizes and if the sit rates are
low you'll develop stones okay and so
potassium citrate is a great way to
increase your sit rates to prevent or
dissolve stones okay and that's why
lemon juice is very important because
that has sit rates in it right but high
protein diets are really behind it or it
can be high insulin or sugar diets will
cause hypokalemia what does that mean
that is the low potassium and this could
lead to hypo Citra meeow which is
basically low sit rates in the blood
which then you get stones so here are
some things that you want to start
consuming and just make sure that you
clean up the high levels of insulin in
your diet let's put some links down
below make sure you don't do too much
protein do a lot of vegetables consume
vegetables with a lot of potassium okay
seven to ten cups of vegetables I
recommend that and that would be great
to avoid bladder stones alright thanks
for watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press this little button down
below okay thanks
