[Music]
hi guys I'm back in this video we're
gonna talk about the best natural remedy
for an ear infection
okay so here's some of the symptoms
vertigo that's dizziness sinus
congestion headache ear pain ear popping
ringing the ears you know you can have
an ear infection it's more common in
children and I'm going to tell you why
because here you have the ear the
external ear and then you have a little
space that kind of goes in that hole
that goes into the inner ear right here
and this is where the infection occurs
right there now you have this little
drainage tube called the estaci√≥n tube
that should drain in the back of the
throat and that's the purpose of the
stationed tube is to drain mucus and
also to equalize pressure if you've ever
been a an airplane and it's going up or
going down like your ears are in pain
and you have this severe pain in your
head and if that ever happens what you
need to do is you need to you can push
pull your ears outward this way this
directly out open the mouth and it
should drain or chew some gum or
something like that but in a child the
reason why they have more problems is
that the tube is not as vertical and
that's why I can't drain it's more
horizontal so it backs up especially if
the child consumes sugar or milk those
two in combination just our breeding
ground for microbes especially around
Halloween okay
but you have this situation where you
have all this mucus it fills up with pus
and infection causes pain normally this
little tube here though is collapse and
it opens when you swallow but what
happens it stops draining it backs up to
the inner ear and it creates a lot of
issues so the best natural remedy is
garlic oil you take a drop of oil and
you put it into the ear and let it go in
there so you want to dilute one drop of
garlic oil and a teaspoon of olive oil
okay then take a drop of that and put it
in the infant's ear okay but if it's a
child let's say seven eight nine ten
years old
you can just take one drop of garlic oil
and put it in the ear and that should be
pretty much kill any microbes that are
going in there naturally so it's very
very friendly on your own microbes in
your own body but it's very unfriendly
pathogenic microbes yeast fungus things
like that now if your dog is scratching
the ear there could be also an infection
same thing drop of garlic oil in the ear
gets rid of it really fast okay go ahead
and try this and let me know how it
works if you want to find out more about
your body type click the link below and
take the quiz
