hey Dr Berg here we have one more week
to sign up for the seminar we're doing
October 3rd in Northern Virginia I would
like to personally invite you to come to
the seminar if you can a lot of people
are flying out from all over the country
and it's going to be an incredible event
we're going to teach you step by step
very simply how to do acupressure for
your body type and that includes the
thyroid the adrenal the ovary the
pancreas um and for hot flashes and
menstrual stuff so one of the reasons
why um I want to do this is I want to
capture a lot of demonstr demonstrations
on all of you so we're going to be
bringing people up every single person
up and I'm going to work on them in
front of on the camera so we can record
that so you can learn from that so the
body types and acupressure for pain not
just regular pain but chronic pain and
systemic pain which is pain all over
you're going to learn about referred
pain and how to identify what causes
what it's a great technique and it's a
lot of fun to help your friends and your
and yourself
um also body symmetry this is a a new
thing that I came up with to make
someone majorly symmetrical front and
back side to side if you take an average
person and you evaluate them they are
completely crooked they're tight on one
side of their body and they're loose on
the other their posture is bad so we're
going to show you how to make yourself
very symmetrical it's going to help
sleep it's going to help you exercise
without wearing at a joint helps pain
and uh you'll love it and and part of
that is getting rid of old injuries
which you're going to love that too um
acup pressure for your body stress um I
want to show you some new things on how
to extract a tremendous amount of stress
in a very short period of time to put a
person in the most wonderful Delta wave
sleep that they've ever had so I want to
invite you come out to the seminar more
information click below and I hope to
see you there
personally
