hi guys I wanted to create a video on
fat macros because people have a hard
time getting 75% of their fat calories
on the keto and intamin of fasting plan
because 75% is like the great majority
of your meal right so people are like
trying to stuff themselves with all this
fat so I wanted to help you determine
how much fat that you need because it's
a little confusing since it's a hundred
and forty grams or 1260 calories and
like how you gonna figure that out right
well this is what you should really do
determine this by your hunger okay in
other words if you're satisfied do not
eat anything you're not hungry
don't eat okay so you don't have to
force yourself to increase more and more
fat to try to match this don't worry
about this because when you're eating
food most of the food comes with a
combination of fat and protein of course
if you're talking about carbs or
something else but a lot of the proteins
come with its own fat so that's gonna
contribute to a lot of this as well so
you may not need as much as you think go
by your hunger I mean what happens is
you have your a body's ability to burn
its own fat versus the fat coming from
the diet the goal is to get you over
here where your body is burning your own
fat and eating you in fat as its meal so
number one when you're starting out
you're obviously going to use more fat
because your body has not adapted yet to
burn your own fat and that external
dietary fat will allow you to go from
one meal to the next more comfortably
okay but when you get into it and you're
adapting you're gonna need less fat
because your body's going to use its own
fat so yes your calories will decrease
in your meals because a lot of those
calories that you're eating are your own
fat calories okay does that make sense
so then when you hit your goal weight
wise and you're on a maintenance plan
let's say for example you lost all the
weight that you
and you don't want to lose any more
simply increase the amount of fat in the
diet and that will cause you to burn up
less of your own fat okay so you're
gonna increase your fat in the very
beginning and in the maintenance but not
in the middle does that make sense so
those are some points I wanted to cover
hope that clarified things and thanks
for watching hey if you haven't already
subscribed press the button below and I
will keep you in the know
hey that runs
