hey guys in this video I'm going to give
you five macro tips on a ketogenic and
immanent fasting program okay these are
macronutrients there's some mistakes
that people make so we're gonna clarify
them when they talk about this pie chart
with 5% carbs in 20% protein and 70% fat
these are not grams their calories %
calories of the total calorie
percentages that are not grants and the
percentages I'm going to recommend our
5% carbs okay now this is for a three
meal a day program it's not for a
intimate fasting where you're doing two
meals or one meal because then this
percentage will go up because the way
the ratios are with the grams but as
long as you keep this between 20 and 50
grams you don't have to worry about if
it's 5 or 6 or 7 percent okay number 2
5% of vegetables now because the
vegetables do not have a lot of calories
okay or the salad is not have a lot of
calories has a lot of mass 7 to 10 cups
of vegetables come out to about 5
percent of your overall calories ok so
even though this sliver is small it's
quite large and volume but I wanted to
include it in here because it's very
very important okay then we have 20%
proteins and 70% fat okay so here's the
first tip don't consume your protein
first why because it's very easy to over
consume protein when you consume protein
in large amounts you spike insulin if
you're spiking insulin you're gonna get
tired after you eat okay you're gonna
feel like you're sleepy so you want to
keep it 3 to 6 ounces per meal now if
you're eating less meals you can go up a
little bit but don't go up too much
if you don't consume enough protein what
happens the liver starts converting your
own muscle to sugar or glucose as fuel
so we need some but we don't need too
much
so don't consume your protein first
do it second start with the vegetables
or salad okay because this is the thing
that most people probably don't like as
much up so if we have you eat this first
get it out of the way you're going to be
okay
so we want to consume seven to ten cups
per day now if you're doing three meals
a day let's do 10 cups are you're doing
two meals a day let's do eight cups if
you're doing one meal a day
let's do seven cups okay that's just
some rough average you can drink your
salad in a kale shake but you want to do
the vegetables first it's going to
actually help a hunger for this as well
it's going to provide the fiber and
there's a lot of other benefits okay
number three adjust the fats so we're
talking 70% of all your calories should
be fat now this is misleading because
these calories are more than double and
density than these other calories okay
but the point is that the fat can range
from a little bit to a lot depending on
what you need at first
I'm gonna recommend you just go ahead
and start and see how you feel after the
meal if you're bloated and you feel
stuffed for hours and hours and hours
you've had too much cut it down don't
keep making the mistake over and over
and over again like so many other people
for a week after week they're not
learning from the mistakes of consuming
too much fat but if you don't do enough
fat you're gonna be really really hungry
so it's really a kind of a juggle make
mental notes of what you're consuming
that works for you and then stay
consistent with that amount okay that's
how I'm gonna recommend hailing the fats
okay carbohydrates between 20 and 50
grams now if your metabolism is slow do
more 20 grams if it's fast you can go a
little higher now we're talking about
net carbs that's the total carbs minus
the fiber okay
these aren't total grams of carbs these
are net carbs all right all right now we
have hidden carbs you have to be careful
because when you're at a restaurant you
have all these sauces you have soups you
have gravies you have dressings the
hidden sugars and a lot of the different
products so realize that when you go out
to dinner it's a crapshoot and it's very
difficult to keep the carbs low but
these carbs
present things like the berries the
hummus the nuts avocados I know the
other carbs and these other foods okay
we're not talking about sugar carbs
because over here we have vegetable
carbs but these are in a different
category because I really wanted to
include these because if I don't then
people don't consume them all right so
that would be what a carb is and then
the quality make sure that the quality
of protein wild-caught grass-fed make
sure your vegetables are organic higher
dense nutrients like in kale for example
are much better than you know romaine
lettuce high quality fats avocado
coconut oil things like that so in
summary start with your vegetable then
do your protein and lastly adjust the
fats keep it really simple alright
thanks for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press the button
below and I will keep you in the know
hey that runs
