today's topic revolves around the number
one missing Trace mineral in arthritis
for arthritis a lot of people are taking
vitamin D and they may not see the
difference other people take a lot of
magnesium for the joints and they also
might not feel much difference unless
they have this additional Trace mineral
involved and that is boron now let me
explain what Boron is it's a trace bter
that we don't have a lot of studies on
but there's a lot of data relating to
arthritis I want to share with you Boron
seems to be the key Trace mineral to
allow calcium to work to allow magnesium
to work if you're deficient in boron
you're going to have excess amounts of
calcium magnesium in the urine you're
going to tend to get more calcification
in the soft tissues you're not going to
have the strong bones so Boron really
helps keep the mineral
inside the bone and allows vitamin D to
be activated and help this whole process
work Boron also prevents tooth decay
like in tooth cavities if you don't have
enough Boron you're going to have more
inflammation in the joints because Boron
helps reduce something called C reactive
protein you may even find that you're
getting receding gums kidney stones
calcium in the arteries and calcium in
the joint because you're deficient in
boron the tissue that contains or stores
the most Boron is something called the
parathyroid gland let me explain very
simply what the parathyroid gland does
it SE four small glands around your
thyroid and what the parathyroid gland
does is produces a hormone that helps
control calcium so let's say for example
you don't have enough vitamin D or you
don't have enough calcium well the
parathyroid hormone will
increase to extract the calcium from
your bone pull it out so you have have
enough calcium so you can look at the
parathyroid hormone as kind of like
another vitamin D and what's interesting
about the parathyroid hormone is you
need this Boron to allow this whole
thing to work even if your levels of
vitamin D are normal in your blood you
might have vitamin D resistance and this
is where the parathyroid hormone starts
going higher and higher and higher even
know you're taking vitamin D well it's
because you have vitamin D resistance
but it can also be you're short in boron
so I think a lot of people are deficient
in boron because they really haven't put
it on the radar as being something they
need also if you're low in boron you're
going to have low amounts of
testosterone you're going to have low
amounts of estrogen now when doing a
deep dive into nutrition I always look
at research on animals right because
sometimes with humans the research is
kind of like hidden andar bued but for
Animals it's it's usually out there and
I found something interesting with
horses if a horse is deficient in Boron
their heads start shaking because they
have a problem with the trigeminal nerve
that causes pain inflammation and
they're trying to do something to get
rid of it well magnesium in boron gets
rid of it pretty quickly there's even
data that Boron can help decrease the
risk of prostate cancer as far as the
amounts of boron to take I would
recommend starting out with like 3
milligram three times a day and see if
your problem is resolved after a period
of 1 to 3 months now some people take a
lot more uh Boron just so you know like
some people take like 30 milligrams a
day you have to realize that the
toxicity level of boron is less than
Salt and the heavy tilling of our soils
have depleted a lot of these trace
minerals including Boron so I just
wanted to put Boron on your radar just
so you know it's out there and when it
does there's a little more data to know
about arthritis if you haven't seen this
video right here go ahead and check it
out
