so I want to answer the question when
our ketones actually dangerous
okay well there is a condition called
ketoacidosis where your blood becomes
too acidic but that is only going to
occur when you're a diabetic type 1
because insulin not only controls blood
sugars but it controls the ketone levels
too because when you reduce insulin you
will your body will start making ketones
as its primary fuel and if you have zero
insulin like nothing coming out of the
pancreas
then the ketones can be in excessive to
the point where your blood becomes
acidic and that is the danger and if
that ever happens you have to alkalize
the body pretty fast but that is not
going to happen to the average person
that is not a diabetic type 1 normally
people will start doing a low carb and
they'll be at 0.5 that's half of a
ketone and then it goes from 1 to 2 to 3
as they maybe add more exercise and then
add intermittent fasting so with working
with a lot of people in my clinic have
never seen someone over 7 okay and the
danger cut up point is 10 or above if
you're below 10 you are ok ok so over 10
it's a situation but that's going to be
very rare and you're gonna have to be a
diabetic type 1 to even be worried about
this right here but for everyone else
you do not have to worry about this now
if you're doing in a minute fasting and
for a long periods of time let's say 3
days your body will start using your
muscle protein at about 4 ounces of your
own muscles per day so that's why we
recommend low carb moderate amount of
protein ok each day moderate protein
between 3 to 6 ounces don't go days
without some protein so again most
likely your ketones are going to be
right around through here and if you add
these things it's gonna go a little bit
higher but you're not going to go above
10 so if you do get in this upper range
right here just get with your doctor and
make sure that they do adjustments on
your insulin because you're probably
going to need a little bit more insulin
to prevent this from occurring thanks
for watching
hey if you like helping people as much
as I do press the share button and let's
get this information way out there
