so there are a lot of different symptoms
that can occur with a potassium
deficiency today we're going to talk
about the most serious symptom that you
need to know about what's unique about
potassium compared to other minerals is
that potassium is needed in very large
amounts we need 4700 migr every single
day but if we compound that with high
amounts of sodium from Salt we can
create a a really bad situation because
sodium and potass potassium work as kind
of a teeter totter and a lot of people
are eating a lot of junk food high and
salt but they're not eating enough
potassium foods and so this ratio is way
off it's backwards normally you should
have at least a two to one ratio two
times as much potassium as sodium so
even if you are low in potassium and you
have the right ratios with sodium it's
more protective to your heart 98 to 99%
of all the potassium is located inside
your cell not in the blood and this also
relates to magnesium most of our
magnesium is inside our cells not in the
blood so you could check the blood all
you want it just doesn't give you a lot
of good information about nutrient
deficiencies now why do we need so much
potassium well there's a pump that is in
every cell in the body and this pump is
called a sodium pottassium pump and what
it does is it helps to generate
electrical current
around the cell to power the nervous
system and the muscular system kind of
like if you go to a dam and you see the
water being let out and so this is why
it's so important to have the right
amounts and concentrations and ratios of
potassium and sodium to be able to
generate this charge and so many of the
things we're going to talk about today
are related to a lack of that electrical
charge to power both the nervous system
and the muscular system so we have
nerves muscles and the control over your
blood vessels as well I'm talking about
basoc constriction and vasod dilation
basically the vascular tone of your
arteries are highly influenced by
potassium and this is one of the main
causes of high blood pressure is low
potassium but you're probably not going
to see that promoted because of the
money involved in high blood pressure
medications but what you will see is
that 90% of of all
hypertension is what's called essential
it means they don't know what causes it
well I'll bet you anything that it's
part of that is a potassium deficiency
all right let me first go through the
symptoms that are maybe not as serious
but they can be and then we'll get to
the number one most serious symptom all
right so we have fatigue you're going to
have problems with your muscles
constipation uh Tremors which is a
muscle nerve problem the other another
common problem with the potassium
deficiency is abnormal heart rhythm
problems now how many people have a
problem with their Rhythm of the heart a
lot of people how do we know that
because a lot of people are on
medication for that you can have various
mental issues when you have a pottassium
deficiency from being
Delirious
hallucinations
psychosis and depression potassium is
also needed to store glucose as glycogen
in your liver and in your muscles when
you store glucose as glycogen in your
liver and your
muscles you have also a lot of water
that comes with it so for every one
glucose molecule that's stored about
three molecules of water are stored when
someone does a ketogenic diet or they go
on a certain fast what's going to happen
they're going to use up that glycogen
and they're going to release a lot of
that water and with the of that water
comes the electrolyte potassium and this
is one of the reasons why I recommend
taking a good electrolyte powder with
potassium when you do the ketogenic diet
now without enough
potassium the blood pressure goes up
okay we' talked about that but I didn't
tell you this interesting fact about
this potassium actually keeps the
arteries soft elastic and it also
increases something called nitric oxide
whereas sodium tends to stiffen the
artery and lowers this nitric oxide so
potassium is really important for the
tone of your arteries and especially if
you have anything connected with high
blood pressure if you're potassium
deficient you can get headaches you can
get low back pain bright back of your
kidneys you can become dizzy and also
you can have noctua what's that that is
a situation where you have to get up at
night and urinate with a potassium
deficiency you'll have a tendency to
hold more fluid fluid you have more
edema in your lower extremity or it
could be anywhere actually with the
potassium deficiency your pulse rate
will tend to go a little higher as well
and your risk for stroke goes up but now
let's talk about the number one most
serious side effect from a potassium
deficiency and that is sudden cardiac
death heart failure if someone has low
potassium the risk for sudden cardiac
death increases by 10x and even if we
take a look at people with heart
problems what do they usually on they're
on medications that manipulate sodium
and some of the diuretics out there also
get rid of potassium at the same time
but I'm telling you there's just not a
lot of focus on this potassium this
other side of the coin that I think is
completely neglected in the area of
cardiovascular health now that you know
the number one serious symptom let's
talk about what foods or what things can
create a deficiency well number one your
diet you just don't consume enough of
leafy greens squash nuts shellfish bone
broth avocados pumpkin seeds sunflower
seeds mushrooms all have potassium but
also an excess of certain things too I'm
talking about refined sugar and refined
starches and refined grains AKA junk
foods will all deplete you of potassium
then you get
stress steroids gut inflammation or
malabsorption and then we get alcohol
alcohol will also deplete potassium so
as you can see potassium is super
important for your health but also this
other mineral is equally important for
your health and that is called magnesium
and if you haven't seen my video on
magnesium check it out I put it right
here
