hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about why you may feel irritable on keto
okay so there's two situations that
occur in the very beginning part as
you're adapting you can feel pretty
funky because you're going through this
thing called keto adaptation you're
going you're building new enzymes new
cellular machinery so you can now burn
fat okay so in the transition phase you
can feel kind of funky especially if
you're low on B vitamins and low on
potassium and low on sea salt and
definitely low on vegetables so you want
to start increasing these nutritional
yeast electrolyte powder that should
actually clear that up but let's say
you're doing this a while and you still
feel irritable a couple things that are
happening either your blood sugars are
low in which case you want to make sure
that you have enough fat with the meal
and you have enough greens salads and
you have a moderate amount of protein so
your body can heal the insulin
resistance and go from one meal to the
next because this could be coming from
the higher levels of insulin as you're
doing this you should improve insulin
resistance that you get better but
there's a couple reasons why it won't
you're doing this incorrectly you're not
having the right food you're not doing
intermittent fasting at the exact same
time you're doing multiple meals or
you're doing intermittent fasting
without keto so intermittent fasting and
keto have to be done together because
both of those tools or actions lower
insulin and once you lower insulin you
will heal insulin resistance and this
will go away but because the brain
doesn't have stored sugar and all that
store sugar is in the liver and then it
also goes up into the blood it depends
for its sugar on the blood so if the
blood sugar goes low boy you're gonna
feel irritable funky not good so we
don't want to eat more sugar we want to
get the fat to be converted to ketones
so if you're doing this with too many
carbs and you're not doing it 100%
you're kind of doing it half way you're
gonna feel really
irritable to the whole process because
you're never going to adapt to keep
tones you're gonna try to do in a minute
fasting without ever using ketones so
between the meals you're gonna just feel
terrible so realize to get into ketosis
you must drop your carbs below 20 30 40
50 grams
preferably below 20 and that will really
speed things up and make you feel a lot
better but it's not just about running
about in ketones it's about getting
healthy so you really have to make sure
you get enough nutrients and eat the
high quality food so the other point
that's really important is to be very
very consistent if you're doing keto an
enema fasting every so often or not
consistently you'll never fully adapt
into ketosis it takes a period of time
to get in here but it's very easy to go
back to running on sugars just by the
way you do that is to start eating carbs
boom your auto ketosis so that's why
people are feeling irritable but if you
do the combination do it correctly you
should feel euphoric you should feel
really really good alright thanks for
watching now I always love getting
feedback from you on these videos so
comment below and tell me what you think
