let's talk about the number one best
remedy for cataracts did you realize
that one in four people over the age of
65 has a cataract and by the time they
reach 80 years old one and two people
will have a cataract 28,000 people a day
worldwide develop cataracts many people
actually go blind because of it all it
takes is a little bit of oxidative
stress the lens of the eye to start
developing cataracts oxida stress is
kind of like a rusting out of a tissue
normally in the lens of the eye you have
this organ ized protein this protein is
called crystallin it's one of the oldest
proteins you have in your body because
you developed it when you were in an
embo before you were actually born
problem with this protein is it never
gets replaced like other tissues it's
not like your liver that can regenerate
because once you start getting damage in
the lens that tissue does not replace
over time you have a lot of things that
can damage the lens something called
glycation glycation is where you have a
sugar that connects with a protein and
it gets stuck and now it becomes
unusable to the body that protein
becomes damaged this is why a lot of
diabetics develop cataracts earlier than
they should of course as we age we also
develop them also steroids can really
affect the eye if you're on prednizone
for example glycation for too much sugar
or
oxidation without having enough
antioxidants built up in the lens of the
eye problem is the lens of the eye
becomes kind of frosted looking through
a dirty lens where you can't quite see
out out of it then people get surgery
not all surgeries can cure it and there
are definitely complications there's a
remedy or an antidote to cataracts that
is very effective and it's very safe
this video is on this book right here by
a British medical doctor I'm going to
summarize the book and then I'll put a
link down below of the book so you can
check it out if you want to get it in
this book the doctor talks about several
remedies or antidotes some drug
approaches like metformin and other
diabetic medication which they have side
effects
but he also talks about some natural
things that also work very well and one
is a very specific form of carnosine
carnosine is a very unique compound that
can be combined in a certain form that
allows it to be transported through the
eye and penetrate the lens it's a super
potent antioxidant that has the
potential to dissolve these damaged
proteins in the eye not to mention it
actually activates your own antioxidants
the solution is not to take it as a
supplement but to take it in a drop form
but not as carnosine because if you just
take straight carnosine in a drop and
you put it in the eyes it won't work
what you have to do is you have to
combine it with a few things to allow it
to be carried through the eye into the
lens because the lens is a little bit
deeper into the eye you need carnosine
in this form n acetal kosine NAC it can
be transported to the eye and once it
gets in the eye into the fluid around
the lens then it breaks apart and allows
the carnosine to do its magic during an
experiment performed at the Moscow hem
Holtz Research Institute of eye diseases
scientists have used NAC ey drops 1%
concentration on rabbits in the
laboratory they compared this treatment
with inactive eye drops NAC was able to
reach the inner parts of the eye after
about 15 to 30 minutes during this
process NAC was broken down which is
then free to work against lication in
the lens of the eye you also have a lot
of membranes in there the carnosine can
penetrate and navigate through the fat
membranes and so it reaches deep into
the cell during this experiment no side
effects were reported the authors
concluded that NAC is proposed as a
treatment for eye disorders including
cataracts glaucoma corneal disorders
inflammation and complications from
diabetes why would it improve
complications of diabetes Well because
diabetes increases your risk for
cataracts the ey is one of the big
targets for diabetes a group of
scientists who performed an earlier
rabbit experiments study the effects of
NAC drops on humans the scientist
selected 49 volunteers with an average
age of 65 years who had established age
related cataracts they then divided the
patients into three groups group one
they treated with a 1% solution of Na
eye drops group two was only treated
with the placebo eye drops and group
three was left untreated the the
patients were examined at 2 to 6 months
intervals after 6 months approximately
41% of eyes treated with NAC presented a
significant reduction in the clouding of
the lens 90% of the treated eyes showed
a gradual Improvement of vision 89% of
the eyes showed up to a 100% Improvement
of sensitivity to glare I mean just
think about what they did they used a
natural remedy with very little side
effects if any to help get rid of
cataracts let me also answer two
questions out of the book how long do I
need to use the drops for a cataract at
least 3 to five months because it's not
an overnight thing it's going to be a
while before it actually corrects
everything you're not using a toxic drug
you're using something that's more
natural and it slowly dissolve some of
these proteins that are damaging or
clouding the eye in this video I'm not
claiming that this natural remedy can
cure anything I'm just giving you
information to maybe take a look at it
another interesting thing about these
NAC drops is that when you search for
them on Amazon you can't find them I
mean it's weird cuz I did see it a long
time ago but now you can't find it you
see a different type of NAC drops but
not the N acetal carnosine drops however
I did find a couple sources where you
can find these drops online but not
necessarily on Amazon and I will put
those links down below what lessons can
we learn from this video the risk
factors diet diabetes consuming junk
Foods steroids are all things that speed
up the process of cataracts seed oils
are the worst of the worst I would avoid
those antioxidants can protect you
against cataracts and I'm talking about
onions for example is a good antioxidant
egg yolks leafy green vegetables
grass-fed red meat also can help you
build up antioxidants to help fight
these things vitamin A is also really
important in the eyes this is why how
liver oil is a good source vitamin A and
so is uh grass-fed liver and lastly the
B vitamins specifically B6 and B2 and
folate very important for the eyes my
goal is to give people alternative
solutions that don't give you a lot of
side effects that can work on a natural
level yet also tell you how to get to
the root cause thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next video
