hey guys I recently had a question from
several people that wanted to know how
many grams of protein do I need to
consume in my diet if I'm on a ketogenic
and an inmin fasting program okay um
apparently when I told them the ounces
that wasn't good enough they want to
know in grams so before I get into that
let me just kind of explain something if
there's glucose or sugar in the diet the
body will always go for that first and
that's why we want to keep the carbs low
between 20 and 50 g or less okay so if
we keep the carbs low then the body will
then burn muscle protein unless you're
eating enough protein okay so we want to
have a moderate amount of protein
because if we don't have enough protein
our body will start using our own muscle
even before the fat so we need certain
amounts of protein so I'm telling people
you need between 3 and 6 ounces now what
does that come out to well at a very
minimum you need.
36 G to 7 G per your body weight in
pounds now I'm not giving you the
kilograms you can do the conversions
talking about pounds okay so I'm 180 lb
okay so I would multiply 36 * 180 and I
get roughly about 65 it might be 64.8 or
something like that okay so that's how
many grams of protein I need for the
whole
day okay
minimally so 7 * 180 =
126 grams of protein for the whole day
okay now that's if I'm doing like three
meals so if I divide this by three each
meal would be on the low end it' be
about 21 G per meal of
protein if I'm going in the high end
let's say I'm an athlete I'm younger a
lot of physical activity I'll need a
little more protein I'm stressed I need
more protein so we divide this by three
it comes out to 42 Gams anything more
than this though is going to be a
problem on the liver and the kidney it
can actually strain the kidneys in the
liver and it could create kidney stones
and it can also create um more fat on
your body because it's going to convert
to sugar so we need some but we don't
need too much so this is the range right
here if you wanted to know now when
calculating this there's a lot of
confusion because people go online and
they look up like let's say you're going
to look up beef right the nutritional
facts for beef 4 o is 113 gram so right
there you're going to go back to here
it's going to be like wait a second 113
G for 4 oz that doesn't make sense but
realize when you look this up you're not
going to use total grams for the beef
because that beef is made up of
different things we want the protein
grams not the total grams so for beef
for 4 o we have about 26 G we have about
8 G of
fat and the rest water like 80 g of
water will make up the total of
113 and collagen and some other things
okay so we're really going to only use
the protein so that's what that's what
we're talking about and if you're
looking at fish
chicken lamb eggs they're all going to
vary in the amount of protein per unit
of volume okay or weight so don't worry
I'll have a calculator I'm almost done
with this uh macro calculator for you so
you can go in there and punch your
numbers and it does all the calculations
for you you don't then you don't have to
worry about anything so I'm working on
that in fact I was working that all day
today from 5:00 in the morning until I'm
here which is about 5:00 okay so let's
say we get our protein
in correctly and we're doing great on
that and then you do in minute fasting
so now you're going to go to two males
and then one male well you're not going
to need the quantity quantity of protein
is going to go down down down because
your body's going to recycle protein and
you're going to um not need the quantity
of protein because the body is uh
stimulating growth hormone that's one
thing and that's going to cause a um
protection of your muscle protein from
being broken down all right so now if
you handle this you're not going to lose
any muscle so the body will then have no
choice but to burn its fat Reserve okay
and when it burns the fat you're going
to have ketones now in the beginning
you're going to have to consume more fat
as if you're insulin resistant or else
you're going to be really really hungry
it's going to be really hard to go from
one meal to the next however when you
start becoming adapted the need for fat
will go down because the goal is to get
your body to start eating your own
stored fat not necessarily just to rely
on the dietary fat okay so in this case
maybe in the beginning you're adding
keto bombs and you're adding extra fat
and this and that um Bulletproof Coffee
but then as you get into it maybe you
won't need that maybe you could just get
the fat from the protein that you
consume I just found for example I
bought from us Wellness Meats online I
found hamburger that is 5 5% that's 45%
fat incredible I've never seen anything
like it so I ordered a bunch of it and
so that's what I'm going to consume
tonight so um you wouldn't need to add
any more fat that's enough fat of course
A lot of it will be you know baked off
when I cook it but the point is that if
you just focus on the fat in the whole
food you probably won't need to add very
much unless you're trying to maintain
your weight in which case you want to
add more fat so that way your body will
maintain and maybe even gain a little
bit of weight
okay all right thanks for
watching hi guys thanks so much for
watching press this little button down
here it says subscribe and I will make
sure that I won't send more than 5 to 10
videos a day okay no I'm just kidding
it'll be one or two thanks
