hey I had another question from someone
that wanted to know what's the best
remedy for spider veins okay hands down
horse chestnut is the absolute best
remedy for spider veins and chronic
venous insufficiency now what is that
basically the veins or the venous system
returns the blood flow to the heart
okay the arteries carry it out to the
tips of the fingers and then the veins
bring it back so chronic venous
insufficiency is a lack of blood flow
back so you can have varicose veins you
can have all sorts of problems with the
lower extremity that like the ankles
retaining fluid altered pigmentation so
you see this a lot with diabetics where
the lower leg has this darker color well
that comes from this because the
circulation is not there and the main
element in horse chestnut which creates
this effect is called iesson this vital
nutrient helps in the permeability of
the inner lining of the veins and even
the arteries to absorb more nutrients so
it's a great remedy to help increase
circulation all right so people want to
know what brand do I recommend what is
the dosage you're gonna have to do that
research I'm just gonna guide you on
what remedy and then you can take it
from that point on thanks for watching
hi guys listen I want to thank you so
much for your wonderful comments and I
want to ask you if you wouldn't mind
giving me your review on Google I put a
link down below I'd really appreciate it
and thank you in advance
