now the reason I'm going to talk about
this one specific
topic is because it is extremely common
it affects between 30 and 50 percent of
the population and most of these people
do not have any idea that they have this
problem and it has to do with the
genetic mutation and since 30 to 50 of
the people watching this probably have
this problem it's very important to know
more about it it involves this one gene
called
MTHFR and it's a gene for a very
specific enzyme and the enzyme that this
Gene activates is the MTHFR enzyme
surprise they call this Gene the detox
Gene but it does a lot more it's
involved in creating neurotransmitters
like adrenaline dopamine serotonin Gaba
and it's also involved in hormonal
regulation but today I'm going to focus
in on the detoxification
part of this enzyme
if you have a mutation or some type of
alteration with this specific Gene and
you can get it tested you're going to
lose between 25 to 80 percent of the
function of that Gene I mean just think
about this for a second we are bathed in
all sorts of chemicals hormones toxins
pesticides heavy metals chemicals that
alter our endocrine system they're
called endocrine disruptors molds fungus
all these toxins right and if you have a
situation where your ability to get rid
of these chemicals are turned down 25 to
80 percent
think about how that would affect you
now it might not affect you if you live
a completely clean life right no
exposure to chemicals everything is
super clean your diet is great but that
might not be the situation 100 of the
time so what this Gene does is it helps
you methylate things and basically
methylation involves adding this thing
to certain molecules this methyl Group
which helps things get activated it kind
of basically just helps you break down
chemicals it helps you make
neurotransmitters helps repair the DNA
so very simply it's something added to
some biochemical pathway that allows it
to work correctly and this Gene revolves
around folate which is AP vitamin and so
you have a great difficulty converting
the folic acid to the active form of
folic acid which is folate and this is
why it's very very dangerous to consume
a lot of synthetic folic acid because
you're going to build this up and it's
going to act like a toxin and it's not
going to be able to convert into the
form that you need to do the various
functions and so what are the
consequences well the more toxins you're
exposed to okay the more free radical
damage you're going to have the more
oxidation the more inflammation fibrosis
which can lead to a cirrhosis in the
liver it can also lead to insulin
resistance it can also lead to a fatty
liver also this Gene involves choline
and without choline you can't make
acetylcholine which is necessary
for the parasympathetic nervous system
the system that's supposed to calm you
down you can't generate the
neurotransmitter that helps support that
system so your digestion is not going to
work right your sleep's not going to be
that great and since choline can also
help prevent gallstones or a problem
breaking down fats in your liver and the
cholesterol can go up from there not to
mention just the backup of bile that
backs up into the liver and what's
interesting about toxins in general if
we talk about chemicals in the
environment okay a lot of these
chemicals whether they're pesticides
insecticides herbicides fungicides heavy
metals they're all considered endocrine
disruptors as well as being called
estrogen disruptors because they mimic
estrogen which is another interesting
point estrogen affects the fertility of
someone there is even a study of certain
chemicals in the environment in a Blake
which gave this exposure to frogs and
they changed from male to females and so
another problem is the accumulation of
these estrogens in our body we become
estrogen dominant both men and women and
this can affect testosterone levels it
can create breast tissue in men and one
really good antidote or remedy for that
would be to start consuming the
phytoestrogens like in the cruciferous
vegetables there's a lot of other plants
that are phytons now the phytoestrogens
what they do is they help to replace the
dangerous estrogen with another estrogen
that is less toxic or non-toxic and so
you're not going to become estrogen
dominant if you consume phytoestrogens
they're going to help you by protecting
you against the environmental toxic
estrogens and so if you have this
genetic problem a typical detox is not
going to help you you're going to have
to be very very clean even drinking
alcohol or consuming too much caffeine
your liver is going to have a hard time
getting rid of that whereas a certain
amount of mercury will affect someone in
a certain way that same amount of
mercury exposed to your tissues can
create a much bigger negative effect so
there's a very very simple thing you can
do if you have this problem okay all you
need to realize is that the enzyme that
is converting certain nutrients like
folate to the active form is turned down
and if you start taking more folic acid
in the right form and more of certain
other vitamins like B12 for example in
the right form and you also take choline
what's going to happen you're going to
allow that Gene to work correctly okay
so a lot of these symptoms that you
might have are going to go away so it's
a really simple solution so this is what
I'm going to recommend okay for this
genetic problem there's some things you
need to avoid for sure like the
synthetic thick folic acid and a lot of
the enriched foods multivitamins for the
enriched nutritional yeast that's why
you want to get it unfortified because
you want those natural B vitamins so I
will put a video down below for all
those things but as far as what to take
the type of folate you need to take is
called methylfolite and the type of B12
you need to take is called
methylcobolamine then you need to take
choline and then I would highly
recommend taking a natural B complex
okay not a synthetic one you can also
get these B vitamins from nutritional
yeast but just make sure it's not
enriched or fortified magnesium is
another cofactor that's going to be very
very important but you can get the
magnesium in leafy greens because folate
especially the natural form of folate
naturally comes in the dark leafy cream
vegetables and if we make those dark
leafy green vegetables more cruciferous
we can also enhance the detoxification
process because the cruciferous
vegetables are one of the most potent
ways to help your phase one phase 2
detoxification system in the liver which
basically takes fat soluble poisons and
turns them into water-soluble particles
that are non-poisonous the cruciferous
vegetables also have phytoestrogens so
they can also help balance this excess
of estrogen as well so I just wanted to
bring up your awareness of a problem
that's very very common
but a lot of people don't know about it
now to get the full information about
this enzyme you should watch my other
video which I'm going to put up right
here check it out
