hey guys I want to share with you some
data about the hypothalamus it's kind of
a mysterious gland it's up in the brain
it's this little gland that is the size
of an almond okay and then the pituitary
is the size of a pea so they're very
very small but let's start with the
hypothalamus like what is the
hypothalamus hypo meaning below thalamus
so there's a structure in the brain
called the thalamus it's right below it
the size of an almond it's a very
important gland because it's composed of
about 11 to 12 it's actually 10 to 11
small little bundles of nerves that are
called nuclei and these little centers
are pre-programmed
kind of controls like blueprints that
tell the body to do certain things so
the hypothalamus has a goal of adapting
the body to the environment to help it
survive so it's constantly getting
feedback from the body and it's
adjusting different things like for
example
it controls sweating blood pressure it
controls stress reaction it controls
leptin which has to do with your fat
being burned and also your safety and
your metabolism the GI controls thirst
certain emotions like a rage that can
affect that female sex hormones sanity
tranquility pleasure centers are up here
water balance fluid electrolytes
hydration there's a little Center that's
called the super Chaya snick nuclei and
that Center can control like a little
clock that's built into your brain that
tells you when you go to sleep when to
wake up so it's a whole circadian rhythm
control off that and then the thermostat
so if it's cold out you'll shiver and
this little Center will cause the body
to do that
stress sex so if you ever notice that
you for your true stress your sex drive
might go down because they're both in
the same Center fluid wakefulness
heartbeat temperature so there's a lot
of different like life basic functions
that are up in the brain that basically
constantly are controlling the body okay
so that's what the hypothalamus does it
basically keeps certain things at a
constant so it brings things down to a
level it's called homeostasis which is
basically the ability to adapt to your
environment to maintain a certain
constancy
just like if you have blood sugar you
have to have a normal ninety to a
hundred or temperature 98.6 so that's
kind of what's set here so you're
sleeping at seven hours so basically you
go to sleep when it gets tired and you
wake up when it gets light right well
that's all controlled by these little
mini computer chips and then we have
down here communication on the pituitary
the pituitary is like the relay switch
like the middleman it's like the coach
of the football team so you have the
owner the coach and the players players
are the organs down here in the gland so
you have this whole hierarchy of
of different things so you have the
owner that sends the you know what to do
and the coach actually gives the
information out to the players and same
thing like an organization you have the
CEO or the manager that would be a
better example because the manager is
going to like relay what the goals of
the CEO are for the company and make
sure it gets done so down here the
messages are integrated and coordinated
to the different organs likely at the
liver you have the adrenal stress gland
the gonads that would be testicles and
ovary and then the thyroid pancreas a
couple two glands a couple of the organs
so you have these messages that are sent
down here and then once the messages are
given to adrenal for example then the
Drina has to perform that function
so when it does it then it sends another
signal back up letting the pituitary
know okay we did it so that feedback
loop connects and then the message can
turn off so they have this entire
communication system that's going from
down here all the way back here up here
all day long and it's happen happens
really really fast so the endocrine
system as a whole is the superior
communication system that travels
through the blood that's the messages
that go through the blood
the endocrine system is composed of
glands that make hormones or messages
and the communication lines that happen
through the blood but what's interesting
about the hypothalamus is that its half
gland and half nerve nervous system so
there are nerve connections to that
attached this hypothalamus to the
pituitary
so it's kind of an interesting thing so
it's kind of like a mixed breed but
anyway just so you know there's several
things I could mess this whole system up
number one your environment if you live
under a constant stress state that will
destroy this whole system over time
you're eating if you're eating junk food
you're not getting the nutrition in your
body that will destroy this if you have
certain types of surgery surgically you
can have something removed like a taking
the thyroid out it puts stress somewhere
else menopause let's say you had your
you no longer using your ovaries well
that's going to add more stress with
adrenal so you have all these things
that can happen and then of course you
have the chemicals and they're called
endocrine disruptors those are any
chemical and environment including
pesticides insecticides herbicides
fungicides that can interfere and act
like hormones mainly estrogen and you're
seeing it now with the growth hormones
I'm sorry the the GMO foods and that
basically has an estrogenic effect and
on your body so it's giving your body
way too much estrogen and that's messing
up the glands creating cancer and and
whatnot and then sometimes when you have
like a major stress in your body you can
actually have so much return
communication that you can grow a tumor
on your pituitary so there's a lot of
things that can happen along the way but
that just kind of gives you summary
exactly what the hypothalamus is okay so
I hope you enjoy that and also I have a
quiz down below in the description box
go ahead and take that and that will
help you find out your underlying cause
thanks for watching
