hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about the lymphatic
system now what is this system it's kind
of like an extension of your circulatory
system your blood vessels and
capillaries it has some unique
properties number one it carries oxygen
to throughout the body into the cells it
carries nutrients hormones it removes
waste it also has an immune component
part to attack you know viruses that's
why you would to have your lymph nodes
in your neck or your armpits or your
groin those lymph nodes are there to
detect and test out if there's a microb
coming in the body it'll send signals to
certain uh glands to make white blood
cells to start generating antibodies and
killer tea cells to actually defend you
so it's actually trying to protect you
okay so um we have that and then um we
have a fluid balance too so some people
have lymphadema it's like a lot of
swelling in their body um and the lymph
system controls that now if we look at
the exchange between the arteries the
capillaries which are small little
arteries and the lymph they basically
work together with a with a little uh
space it's called the interstitial space
or the space basically is just the space
between the lymphatic system the cells
and the capillaries and that space has
um plasma plasma is basically
kind of a combination between water
liquid protein hormones and
electrolytes and the electrolytes allow
for the traveling of this fluid back and
forth okay so it's it's kind of a
complex system but this is the basics of
it so you have this exchange going back
and forth you have unique properties
with the lymph that it can carry uh
pretty much large particles of fat
through the body that cannot necessarily
be carried through the blood at this
point they have to be broken down
um and then you have different um
lymphatic uh organs like the spleen well
the spleen doesn't really do a lot with
the lymph it does a lot with the blood
cells it's basically like a mini
junkyard that recycles red blood cells
it does it but two million it replaces
two million red blood cells every single
second so it's a highly efficient
machine and it also has some other
functions with digestion believe it or
not
um then you have the thymus the thymus
and by the way the spleen on the left
side over here and the thymus is on top
of the heart right here the thymus is
kind of like a training camp for um
immune cells so it trains them to fight
off infection and there's a lot of
mysterious unknown um they don't really
know what it does but they know that it
does that so if there's a virus that
comes in the body the lymphatic system
will trigger it it'll work with other uh
GL glands like the adrenals to start to
generate an immune defense because the
adrenals are connected to
stress and so um and the interesting
thing about viruses viruses don't really
have any power of itself it's basically
an inactive genetic code wrapped in a a
little sack and it waits until your
cells are weak and then it gets into the
body and it hijacks the machine of your
own cells it basically hijacks the copy
machine I know it's kind of weird so it
basically will start making copies of
the cell at a very fast rate to the
point where there's so many copies of
that virus in that cell that the cell
explodes and then it travels on in other
places to invade so the really only
defense to viruses is to keep your body
really really healthy okay and if we
talk about Foods related to your
lymphatic system really you're dealing
with just a healthy diet there's not
really a specific food that attacks just
the lymphatic system you just have to
eat healthy if for example you have a
severe protein
deficiency um like in
Starvation because fluid follows
protein um what happens the protein in
the blood goes down and then the fluid
actually goes out of the blood into the
interstitial space and you can actually
start having swelling in the ankles
edema and even in the gut okay so you
see like these kids in U these little
kids in Africa that are starving and
then these huge bellies that's low
protein so low protein diets can create
a lot of problems with with fluid
balance in the body so that's an
interesting thing one last point about
the lymph is that it doesn't have a pump
like the artery system has the heart it
it uh p pushes fluid by motion so if
you're sitting all day you're not
getting a lot of exercise you're not
getting activity the lymph kind of just
stays stays there and hangs out it
doesn't do much so it's very important
to stay active and also breathing will
help push it as well through the system
okay so those are some interesting
points about the lymph hope you enjoyed
it I'll see you in the next video hey
guys thank you so much for watching
please click the Subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
