hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the toxic effect from iron
which is in a lot of grains which I know
you're not eating but you probably know
people who do so what they do with
grains like breads pasta cereal they
fortify them and the United States
Canada and Britain in other countries
but not a lot of the European countries
but anyway if you're getting exposed to
too much iron it could be a big problem
for several reasons number one iron is
attracted to damaged tissue in the body
so if you have high levels of insulin
and you have inflammation and you have
insulin resistance and you have problems
with the heart the brain the kidneys for
example the nervous system well iron
goes into those areas and it oxidizes
the tissues which kind of rusts them out
it just rots them out just like in your
car you have this rust so it accident is
including the fat layer around the
nervous system and the brain as well so
these metals accumulate without the
ability to get rid of them
so the problem with excess iron is you
can only get rid of like 1.2 milligrams
a day yet people are getting massive
quantities on a daily basis so it's all
going to the liver and other tissues the
RDAs or the required amounts that we
need to prevent a deficiency would be 8
milligrams and we do need some iron
food-based but we don't need too much of
it but a lot of the supplements have
like 18 milligrams 22 milligrams way too
high and they're doing that to prevent
anemia and things like that
but I recommend solving anemia with just
red meat or other proteins that will
have the natural type of iron in them
number 6 all microbes need iron to
survive those are good bacteria and
microbes and pathogens they live on iron
so when your body has an infection it
actually will start to regulate iron in
not the release of iron from the tissues
to try to help the immune system work
better and this is why probiotics are so
important because if you have more good
bacteria which will eat more of this
iron this excess it leaves less for the
pathogens so if you know people of
course not yourself because you're on a
no grain diet if you know people that
have excess iron one of the best ways to
eliminate the iron
it's called chelation which is binding
with these this mineral and pulling it
out is called phytic acid okay and the
type of phytic acid i'm going to
recommend is ip6 it's an acetal hexa
phosphate which is basically one
inositol which is in the family of the B
vitamins and six phosphates connected
it's a very potent antioxidants to
prevent the rusting effect of iron so it
will actually help neutralize the
damaged effects of iron and allow it to
go through the body so it inhibits
oxidation from iron and it's a really
one of probably the most powerful key
leaders for iron and one last point I
want to bring up you can get a lot of
excess iron if you're consuming large
quantities of meats okay and other
animal proteins if you're not consuming
enough vegetable and other foods that
can actually cause a buildup of iron -
because where do we get phytic acid from
the vegetables from the nuts from the
seats another reason why you need to
consume a lot of vegetables with your
animal protein alright thanks for
watching
hey I appreciate your attention and if
you're enjoying these videos go ahead
and subscribe and I will definitely keep
you updated on future events live events
and webinars that we're going to do very
soon
