I'd like to talk about the genetic
aspects of Alzheimer's disease
unfortunately Alzheimer's has become a
massive problem worldwide and it touches
54 of the population so sooner or later
you are going to run into this topic and
I want to give you some very important
information on prevention as well as
what you can do if you have it yourself
or a friend or family member has this
condition but I want to talk about a
genetic tendency for Alzheimer's okay if
you get your genes tested which I'm not
necessarily recommending you do or you
don't I just want to educate you on a
very specific common Gene that shows up
with 20 of the population and this
involves a variation in a gene called
apoe but basically this molecule helps
you transport
uh cholesterol
into the brain now it does a lot of
other things but the area that I'm going
to focus on is what it does in the brain
it transports cholesterol into the brain
okay and helps maintain cholesterol
levels
as well as clear as cholesterol out of
the brain so you can think about apoe is
really a shuttle or a little carrier
boat that transports cholesterol and
there's three variations that you could
potentially have the first one is apoe
two okay and then you have an apoe tree
and the next one is a poe4 okay now I
guess the best way to help you
understand this simply is that APO E2
would be comparable to ordering
something through Amazon you know
getting it Prime and you get it
overnight so it's a fast delivery of a
certain product if you have a Poe II
you're going to be able to transport
cholesterol very very fast and you're
going to be able to clear it very
quickly as well and about five percent
of the population has this variation
apoe two and they will rarely ever get
Alzheimer's so now apoe three well that
would be like you know using like FedEx
or UPS
pretty decent delivery not too fast not
too slow probably is going to arrive in
three days maybe a week and so if you
have the variation which 75 percent of
the population has you have a normal
function of that Gene and so you're not
really at risk of getting Alzheimer's
but the real problem comes in with the
next
variation called apoe4
if you have this variation in your DNA
this would be equivalent to using the
regular post office during the holidays
it's going to be extremely slow and you
may have some issues twenty percent of
the population has this
apoe4 fraction and they're at risk for
getting Alzheimer's okay especially if
it's late stage Alzheimer's and now
you're probably asking like what does
cholesterol have to do with Alzheimer's
right well did you realize that your
brain is 25
made up of cholesterol in fact your
brain cells make cholesterol uh this
cholesterol is needed for many many
different things and I'm not just
talking about cholesterol I'm talking
about other types of lipids as well so
your brain it's like 65 fat and it uses
a lot of cholesterol to make uh its
coating or its myelin sheath it uses
triglycerides for energy it needs
cholesterol for the synapses to work to
allow it to adapt to stress and it needs
it desperately to be able to repair and
what's very unique about Alzheimer's is
that if we don't have enough cholesterol
that's driven into the neuron okay you
will start losing synapses especially in
certain parts of your brain that involve
memory learning concentration like the
hippocampus and even the frontal cortex
and so really you have a cholesterol
deficiency in your neurons now this is
pretty interesting because we always
think about cholesterol being a really
bad thing but in this case it's a very
good thing if you have enough
cholesterol but at the same time there's
some other things going on
because remember I mentioned that this
protein also clears cholesterol from the
brain so we have this situation where we
have a deficiency of cholesterol which
is basically killing off the neurons at
the same time have this toxicity of a
lack of clearing of cholesterol so it's
called lipotoxicity which comes with a
lot of issues including resultant
plaquing you increase this lip of
toxicity by a factor of 4X now your
brain is now going to do something to
compensate for this so it's going to
force the brain to switch to glucose
metabolism but the problem is this Gene
also blocks the ability to absorb
glucose too now since glucose is blocked
really what's happening is we're getting
a lack of fuel to the neurons the
absolute best thing you can do is start
the ketogenic diet where you lower carbs
you start doing intermittent fasting and
ketones bypass this problem and feed the
neurons directly so basically we have a
situation we have low cholesterol trying
to switch to glucose but can't and so we
really have a problem with lack of
material to build the membranes as well
as a lack of fuel to feed neurons now
the reason why this is associated with
late stage Alzheimer's is because just
Aging in general causes you to lose the
ability to utilize the cholesterol too
so it's kind of like a compounding thing
where this variation cause is a low
cholesterol but then aging makes it
worse and this is why if you have this
Gene problem it could potentially kick
in around 60 to 65 years old or a little
bit later the other really interesting
thing about cholesterol in general is
that when someone takes a lipophilic
Statin their risk of dementia goes way
up why do you think that is well because
statins block cholesterol and when
someone takes a Statin they really have
a problem with certain parts of the
brain that are involved with Alzheimer's
so in one study they found that if
you're on a lipophilic Statin your
chances of getting Alzheimer's doubles
realize this because someone has this
genetic problem there is something you
can do about it because there's
something called epigenetics which are
those actions that are related to
Lifestyle diet environment that you can
suppress this Gene so it doesn't become
active it doesn't become a problem and
things can work correctly the first
thing is to avoid alcohol alcohol is a
very potent effect worsening this
problem and kicking in this Gene so it's
more expressed and there's more problems
number two to avoid smoking that has a
huge impact on this Gene as well as well
as secondhand smoking number three
exercise I'm talking about consistent
regular exercise as a significant effect
on this Gene it can greatly greatly help
you you know our bodies are designed to
exercise and move and if we're not
exercising all sorts of problems occur
but the exercise alone as one factor can
help decrease atrophy of the hippocampus
in your brain which is intimately
involved in memory and concentration and
learning exercise increases blood flow
to the brain directly it also increases
something called the bdnf the brain
derived neurotrophic factor which is
similar to miracle grow for your brain
it helps you grow new brain cells and
exercise is a potent stimulus to
increase this bdnf most of the
population has insulin resistance and
exercise is a great way to improve that
situation and what's interesting about
that is when someone has plaquing in the
brain because they have Alzheimer's the
plaquing can
insert into your insulin receptors and
actually cause insulin resistance in the
brain and there's a huge association
between insulin resistance and dementia
and Alzheimer's so anything you can do
to improve insulin is a very very good
thing and I'm going to mention just two
things right now going a low carb diet
fasting
taking a natural form of vitamin B1 and
taking apple cider vinegar in your water
those things are very very significant
and lastly exercise can help reduce
inflammation in your brain the next
thing I want to mention is omega-3 fatty
acids that can greatly help you one of
the problems with omega-3 fatty acids
especially if you're very very deficient
and you have a lot of inflammation it
could take quite some time to replenish
the brain with omega-3 fatty acids
specifically DHA it could take in some
people up to 2.5 years
to fully replenish your stores of
omega-3 fatty acids it doesn't happen
overnight now there's another very
fascinating
compound that I want to bring up that
I just recently learned about its
association with helping someone with
dementia and Alzheimer's and it's called
Ted cup I talked about tadka in my other
videos but what is a type of bile salt
we have bile that's made by our liver
that's stored in the gallbladder that
helps us break down fats also our
friendly bacteria makes a secondary type
of bile but there's a type of bile which
is a little bit different called tadka
that has many different benefits one
would be to prevent gallstones but it
has a very potent effect on your brain
it's neural protective you can cross the
blood-brain barrier it can help increase
insulin sensitivity in your brain it can
directly inhibit the plaque formation
that is involved in Alzheimer's it can
help improve the neurons in the
prefrontal lobe as well as the
hippocampus and it actually has
protective effects in the mitochondria
inside your neurons so tatka is a very
interesting molecule especially as this
relates to the first topic of
cholesterol regulation because what bile
salts do in general for the body is they
help to balance out and regulate and
modulate cholesterol but I had no idea
until recently of what it can do to
cholesterol in the brain because
remember this genetic variation is
creating a big problem with two things
one a deficiency of cholesterol as well
as a lack of clearing of cholesterol in
the brain so
I think tatka is really just helping you
clear out this excess cholesterol that's
just my theory and I don't know for sure
the last remedy I'm going to recommend
is vitamin D3 okay now this also relates
to cholesterol because in order to make
vitamin D3 you need cholesterol and this
is why people that take statins end up
with a low vitamin D situation and
vitamin D is intimately involved with so
many different things immune system uh
pain depression but it also has a huge
effect on the brain and these are facts
okay and I'm going to put all the
references down below your cognitive
decline is increased by a factor of 19
fold that's 19x when you are deficient
in vitamin D dementia is associated with
a vitamin D deficiency your 21 percent
more likely to get alzheimer's than you
would be if you had normal vitamin D
levels you're four times less likely to
develop Alzheimer's if you have high
levels of cholesterol in your blood now
if you haven't seen my video on tatka
there's a lot more that it can do check
it out I put it up right here
