hey guys Dr bur here in this short video
we're going to talk about cranberries
and the health benefits so they do have
a lot of nutrition but the biggest
benefit has to do with your immune
system and what they do is they prevent
microbes from sticking to the inner skin
or inner organs as they're going through
the body for example in the bladder in
the urur which are little connections
between the kidney and the bladder uh to
the small intestine to even your stomach
what they do is they make sure the
microb doesn't stick to the inner wall
so that way microbes can go through you
and not get stuck and invade inside the
body so it's really good for urinary
tract infections it's really good for
preventing H pylori that's in the
stomach it's really good to prevent eoli
so it's an overall immune enhancer and
so one thing I do recommend is make sure
you get the cranberry juice that is
unsweetened because they add all the
sugar and the sugar will actually
increase the microbes so we want
unsweetened cranberry juice just
cranberry and water it can be um you
know concentrated that's not a problem
but if you take this cranberry and you
just add it to water I would do like one
tablespoon and I like to put it in the
upside of vinegar lemon drink um but you
can just take it by itself but if you
actually are have an infection you're
trying to prevent something have more
maybe like one or two ounces in a glass
of water but because it's acidic make
sure you use a straw all right thanks
for watching I'll see you in the next
video
