so I want to share a very important
aspect about stress in
cortisol that I think a lot of people
need to hear about because as I talk to
people and evaluate them they're eating
better they're taking supplements
they're exercising but they're still
stuck in this fight ORF flight mode that
they can't seem to get out of now if you
think about flight or flight flight is
fear right and fight is more emotionally
more anger antagonism being in the
stress mode where you have elevated
cortisol and adrenaline for a long
period of time is not healthy it's been
known to shrink your gray matter shrink
your thymus the gland that helps train
your tea cells your immune cells so
stress tends to paralyze the immune
system stress tends to create atrophy of
your muscles it decreases testosterone
it forces the body to run only on sugar
mobilizing your body proteins turning
them into sugar even though you're
you're not eating any sugar it tends to
affect our digestion it shuts down the
pancreatic enzymes it shuts down the
stomach acid production levels of
hydrochloric acid which basically will
cause you to get acid reflux which can
then lead to even gastritis and the
feeling that you have too much acid when
in fact you don't have enough the stress
causes us to produce less bile so it's
harder to digest fats our peristalsis
the pumping action of our colon doesn't
seem to push food through so we get
constipation and it really affects our
sleep S as well but other than that the
person's going to do just fine but
humans just have not evolved to adapt to
the amount of sustained mental stress
that we're being put under I mean if you
think about it you can have like
99% of all these wonderful great things
that happen in your given day but that
1% of something bad that happens where
does your mind go your mind will fixate
on that especially when you're trying to
go to sleep at night why because the
mind's purpose is to solve
problems that's a good thing right but
there's a big difference between problem
solving and worrying about a problem
which is anxiety worrying is not the
same thing as problem solving it's not
doing anything about it it's just
basically you're in this indecision
excessively thinking and thinking and
thinking or dwelling on this issue
unfortunately your mind is fixated on it
and you're kind of in this analysis of
paralysis you're just worried all the
time I mean what do you think's
happening to your cortisol levels and
your adrenal levels they're just like
being jacked up I mean even when people
go on the vacation where are they
mentally they're in the problem they're
maybe still at work thinking about it or
when they come home from work they're
still at work mentally worrying about it
so really we have two things we have the
external stress and then how we react to
the stress and how we worry about it and
how we think about it which that action
alone is what's creating the destruction
of our bodies I've talked about this in
other videos that literally stress can
cause an ulcer it can cause inflammation
it can cause disease it can reactivate
dormant viruses so there's something
really cool as a solution I want to
share with you it's based on this study
that I stumbled on which at first I was
like this is just so simple but it's
very powerful and the study is called
reduction of cortisol levels and
participants responses following art
making art therapy now this is very
interesting because recently I've taken
up uh woodworking there's a guy down the
street he started a new YouTube channel
and he has this incredible woodworking
shop and he showed me how to make this
wonderful uh coffee table which I will
put a link down below if you want to
check it out because I we videoed the
whole thing but based on this study
there was 39 people involved okay they
did art for 45 minutes they tested their
saliva cortisol levels before and after
and and there is a significant reduction
of cortisol and that is so awesome
because I notice when I get involved
with um any art project or like
especially woodworking I mean my stress
level goes right down I am totally into
it I completely unfix my attention from
whatever I was thinking on because I
shifted it to something else because
sometimes when you're doing exercise or
breathing or some type of mental trick
to try to push this problem away it
doesn't work but when you're involved in
a hobby whether it's involving art or
maybe learning how to do an instrument
or playing music or even bird watching
boy that's a great therapy to take your
attenion off this fixated stress thing
that you were involved with so
definitely comment below on what hobbies
that you have that you do to help reduce
stress but the more that I look for
constructive things you can do with
stress to lower cortisol they all have
to do with shifting your attention so
definitely if you're not doing that you
need to do that because it's a great
therapy and if you want to check out
this video that I did on woodworking I
think I did a great job you should check
it out I put it up right
here
