so today I'm going to talk about a very
important topic and it has to do with
arteriosclerotic changes or disease
actually starting in young people now
you wouldn't think heart disease started
this early but there's some very
interesting data I'll put all the links
down below that discusses various
changes in the coronary artery and even
the aorta very early on and this data
was acquired from several different
areas one document included the deaths
of young people and traumatic events
observing that the arteries actually had
the start of coronary heart disease
another area was autopsies of 300
soldiers in the Korean War
they found 77% had coronary heart
disease in fact most 20 to 29 year olds
had fatty streaks in their coronary
artery as well as in the aorta which is
a larger blood vessel now this may be
hard to believe but in one paper I found
some very interesting data of fatty
streaks starting when you're seven years
old I mean that is literally crazy but
the fibrous plaquing usually starts in
your 20s but here's the catch without
symptoms so the child the young adult
has no clue what's going on and if you
have no symptoms you're not going to get
an evaluation you're not going to get a
test so a lot of data was discovered
after these young people died and then
evaluating an autopsy what's going on
now how can this be well I found some
additional data I'll put the link down
below and they're talking about the risk
factor and the most important risk
factor is the insulin resistance okay
and this comes from consuming too many
carbohydrates so I did some more
research and I found this study the diet
and coronary heart disease study project
in 1967 and this was the percent of
macros back then for children and young
adults 18 percent protein 40 percent fat
and 42 percent carbs so at the time base
assume that it was the fat that was
causing it but we know now it's the
carbs the percentage of carbs for a
young adult should be 5% not 42 now even
the American Heart Association is
mentioning sugar and the reduction of
that in children and young adults they
said that you should consume no more
than six teaspoons so the added sugar
and we're not even talking about the
sugar that's in the carbs that they
consume but the added sugar so now this
is a better recommendation if we compare
it to what the child normally consumes
19 teaspoons of sugar on average but
this figure should really be zero
teaspoons of sugar I mean if you think
about what is an average blood sugar
that's 82 what does that mean it means
the total amount of sugar in your blood
which is a lot of blood should be no
more than one level teaspoon okay that
gives you a blood sugar of 82 so
anything more than that is gonna be
quickly removed from the blood and
stored either as fat or cholesterol and
so insulin is actually working really
really hard depending on what's
happening in the blood with sugar so
it's very obvious to anyone seeing this
data this connection of why a young
person might have the beginnings of
heart disease so early because we could
just consuming too many carbs and those
carbs create several mechanisms that
destroy the inside of the vascular
system so if you're new to my channel I
put an intro video up right here check
it out
