[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hey guys in this video we're going to
show you how to make another Fat bomb
this is just a chocolate fat bomb got
your cocoa coconut oil little vanilla I
actually forget what else is in there
but it's really basic ingredients super
simple you can make them in um cookie or
candy molds which I do I go to the craft
store and buy gobs of candy molds
they're so easy do not put them in the
dishwasher wow these are good yeah pop
them in the freezer these um firm up in
about 15 minutes keep them in the fridge
keep them in the freezer and when do you
eat fat bombs with the meal right after
the meal as your dessert to allow you to
go between one meal to the next without
snacking mhm okay so just try not to eat
the whole thing they're good yeah really
good just do one or two okay per meal
all right let's show you how to make
them okay
[Music]
h
[Music]
