the number one most dangerous ingredient
in the entire world is not what you
think this ingredient is worse than high
fructose corn syrup it's worse than
sugar it's worse than starches and it's
worse than seed oils based on mice and
rat studies it is considered a class a
carcinogen which means it's a probable
carcinogen in humans a carcinogen is
something that causes cancer and this
ingredient is a very potent neurotoxin
and not just with nerves but your brain
as well and it also messes up
reproductive organs and this is
validated by several International
cancer associations even the EPA
classifies this ingredient as a
carcinogen this is interesting you will
not find this ingredient on the label
why because it's not an ingredient it's
the byproduct of ingredients that's
created after you process all this crap
and specifically when you add Heat what
is this byproduct chemical it's called
acrylamide acrylamide is created when
you combine a certain protein with a
sugar under high heat the first part of
this video is going to be is simple as I
can make it and I'm going to get into
some more of the techical things later
in the video you can watch it if you
want to I am going to give you some good
news as far as the antidote or how to
neutralize that chemical acrylamide
later in the the video 40% of our foods
have acrylamide you won't get this
chemical reaction with natural sugars
like even sugar cane or even honey it
has to be more of a refined sugar as in
glucose or dextrose which is the
synthetic sugar or glucose syrup or even
molto dextrin which is a starch because
it's so badly processed it's going to
turn into sugar really quick and then
combined with that protein the modified
food starch the modified corn starch
which is basically in a lot of these
Foods right here realize when you heat
something up you usually heat it in
something right like oil if you're at
the fast food restaurant and you're
making fries they're not going to fry
without oil on top of all the bad
effects from seed oil sugar and starches
creating a lot of inflammation in the
body damage to your organs we have this
darn acry amide thing on top of
everything which is like the most deadly
of all of these putting ourselves at
risk for cancer what's really
interesting about this is if you add a
saturated fat instead of the seed oils
that they fry the french fries with you
actually don't get this production of
this byproduct acrylamide back before
the 1990s when McDonald's fried their
fries in taow which is beef fat you
didn't get acrylamide from that even
though you had this protein and this
starch but you had a saturated fats
saturated fats protect against the
formation of kromite let's say for
example all of these junk Foods were
made with taow instead of seed oils what
would that do well that's going to
reduce the cancer risk right off the bat
or went to a restaurant and all they
used was Tao or even coconut oil to fry
things with you would get a reduction of
the toxicity would it be completely
benign I wouldn't go that far but it's a
lot less toxic what foods have acryline
corn chips potato chips french fries
baked goods crackers cookies breakfast
cereals the crust in bread and even
roasted coffee before you freak out cuz
I know you probably drink coffee like I
do there is a very simple way to reduce
the acrylamide and coffee so just hang
in there I'm going to get to that now
that you know about acry amide and you
know how it's created let's get into how
to get out of the diet or even if you
happen to accidentally consume some of
it how to counter acrylamide I already
mentioned one thing which is adding taow
coconut oil butter because saturated
fats are more stable and I also pointed
out that if you use a natural sugar like
even just sugar cane or honey then
you're not going to create this acry
amide reaction if you have the choice of
baking something or cooking something
always use more natural sugars not that
I'm recommending doing it but I'm just
saying if we want to reduce this cancer
acry amide thing we want to use natural
sugars refuse to consume any refined
sugar I'm talking about high Fus corn
syrup the dextrose all these other
sugars that are just so processed at
home when you're C cooking or if you
slow cook you reduce this chemical
reaction so sometimes I'll slow cook
pork right and it really only gets to
26° it never gets 285° or more so we
keep the temperature low and we're safe
the next tip is just to focus on more
Whole Foods and not the refined stuff
because this is the stuff that's killing
us the next tip is pair the food that
you eat and I'm not again I'm not
recommending you eating junk food but if
you happen to eat junk food pair it with
something else to neutralize the effect
what can you eat in addition to this
junk food any type of the cruciferous
vegetables kale broccoli brussels
sprouts arugula cabbage they have
certain protective compounds against
acrylamide garlic will also protect you
Sprouts will have certain properties to
protect you like broccoli sprouts for
example foods high in vitamin C
sauerkraut Citrus like lemons and limes
bell peppers all can actually protect
against acry amine green tea is another
way to protect against acryline
spirulina can also do it let's talk
about this coffee for a second here
because how can we reduce the acry in
coffee because it's roasted you can
drink organic dark roasted or espresso
coffee that goes up like way up to like
400° F because when you get to those
High Heats apparently it makes AC
chromide very unstable and it goes away
when you light roast coffee you have 10
times the acrylamide than dark roast now
I want to get a little more techical I
want to explain specifically what's
occurring in this chemical reaction it's
called the malard reaction and as far as
protein goes there's a very specific
amino acid asparagine it's in corn it's
in wheat it's in rice it's in soy in
these refined Foods you're not protected
when we take this asparagine amino acid
and we combine it with a very specific
refined sugar like highy fructose corn
syrup or fructose these are all fine
sugars crank up the heat above
285° F or 120° C and then you get this
chemical reaction called the malard
reaction and the byproduct called
chromide chromide then creates another
byproduct it's called glycinamide
glycinamide is even more deadly than
acrylamide that's the stuff that really
causes the cancer it gets complex
because it's not just about reading the
labels you have to understand there's
things that are very deadly that are
created just from the processing when
you take a look at alra processed food
calories I mean how dead can you make a
food you're getting all these additional
things that you you don't want that
create a lot of bad effects yet when you
look at a teenager's diet you have 67%
of their calories are Ultra processed
food calories an adult has over 50% of
their calories being these Ultra
processed food calories and then a
toddler has 46 or 47% of their calories
being Ultra processed food the second
most common cause of death in the world
is cancer and I know with myself people
are dying Cancer all over the place
especially as they get older and you
want to know what causes cancer this is
one of the things and I think people
know about smoking and drinking and
things like that but a very potent thing
that causes cancer in humans is a
chromide I hope I gave you enough
information to at least be aware of it
and avoid it as much as possible and if
you happen to eat it you now have the
antidote to counter it so thank you for
watching and I will see you in the next
video
