hey it's me again I had another question
relating to bone pain someone had bone
pain and they want to know what could be
causing that there's one most common
cause and that would be low vitamin D
levels okay but here's the thing let's
say for example you're taking vitamin D
but it's not working it could be your
gallbladder is a problem because you
need bile in the gallbladder to pull
that that's I believe I to man in
another cause could be a congestive
gallbladder let's say you have bloated
issues or a liver problem that could
prevent vitamin D from going in as well
it could also be high levels of stress
because the adrenal glands produce
cortisol and if that's too high that can
prevent the absorption of vitamin D and
a lot of people have vitamin D
deficiencies okay could be also that
you're not getting enough Sun maybe
because it's winter time or your sun
sensitive it could be because you're not
consuming enough fat in the diet because
vitamin D is it that sila vitamin
thereby you're not pulling it in for
some reason that's just not in the diet
it could be in some resistance which is
very common I have a lot of videos on
that that could also block the
absorption of vitamin D and by the way
taking vitamin D actually improves
insulin resistance or it could be colon
damage I mean think about what vitamin D
does it works in the intestine by
helping increase the absorption of
calcium by 20x but it all happens in the
intestine so these are all the reasons
why you could be low in vitamin D that's
causing the bone pain okay or bone pain
can be coming from low magnesium and
that could be coming from just in the
diet you're not consuming enough
vegetables because that's where you get
magnesium osteoporosis osteopenia can
cause this and that's a separate video
I'll put a link down below if you have
that what to do about it but you could
definitely have bone pain from that or
you could have cancer this is rare but
let's say you do all these things and
you still have bone pain well get it
check to make sure you don't have cancer
all right thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press this
little button down below okay thanks
