today you're going to learn an instant
planner fasciitis fix when I was in
practice I would teach people how to do
this and within seconds the pain goes
away there's three things to do the
first one will get rid of the pain
instantly the second and the third thing
are more permanent fixes for your
planner fasci so it doesn't come back
and you're definitely not going to have
to use things like this to stand on with
your arch to help form the arch that
doesn't work if your bottom of your foot
is inflamed you don't want to stretch it
the worst thing you could do is to
stretch the C
or massage the bottom of the foot that
will never work that makes it worse
because you're going to be tearing
things but this is what you're going to
do and I want you to do this right now
while you're watching this video first
thing is to rate on a scale from 0 to 10
how bad your pain is 10 being very
severe zero being no pain at all and I'm
talking when you put pressure on it now
that you have that number we're going to
rer it after we do this very simple
technique the first step is to sit down
somewhere where you can cross your leg
and you're going to take your toes and
you're going to bend them downward we're
not stretching the calf we're stretching
the opposite muscles on the front part
of your leg you can do the other side
we're stretching down this way I mean
you could do it up to 20 times this is
difficult for you you could just go
ahead and get on your couch or your bed
and sit and let your butt sit on the
heels and press down if you could do
this if you can't you can put a pillow
between your butt and your legs but you
want to stretch this and do it as much
as you can tolerate it should not hurt
you're stretching the opposite muscle
and fascia and that's sending a signal
to the bottom part of the foot telling
the nerve signals to turn off now what I
want you to do is rate the pain in your
foot you can go ahead and stand on it
that's step number one the second thing
I'm going to recommend is go on a low
carb diet where you're doing
intermittent fasting two meals no snacks
I've done a million videos on this I
will put one down below because
inflammation occurs when your carbs are
too high now let's go to the big one
number three and the first thing to know
about plan fasciitis is that the root
cause for this is too much calcium
that's not really doing the right thing
how do we deal with excess calcium
number one magnesium magnesium is the
master controller over calcium in the
body one of the first places a magnesium
deficiency will show up is in your feet
either as a cramp or with a calcium
buildup problem called planter fasciitis
why does it show up in the foot first
it's the most peripheral part of your
body a person will tend to show up the
deficiencies in the areas of the tissue
which are the farthest from the heart
because it's the last place to get
nutrition calcium has everything to do
with Contracting a muscle when we did
that stretch what were we doing we were
trying to shorten some of the muscles
and ligaments underneath the foot
because they're too contracted we're
basically bypassing your body and
getting it to relax at least temporarily
magnesium deficiency is extremely common
1% of all of your magnesium is inside
the blood if you test the blood you're
not going to really know what's going on
deeper in the cells the type of
magnesium I would recommend is magnesium
glycinate because it gets absorbed 80%
versus magnesium oxide which your o only
absorb 3 to 4% and it can give you
diarrhea you need to take at least 400
millgram of magnesium glycinate every
single day the other piece of the puzzle
is Vitamin D it helps with all sorts of
different issues related to calcium the
vitamin D hands down is the most potent
anti-inflammatory that you can take and
it doesn't have any side effects so
you're going to need to take 20,000 IUS
of vitamin D3 every single day realize
that 20,000 I use of vitamin D3 is
equivalent to being out in the Summer
sun for about 40 minutes it's not a
tremendous amount but it's enough to
give your body the anti-inflammatory
effect vitamin D has a function of
remodeling tissue it can help rebuild
tissue back to the normal form but only
if you take enough and on top of all
that magnesium won't work without
vitamin d and vitamin D won't work
without magnesium if you take too much
of one of them without the other it
creates a deficiency of the other taking
a lot of vitamin D without magnesium
you'll end up with a magnesium
deficiency the other thing about vitamin
D is it's involved in over 10% of our
genes so that's 2700 genes this goes Way
Beyond just Planet fasciitis if you're
deficient in vitamin D you're going to
notice it in a lot of other places too
the lower back your your immune system
but also you're going to feel achiness
in your muscles and achiness in the
bottom of your foot trying to make sure
that you have enough magnesium so you
can actually create more relaxation
versus the contraction of the bottom of
your foot when you get a vitamin D make
sure it comes with K2 vitamin K2 also
helps remove calcium from the soft
tissues it's another piece of the puzzle
that you need to know about but you can
get a vitamin D that already comes with
K2 you get the vitamin D3 with K2 and
the Magnesium those together will be
dynamite in helping you get rid of this
pain long term several years ago I did
this video and I'm going to read you
just a few of the comments after people
have tried this technique well I just
went from having left foot paint over a
month I'm a nurse and I did these
stretches and my pain went from a six to
a zero insane this is a miracle next one
8 months of limping around cortisone
injections Orthotics walking boot ice
stretching wrong way night brace even a
handicap parking place after the first
stretch I went from a 9 to a three you
are godsend thank you check this one out
I feel like crying I've been in so much
pain just getting worse doing other
stretching exercises I feel like a new
woman thank you check this out I was
probably rolling my eyes when I
initially began the exercise I did not
believe a word until I realized I wasn't
in pain I cautiously stood up put a
little pressure on my right foot I'll
say 80% reduction in in pain after the
first set of exercises you have my
heartfelt gratitude I will be sharing
your videos so others can get the same
relief as well thank you check out this
last one I've been in pain for 2 years I
went to PT foot doctor chiropractor
invested in shoes with arches and you
gave me better advice than all of them
combined my husband and I did your
stretches and were an utter shock
amazement we were both at a nine for
pain and now it's nothing I wish I found
you a long ago you are a blessing from
God and I've watched many other videos
of yours and learning a lot I love sugar
but you taught me it's a demon love you
Dr Berg you saved me in more and I can't
read the rest of the comment amazing do
these stretches several times a day
every day until the Pain's gone and of
course the vitamin D and the magnesium
and the K2 will greatly take you to the
next level especially if you do the low
carb diet with intermittent fasting
please comment below and tell me how it
worked for you spread this video far are
in wide
