I'd like to share with you on how to
pull yourself out of any stressful
situation extremely quick you can also
definitely use this if you're struggling
to sleep at night or you're trying to go
to sleep but you have too much stress
but I'm going to show you a technique
that's completely free it's very simple
it's very quick and it has many many
benefits it's the fastest thing that I
know of to put you in a calm state it
can actually even help increase your
DHEA which is kind of the precursor for
all of your Al hormones it has been
shown to improve immune defense and
increase oxytocin which is kind of like
the they call it the love hormone or the
hormone that helps you bond with another
and it's a major pleasure hormone too it
can help lower your blood pressure
decrease your pulse rate and increase
something called Alpha wave brain waves
which will help you feel uh attentive
calm and totally relaxed it'll also
support your neurotransmitters
specifically dopamine and serotonin
basically it will put you in in a state
of
parasympathetic balance okay the
parasympathetic nervous system is part
of the autonomic nervous system and it
is the thing that is called rest and
digest it is the mode where your body
gets into that help calm down that
sympathetic nervous system and this is
based on a recent book that I'm reading
called heart coherence 365 and let me
explain what that means that heart
coherence it's a fancy word for
synchronizing your heart to your
emotions your heart to your brain and
there's quite a bit of science behind
this but it's basically a simple
breathing technique to put you in a
state of peace and calmness that will
help you sleep and help you rest and do
a lot of other cool things 365 okay
three means three times a day six means
six breaths per minute and so you're
going to slow down your breaths a little
bit bit and five indicates 5 minutes so
basically you have this certain pattern
of breathing which is six repetitions
per minute and you're going to do that
for five minutes three times a day so
that's the Simplicity of it okay so
apparently the research that's done on
this uh wavelength that you're creating
this wave of breathing pattern creates
some really amazing things uh to your
nervous system in fact you probably
already have learned this from other
videos that I've done but this makes it
really really simple and I like the book
because he gives the science behind it
and of course I'm going to just add one
little thing which will make sense so
you have to make sure that it's
controlled breathing you have to make
sure that it's deep and it's even and
then you want to breathe through your
stomach so you just kind of stick it out
and in so you can have a nice deep
breath using your diaphragm but also I'm
going to add my own little two cents to
this I want you to breathe through your
nose because that way you'll get a
little bit more CO2 to extract more
oxygen and what's interesting is you
need CO2 to allow oxygen to penetrate
deeper into the cells so this really
sounds just so simple and it's like
almost can it really do that but oh my
goodness I mean there's been many times
where in the middle of the night I'll
wake up for some reason and start to
think about something or some stress and
then I will start breathing slowing it
down breathing in breathing out and it
pulls me right out of that stress allows
me to go back to sleep also getting to
sleep at night you can start doing this
breathing keeping very even in and out
six cycles per minute that can help you
get to sleep and there's a really cool
device called uh HRV heart rate
variability that I hopefully at the time
you're watching this have some more
information about I'll put a link down
below to basically measure where you are
on the heart rate variability which has
a lot to do with these two uh systems
the sympathetic and the parasympathetic
so you have a tool to measure where
you're at and then you can improve Pro
it over time because this breathing
technique is one of the things that will
improve and increase HRV which is heart
rate variability which has a lot to do
with your health reserve and your
Fitness Reserve now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other
side
