I'm going to talk about the plant-based
meat scam boy I tell you nothing will
jack up my blood pressure than this
topic because it's utterly ridiculous
telling people that plant-based meats
are healthy they're clean they're good
for the environment but the actual real
meat is unhealthy not just for your body
but for the environment it's a complete
lie in fact meat especially red meat is
one of the most healing things that you
can eat it has not just huge amounts of
protein B vitamins iron selenium zinc
and many other things I mean what does
plant-based meat have let's just take
the impossible Burger sponsored by Bill
Gates first of all they take genetically
modified yeast and what this yeast is
going to do it's going to make a version
of a blood protein he okay and it's
going to make it from soy and it's
classified as a color additive that's
not the only thing in the impossible
Burger you have soy oil which they use
hexane that's a solvent corn oil
modified food starch cultured dextrose
that's synthetic sugar soy protein isets
and methyl cellulose what is in a
impossible burger that even comes close
in comparison with the nutrition in red
meat to my knowledge I haven't seen any
study on their testing for this GMO heem
I mean they're putting this out in the
marketplace without any testing now what
about um the safety studies right
there's this classification called grass
generally recognized as safe I mean the
company applied for grass in 2 I think
it was in 15 they got denied and so they
reapplied in
2017 and instead of doing the 90day
safety testing their company did the 28
day test the company themselves stated
their own safety studies right this is a
loophole with this gross certification
and if I'm not mistaken I only saw that
they did this on 10 female and 10 male
rats I mean is that a big enough sample
study to test this out on and of course
it was considered safe but if you look a
little deeper you find some interesting
data there was weight loss with the rats
there was some type of um blood
chemistry disorder reproductive changes
in the uterus yet they said there was no
adverse effects incredible so now let's
switch to the environment let's talk
about why beef is so bad for the
environment it requires so much water so
many resources for beef but if you
really read between the lines the water
that they're calculating they're adding
into this equation rain water so if you
really want to compare this okay Apples
to Apples 70% of the freshwater reserves
are for irrigating crops and 53% of that
is for Rice wheat and cotton and if you
compare that to beef beef uses less
actual fresh water if we just subtract
the rain okay because that's an addition
to the fresh water I mean just take a
look at California almonds right use up
10 times the fresh water than cattle yet
we're not concerned about these
California almonds are we it's like oh
those are healthy and this next thing is
very interesting too as far as life stck
consuming the resources
85% of livestock
resources are using nonhuman edible
material like for example field corn
humans won't eat that also like beet
pulp the entire corn stock they can eat
that the whole soybean plant itself and
they can turn all this non-edible
material that humans can't eat into
amazing protein and dairy that we can
eat so in reality only 16% of crops that
we eat are fed to cattle no one's really
going after the chickens and pigs right
now it's mainly the cows and so if we
look at the growing crops in general
right for every 100 lb of crops that we
grow there's about 37 lounds of inedible
byproducts that are created from that
which could be fed to the cows but if we
look at the actual grain that humans e
really it only takes 2.8 kg to make one
pound of beef and it even takes like 3.2
gram of this grain to feed the uh
chickens and the pigs if we actually
replace the cows just with plants okay
and we all went vegetarian about 2third
of that land that we use would be
unusable because we can't grow certain
foods on certain Terrain because it has
too much rock or that there's Cliffs
that you can't make a garden on or you
can't Farm on or the soil's too rough
well guess what cows can live on that
terrain they can eat not just grass but
they can eat even weeds I have a bunch
of cows and they eat weeds all day long
on the land that people grow crops on is
from animal fertilizer right we get rid
of the animals where we're going to get
the fertilizer now let's talk about this
the cow burps right methane so roughly
the greenhouse uh gas emissions are
about like 10% methane and the
accumulation of all the amount of
methane from burps from all livestock is
really only about 2.7% of the total
that's not a lot of methane the grass or
the plants eat or consume carbon dioxide
that goes into the Earth stored as
carbon the livestock consumes the pl
plant eats the carbohydrate gets the
carbon okay makes methane the methane
goes into the atmosphere hangs out for
about 10 years then turns into water in
CO2 which then Cycles through the grass
the plants the trees and this whole
cycle starts over and over again so when
you really look at the big picture the
livestock is not adding any more carbon
to the atmosphere all it's acting as is
a recycler of the carbon in through this
whole cycle chain that's the name of
this video plant-based meat scam now if
you have not seen my video on the
healthiest food in the world that you
can eat to heal your body I put it right
here check this
out
