today I'm going to share how to remove
skin tags and warts overnight now
sometimes they might take a couple days
to two weeks but you're going to notice
a significant shrinkage of the skin tag
award each time you apply this remedy
now this video is an updated video of
one I did I think about a year ago
because I have something else to share
with you that is very very effective of
getting rid of the deeper cause so this
is new information I was debating
whether I was going to put this on a
YouTube video or not because they tend
to take these things down but I'm going
to try it out and see what happens but I
do have a lot more in depth information
on my site but here's the big question
what is a skin tag and what is a wart
it's this growth on your skin that looks
like this little papule or pimple and it
doesn't necessarily keep growing it
might change in color but it is a benign
tumor benign tumor is something that
doesn't turn into a malignant tumor
which is going to spread into cancer it
just kind of stays at a certain size but
the problem with these warts and skin
tags is sometimes especially the warts
can grow in your private parts I mean
vaginal area penis uh cervix rectum or
anywhere in the body they do tend to
grow in areas of folds in the body and
certain skin folds and they're kind of
an anabolic effect which means a
something that is growing that's what
anabolic means they are associated with
HPV which stands for human papiloma
virus
they're more common in women especially
when they're pregnant or if they have
polycystic ovarian syndrome or their
overweight now what's in common with all
three of these excessive amounts of
estrogen and it just so happens that
estrogen is anabolic it's an anabolic
hormone it's also more associated with
insulin resistance in
diabetes Now what is unique about this
well people with diabetes and insulin
resistance typically have excessive
insulin but people with diabetes usually
have insulin resistance which doesn't
make insulin work so even though they
might have more insulin at least at
first they actually are suffering from a
deficiency of insulin deeper in the
cells but the point is that insulin is
an anabolic hormone now let's talk a
little bit more about this HPV thing
what is that well HPV is not just one
virus it's a strain of 230 vir uses some
create more problems for you than others
but here's the thing 95% of the
population has HPV that means chances
are you likely have it in your body
right now and in fact
HPV causes at least 99% of the time I
think it's like 100% of the time
something called cervical cancer which
is the second most common cancer in
women and when I talk about cervical I'm
not talking about your neck I'm talking
about the cervix okay cancer in your
cervix is caused by HPV now how does the
HPV thing affect a skin tag or a wart
well it does a very specific thing to a
part of your immune system called the
natural killer cells so you have these
natural killer cells that are uh
designed to go after and kill cancer
cells as well as certain viruses and HPV
has an evil strategy of weakening
your natural killer cells your defense
against viruses and cancer but there's
some other things that also weaken this
NKC stress
injury trauma bereavement which is like
grief or loss of a loved one
surgery also a nutrient deficiency
especially low zinc and vitamin D in
fact people that have an active outbreak
of HPV are usually always deficient in
vitamin D and I think the reason for
that and this is just my guess is HPV
and other viruses have this other
strategy of blocking or downgrading your
vitamin D receptor weakening the
strength of your immune system so they
can exist and live and spread also
chronic inflammation can weaken the uh
the natural killer cells and aging as
well so even though 95% of the the
population has this virus why doesn't
everyone have skin tags in warts right
and why do certain women not all women
get cervical cancer well I think what
happens is it really depends on how much
stress trauma loss surgery how much
vitamin deficiency or or micronutrient
deficiencies a person has or how much
inflammation they have how old they are
how much insulin resistance they have so
the greater amount of those factors the
more likelihood the person would have
these skin tags re warts let's talk
about what the remedy is okay and here's
the Simplicity of it you're going to
take one drop of iodine I recommend
padone iodine because padone is pretty
safe it's very cable very inexpensive
and you put that in a little dish and
then we need to add some garlic so you
can either get a garlic Crusher or get a
couple spoons to crush the garlic or
press into it all you need is one clove
and then you take a Q-tip and I totally
spelled that wrong so forgive me on the
spelling but all you need to do is apply
something right over that skin tag or
wart then you put a Band-Aid right over
it okay and you're G to repeat this
every day until it's completely gone now
I'm going to add one more thing and this
is going to be amazing uh because I
found something that's a super effective
remedy to clear out HPV I don't know of
any drug that can do it okay but this is
a natural remedy and it's called
ahcc and it stands for active hexos
correlated compound there's over a
hundred studies and they randomized
control trials okay this I think it's
mainly in Japan not in America I mean
this is highly researched and what it
does is it significantly increases the
potency of the natural killer cells it
reesta lishes the strength of your own
body's immune system which is awesome
because there's virtually no side
effects and then that way your own body
can clear out this virus it also
strengthens the autonomic nervous system
both the sympathetic as well as the
parasympathetic so the combination of
the one drop of iodine and one drop of
garlic with ahcc I think it' be a
perfect uh remedy
for not just making this go away but
really getting rid of the deeper root
cause as well as strengthening the
stress response so it can even
bulletproof you and strengthen your
immune system going forward now because
of the censoring and the suppressing of
the algorithms on YouTube it's becoming
more difficult to find my content and
there's a lot of content that I cannot
put on YouTube unfortunately so to make
sure you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other side
