hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about constipation
okay now number
one you need uh about four to five
pounds of friendly microbes in your
digestive system that do 90% of the
digestion okay so that's most of you the
great majority of your digestion happens
in the small intestine all right and
that's from all the friendly bacteria
that are there to help you break things
down if you have a history of
antibiotics bad eating you probably
don't have those even if you have
constipation you probably don't have
those so um that's the most likely cause
of constipation um there's a lot of
probotics people take let me just tell
you why I use the liquid probotics and
this is a different type of probiotic
because it's called effector of microbes
which is a combination of three
different combinations of synergistic
microbes that all work together to
actually um have you a lot more spectrum
and of different types of microbes it's
called live prootic Flora you just take
a cap of this before you go to bed okay
and then all night long it grows it
grows through your body and you wake up
and it's your stomach is feeling a lot
less bloated okay so that's a real good
thing to reestablish your microbes and I
recommend taking that probably for a
month or so and then don't take it for a
month and then take it for a month go on
and off because there's going to be a
point where your body's like okay I had
enough I have enough microbes it's not
going to hurt you to take more but it's
a really good um thing to just fortify
you all right so and you'll notice that
your breath in the morning won't be bad
your stool won't be as have bad odor
it's really interesting okay so number
two bile what's bile b i l e bile is
made by liver stored in the gallbladder
and helps you break down fats it's kind
of like the detergent that dissolves the
grease um it's in the it's in the
gallbladder formula simply because I
wanted to give um a solution to people
without an a bile especially if you
don't have a gallbladder especially if
have a sluggish gallbladder especially
if you have stress or high estrogen from
a pregnancy that's why you get nauseated
that's a lacob bile lacob bile creates
bloating right shoulder pain headaches
and constipation because bile is a
lubricant so again if your problem is
more of a lack of bile the simple
addition of bile will boom pop it in
there and start to start eliminating
immediately so this is a no-brainer and
again your body uh needs healthy bile
but it can run out and become sluggish
if you don't have a gallbladder and bile
is recycled so you just might need a
little Kickstarter so you can then start
recycling bio okay very important and
then acid acid I use the Bane hyro
chloride uh from the um apple cider
vinegar plus so it has the plus is the
Bane hydroc chloride and then we have
apple cider vinegar concentrates couple
these before a meal and the only reason
I would take that is if I had um like
indigestion or heartburn or something
like that because if you're not
digesting at the stomach level the cycle
of digestion will end up down here as
undigested food so the food just sits
there because you're not breaking down
in the stomach level so you have all
these this chain reaction that starts to
the stomach where you start to break
down food and you just have to isolate
what part of this cycle is it broken
okay is it the stomach is the
gallbladder is it the small intestine
and you just have to go by symptoms all
right so you might want to add a little
stomach uh stomach acid and boom it just
handles right there I want to talk about
fiber for a second because sometimes
people think that they're taking
Metamucil or a fiber brand thinking that
that's the thing that is pushing things
through it's not like that fiber is not
the thing that pushes anything fiber is
there as food for your
microbes that's what it does but what
there's a differentiated uh type of uh
fiber from grain versus vegetable fiber
I like to add vegetable fiber because
you get actual nutrients from that the
fiber from grain brand Metamucil has no
nutrition so really it's not the best
type of fiber that you need so you want
to have vegetables make sure that veget
doesn't overwhelm your microbes and
bloat you even more like if you're doing
too much kale or something like that but
you want to get your fiber from the
vegetable that's what you do so these
are the four things that will handle
constipation in the process of handling
it and correcting it you may need a
erbal laxative so find something that
you you feel comfortable with and start
taking that as a coping mechanism but
this is more of a corrective mechanism
all right I'll see you in the next
video
