there's a very important relationship
between iron and your hair your nails
and your skin now the very interesting
thing about this Trace mineral in that
we have no internal mechanism to
regulate the elimination of iron so just
as a deficiency of iron could be very
very devastating an excess of iron could
be very very devastating but our body
does have certain mechanisms depriving
microbes of pathogens because almost all
pathogens uh need iron to survive and so
there is this huge competition of iron
between our pathogens and our own cells
but that's going to be for a separate
video today we're going to talk about
the effects of iron on our hair nails
and skin and so many people are
deficient in Iron I would say worldwide
it's about a billion people yet when
you're diagnosed with an iron deficiency
you're told to take Elemental iron
Elemental iron is not the best form of
iron for absorption and so many times
when you take it you're waiting for
these symptoms to clear up but it never
does and then you ask your doctor well
what's the root cause why am I iron
deficient and they might say well you're
just anemic all right then why do I have
anemia in the first place so I'm going
to cover that but let's first talk about
how Iron affects your hair nails and
skin all right as far as the skin goes
when you're deficient in iron it has
huge consequences uh number one it
creates a type of skin called salow Skin
which is a pale slightly yellowish kind
of a dull complexion you're basically
going to lose that bright complexion and
now you'll have this uneven skin tone
that um you'll see little blemishes
you'll see sometimes little red dots but
overall a lack of iron really affects
your overall complexion on your face now
as far as your nails go
you may find that your nails are brittle
and if you're chronically deficient in
Iron you're going to get that little
spooning of the nail it's going to look
a little bit like the nail is scooped
out so brittle nails and a spoon shaped
nail all right what about the hair well
the hair is going to lose its texture
it's going to become brittle kind of
tough and you'll see pattern hair loss
now in men that is loss of hair on the
top of the head in females pattern hair
loss is basically thinning of the hair
all over and so a lack of iron is one
big cause of that and females are more
deficient in Iron than men because they
have their menstrual periods every month
and they lose a lot of blood and because
iron is part of hemoglobin and
hemoglobin is part of blood when you
lose blood you lose iron iron is needed
for oxygen and so if you're not able to
have enough oxygen to your hair your
nails or your skin all sorts of things
can happen happen so how do you become
deficient in Iron well one is you're not
taking enough iron in through the diet
now the problem with iron in diet is
that there's two forms of iron you have
heem iron and non-he iron and this
relates to the efficiency of how Iron is
um absorbed in your body when you
consume iron from things like spinage or
beans the absorption is much much less
like spinach has an absorption rate of
like 1.5 beans are like 2.2 but then
when we get to like beef liver the
absorption is like 15 then when we get
to redne we're talking about an
absorption rate of 21 so if we compare
the non heem Source roughly at a two and
a heem source with red meat at a 21 you
can see there's a vast difference so
consuming animal meat is going to give
you a lot more iron and highly recommend
you get your iron from food versus a
supplement because the elemental iron
that they give you in supplements is
just it's just it's crap it's low
quality it's not the type of iron that
nature is providing you now if you
absolutely cannot um eat red meat for
some reason then I would recommend
getting it from maybe a supplement
that's a um dehydrated uh beef liver or
even a spleen extract from an animal all
right then the next thing I want to talk
about is your stomach if your stomach
does not have enough hydrochloric acid
okay this is very common you're not
going to absorb iron because the acid in
the stomach makes the iron sble to be
absorbed so if someone doesn't have
enough acid or they're taking in acids
because they have heartburn what ever or
gird uh that could be the reason why
they're not absorbing iron and the
interesting thing about not having
enough hydrochloric acid to absorb iron
is you're probably not going to have
enough hydrochloric acid to digest red
meat either and I will get to a solution
for that you just need to know that a
lacost stomic acid can create Amia now
another common cause is that your colon
or your small intestine is inflamed okay
any type of
inflammatory uh gut issue will block the
absorption of iron as in IBS Crohn's
diverticulitis irritable bowel syndrome
etc etc so inflammation can definitely
be a problem and so the number one cause
of inflammation in the gut is there
certain foods that you're eating number
one grains omega-6 fatty acids in grains
or like things like soy oil or corn oil
or canila oil or cotton seed oil which
is in pretty much all the foods
especially if you go out to dinner and
you eat something fried you're going to
have a lot of omega-6 fatty acids and
that's going to create inflammation in
your gut and some people are sensitive
to nuts and seeds and even chocolate and
sometimes even coffee beans and those
things can create inflammation as well
so if a person is eating a lot of peanut
butter for example and they feel a lot
of bloating or stomach pain that could
be an indication that you have
inflammation in your gut all right the
other thing that can block iron is
something called phytic acid which is in
grains Le beans legum so if you consume
lot of Cal for example that could be the
reason why you're not absorbing iron
because of all this ftic acid if you
germinate um nuts like let's say you
soak them overnight and then you
dehydrate them uh that will get rid of a
lot of the fyto acid or if you sprout
the seed you get rid of the ftic acid
also um too much brand the fiber in
grains can block iron as well as too
much copper if you're taking a lot of
copper um that can block iron and also
if you have lead in your body that can
block iron all right and next one is
blood loss so menstration is a common
cause of blood loss uh if you have an
ulcer that could be a cause or if
there's any other type of bleeding
inside your gut um that could be a cause
of a loss of iron like let's say you had
cancer for example and your colon and
you're bleeding and you're wondering why
your stool is a dark red well that could
be the reason if you had gastric bypass
okay that could be the reason why you're
not absorbing iron and the last reason
is alcohol okay if you drink alcohol on
a regular basis that could be the reason
why you are deficient in Iron all right
so here are things you need to do number
one start consuming red meat if you can
okay now number two this is going to
handle the pH problem with the stomach
you need to start taking something
called Bane
hydrochloride um that's going to acidify
the stomach and that's going to allow
you to digest the red meat okay and it's
going to help you absorb iron so more
animal meats and ban hydrochloride to
acidify the stomach and I would also
recommend if you're going to take betan
hydrochloride to take uh five to six
maybe even seven before a meal because I
found you have to take a little bit more
of it to really have it work it will
take a period of weeks maybe even months
to fully correct all right next thing is
to stop eating the foods that are
blocking iron uh foods that have phyto
acid like the grains the nuts the seeds
those can be a problem and stop eating
things that are creating inflammation
that's blocking your gut and that would
be the grains primarily and things that
are high in Omega 6 fatty acids and I
think the best video for you to watch
next would be to get more information on
that topic so I put it up right here
check it out
