Dr Burg here uh today we're going to
make a the kale Shake as you know I love
kale but this is very very simple it's
like four ingredients we have the kale
which is the superfood it has 35,000
international units of vitamin A you're
going to use the stems you can do
blueberries which are really good in all
sorts of
phytonutrients uh I like them Frozen and
they don't have to be organic I mean the
organic ones are so expensive uh and
then we have bananas so we can do
bananas and if you're concerned about
losing weight bananas actually have
quite a bit of fiber so I wouldn't be
concerned about this this is something
that you can consume at night or even to
replace your dinner if unless you're
really really hungry now we have
different types of kale this would be
green kale and this is red kale more
pigment this is actually better for the
macula of the eye so if you ever heard
of macular degeneration this is
unbelievable amount ounts of
phytonutrients to help the macul of the
eye and then we have the Dinosaur Kale
right here which is very crispy has good
flavor very good to make shakes and it
Blends very nicely so you can do either
one of these right here you can also add
different types of berries as well
blueberries or raspberries or
strawberries Etc and um and even
cinnamon works really good as well so
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
just going to take this uh these
blueberries here and put them in the
blender we're not going to juice them
and then we're going to take basically
the stems and everything and put these
right in there about a handful of
kale it's like that that much and then
we're going to take a
banana and we're going to then take
water and about a cup and a
half
okay now what we're going to do is we're
going to blend this and basically we're
going to drink it that's all you
do okay so we actually we have it done
here now here's the thing you need to
know you need to blend it for about two
three maybe even four minutes U because
if you don't you're going to get little
chunks of hail in your in your drink so
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
take the glass and uh just pour it
through
here and basically uh of course doesn't
look all that great but it's extremely
healthy and this is what you can drink
I'll actually drink um I'll make it so
there's actually two of these and I'll
drink these at
night this is good
stuff
