hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about how to use in a minute
fasting to boost your immune system
whether you have allergies autoimmune
conditions you have inflammatory
conditions in your gut rheumatoid
arthritis lupus you need to do in a
minute fasting because in a minute
fasting stimulates the white blood cell
it activates macrophages neutrophils
monocytes killer T cells I mean that's
incredible and check this out eighty
percent of your immune system is located
in the gut you have all these lymphatics
in there and the food actually has to go
through a little barrier so it gets the
stamp of approval through immigration so
it's an important system to strengthen
because if you're eating too frequently
you're constantly irritating and raising
insulin creating little holes in the
intestine and then you lose your immune
system because it's constantly under
attack so not eating strengthens the
immune system the next thing that the
intermittent fasting will do it'll
improve something called a tapa G I've
talked about that in other videos but at
otha G is a condition whereby your cells
are recycling damaged parts but it also
helps you clean up infected cells
viruses yeast mold bacteria and fungus
out of the cell so you're really
strengthen the immune system with that
alone so allergies gut inflammatory
conditions especially autoimmune celiac
Crohn's you definitely need to do in a
minute fasting even cancer did you
realize that that cancer cell has 10 to
70 times more insulin receptors in a
normal cell okay so you're just
basically dealing with lowering insulin
when you're doing in a minute fasting
you're correcting insulin resistance
it's not just about losing weight it's
about improving your immune system and
also as you correct insulin resistance
you increase the absorption of nutrients
which also then enhance the immune
system so I highly recommend it alright
thanks for watching hey tell me what you
think about this video go ahead and
comment below and give me your feedback
