I want to talk about progesterone the
Forgotten hormone in men we associate
progesterone with women problems
menopause menstrual cycle what do
progesterone do in men today I'm going
to talk about the importance of
progesterone in men especially as it's a
precursor for testosterone what's
interesting about progesterone is it
helps maintain normal testosterone
levels progesterone also decreases
inflammation in the brain it's an
anti-inflammatory it increases
neurogenesis which is the creation of
new brain cells progesterone definitely
helps protect against dementia
Parkinson's Alzheimer's progesterone
also has anti-depressant effects as well
that's some of the effects that
progesterone does on the brain but when
someone's younger progesterone helps
increase the production of sperm
progesterone helps also maintain muscle
mass it's involved in the immune system
progesterone also helps to maintain the
prostate and to prevent the enlargement
of the prostate in fact the drug
called finasteride is a synthetic
derivative of progesterone one of the
things that that drug as well as
progesterone does is it inhibits the
enzyme that's involved in the conversion
from testosterone to something called
DHT which is a more powerful form of
testosterone which can then increase the
size of the prostate this drug will
inhibit that enzyme to help shrink the
prostate but progesterone does it also
in a very natural way without the side
effects another thing that progesterone
does is it helps reduce the risk of
breast tissue in men how do we end up
with low progesterone and how do we
increase the normal amounts of
progesterone so then we can have more
testosterone and other related hormones
all of these steroid hormones come from
this raw material called cholesterol and
this is why cholesterol is so important
especially in hormones a lot of people
are on a Statin drug which automatically
shuts off your ability to make all of
these really important hormones let's
just start at that level and then we're
going to kind of work our way down to
see how we can improve this whole
pathway where do you get cholesterol
from you're going to get a good amount
of cholesterol in sardines organ Meats
like liver and you get some cholesterol
in fatty meat you can also get
cholesterol from cheese but not the
lowfat cheese you want to get the whole
milk cheese then cholesterol is then
turned into what's called pregnant alone
pregnant alone is a happy hormone
because it actually help helps increase
other hormones the question is should
you start taking pregnant alone not
right away I wouldn't recommend just
jumping and taking it if you were to
take pregnant alone as a supplement and
you can get it over the counter it's
very easy to get but pregnant alone is
the precursor that comes right before
progesterone I would always recommend
starting out maybe 5 to 10 milligram
only that's very very small you might
not need that but I'm just putting it
out there if you try the co-actors and
it's still not working maybe you add
that that a little later there are three
co-actors that allow you to go from
cholesterol to pregn Alone number one is
magnesium people are commonly deficient
in magnesium a problem with low
testosterone could be easily solved just
by taking enough magnesium type of
magnesium I'd recommend is magnesium
glycinate I would recommend taking that
before you go to bed which will then
open the door to allow this whole
Cascade of hormones to work magnesium
you can get in avocados leafy greens
pumpkin seeds dark chocolate the next
co-actor is zinc many people increase
their testosterone levels just by taking
zinc zinc you can get shellfish oyers
red meat and the last co-actor is
vitamin B3 niin you can get that from
nutritional yeast you can take that as a
supplement take the nin that gives you
the flesh it can help your heart I've
given you a couple things to increase
this biochemical pathway I do want to
touch on things that can inhibit this
biochemical pathway at different points
I already mentioned the one Statin
Statin is just like notoriously bad for
blocking hormones okay because it blocks
the raw material to make it if you're on
a Statin or your doctor wants to put you
on a Statin I would step back and
re-evaluate why do you really need that
there are a lot of cardiologists that
you can even work with they're very much
against statin drugs if you wanted to
balance out your lipid profile your
cherol there's a lot of other ways to do
it one way is just to cut down on the
refined carbohydrates and sugar
unfortunately the medical profession
doesn't focus on that instead they give
you a medication to block cholesterol
you better be taking co-enzyme Q10 very
very very very important because if you
don't you're going to get problems with
your muscle because that's one of the
big side effects is it depletes
something called coin mq10 there are
three other things that will inhibit
this whole process number one is chronic
stress how do we lower stress ashwaganda
Vitamin B1 one of the biggest things
that can lower stress is by increasing
proding something called
oxytocin by taking a certain fermented
microbe which can build up your oxytocin
levels and greatly reduce your stress
the next thing that can actually shut
down this whole pathway is insulin this
comes from consuming too many refining
carbs or sugars third thing endocrine
disruptors things in the environment
Plastics chemicals heavy metals are
things that mimic estrogen there's a
couple things to help reduce some of
these estrogenic effects one is to on a
regular bases consume cruciferous
vegetables brussels sprouts cabbage
broccoli cauliflower arugula also to get
a water filter that will screen out some
of these Plastics that was number three
there's actually number four alcohol
will really shut down your testosterone
I'm sorry I'm just the messenger don't
click off I'm not quite down yet and
there's just one last thing that will
shut down that whole pathway and that is
inflammation a lot of the inflammation
that happens in the body can be resolv
by consuming enough vitamin D vitamin D
can indirectly increase both
progesterone and testosterone by
decreasing inflammation and you don't
want to just take small amounts you want
to take at least
10,000 IUS every single day as a
maintenance and if you have low
testosterone or low progesterone we want
to make sure we get enough sun to get
the vitamin D or just take a supplement
for that about 20,000 I use of vitamin
D3 every day that's really only 40
minutes in the Summer sun okay it's not
that much but that vitamin D will be
really crucial to drop inflammation
through the body and allow these
chemical Pathways to work in addition to
just cholesterol if you want to increase
testosterone you want to make sure that
you have enough quality protein and red
meat is at the top of the list I'm
talking about grass-fed grassfish red
meat not just talking about beef you can
do lamb if we combine that with another
thing that will increase testosterone
which is high-intensity interval
training or resistance training couple
times a week we can really add the
stimulus to tell the body to make more
testosterone one point with exercise as
well overtraining if you overtrain
you're going to take your testosterone
and just drive it right into the ground
why because you increase cortisol we
want to do intermittent type workouts
you can do long walk walks things like
that you don't want to do moderate pulse
rate or high pulse rate for a longer
period of time not good for testosterone
I hope you know a little bit more about
progesterone what it does how it's
related to testosterone and if you're a
man how to increase it a bit more thanks
for watching and I will see you in the
next video
