now balancing out your Omega 6 to your
omega-3 fats can be a bit complex so I'm
going to show you a real simple way to
do it but why do you need to do it well
because we have a big problem now with
people that are getting way too much of
the omega-6 fatty acids and definitely
not enough of the omega-3 fatty acids
the ideal ratio of omega-6 omega-3 fatty
acids should be one to one the average
person in America is like 20 to one
because take a look at the seed oils
that's 70 to one potato chips 60 to one
grains 20 to one chicken 17 to one grain
fed beef 9 to one then we have the
grass-fed beef which is only two to one
then we have pasture eggs look at this 3
to one but commercial eggs 29 to one why
because they're eating the grains okay
then we have leafy greens one: one Wild
game is 3:1 and fish is one: one so what
is so bad about these omega-6 fatty
acids well one thing among a many other
things is that the omega-6 fatty acids
can invade your cell membranes and be
part of your cell membrane okay so this
this double layer of fat in your cell
membranes is vitally important
especially in this cereal cortex and the
retina and the testes and even sperm and
so the richest source of DHA which is an
omega-3 fatty acids is in your cerebral
cortex of your brain the part of the
brain that helps you think and make
logical decisions and it supposedly it
does a lot of other things and the but
the retina too the retina needs this DHA
you have a lot of DHA in your retina and
the testes and the sperm so if you're
deficient in omega-3 fatty acids so your
your brain's not going to work that well
okay you're not going to be able to see
as well you're not going to be able to
produce testosterone as much and you're
probably going to be infertile but other
than that you're perfectly fine with too
much omega-6 and not enough omega-3 your
red blood cells become stiff okay they
cannot travel and bend and get through
the capillaries and so they plug things
up your blood becomes thicker you become
more obese especially with your visceral
fat you develop insulin resistance in
diabetes Omega 6 is very
pro-inflammatory so you're going to have
more
inflammation and more risk for thrombus
which is a clot there's more of a
tendency to get a vasos spasm in your
coronary artery which leads to a heart
attack and there's definitely more Vaso
constriction okay the simplest way to
solve this problem is just to increase
your omega-3 fatty acids because if you
just cut down the omega-6 fatty acids
without increasing the omega-3 fatty
acids it's not going to work so I would
start by just increasing your omega-3
make it simple you have a couple choices
you can either do fish oil or cver oil
the advantage of Civ oil is that you not
only get the omega-3 fatty acids but you
also get additional vitamin A and
vitamin D but of course in addition to
this I would also recommend several
other things like number one replace
your salad dressings with olive oil now
be careful when you buy olive oil um at
the grocery store because there's a lot
of fake olive oil I would say 80% of all
the olive oil sold especially the cheap
stuff is fake when you taste olive oil
it should have a very distinct taste
that uh gives a little tickle in the
back of your throat when you consume it
it shouldn't be Bland because the fake
olive oil is basically just canola oil
or a corn oil or some other oil that
we're trying to get rid of so that's
just a point about that number two when
you're at a restaurant uh don't consume
any of the fried foods simply because
they're going to use corn oil canola
cotton seed oil um what else uh soy oil
things like that so I'd really make sure
that the food that I get at a restaurant
is does not have any of that stuff
number three consume fatty fish like
salmon at least twice per week number
four make sure your meats and things are
grassfed because the grain fed will just
throw off your omega-6 to omega-3 ratios
okay number five limit chicken out of
all the meats chicken has the most Omega
6 fatty acids but it's interesting
because um they will tell you oh eat
more like white meat you know from
chicken and turkey there it's lean and
eliminate the red meat right because
that the problem no no no it's the
chicken that is the problem and then of
course uh really limit your grain fed
animal products if you're going to
consume nuts uh eat more walnuts because
walnuts have have
ala that converts into omega-3 fatty
acids EPA and DHA all right there we
have it the simple way to fix this
racial problem I think a really good
video for you to watch next would be on
the one on olive oil check it out I put
it right here
