[Music]
hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about vitiligo this is the loss of that
pigment on the skin and those little
white specks that you can have anywhere
in the body in the face and the hands
they can be very embarrassing because
they're on your skin and it's hard to
hide it so let's talk about what this is
and what you can do about it
again this is for your research it's not
a means of an instant cure but it may
help you greatly in fact it might get
rid of the problem but we have to
understand what the problem is so skin
color comes from melanin which is
controlled by melanocytes which are
cells that control how much or how
little this substance is in the skin and
so what happens you have this autoimmune
situation an autoimmune situation is
where your own immune system the white
blood cells attack your cells so it's a
self attack where the immune system is
overwhelmed so that's really what
destroys the cells and then you have
this loss of pigment okay so what
triggers this condition is stressful
events especially emotional stress a lot
of clients who came to see me over the
years and they had this condition one
for one they went through some emotional
stress some severe losses and they
usually had poor adrenals because the
adrenal gland is also involved in the
immune system and that's why a condition
called Addison's which is low adrenal
has one of the symptoms being vitiligo
and sometimes even the darkening of the
skin as well so the adrenals are
involved and that's why one of the
remedies would be also prednisone or
cortisol a cortisone on the skin which I
don't recommend glutathione is one of
the most powerful cell protectors it
protects the cell against stress and so
the strategy here is not to kill
something off is to strengthen the
immune system okay so how do you do that
you're going to add glutathione as a
supplement you're also going to add NAC
NAC works with glutathione and these two
together work really good for a loss of
immunity especially if you've taken
steroids and all of a sudden they don't
work anymore prednisone that type of
thing and selenium is
kind of a precursor for glutathione so I
recommend that as well
green juices any type of green juice
powder is very very beneficial for the
skin lots of Sun so you get vitamin D
vitamin D is healing for the skin and
last but not least low stress you have
to change your environment you have to
get rid of the actual Stu trigger that
instigated this in the first place
alright thanks for watching hey if you
haven't already subscribed press the
button below and I will keep you in the
know hey that rhymes
