let's talk about B12 deficiency symptoms
that you never want to ignore the
interesting thing about B12 is that most
people think about a vegan or a
vegetarian being deficient in B12
because B12 normally comes from animal
products but there are so many other
ways that you could become deficient
that you need to be aware of so if
you're not able to make DNA correctly or
repair DNA number one you're put at a
higher risk for cancer and other
problems number two the red blood cell
if you can't make red blood cells you
cannot carry oxygen you become anemic so
that's another big one and number three
your nervous system in your brain in
order to make the milein sheath the
stuff around the nerves B12 is necessary
and without the B12 without the myin you
get a short circuiting neurological
problems that don't just affect your
hands and feet but they affect your
brain but we're going to get more into
that when we talk into the severe
long-term deficiency of B12 so when a
person is first deficient in B12 they're
usually G to just feel a little tired
they're going to feel a little bit
weaker because the red blood cell is
just not able to carry oxygen they might
look a little pale and that's the anemia
because they don't have as many red
blood cells and they might even then
notice a tingling in their fingertips or
their feet which is the start of nerve
problems but then as time progresses
other things can happen your tongue
becomes very smooth shiny and red and
swollen you can develop mouth ulcers
which by the way I had that when I was
younger you could become out of breath
very very easily you get dizzy when you
stand up too quickly those are severe
anemia symptoms then you start having
cognitive problems then also your mood
starts going down you start getting
anxiety other symptoms include circadian
rhythm issues so your sleep cycles are
off so you just don't sleep that good
anymore and then also because B12 is
involved with the nervous system the
person starts developing kind of a
deficiency of neurotransmitters that
show up as depression I mean how many
people that are depressed end up going
on medication when they really have a
B12 deficiency that would be terrible
cuz that would camouflage the symptom
and they would never get better also if
you're deficient in B12 you can have
problems with something called Vitiligo
where the actually normal pigment on the
skin is not there anymore so you get
these white specks throughout the body
so there'll be a problem with
pigmentation to the body and sometimes
even the cracks in the corner of your
mouth right here and I had that as well
growing up now when things get really
severe you start having all sorts of
problems with walking severe muscle
weakness a lot more psychiatric problems
that go beyond just depression like
hallucinations paranoia okay paranoia
now even if you have a subclinical B12
deficiency you may feel like Doom and
Gloom for no reason I know some people
have that at night they have like night
terrs and the worst problem about a B12
deficiency chronically or long term is
permanent irreversible nerve damage this
is where you have all sorts of pain
syndromes that are next to impossible to
reverse now the unique thing about
getting B12 from the diet is that if
you're not consuming animal products
you're not going to probably get it so
vegans or vegetarians need to take B12
now before I get into the very strange
and unique ways that you could become
deficient let's just talk about the
foods that are the absolute highest for
B12 at the very top of the list this
food has the most B12 the clams okay
clams who would think and then we get
into to liver then we get sardines then
we get red meat now if you do a search
on what foods are high in B12 you're not
going to find red meat why because these
search engines are programmed to filter
out because they're very biased
sometimes anything related to red meat
and then if you ask like chat chpt uh
why didn't you include that they're
going to say because red meat is going
to put you at risk for cancer and
cardiovascular problems and and then you
can go back and forth with chat gbt and
argue with it till eventually you'll say
well wait a second Now isn't there a
difference between grass-fed uh red meat
and processed meat and then chat GPT
will apologize and say you're right and
there is no research on grass-fed meat
and so you really got to be careful
about these search engines because red
meat is one of the best sources of B12
then we get to the tuna and the salmon
and then grass-fed Dairy and eggs so
those are the foods that that have a lot
of B12 and our body cells don't make B12
however in our large intestine we do
make some B12 okay but the problem is we
can't absorb it in that large intestine
so you never see that B12 it's probably
used by your microbes okay but the way
B12 works is that B12 has a a trace
mineral in it called Cobalt okay and so
here you have this Cobalt vitamin B12
you consume it it goes down to the
stomach now because this B12 has a
protein molecule connected with it it
can be destroyed by the stemach acid so
it quickly attaches to another compound
to protect it okay and then when it goes
into the small intestine it gets
absorbed here's the problem okay if you
have low stomach acid you're not going
to be able to absorb B12 okay it's not
going to work how many people have low
stomach acid huge amounts especially as
you get older after the age of 70 the pH
the acid in your stomach is is down by
80% the term is called Chlor hydria okay
low stomach acid and I used to test this
in my office all the time and I would
find people a lot of people had low
stomach acid especially if they had
heartburn acid reflux gird always low
stomach acid so they were very deficient
in B12 if you have a genetic problem
which is more common than you might
think the term for that is called
polymorphism not that you needed to know
that but if you get a genetic test a DNA
test you may find you have a problem
absorbing B12 so this is why I take B12
on a regular basis now if you ever ever
take B12 supplements make sure that you
always take the natural form called
methyl camine But realize taking B12 is
only the tip of the iceberg you have to
have a a healthy liver you have to have
an acidic stomach you have to have a
healthy small intestine a lot of things
have to be right for you to absorb B12
now since we're on the topic of B12
there's a little bit more you should
know about that in this video right here
check it out
