let's talk about the four ways to speed
up the growth of muscle now you have
about 650 muscles in your body and I'm
talking mainly the skeletal muscles not
into the other muscles but the purpose
of muscle is to create movement to help
you with posture to help you even with
your metabolism if you don't have enough
muscle mass let's say you're you're
getting older and you lose your muscle
you lose your metabolism too so you have
a lot of mitochondria that helps you
burn fat in your muscle and then also
muscle helps uh pump the lymphatic
system and so if you don't move a lot
you're not going to pump your lymp
through your body now there are two not
surprising ways to increase muscle
growth you already know this
high-intensity exercise and the
consumption of protein you're not going
to grow muscles on a vegan burger okay
or a plant-based Burger it's not going
to happen you need the best source of
protein and that would be animal protein
steak and eggs are at the top of the
list now how much protein you need
anywhere between 8 to
1.5 g of protein per kilogram of weight
now what I mean by kilogram of weight
I'm talking about of your kilogram of
lean body muscle weight so if you're a
really big person and you have a lot of
fat you got to do this calculation on
your lean body mass and I will put a
link down below to kind of help you
figure out that calculation now if
you're not into kilograms you're into
more pounds there's a different formula
for that I'm going to put that down
below when you're talking about grams of
protein we're not talking about the
actual weight of a steak for example
we're talking about the protein in that
steak let's say for
example if we talk about pounds right
and you weigh about 185 pounds and
that's how much lean body mass you have
that would come out to about 84 kg okay
if we do the calculation on8 G I would
just times that time 84 and that comes
out to 67 G and then if we look at the
high range 1.5 G and we do that
calculation we're talking between 67 g
of protein to 126 g of protein so what
would determine if you're on the low end
or the high end your age how active you
are how much exercise you do and the
strength of your digestive system like
if you're 95 years old you're probably
not going to do the top highest amount
of protein versus if you were an athlete
at 20 years old and some people might
even need to go up to 2 gam of protein
per kilogram of lean body mass now let's
get into the surprising things that can
increase the speed of muscle growth
first thing on the list is creatine
right and by the way creatine is in
Foods especially meat but if we want to
speed up the growth of muscle we want to
take it as a supplement it's not
necessarily creating muscle
itself but indirectly it is because
creatin is kind of like a a buffer or a
substitute for energy especially the
initial high-intensity exercise with
short duration even before glucose is
made you use a type of creatin and
that's used as energy to allow you to
recycle or recover this ATP and what's
unique about that is when you exercise
high intensity short duration
that is what increases the muscle growth
and so creatin allows you to do that if
you don't have enough creatin you're not
going to have the energy to work out
like that number one and the energy
that's supplying the system actually can
help you grow this muscle it allows you
to do more work I mean if you're going
to go work out and build muscles and
you're tired and you don't have enough
energy it's probably not going to happen
now as far as how much creatine you need
if you're really serious about building
muscles I would use 20 G for about 5
days and then go down to like a
maintenance dosage of 3 gram for the
rest of the month and then you would
cycle to a higher amount 20 grams for 5
days and then cycle back to your smaller
maintenance amount number two cold
therapy now you can do cold showers cold
immersion cryotherapy there's a lot of
different versions of this when you're
in the cold the body has to do something
very very unique it has to maintain the
core temperature so it has to generate a
tremendous amount of energy to do that
so to do that you're going to generate
this type of brown fat which then will
stimulate the white fat and you're going
to burn a lot of calories and so the
combination of burning more calories
burning more fat and the coal therapy
both in rats and humans increases the
expression of the muscle Gene
okay certain genes in your muscles that
help the growth of muscle as well as
something called the RNA which is kind
of like the the protein factory that
makes different proteins cold therapy
increases that coal therapy also
decreases inflammation now you may have
heard um studies that show that coal
therapy actually does not increase your
muscle okay it actually will shrink your
muscles that is true
initially but in the recovery phase it
will increase the muscle size it's kind
of like any type of stress you can
overdo it we want intermittent type
stress to the body to create some cool
changes all right number three
intermittent fasting there's one school
of thought that if you're not eating
your muscles are going to waste away but
what happens when you do intermittent
fasting you stimulate growth hormone you
stimulate all sorts of things that
indirectly can potentially increase
muscle through the hormone growth
hormone here's the Catch 22 you're
probably not going to grow any muscles
if you're doing any type of prolong
fasting I'm talking about just doing
intermittent fasting like two meals a
day not cutting your calories down just
not having the snacks because
intermittent fasting will also make
insulin more sensitive so by fixing
insulin resistance you can actually get
more insulin to the muscle because the
snacking just kills this whole process
here's another Catch
22 you got to be somewhat healthy to do
fasting I mean if you take a really sick
person and you start to put them on this
stress of fasting it might not be the
best thing to start them out on I'm
talking about a person who is not sickly
who has somewhat of a good health and
that can do this correctly and also
combine at the same time the exercise
because they have the energy to do it
number four arine and it can
significantly help you increase growth
hormone by inhibiting another hormone
called somatostatin so argine kind of
takes the breaks off of growth hormone
they've even given children that are a
bit shorter than they should be about
2.2 G of Arginine and notice that they
actually grew taller but arginine is
another surprising way to enhance the
growth of muscle but what you want to do
is you want to take a bit higher amounts
between three 3 to 6 G per day on an
empty stomach and I think the best time
to take it is about 30 minutes before
you work out now if you have not seen my
other powerful video to grow muscles I
put it right here check it out
