hi guys I want to talk about the three
ways to lose weight okay the first way
is what's most people have tried before
just eating less going on a low-calorie
diet
restricting calories okay going on a
cleanse
okay the Master Cleanse the lemon and
maple syrup cleanse or the liver cleanse
even and then you have people that take
appetite suppressants and then they cut
down the appetite and then they start
losing weight okay
the general problem with this method is
that it slows your metabolism it creates
vitamin and mineral deficiencies okay
now if you do appetite suppressants
you're really going to it's going to
work initially and then it's not going
to work anymore because it's going to
rebound it's not a healthy way to lose
weight and it's going to destroy your
metabolism eventually so I do not
recommend that cleanses are okay
short-term but if you lose weight and
all of a sudden you gain it right back
it's because this is not a long-term
solution so generally speaking eating
less just makes you crave and makes you
hungry okay so it's not a long-term
solution the keto in a minute fasting we
talked about that many times this is the
best if you're new to this channel I put
a link down below of a little mini
course that you can take which will show
you how to do this but this way you're
actually healing the metabolism you're
repairing the metabolism from the time
that you died it all the years of
dieting this repairs the damage okay
especially if you combine them in a
fasting you're not going to crave
eventually you're not going to be hungry
it's very healthy a lot of health
improvements it's satisfying you can
have pleasure foods that are tweaked
they're not like sugar but this is very
healthy then we get to exercise there's
people that I know that would rather
exercise and change your diet so they're
just going to exercise those calories
off and lose weight I had one lady come
in to see me that was working out six
hours a day I'm not kidding six hours a
day and it was working initially then it
stopped working that's why she came to
see me and she was paranoid because she
thought if she even stopped working out
she would gain all this weight
what I told her was that 15% of the
results that you get are from exercise
but 85% of the results that you
potentially could get come from the diet
okay of course we should skip over the
in a minute fasting because that's not a
diet just a frequency of not eating or
eating but the point is that exercise is
okay but if you're relying on this to
lose weight it's not the most powerful
tool okay the thing you to know is there
are three there are three hormones that
make fat and there's six hormones that
burn fat and all the fat burning
hormones have a very minor effect a
trivial effect compared to these guys
right here and one of these hormones is
insulin and insulin has the power to
nullify all of these so even though
you're eating less food if you're adding
the carbohydrates in there it's not
gonna work
even on a low-calorie diet okay so this
is the solution right here okay if you
want to add exercise that's awesome it's
even better just make sure you don't
over train all right
thanks for watching hey tell me what you
think about this video go ahead and
comment below and give me your feedback
