okay so this is the template for
evaluation we have the symptom up here
which is the effect cause and valuation
is basically
connecting the symptom with the correct
real cause to do that you have to
evaluate which means to look closely at
all the information this is data all the
information that's why you're asking
questions you're tearing down your
investigation so you have to really
study the subject if you're if you're
doing like for example if you're uh
let's say the adrenals okay the adrenal
body type you have to know about the
adrenal to be able to evaluate because
you you have to know about blood sugars
to be able to evaluate you have to know
about a engine before you can evaluate
so this is an essential like thing you
need to know first but there's many many
different causes of a symptom and you're
just going to narrow down by asking
questions and see what aligns with a
potential cause so like I said if you
have
fatigue um I mean that could and you
start asking like this is the most
important question time when did it
start when did you first notice you got
a fever when did you start noticing you
started gaining weight when did you
start noticing you had a sleeping
problem or fatigue then it's going to be
after a big clue and then now that's
going to start to narrow down your
um thought process so we can rule stuff
out because uh let's say they have pain
in the right lower uh abdomen area and
then when did it start uh 3 days ago and
you thinking well it's probably ovary
and you're talking on the phone but then
you find out when you a ask a lot of
questions about the data you find out
this lady is 83 years old so what does
that tell you it tells you that it's not
going to be the ovary
so what happened when did it start
happening and what happened just before
what
change occurred with diet stress what
did you do she she says I stopped
drinking the cranberry
juice
okay or or no I'm sorry she started
drinking a cranberry juice when this
pain started okay in the lower quadrant
and you go oh okay well what could now
you know that what cranberry affects the
kidneys cranberry dissolves kidney
stones so she probably dissolv the most
obvious thing is she dissolved crud from
your kidney and it went down the tube
between your kidney and your bladder and
cause that discomfort so that would be
the most likely thing based on your
knowing the information so you're
looking at the information you're asking
questions about it you're seeing how
things relate and you're just you say
like well I don't understand that you
keep asking questions until you get to
the real cause okay that's the
Simplicity of valuation but um again we
have to link cause and effect they're
two different things and when you get
the right cause you get a lot of
cooperation from the patient it makes
sense to them they just intuitively they
go yeah okay that makes sense
um depression let's take depression for
example so one of the things that I want
to add
here
is defining the
problem okay what do you mean by
depression tell me what it feels like oh
it's a heaviness it's a fatigue
heaviness like oh okay because what does
depression feel like what does anxiety
feel say anxiety I'd say what does it
describe it to me oh it's like a
heaviness where in my chest ah ah or
it's a fat I'm depressed I fatigued in
my eyes I'm like oh well I already know
that tired eyes occur if you skip
protein for breakfast that's just a fact
that I know and so the some of the
questions I'm going to find out what do
you eat for breakfast and they're going
to say I eat an English muffin
boom now we we deal with now it's a
blood sugar thing you see how I
evaluated that I'm I'm associating data
with a root cause because I understand
the subject quite well but if they say I
have a heaviness on my head and and you
don't get anywhere you say well have you
ever injured your head and they go yes I
was in the hospital for two months with
a head concussion I'm like oh my God
boom that's it right there so it's an
old injury I wonder your head and you
thought you're depressed or you might
find they're depressed is really it's
it's really a tiredness in their whole
body and then you find find out that
they don't sleep at all and then you
find out why keep asking questions you
can find the real cause but again that's
how you evaluate so you need to get good
at evaluation
