hey guys I want to give you some tips
for old injuries and aging if you've had
old injuries and you're noticing that
you're getting older and your joints are
starting to bother you you're becoming
more stiff pain degenerative disk
disease where your discs are thinning
you're getting shorter degenerative
joint disease where your joints are
starting to break down or you're getting
spurring muscle guarding lack of range
of motion then these are the things you
need to do number one we want to drop
inflammation down as far as possible to
do that in a minute fasting is
hands-down the best way to do it okay
I'll put a link down below of how to do
that but you if you've been watching my
videos you already know and you're
already doing it but this will really
help your inflammation combination of
keto intermittent fasting it's going to
help a lot stinging nettle root is
another thing that will drop
inflammation probably faster than any
herb that I know and by the way going
back to number one in a minute fasting
stimulates something called a toughie G
ok and as far as anti-aging goes or
slowing down the aging process this is
it right here
because it cleans out old and
dysfunctional parts of the cell and
really one part of aging is the
accumulation of these old dysfunctional
cellular parts that is building up and
it's not able to be recycled so if you
have a really good recycling mechanism
in your cell we can slow down the aging
process now number three opposite types
stretching now what do I mean by that
well there's a technique it's actually a
little secret that I'm gonna teach you
now you just have to promise not to tell
anyone anytime you have an injury and
you can't go into a motion let's say my
neck is injured and I have
osteoarthritis or degeneration and I
can't move my neck back okay and so here
you are you go to the gym you start
stretching it and you're stretching it
that will never work you want to stretch
in the opposite direction okay I'm not
going to get into why it works but you
just have to do it because it works so
if your head can't go back you stretch
it forward okay and keep stretching it
forward and you'll notice that then
you'll be able to go back if you can't
turn your head to the right stretch it
to the left okay
and you'll be able to go to the right
same thing with tight hamstrings stretch
the quadricep and this really works if
you have an injured joint find the
motion you can't go into and stretch in
the opposite direction try it it'll work
next thing is when you exercise you
really don't want to add a lot of
weights you want to use your own body
weight find exercise that only uses your
own body weight because adding more
weight is could potentially reactivate
the injury especially if you're trying
to let's say the spine is damaged and
you keep trying to do the sit-ups and
you keep trying or aggravate it you may
have to do some type of isometrics
something that doesn't aggravate that
joint lastly k2 in d3 k2 helps remove
calcium from the joints and from the
places that it shouldn't be in the soft
tissues like the arteries so the
combination of k2 and vitamin d3 is a
great vitamin complex to start to
mobilize this calcium out of the wrong
place to help with the spurring and the
breakdown and the arthritis in the joint
and also there is stem-cell therapy that
you can do I'm going to do a separate
video on that but that's something that
is going to be very popular coming up
real soon and it's great for old
injuries and helping rebuild the joint
all right thanks for watching hey before
you go definitely sign up for my free
keto course I put a link down below it's
on messenger in Facebook but it will
give you all the basics it's very quick
it's like three or four videos and it's
free check it out
