hey guys I'm back and today I'm gonna do
a slightly different video it's
involving Jared my videographer he
doesn't know this yet but Jared once you
come up here for a second time I know
I'm kind of putting on the spot here but
I wanted to do a video on you wanna
thanks for coming up here so um
Jared I I notice you actually made some
good changes with the diet so that's
really well done but I know there's a
couple little things that could be
improved just slightly okay so what I
want to do is I want to do an experiment
okay but first let's have you stand over
here and I want you to rate your energy
from this just so we can get it before
zero to ten ten being full of energy
zero being no energy how would you rate
your energy like right now right now
let's say about seven all right you're
seven okay so it's not too bad all right
so what about your sleep zero being like
you can't sleep ten being greatly I
would say I get previously maybe about
an eight I just need to work on getting
longer sleep okay and how many hours do
you get I get maybe five at five hours
that's because you're editing all my
videos right and by the way this guy is
the best videographer on the planet he
does all the all the stuff for me summit
everything so a top Pro and then stress
how would you rate that zero stress to
ten ten maybe but okay all right good
all right so this is what I want to do
jerk I want to do an experiment and just
by tweaking your diet a little bit okay
for one week so I'm gonna see if you're
up for it I want to basically have you
consume because I've been watching you
eat and I think there's something
missing and I never see any type of
anything green other than a pistachio
ice cream in the lime green jello but I
think like I'm thinking talking about
like salads and stuff like that right so
have you ever ate a salad that's
like seven cups no okay so what we're
gonna do for one week if you're up for
it I want you to have seven cups of
vegetables a day we're not gonna do ten
okay and you can have those in two meals
whatever I just want to make that one
change I know you don't eat a lot of
sugar and stuff but I want to do the
greens for two minerals mainly well
vitamin C but also magnesium and
potassium both are involved in ATP the
energy also relaxation and stress and
what we're gonna do we're gonna do this
for one week and then we're just gonna
rewrite it okay now are you open for
that yeah thinking you do it I think I
think I can do a week well I don't know
like sometimes like I know you've been
watching all these videos but probably
you edit them but you probably don't
focus on the content you're just
focusing on the editing right right
mitochondria I know they're good okay
good so I think it was thinking that
sooner or later but what I want to do is
I want proof that you're gonna do this
so I want you to record yourself eating
a salad seven cups every day so we could
actually see it okay okay and then we'll
actually play it in this video and then
we'll just see if your energy increases
sleeping increases just by changing this
one little thing and this is a little
demonstration I got for it yeah I think
I'm on board all right all right let's
let's see
[Music]
okay we're back it's been a week so why
don't you come right here right there so
I'm going to ask you your energy I guess
you can turn this way here so you can
see these numbers here so your energy
was a seven what is it now my energy now
it's probably about a maybe an eight and
a half okay we'll take it all right good
so sleep now zero is bad ten is good I
would say
I mean I'm I have pretty good sleep like
you saw well I think I did pretty good
on it as well and I would say maybe just
with my energy level going up I would
say much like about a nine nine okay
good I feel so good after the sleep as
well okay good
any difference was stressed this isn't
like no stress this is a lot of stress I
would say maybe about a four I'll go
down a little in that yeah okay all
right good all right so we got some
improvement so the first time you did
tell me what happened was it hard at
first um yeah that first initial you're
like seven to ten cups and then I when I
actually started packing it into in the
bowl I just realized like how much salad
it actually is yeah or that first
initial one it felt like a lot because I
was literally taking breaks like
in-between it once I had it like the
next day I woke up I felt like really
good like it felt like I was refreshed
no aches or pains did you do seven cups
or you ten cups idea seven okay good
we'll take it I just wanted to do this
experiment and just with someone that
doesn't consume that just to see if
there's any changes but you did get some
change it could always be improved but
the point is I wanted to I wanted to
challenge you as well if you're not
doing that to just do that for one week
to try it out because you feel like like
better feel good yeah and with like
stiffness or achiness or anything like
that I don't I don't know if you had
that before but did you feel any change
with that yeah I mean it's like
sometimes I would be groggy when I get
up and it would be
like that was another thing I show I
could just wake up like nothing like I
didn't have to make myself you know I
was just able to just like sit straight
up and I don't like drink coffee or
nothing so I'm still Wow yeah that was
so nuts yeah so that really helped
that's good
so the potassium magnesium all those
nutrients it's gonna actually give it's
gonna feed yourselves what it needs now
you also have a you're not perfect on
keto I know that but you do have this
stew that you make right yeah with
vegetables and kale and you it's easy
stick in the crock-pot boom ya can eat
that every day right yeah and then um I
think you did last night you had
something like what pizza yeah I did
have a PC last night but you had your
salad I didn't have make up the damage
right okay so it was a Super Bowl okay
so here's the thing guys this is like
something you have to try for yourself
now most of you watching are already
doing this but what I want to do not
right now but I'm gonna challenge you
with the little cart thing but not we're
not gonna do it right now okay but I
want you to try these greens just
increase your greens but keep the keto
in as much as possible just to keep that
variable there so we don't really add
too many things at once but as you can
see scientifically there was a
significant change well I think was
significant pretty good and energy sleep
stress and things like that and just so
you know this guy does all my video Aang
filming on the side he creates amazing
movies so I did put your link down below
you got to check out his movies I mean
you know blow you away and I mean with a
very low budget I think one camera like
top-line professional so anyway check it
out and I think you'll enjoy it
alright guys eat more salad I'll see you
next time
