hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about acceptable fats on a ketogenic and
in a minute fasting plan ok let's start
with coconut oil what's so good about
coconut oil first of all it has
something called MCTS medium chain
triglycerides which are healthy fats
that help you make energy burn fat and
also they have a different digestive
pathway so they're really easy on the
liver and the gallbladder
it also has things to boost your immune
system like something called lauric acid
so it's good for the immune system as
well butter as long as it's grass-fed is
very healthy for this program and then
we have olives did you realize that an
olive has over 80% fat it's great on a
keto it has high fiber low carb I would
also recommend fermented Sicilian green
olives the phytonutrient levels are off
the charts
amazing great for bone loss loaded with
copper iron vitamin E and a really
healthy olive for a ketogenic plan then
we have avocados okay
there's so much nutrition packet in
avocado tons of potassium great healthy
fats egg yolks make sure they're organic
and pasture-raised most of the nutrition
is in the yolk low - his vitamin A
vitamin D and a ton of other vitamins
and then you have nuts and nut butters
make sure there's no added sugar and if
you can get it with sea salt that would
be a little bit better seeds seed
butters flax oil some people are
concerned that that's gonna increase
your estrogen it's not it's gonna
balance the estrogen that you already
have even in men it's not gonna be a
problem chia seed is also really good
animal fats as long as it's grass-fed
totally healthy fish and fish oil make
sure if you're doing a fish oil it's a
higher end type higher quality some of
the fish oils out there right now are
rancid and I like the one that's a
virgin cod liver oil it's very very
healthy and fresh and then we have
grass-fed cheese a grass-fed raw cheese
would be the best if you can find it
and definitely avoid the soy oil the
corn oil the cottonseed oil to canola
these are GMO moderate amounts of
safflower oil and sunflower seed oil
okay there you have the list of
acceptable fats Anna ketogenic in an
intermittent fasting program hey before
you go definitely sign up for my free
keto course I put a link down below it's
on messenger in Facebook but it will
give you all the basics it's very quick
it's like three or four videos and it's
free check it out
