hi guys Dr Burg here in this video we
want to talk about excess thirst and
urination okay what is that well it
could mean one of six things uh the most
common is this one right here so let's
talk about it first diabetes or
pre-diabetes because here's the data
water follows glucose in the body so in
diabetics they have more glucose
sometimes coming out of urine and uh
there goes the water too so because it's
following the glucose so uh even in
insulin resistance I've noticed a lot of
people getting up at night peeing a lot
at night so I will put a link down below
if you have any symptoms of like blood
sugar issues follow that protocol
exactly and that may just correct it but
if it doesn't you may need to get
checked for diabetes and citus which is
a different type of Diabetes which you
have incredible intense thirst and
you're peeing all day long that's either
a hypothalamus problem or a kidney
problem or a pituitary problem it's up
in the brain or it's down in the kidney
and then you have this other condition
called hyper aldosterone aldosterone is
a uh mineral controlling hormone in the
adrenal gland so there on the outside of
the adrenal gland so it could be your
producing too much for some reason let's
say you're on a diuretic and you're and
you're pumping out a lot of fluids uh
could be excessive caffeine or alcohol I
know people when they drink large
quantities of alcohol they do pee a lot
don't they uh and then hyper calcemia
this is just something where you have
too much calcium in the blood that can
come from a parathyroid problem it could
come from a lot of different causes but
the reason why I wanted to quate this
video is that if you have these two
symptoms and you're being evaluated and
everything shows
normal have your doctor test for these
other items as well just to make sure
all right thanks for watching he I just
want to take a moment to thank you for
your amazing amazing successes that you
guys are writing about and I would love
to have a complete success story from
you with a before picture and an after
picture as well if you have that and I
put a link down below so you can fill it
out if you don't have a weight loss
before and after just put an image of
yourself and your success I would love
to read it and I would love to share it
with others because it does give them
hope that they could be helped too thank
you so much
