today I'm going to discuss 12 triggers
or causes of your inflammation been in
practice for 30 years so I had the
opportunity to see a very wide range of
different cases and different causes and
some things that you're not going to
find if you actually Google them let's
start off with number one if you have
any inflammation on the right side of
your body okay I don't care if it's
fibromyalgia or shoulder pain or a
headache on the right side or anything
down in the lower part of your body as
well suspect something related to the
gallbladder and it could be just the
bile ducts themselves being congested
with what's called bile sludge which a
lot of people don't even know about that
they they think automatically you have
to have a gall stone but not necessarily
there could be some sludge which is
really the stage before a gallstone
develops you start having this super
concentrated amount of cholesterol um
because there's not enough bile salts
and so it's becomes thickened and it
starts to plug up those little ducks and
oh my goodness does that create a lot of
tension and pressure underneath your
right rib cage that can then trigger a
nerve that goes up to your neck and
cause referred pain anywhere up here on
the Trap and your back part that comes
down your arm think something related to
the gallbladder or the bile ducts
there's a couple quick ways to know if
you have that just start massaging
underneath your right rib cage about an
inch down about an inch off the midline
to the right start pressing in the area
it's usually going to be congested you
hold the pressure for maybe a minute or
two and see if that pain doesn't just go
away another good remedy for that would
be something called tdka which is a type
of bile salt that you would take on an
empty stomach I would take two in the
morning two in the afternoon and if it's
really bad you might even need some uh
other types of bile salt uh right after
the meal that will thin the bile okay
allow things to pass through easily and
you should feel relief on your right
side and ultimately you need to change
your diet which I'm going to get to at
the end of this video so believe it or
not that is a really common reason why
people have pain on the right side and
sometimes on the left side too because
it can also block the ducks that go into
the pancreas and refer pain to the left
shoulder as well number two a vitamin D
deficiency when you're deficient in d uh
most likely you're going to have low
back pain but it could be any type of
pain anywhere in the body and a simple
remedy is to increase amount of vitamin
D3 up to 50,000 IUS every day so many
people are deficient in vitamin D and
they don't know it's that they think
they're getting enough Sun you have to
get a lot of sun and expose a lot of
your body to the Sun to be able to get
your vitamin D and people don't do that
and they also don't realize that it's
very difficult to get enough vitamin D
from the diet all right the next reason
is because they've been through some
stress shock situation I'm talking about
a severe loss of something it can also
be a chronic stress as well mental
stress but the point is that stress
activates cortisol and it can shock the
immune system um if it's a sudden thing
or if it's a chronic thing to the point
where your immune system is not working
anymore and so stress and the hormone
cortisol that actually is uh related to
stress not only are you losing the
defense of your IM system but you're
also losing the anti-inflammatory effect
cortisol normally gets rid of
inflammation so if you had a lot of
stress maybe you might think wow I'm
getting more cortisol so I'm getting
more anti-inflammatories but that's not
what happens you start developing
cortisol resistance and now cortisol
doesn't work it's very similar to
insulin resistance where you have too
much insulin but you have insulin
resistance so it doesn't work so a lot
of the bad effects of insulin resistance
is a deficiency of insulin a lot of the
bad effects from uh cortisol resistance
is a cortisol deficiency and this is why
so many people with pain take prazone or
some cortisone shot or some type of skin
cream that involves cortisone so one
good remedy for that is to help yourself
in any way you can with the stress and
start walking and doing exercise as well
as taking higher amounts of Vitamin D it
just so happens that vitamin D3 Works
similar to cortisol in the body but
without the side effects of the cortisol
and there's one little aspect about this
that I want to mention too uh people
could have had a virus in the past like
Epstein bar virus for example or herpes
virus that goes into a latent stage
where resides in a dormant area and then
stress can bring out that virus into
remission and create
inflammation and usually along with that
you'll have chronic fatigue or
fibromyalgia so that is all caused
initially from some type of stress event
in which case you need to deal with the
stress and also take the vitamin D3 all
right the next is certain ingredients in
restaurant foods and you might not
suspect this because maybe you go out to
dinner quite frequently but you don't
know what you're getting when you're
going to a restaurant uh many of the
restaurants especially the fast food
restaurants are serving uh deep fried
things in oil that have been reused over
and over and over for weeks if not
months so you're getting something that
is fried in some corn oil or soy oil or
other oils that is probably going to uh
be left on the food in some way and it's
going to irritate your body especially
your digestive system there's other
foods like MSG uh like maltodextrin
preservatives chemicals lowquality foods
that um could be affecting you digestion
wise so so if you have any type of
inflammation it might be a good idea for
you to make your own food so you know
what's in it and you can control it
better but uh a lot of those um oils
could be also trans fats or hydrogenated
oils or omega-6 oils which are the soy
corn canola cotton seed oil all of that
can be
inflammatory the next thing is the three
big things that I think are in a most
people's diet in fact if you don't
believe me just go through a a grocery
store and start counting up how many of
these ingredients are in so many foods
okay um and we're talking about sugar
we're talking about grains and we're
talking about the gluten in the Grain
and then we're also talking about seed
oils which I've already mentioned in
restaurant Foods they're in grocery
store Foods in fact if you just go look
at the inside of that grocery store
there's roughly about uh 83% of all
those calories okay in the entire
grocery store as defined as all ultr
processed foods and some are more of the
starches the potatoes the crackers the
corn uh chips and things like that but
deep fried with those seed oils but on
the flip side you also have these
so-called healthy keto snacks that can
irritate and cause inflammation too uh a
lot of them have um sugar alcohols that
can create bloating and irritation to
your gut a lot of them have these new
functional fibers cyal corn fibers cyal
cioca fibers these are synthetic fibers
so that can irritate your gut they
haven't been around for a long time and
I know they bloat a lot of people so
just because something has this word
keto on it doesn't make it a super
healthy thing and it could be the reason
why you have inflammation all right and
something else that can actually cause
inflammation is visceral fat so the more
you do uh what I'm going to recommend uh
coming up very shortly uh the less your
fat you're going to have on your liver
in fact there's a way that you can get
rid of 50% of the fat just with this
certain thing I'm going to tell you so
stay tuned for for that high iron is
another cause of inflammation if you
have a genetic problem where you tend to
hold iron you can't get rid of iron and
you're doing a lot of red meat or iron
supplements or other Foods Iron Iron
like
liver that can create a lot of pain and
problem with your liver it's rare but it
can happen but for most people red meat
is totally fine as long as it's like
grass-fed and then we have alcohol not
just as hard liquor but you have wine
beer and other types of mixed drinks you
have food allergies okay um you have
dairy gluten you have allergies the
peanuts but you also have food
intolerances like lactose milk sugar
another one is frequent eating and so if
you eat uh very frequently you're going
to get a lot of bloating and that's
going to create a lot of distension and
it's going to create stress on your
digestive system most inflammation
problems come from food and not just
food but the frequency food so if you're
snacking a lot not good for inflammation
and this is why intermittent fasting is
a potent way to decrease inflammation as
well and lastly you may have a problem
with just um vegetables or things in
vegetables like oxalates or eltin or
things like that so if you have gut
inflammation okay uh you need to um try
something new you need to try just
cutting out all plants and of course the
beans and gos as well um get rid of the
salads for maybe a month and just have
more meats and eggs and fish and you may
find that a lot of your inflammation
goes away especially if it stems from
the digestive system so number one you
go on healthy keto number two you do
intermittent fasting number three you
add more vitamin D3 and number four if
you have gut inflammation to take
glutamine but you can also get glutamine
from red meat and cabbage okay those are
are two real special things that are
loaded with glutamine that actually help
fix the leaky gut which is responsible
for a lot of inflammation so there you
have it the 12 triggers or causes of
inflammation now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other side if you
have not seen my video on the healthiest
protein that you can consume I put it up
right here check it out it's very
interesting
