so the question is what exercise will
burn the most fat okay out of the three
variables we have duration intensity and
Recovery intensity is the factor that
will burn more fat than any other
exercise in fact intensity will increase
growth hormone by
450% so what I'm going to demonstrate is
a type of exercise called interval
training the
heck these kids gum high fruit disc corn
ser this is this is going to kill
[Music]
you so I like to take the bike and you
can do Hills you can do uh Sprints and
then you can relax cuz you can Coast
with the bike but when you do this um
You probably don't want to start with a
hill you want to start with something a
little bit
smaller there are many exercises like
you could do uh for example you can do
the skiing exercise back and forth
jumping back and forth you can do um um
pushing against the wall trying to push
the wall down you can uh jump
rope you can do um
push-ups you can jump up on up and down
like
burpees but the main thing is to get
high intensity with some rest back and
forth but before you do this make sure
you're sleeping make sure you have an
enough energy and make sure you're
somewhat fit and if you're just going
into this you might want to start off
walking and then doing it very very
small and gradually working yourself up
but you want to work up to this let's
check it
[Music]
out okay okay so that was called jump
the stump to get rid of your Bump right
so that's what my wife always calls it
all right so you can uh take anything in
your house you can do stairs you can if
you don't have a stump you can use go to
the gym you want to find a little
platform and you can hop on things it's
called
Plyometrics so basically it's it's the
science of hopping but you want to get
your whole body every single cell every
single muscle in explosion and then we
want to relax relaxing now we're going
to let our body fully come down to a
pre- reses state for about 3 minutes so
you're going to do high intensity for
maybe 30 seconds and rest for 3 minutes
but each person is different you can
calculate your exercise recovery cycle
with different tests but we're not going
to get into that right now so you're
resting you're sitting here you're
waiting for your heart rate to come down
you're not jogging in place you're
sitting down um but you want to start
off small you want to jump on small
little uh platforms to work up to the
don't just jump right up here right away
but I have people in their 70s that are
doing this on their stairs of their
house so check out this guy right here
he's 75 years old he's jumping on his
stairs back and forth him and his wife
are doing it she's not in her 70s she's
in her 50s and they do this every other
day so it's very very healthy for the
cardiovascular system it's good for your
blood sugars and it's really good for
fat burning I want to take it to the
next level I want to see there's
something I could actually jump on that
is a little higher than I normally jump
on I have an
idea let's go over
[Music]
here what do you think should I do it
should I try it oh what the heck you
only live
[Music]
once there's one more point about
interval training to keep growth hormone
which is the anti-aging fat burning
hormone continually going up you have to
keep making it more difficult because
your body adapts and when your body gets
used to it that hormone doesn't increase
anymore so you have to constantly come
up with creative ideas to get make it
harder and harder so I'm kind of at the
stage where I need to come up with a a
really difficult jump a really high jump
let me think what I can do
I have an idea
[Music]
