hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I
want to talk about the key nutrients for
beautiful hair uh my whole concept is
from the inside out like what you put in
your body versus trying to put some
cream or serum or shampoo or condition
on the hair that doesn't really fix
anything or restore because your hair is
simply dead so you want to feed it from
the inside out so here are the key
nutrients zinc very important zinc is a
type of Trace mineral that is involving
in enzymes to help grow protein so if
you're zinc deficient you're going to
have hair loss okay so that's one Trace
mineral and then we have Biotin there's
so many products out there right now
that you can take biotin and grow your
hair back because biotin is a B vitamin
that helps with protein it helps the
growth and Metabolism of protein um and
but biotin also strengthens the hair as
well so it makes the hair
thicker uh the problem with just taking
biotin by itself without some of the
other B vitamins you can create
deficiencies of other B vitamins so you
always want to take it's not it's okay
to take bio but just make sure you take
a b a b complex together with it okay
make sure it's not synthetic um now
vitamin
B6 that is like the um the spark plug
that allows everything to kind of work
well so especially invol in with protein
again and the hair and not just the hair
the skin the nails the muscles so people
that are B6 deficient have problems with
protein in general and collagen so since
the hair is collagen we want to include
B6 okay and then we have copper copper
is another Trace mineral like zinc but
if you're deficient in Copper you can
get split ends so the ends start
splitting right if you have split ends
you know you get a haircut but why not
just use it as an indicator to see
what's going on inside
so copper is a very important Trace
mineral to restore that then we have
trace minerals in general you have like
94 trace minerals and trace minerals
are minerals needed in smaller amounts
and they're involved in enzymes and
protein Body proteins rebuilding
proteins in the body ligaments tendons
hair nails things like that silica is
another Trace mineral um that's really
uh vital in making the hair and nails
strong so it doesn't break so if your
hair is brittle you need silica and
there are supplements just for like
individual supplements that have silica
for that and then we have collagen you
need collagen because the hair is made
out of a type of protein called collagen
um one problem with some people is they
don't have enough stomach acid so they
have heartb burning acid reflux and
things like that and that indicates that
you don't have enough enough acid
believe it or not um and you're not
going to be able to digest the collagen
so you could literally have a loss of
collagen in your body from your
digestive system U but the type of
collagen that I use I have a product
I'll put a link down below I use a wild
caught fish scale collagen because it
has unique types of collagen that are
designed to uh rebuild and regrow hair
and I also have all of the nutrients in
it with a natural blend of B vitamins
and then the other the problem with hair
loss for example is that sometimes you
get an alopecia which is like patches of
your hair falling out or just hair loss
in general Mal pattern or or hormonal uh
problems with your hair coming out in
the top part that is high levels of
androgens and no matter how many
nutrients you put in the body you're not
going to get your hair back because your
androgens are too high okay so what you
need to do for that is take something
that inactivates the enzyme that
converts that hormonal shift to Androgen
and that would be stingy nettle root
okay that's another vital herb that I
recommend to help uh stop the excess
production of Androgen especially in
females okay that's also in in my
product as well so anyway I wanted to
create a video on the key nutrients and
share your comments below thanks for
watching Press the Subscribe
button forgot the last part and I'm
going to see you next next time am I
going to I
will press up and uh yeah you'll get
future uh updates that's right updates I
knew there was a word hey if you're
enjoying my videos press the Subscribe
button below and I will keep you updated
on the future events thank you so much
