okay so we want to talk about vegetables
and bloating a lot of people have
digestive issues sometimes it's gas
bloating constipation when they consume
vegetables so here's what I recommend
there's certain vegetables that you need
to avoid okay
there's something called fat Matt
fermentable oligo die monosaccharides
and polyols okay so you don't need to
know that all you need to know is
there's certain types of vegetables and
sugar alcohols that don't digest very
well okay so very simply all you have to
do is only consume these vegetables bean
sprouts green beans bok choy bell pepper
carrot herbs cucumber lettuce tomatoes
zucchini eggplant radish and squash now
you would consume these for a period of
time several months until your system
can build up and develop all the
friendly bacteria to actually increase
that list to other types of vegetables
but this is a very key point because if
you bloat on keto and you're getting
constipation you're not gonna lose
weight it's not a healthy thing it can
create more inflammation so definitely
focus on these vegetables and I think
it's gonna actually give you a lot more
relief thanks for watching so I want to
know what you're interested in as far as
a video click the link down below and
share some ideas I want to hear
