we're to create a video on coffee
because I had someone mentioned that
they were drinking a lot of coffee and
they wanted to know if that was
interfering with their ability to lose
weight okay so how much coffee knocks
you out of fat-burning well you got
several factors here you have the amount
of caffeine that you're consuming
there's certain chemicals that
potentially could create a problem if
it's not organic also too much coffee
can deplete you of certain nutrients
primarily vitamin b1 and calcium and
these things if you're deficient can
affect a lot of things that like
critical chain reaction of side effects
over time if it becomes worse now you
might think that caffeine being a
stimulant would stimulate your
metabolism and help you burn off the fat
right well when you do too much and by
the way an eight ounce cup of coffee
usually takes between four and six hours
to clear out of the liver so if you're
taking too much it's going to be in a
liver longer it's going to take a lot
longer to clear that out it's gonna stay
in your system and what that's going to
do it's going to interfere with the
quality of your sleep
so really the big problem with too much
coffee is too much caffeine and by the
way tea also has caffeine and the
lowered quality of sleep
in fact weigh yourself before you go to
bed and when you wake up okay and see
how much weight you lost and then weigh
yourself when you wake up and before you
actually before you go to sleep you're
gonna lose weight when you wake up
because you burn most of the fat at
night so if you're working out today
like 48 hours later when you're sleeping
is when you're gonna see a lot of the
benefits so the sleep is so key and I'm
talking about the quality of sleep
normally you go through four waves of
sleep and the the top part of the wave
right here is called REM okay that's not
the deep sleep it's kind of like you're
you're kind of active mentally but
you're asleep but down here in the Delta
wave which is the deeper sleep is where
you burn the most fat that's when you
have all the growth hormone happening so
this is where we want to get into if
you're not getting enough sleep that
could be the reason why you're not
losing
the way now if you add exercise to it
okay when you're not sleeping you're not
going to recover so the exercise is kind
of be like a an action that's going to
be you know not producing a lot of good
results so it's you're not going to
achieve the full benefit of exercise if
you're not sleeping because you're not
going to recover because I get feedback
from people and a lot of people are
drinking a ton of coffee and all day
long right and they're wondering why
their weight loss is not working
so how much coffee do I consume I do
about eight ounces a small cup in the
morning I don't even know if it's eight
ounces it's a very small cup that's all
I do now in college I consumed a massive
amount of coffee and that's probably
what started my ulcers and my health
decline so if you are addicted I'm sorry
if you have a habit of drinking too much
coffee then start cutting it back okay
you can also do decaf something like
that I like a water processed decaf
without all the chemicals and then start
to kind of cut it back and you're going
to find that over time you're probably
going to actually get better sleep and
you're gonna lose more weight but if you
have been doing large amounts of coffee
it's very addicting and you might have
to wean off it slowly because there is a
chance that you might have some side
effects okay all right anyway I wanted
to bring up this point and this could be
the reason why you're not losing as much
weight thanks for watching
hey before you go I'm gonna create some
new videos on food evaluation okay so if
you'd like to participate I can't
promise that you'll be the person I'll
choose so here's what you're gonna do
you're gonna take a picture of what
you're eating a close-up okay of one day
how frequent you're eating like as in in
a minute fasting is it one meal two
meals and anything else that you're
drinking or supplements and go ahead and
add your height weight in age and any
major body problems that you're having
and what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
analyze that to see what you're doing
correct and what you need to improve all
right so go ahead and click the link
down below upload your information and
again I can't promise that I'm gonna
pick you but I'm gonna pick several
people and I'll do the evaluations and
I'll post these as YouTube videos all
right talk to you later
