hey guys I'm back and in this video I
want to answer the question is it okay
to take the trace mineral strontium for
osteoporosis so let's just talk about
that this trace mineral is the most
abundant trace mineral on planet Earth
and its main function is to help
increase bone density so it's chemistry
is very similar to calcium but this
trace mineral is really good to make the
outer shell of the bone very very rigid
and hard and also to help prevent hip
fractures so here's the big issue with
this trace mineral minerals come in two
forms inorganic and organic inorganic
would be similar to like rocks in the
soil okay their elements and what
happens is the plant is supposed to help
absorb these elemental inorganic
minerals and turn them into different
bonds which are weaker and we call those
organic minerals okay different
definition so Organic minerals have
weaker bonds that are much easier to
absorb in our body and process so when
you're dealing with trace minerals it's
important not to take the elemental ones
because your body can't really absorb
them too well you want a plant-based
trace mineral like this one okay this is
all plant base prehistoric vegetation
like 70 million years old and so this is
in the form that the body can absorb so
when you're trying to build bone in
addition to taking this you want to take
calcium and vitamin D the type of
calcium I'm going to recommend is
something called calcium aspartate and
hydrants okay this is a really good type
of calcium that absorbs like 98% and
then vitamin d3 make sure you get the d3
not the d2 and I would recommend taking
at least 10,000 IU's unless you're
getting regular Sun through the day when
you're building bone if you have
osteopenia or osteoporosis it does take
a long time okay and you have to eat
healthy as well so it could take one to
six years to build back your bone but
it's totally possible if you give your
body the raw material so one problem
with absorbing these minerals is making
sure your stomach is acidic because if
your stomach is not acidic you're not
going to absorb these minerals no matter
what so apple cider vinegar with with
each meal is important and the way that
you know you have an alkaline stomach is
if you have heartburn or acid reflux or
GERD then we know you don't have enough
acid okay if that's new to you watch the
link down below I'll put some
information on that so this is a very
important trace mineral for people with
osteopenia and osteoporosis thanks for
watching so I hope you're coming to the
keto Health Summit coming up in October
so I want to quickly comment on what
we're gonna do that's different from
other conventions okay the problem with
these other conventions is they give you
information over a load okay it's so
much data that you're basically swimming
in a sea of information we're going to
do things very differently we're only
going to cover the most important things
that make a huge difference now there
are three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory in concentration
that's going to blow you away and number
two I'm going to show you how to
increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism if you've
dyed it for a long time and everything
is kind of just really slow I'm going to
show you how to get complete control
over your metabolism so you can
literally turn up the dial as high as
you want and control as much weight as
you want to lose and these three things
are just a tiny bit of what you're going
to learn in the summit so click the link
below get signed up and I will see you
in October
