there's one very powerful
anti-inflammatory food that is going to
surprise you and I wish I knew about
this a long time ago when I had my
inflammation I had a lot of gut
inflammation but you can apply this to
any inflammation this also applies to
people with autoimmune diseases and
anyone with a condition that is itis
which is inflammation of fill in the
blank now there is a huge connection and
relationship between inflammation in
your joints and inflammation in the gut
many joint inflammatory processes
including many autoimmune diseases
originate in the gut and I'm going to go
through the foods that you should avoid
first okay and then I'm going to tell
you what you should be eating but the
foods that create the most inflammation
would be related to something like
gluten which actually is in grains most
of the grains create inflammation in
your gut most people with arthritis
don't know it but their grains that
they're eating are creating a lot of
inflammation then you have the obvious
things like alcohol sugar junk Foods
another name for Junk Foods would be
ultra processed foods did you realize
that 83% of all the calories in the
grocery store are ultr processed foods
and we wonder why our digestive system
is so messed up now we also have corn
okay corn is very inflammatory it's
usually in some type of processed
refined corn product or high fructose
corn syrup but I think about like
96% of all corn is genetically modified
which means it could have traces of
glyphosate which is considered an
antibiotic it can actually mess with
your gut flora and create other issues
and then then we have soy the same boat
most soy is genetically modified and soy
and corn have lactin which also irritate
your gut which then can stir up the
inflammation and by the way corn is not
a vegetable it's a grain okay and we eat
corn in so many different things corn
chips tortillas it's in a lot of foods
especially at the grocery store and it's
not in a whole form it's in some type of
refined form there's even a new type of
um genetically modified corn that we
have not really done the safety test yet
and that's going to be very interesting
what happens with that one and then of
course we have the the obvious seed oils
too like canola oil the soy oil the corn
oil all the oils that are highly refined
omega-6 they're inflammatory we also
have the A1 milk proteins okay you
always want to get A2 a very safe way to
avoid the A1 is to have like milk
products from either goats or sheep as
in sheep or goat cheese or sheep or goat
kefir both of those products are
fermented and they have additional
benefits and both of them are the A2
type protein but I will say that a lot
of people have casine allergies and that
is the problem but then again the also
might have a lactose milk sugar
intolerance okay and that creates
another issue the same thing with gluten
you don't necessarily have to have an
alergy it could just be a gluten
intolerance and then we have just fiber
in general not to mention all the new
functional fibers that they're coming
out with like the cyal corn fiber or the
tapioca fiber all these different fiber
products that are supposedly going to be
good for you but they create more
bloating and inflammation if you have
inflammation wherever it is and if it's
especially in the gut you need to avoid
fiber and that includes all fiber and
especially the so-called healthy like
plant proteins and beans and legumes and
even vegetables that's going to actually
irritate your colon you should probably
do carnivore for a while and you'll
probably feel a lot better but I just
listed all of the foods that greatly
contribute to inflammation so now let's
talk about the most important food to
get rid of your inflammation this food
has a very high level of glutamine in
fact if you look at all the foods out
there with the highest level of
glutamine it would be this food but let
me just explain what glutamine is it's
an amino acid for your colon cells which
is a single layer of cells that line the
inside of your colon this forms the
barrier to your immune system deeper
inside but your intestinal cells are
very hungry for glutamine in fact out of
all the glutamine they hog like 30% of
it okay for themselves
glutamine is very important in producing
ATP energy glutamine fuels the
intestinal layer of the cells as well as
the mucosal layer where all the good
bacteria hang out and glutamine supports
tight junctions you see I originally
talked about this gut being a source of
inflammation but I didn't describe
exactly what's occurring what's
occurring is leaky gut which is
intestinal hyperpermeability you
basically have holes in this single
layer cell that goes right in and larger
molecules of food that are not broken
down can get through there and then your
immune system tags them as a foreign
entity to be destroyed and that's when
you start developing antibodies and
allergies against Foods so this problem
really is a byass of normal immigration
it doesn't give the normal stamp of
approval through the immune system and
it gets through and it creates a lot of
problems for you so all of those bad
foods I talked about kind of put a hole
through your intestine and glutamine is
the solution for that but now the
question is what food has the most
glutamine and the answer is meat
specifically beef the thing that they're
trying to get rid of right now they're
trying to get rid of cows because of
just some ridiculous reason but beef
gives you a super healing protein
glutamine that can greatly support your
gut and other types of inflammatory
conditions whether you have an
autoimmune or some other type of
non-autoimmune joint problem or whatever
now you can actually take glutamine as
well but beef is the best
anti-inflammatory food that you can
possibly eat in fact before the
ketogenic diet when I was eating all
those carbs and when I switched over to
beef oh my goodness did I feel better it
was incredible I no longer had bloating
and it was really weird because I
thought that you needed fiber to kind of
push things through but little did I
know that beef really calmed the fire
down in my gut and a lot of inflammatory
conditions went away I had arthritis so
bad in my hands and my spine I had no
idea it was connected to my diet and
primarily all the carbs and Grains I was
consuming you just have to try it let's
say that you're a vegan and you want to
know what is the best vegan source of
glutamine ready for
this C cabbage that's right especially
red cabbage but all cabbage is loaded
with glutamine so those are the two
foods that have the most glutamine if
you were to look at like just the
spectrum of a meat and a vegetable and
this is also what I talk about in other
videos using like cabbage for gastritis
or an ulcer or any type of GI
inflammatory condition um you can't
really do a lot of other vegetables in
fiber but that's the one that most
people can deal with especially if if
you do it in a fermented form the
sauerkraut because that way you get all
this glutamine from the the vegetable
but you get the microbes as well now
there are other things that are loaded
with glutamine as well you have cheese
from either a sheep or a goat or the um
Keir like I mentioned you also have eggs
and fish and especially bone broth okay
that's loaded with glutamine so now I
kind of simplified how to heal your
inflammation and gave you the things
that you need to avoid to really turn
this thing around I'm telling you if you
have inflammation I don't care what kind
you should start eating these Foods
these I would start basically eating
beef and cabbage and just watch what
happens to your inflammation I think
you'll be quite surprised now because of
the censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other side now if
you have not seen my video on sauerkraut
you should check it out I put it up
right here it's actually very
interesting
