hey guys had another question that
someone want to know the difference
between having numbness in your hands or
feet versus tingling or pins and needle
type sensation okay what's the
difference here's what's probably
happening when you have low bottom b1 in
the presence of high blood sugar and/or
high insulin you're going to destroy the
circulation the blood flow to the nerves
okay and then that leads to something
called peripheral neuropathy it happens
in the feet happens in the hands and it
starts out as a little tingling then
pain it can be burning and then pins and
needles and then the last stage is
numbness okay as that nerve is dying a
simple solution would be to go to the
health of store or go online and search
out a product called benfotiamine this
is a type of B vitamin that is made into
a fat soluble form because normally b1
is water-soluble but they make it into a
fat soluble so it can innervate the fat
that surrounds the nerves a lot better
it's called the myelin sheath and yes
it's synthetic but it doesn't seem to
have any side effects but it's a great
remedy for neurological damage it's also
good for the damage to your retina when
you have diabetes or even as a
pre-diabetic so this is important this
is why I always recommend also taking a
nutritional yeast because it has the
natural be bad omens in there because
this is just one of the beads you want
to take all of the B's in a natural form
but sometimes you can actually fix it
with nutritional yeast but sometimes
it's so far advanced you need something
a little bit stronger
okay so benfotiamine is what you need it
could be another condition where the
space inside the spinal column is
getting smaller and smaller and that's
called spinal stenosis okay that's
another condition it could be something
called thoracic outlet syndrome withers
in the neck you have an obstruction
whether it's a nerve damage or a spasm
or some type of problem where it's
obstructing not just the nerves but the
blood vessels as well and it could also
be that you have poor circulation where
there's a clogged artery that's also
causing it but more than likely it's
going to be neurological so as you
change your diet in Duke
in fasting and if that still doesn't
clear it up
go get check for a pinched nerve or poor
circulation thanks for watching so if
you're enjoying these videos click share
and spread the word
