hey guys I'm back in this video we're
gonna talk about birth control someone
wanted to know what would be a safe form
of birth control that wouldn't give me a
lot of side effects well you have the
pill okay which does come with a lot of
side effects I put a link down below of
more data on the pill from the video I
did recently then you have the condom
which is 98% effective it's pretty safe
not a hundred percent but the IUD is
something that I would probably
recommend out of all these it's 99%
effective not a hundred percent and
there's two different versions okay you
have copper and hormonal I don't
recommend the one that gives off a
hormone I recommend the copper one it's
a small t-shaped device that's inserted
in the uterus and it has some copper in
there so it gives off these copper ions
that act as a spermicide so it actually
disables the sperm as it's trying to
connect with the egg it also decreases
the fertilization of the egg itself on
the uterus lining but it does come with
some risks okay it can cause pelvic
inflammatory disease okay so it can
create some inflammation in the uterus
it also can increase the severity of
heavy periods and cramping but one thing
you can do to minimize that damage is to
take something called calcium or a tape
okay so if you're getting cramping when
you're having your period
calcium orotate works great you can take
it on a regular basis but just increase
the amount right before and during your
period all right so that's my short
answer and thanks for watching
hey I appreciate your attention and if
you're enjoying these videos go ahead
and subscribe and I will definitely keep
you updated on future events live events
and webinars that we're going to do very
soon
