hey it's me in this video we're gonna
talk about the amazing benefits of
turmeric on your house okay
now the main reason why this is so
popular and so many people are using it
because it actually it can get rid of
inflammation help you lose weight
improve the skin improve the cognitive
function the memory and it can improve
your mood now why does it do that
because of an active ingredient called
curcumin okay curcumin actually protects
something called the beta cells those
are the cells in the pancreas that
regulate insulin there's even a study
that shows that curcumin can regrow the
beta cells of the pancreas that's huge
and it also helps prevent going from a
pre-diabetic condition to actual
diabetes why because it improves insulin
resistance because it targets the cells
of the pancreas so make sure you include
it in your diet you can even take it as
a supplement but it has great factors
thanks for watching hey guys a lot of
you already have my book some of you
don't but this new edition called the
new body type guide is an upgrade from
my last edition called the seven
principles of fat burning it has a
hundred and fifty six images three
hundred seventy eight pages full
glossary I talked about Kate out in a
minute fasting the body types in detail
I have a new stressed chapter I'm going
to show you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
