alright so in this video we're gonna
talk about why you really love carbs
okay it has to do with three body
chemicals that are increased when you
consume carbohydrates especially refined
carbohydrates beta endorphins which by
the way is about 33 times stronger for
pain relief than morphine so it's great
to reduce pain and emotional pain okay
it will increase dopamine which will
give you all sorts of pleasure sensation
and serotonin which is the anti-anxiety
hormone okay so these three together
will decrease your pain physically and
emotionally it'll decrease your stress
it will increase your confidence
increase your motivation
you'll feel socially connected you'll
feel more satisfied in life and you'll
feel more hopeful here's the problem it
comes with a package it only lasts for a
couple minutes until things start to
rebound down here and then these
symptoms actually come back but are
going to be worse than before and that's
really the trap of it because it makes
you dependent on the the sugar and the
carbohydrates so when you're dependent
it you actually are controlled by that
thing you're at the effect of that thing
not a good situation to be in so the
next time you're tempted to consume some
carbohydrate or some cake or something
really sit back and ask yourself what
problem am i trying to solve did I have
a loss of something is there a stress
involved do I wanna increase my
confidence which one of these are you
trying to solve and it's kind of
interesting using sugar to solve a
problem that's like taking a hammer to
your stubbed toe right I mean it's just
doesn't make sense it's not going to
solve it it's it's gonna give you this
little temporary relief until it wears
out and then over time basically you
lose this effect to the point where you
need more and more sugar to create the
same effect happen with me with coffee
in college I started drinking a lot of
coffee I needed more and more to wake up
to the point where I drank the coffee
and then I fell asleep so I had no more
of it burning me up now if there's other
ways to increase your beta endorphins
you can exercise like the runner's high
music laughter intermittent fasting will
increase beta endorphins so now that you
know the mechanism behind it really what
you need to do is a healthy keto and in
a minute fasting if you're new to this I
put a link down below of exactly how to
do it and that will actually help you to
get rid of the cravings and then you'll
have a grip on it and you'll no longer
be controlled by it alright thanks for
watching
hey guys so there's a whole bunch of
people that really need this information
so press the share button and let's get
it way out there
