now I have a very simple inexpensive tip
for you that I think can not only help
you with your hair your nails and having
useful skin but a lot more in fact you
may find that this natural remedy solves
many of the problems that you have right
now and this all wraps around this one
topic of collagen what is collagen it's
your connective tissue tendons ligaments
cartilage onethird of all of your
collagen is made by one Amino acid
Glycine and glycine is not an essential
amino acid which means that our bodies
can make it but here's the thing our
bodies really don't make enough Glycine
and if you're not getting it from the
diet chances are you're going to be
deficient because Normal proteins red
meat or chicken or fish or even eggs or
even Dairy are are not very high in
glycine you'd have to be eating the skin
on the chicken and the cartilage like on
the chicken bones or organ meats and a
lot of people do not do that so we can
be consuming a lot of protein but not
getting this one amino acid that could
lead to all sorts of issues check this
out glycine is needed to make the most
important antioxidant of all your cell
that's called glutathione if you don't
have glycine you can't make glutathione
which means you can't detoxify which
means that you're going to have a
buildup of toxicity which relates to
inflammation this is one of the reasons
why glycine is very anti-inflammatory so
glycine is very very important for your
liver glycine is also used to help with
a leaky gut because it helps prevent
inflammation in your gut which I've
talked about this extensively uh many
different videos as the gut inflammatory
conditions are the start of autoimmune
diseases glycine is also used in a lot
of enzymes in different proteins uh one
being called cataly which helps you get
rid of hydrogen peroxide in the body
which also could explain why someone
could have premature graying of the hair
because the hydrogen peroxide is just
bleaching out the pigment in the hair
glycine is essential to make the heem in
your blood so if you don't have glycine
you can't make blood and even your gums
around the teeth need glycine glycine is
so foundational you need it for your DNA
as well if you're deficient in glycine
you might not be able to achieve the
Deep Delta wave sleep that you need to
feel regenerated also I found that
glycine is very important in helping
people detoxify uric acid and so it's
even used as a treatment for gout
because glycine competes with uric acid
and glycine is also good to make your
insulin more sensitive so it's really
good for blood sugars and can help you
with a lot of different things weight
loss a fatty liver visceral fat in fact
the Greek word for glycine means sweet
it can actually even be turned into
glucose as fuel you see certain parts of
the body especially the brain need a
certain level of glucose but if you're
not consuming sugar your body will make
it well guess what glycine can be a
precursor for that sugar and I think
some people might be concerned too if
that's going to bump me out of ketosis
if I take glycine it's going to increase
my sugar but at the same time look at
the benefits it actually helps stabilize
your blood sugar as well as maybe a
little bit more insulin Spike but it's
going to make insulin more sensitive so
it's more corrective on insulin versus
regular sugar that doesn't improve your
blood sugars right but there's something
else that's interesting when you consume
glycine it stimulates the opposing
hormone to insulin which is called
glucagon glucagon does the opposite of
insulin and this is why when you're
consuming amino acids
protein you don't really have to be as
concerned about the blood sugar Spike
but it also at the same time time uh
stimulates the opposing hormone to keep
things in check and if something could
make insulin more sensitive it's not
going to worsen the insulin resistance
situation it's going to help it and I
also read a study which I'm going to put
all the stuff down below on how uh
glycine could even interfere with The
Binding of oxalates to calcium
crystallization to prevent kidney stones
so that's pretty cool so here's how
someone's deficient first of all um the
diet if you're not consuming nose to
tail
if you're not eating all the things with
collagen then chances are you could be
deficient because our bodies don't make
enough there's a massive demand for
glycine if you're under stress if you're
taking medications if you're drinking
alcohol if you're exposed to toxins if
your liver is working over time to get
rid of poisons for some reason just so
happens that onethird of collagen is
glycine and a real simple way to get
collagen is is gelatin nox blocks you
can buy it in these packets you can get
it on Amazon you can look it up put a
little Stevia in it and consume that on
a regular basis to get your glycine I
think that's a really easy way to get
your glycine now you can also get a
supplement with Glycine and if you do
the amounts that an average person need
would range anywhere between four grams
to 10 G A Day here's some other ways you
can get collagen you can do bone broth
the problem with bone broth you'd have
to have a lot of it uh to get enough
glycine but that's a possibility another
way to do it is to have chicken soup and
you take the whole chicken put in the
crock pot and just cook it all day long
and so you have all this great collagen
which is very high in glycine you can
even do um like pork rinds right just
make sure it doesn't have added MSG or
other chemicals you'd have to have a
good amount of it but it can contribute
to your glycine so in different
countries they do it differently you
know they might in certain countries use
you know just cooked the entire fish
with the head and everything to make
their um their broth certain people have
recipes for chicken feed or they they
cook their bone down in some broth so
there's many different ways to get
collagen you may have heard this term
hydroly collagen right what does hydroly
mean it basically means you're breaking
down the protein into smaller chains
okay they're called peptide chains so
it's just an easier way to get your
collagen because it's already broken
down and also on noox blocks gelatin
there's another great product called
Great Lakes beef gelatin if you do take
uh glycine okay do you have to be
concerned about taking too much of it
yes but you would have to have something
like 600 gram okay 6 100 gram we're only
talking about between 4 and 10 grams a
day if possible I would recommend taking
the glycine with food not an empty
stomach but here's the thing as we age
the need for glycine goes up
um this could potentially help people
with
osteoarthritis
osteoporosis thinning of the hair
insomnia gout or even kidney stones now
I did another video on this topic
related to hair loss if you haven't seen
that one you should check it out a lot
of people watched it they loved it I put
it up right here
