you know a lot of people eat sardines
they're very healthy I consume them
they're great a very good source of
omega3 fatty acids but I want to
introduce you to another food that has
even higher amounts of omega-3 fatty
acids Cod Liver I recommend you have
both because they both have their own
strengths but so many people have never
even heard about Cod Liver uh I think
they're missing out now I want to first
touch on um this cod liver oil thing
because why do they have cod liver oil
and why don't they promote other fish
liver oil type products and that is
because something's very unique about
the codfish in the muscle of the codfish
there's not much oil why is that because
all of the oil is in the cod's liver not
the muscle and a salmon they have small
livers not as much oil hardly at all
most of it is in the muscle meat so
let's start with the Omega-3 fat acids
that would be both EPA and DHA EPA is
more for inflammation and DHA is more
for brain nerve heart so with omega-3
fats with sardines we're dealing with .9
to 2 grams of omega-3 fatty acids versus
Cod Liver we're dealing with 9 to 11
gram of omega-3 fatty acids so hands
down Cod Liver has way more omega-3
fatty acids all right next one is
vitamin D sardines will give you 4.8
micrograms that basically gives you like
24% of your rdas yet on the Cod Liver
side we're talking about 100 micrograms
so 4.8 micrograms to 100 microgram for
Cod Liver that's going to give you 500%
of the RDA next one is vitamin A I'm not
talking about beta carotene I'm talking
about the active form called retinol
vitamin A is for your vision Vision at
night especially the inner mucose
membranes of your mouth your throat your
sinuses your lungs also vitamin A is
very important for your thyroid and also
vitamin A works with iodine in fact if
you're low in vitamin A your thyroid
could enlarge so with sardines you get
about 32 micrograms but with Cod Liver
we're talking about
5,100 micrograms which is about
638 of the rdas so sardines is 4% liver
is
638 all right now let's go to protein
actual protein we have 24.6 G on the Cod
Liver side we only have 4.6 G much lower
so
24.6 to 4.6 sardines have much more
protein and that's probably because cver
is mostly fat all right next one is
folate a very important vitamin vitamin
B9 sardines 10 microgram cod liver
300 microgr okay now let's talk about
calcium on the Sardine side we have 392
milligrams and on the Cod Liver side we
only have 10 milligrams okay so sardines
have much more calcium let's talk about
phosphorus okay on the Sardine side we
have
545 milligram versus the cver side we
only have 100 milligram 545 Mig to 100
Mig for the cod liver and then we get to
B12 on the sardine side we're dealing
with 11 micrograms and on the Cod Liver
we're dealing with slightly less like
10.6 micrograms so as far as the B12
it's almost the same just a little bit
more on the Sardine side so now do you
see why you need both because uh codiver
oil has some things that the sardines
don't have and the sardines have things
that the coder doesn't have and then if
we look at sardines rela to Salmon okay
salmon does have more B vitamins but the
sardines have more calcium more
phosphorus more selenium more iron more
magnesium and more zinc now if you have
not seen my video on the benefits of cod
liver oil you should check it out I put
it up right here
