hey guys it's me again listen I wanted
to create a quick video on grains and
what they really are because there's a
big confusion I mean when you consume
products from grain flour bread pasta
cereal I mean oh my gosh it doesn't take
a lot of chewing it melts in your mouth
you have the dough in the center and
then crispy outside of the bread it's
delicious right
well there's several issues with reins
number one it creates a lot of
inflammation in your gut from the gluten
and also from a defense mechanism that
the C creates which has phytic acid
which blocks minerals in your body so
that's a problem so our bodies weren't
really designed to consume grains if it
was why would it have this blocker and
this is a mineral blocker enzyme
inhibitors right so the seed has a lot
of defense mechanisms that don't want it
to be digested or it'll create a lot of
issues but so-called healthy grains or
whole grains really have the same
glycemic index as refined grains so when
you're consuming these so called healthy
grain products you're getting massive
blood sugar spikes even worse than sugar
and there's not really any big
difference between whole grains or fine
grains the same effect they're high in
omega-6 which is inflammatory and
they're very low in nutrition okay and
not to mention all the other things that
they put in these grain products by for
just corn syrup the soy oil the MSG I
mean it's loaded with all sorts of
things that you should not eat so my
recommendation is consume the plants
than vegetables but not the grains I'll
see you next time hey guys I wanted to
personally invite you to a new Facebook
group that I just started called dr.
Berg's keto and in a minute fasting lab
okay so I created this so we can share
our successful actions what worked what
didn't work the results so I put a link
down below so go ahead and sign up and
I'll see you inside
