so today we're going to talk about why
they don't want you to do the ketogenic
diet okay I recently had a person get
really discouraged I mean she was losing
weight tons of energy great health
benefits but she was discouraged because
someone told her that the ketogenic diet
is gonna dehydrate her despite how much
water she drinks it doesn't matter so
you're gonna hear all sorts of things in
the media like low carb diets will
decrease your lifespan or coconut oil is
now considered a poison despite
thousands of years of using it safely or
the ketogenic diet might work for you
initially but there's no long term
studies so it could be dangerous so it's
all about casting doubt I mean if you
think about it if people do a keto plan
and in a minute fasting they're gonna
cut out carbohydrates okay do you
realize how much money is connected to
carbohydrates you have the performance
drinks the sugar drinks the juices you
have the bread the pasta the cereal the
crackers the alcohol you have so many
snack foods the junk food industry then
you have what those carbohydrates do to
your body high blood pressure medication
high cholesterol medication diabetes
medication huge huge amounts of money
tied around carbohydrates this is why
it's so vitally important to get people
to understand why it works so that way
when they hear some lie you know they're
not going to be thrown off so if you
understand it you'll get the results
you'll have the certainty that you know
it works and you also have the knowledge
that you know it's true now things that
work are true things that don't work are
not true and thanks for listening hey
before you go I'm gonna create some new
videos on food evaluation okay so if
you'd like to participate I can't
promise that you'll be the person I'll
choose so here's what you're gonna do
you're gonna take a picture of what
you're eating a close-up okay one day
how frequent you're eating like as in in
a minute fasting is it one meal two
meals and anything else that you're
drinking or supplements and go ahead and
add your height weight in age and any
major body problems that you have
and what I'm going to do is I'm going to
analyze that to see what you're doing
correct and what you need to improve
alright so go ahead and click the link
down below upload your information and
again I can't promise that I'm going to
pick you but I'm going to pick several
people and I'll do the evaluations and
I'll post these as YouTube videos all
right
talk to you later
