so why aren't people talking about this
the root cause of autoimmune diseases
I'm not sure if you know this or not but
autoimmune diseases are surpassing heart
disease and cancer it is rapidly
becoming the number one health problem
on planet Earth check out this chart
look at the trends of Ms type 1 diabetes
Celiac thyroid diseases I'm talking
about Hashimoto Crohn's now there's a
lot of other diseases now that are just
exploding but autoimmune diseases are
basically straight up in vertical yet
very few people are talking about
something so obvious hopefully this
video will inspire certain doctors to
start to look into this solution your
immune system has an extremely important
job of differentiating self from nonself
I'm talking about your own cells from
other things that are not yourselves
like pathogens like viruses bacteria
things like that before I dive right
into this I want to give you just a real
quick Foundation you have two parts of
the immune system you have the part that
you were born with that your mother gave
you and that's called the innate immune
system and then you also have the
acquired immune system the acquired
immune system is created through a
series of infections okay so you get
infected you get a bacterial or virus
infection and then your immune system
reacts and learns from that so the next
time that you get exposed to that
infection you now have protection the
innate system doesn't have a memory it's
just there waiting to protect and it's
going to instantly react to any type of
pathogen whereas the acquired immune
system could take hours or even days
before it kicks in so it's slow and
adapting but over time that acquired
immune system learns and becomes
stronger whereas the innate system
doesn't it actually gets weaker as you
get older and the last point I want to
make is that your innate immune system
is not the problem involved with
autoimmune diseases it's the acquired
immune system what common thread runs
through all autoimmune diseases as it
relates to the immune system one big
thing is the regulatory tea cells they
call them the t-reg cells these t-reg
cells have a very important job in
preventing autoimmune diseases there's
another name for them as well and that's
called the suppressor te- cells they're
the peacemakers of your immune system
another function of these T-Rex cells is
to stop the immune reaction after the
immune system has done its job but
they're there to keep everything in
check there's certain drugs that they
use but prednizone is a common drug
that's used with autoimmune diseases now
prednizone is a synthetic version of
cortisol that's the stress hormone we
have so what I want to do is I want to
just take a look at prazone as a
treatment for autoimmune diseases and
what it actually is doing and then
compare that to something else that has
the largest ability to regulate the
immune system of anything and that is
vitamin D so vitamin D empowers enhances
the immune system depending on what's
Happening both prazone and vitamin D
have anti-inflammatory effects little
different mechanism but they both reduce
inflammation but prednizone
suppresses both parts of the immune
system the innate in the acquired so if
you're having a reaction on your skin
like a rash or some inflammation it's
going to go away in fact I used to have
prazone every year for probably 10 years
in my 20s because of the darn poison ivy
I was exposed to now vitamin D shifts
the immune system to increase the tea
cells let's just pause for a second how
important is that information it's huge
because in autoimmune diseases we have a
lowering of the t-reg cells and we have
this out of control inflammatory
situation but this is very very
important information there are two
other immune things that are usually too
high
when someone has this autoimmune disease
th1 and th17 those two immune factors
are high in autoimmune and the T-Rex L
is low vitamin D suppresses both of
those those cells that create that
inflammation now prazone and vitamin D
have some similar things but they have a
few things that are different as well
let's first take blood glucose prazone
will mobilize and break down your
protein and turn that into glucose so it
raises blood glucose it increases your
risk for getting diabetes but vitamin D
does not vitamin D enhances the cell
that makes insulin and it helps to
regulate your blood sugars prazone
causes a breakdown of your bone it can
cause osteoporosis whereas vitamin D
helps you absorb calcium and supports
bone mineralization now as we age our
immune system goes down especially
because our thymus gland which is the
master gland right on top of our heart
shrivels up and it's virtually almost
non-existent as we get older that is the
gland that makes all those tea cells
vitamin D helps to slow down this
process but not if you're using the
normal small recommended dosage of
vitamin D that a lot of doctors
recommend you have to use higher doses
or doses that are therapeutic now I want
to mention just one interesting book I
don't know if you can see this right
here but this book it says what really
causes Ms by Harold Foster there's a
chapter on sunlight and in that book
Harold Foster talks about a really
interesting strong association between
someone developing Ms and where they
live on the planet the closer they are
to the equator where you get a lot of
sun the less Ms you're going to have now
that data also correlates with other
autoimmune diseases which I'm not going
to get into in this video but I'll put a
link down below I do want to also
mention Jeff B's book right here which
is the cure for and preven men of all
diseases where he talks a lot about
using high doses of vitamin D3 but what
I like about this book is he emphasizes
the co-actors okay because vitamin D
doesn't work without these co-actors
like magnesium vitamin K2 I interviewed
one of the pioneers of vitamin D
research Dr Bruce Hollis Dr Hollis told
me that if there's any positive studies
on vitamin D it's very unlikely they're
going to publish those and I said why is
that he said because there's no profit
in a remedy that is free the sun you
could if you expose yourself to the Sun
get all the vitamin D that you need
there's a lot of competing drugs that do
not want that information out there
there are two systems of vitamin D
vitamin D affecting your bone and
calcium okay but there's another system
that doesn't involve calcium it doesn't
involve your bone it involves supporting
your immune system you see the bone
system can get by with a small amount of
vitamin D one every 2 weeks but the
other system needs higher amounts in
Daily amounts but for cancer you want to
go way up from 10,000 you want to
probably do 50,000 I use every single
day with the Magnesium with the K2 with
the zinc now at this point I want to
make a disclaimer I am not telling you
that this is going to C your cancer I'm
just giving you some additional
information especially since the World
Health Organization even acknowledges
that vitamin D has anti-carcinogenic
properties now I want to talk about some
more research by a doctor out of Brazil
called Dr coimbra we call it the coimbra
protocol what this protocol is about is
to increase the vitamin D to penetrate
the resistance they start increasing the
vitamin D as you're taking this test to
the point where the parathyroid hormone
goes to like a low normal that means
that this vitamin D is penetrating and
it's working so that's just one of the
things they do in this protocol to me
it's so obvious what the problem is and
what the solution is and then there's
another interesting tactic which I think
was created by big Pharma and that was
that vitamin D in high amounts is toxic
well there's a difference between
therapeutic dosages and toxicity and for
that information you should watch this
video right here
