hey guys Dr Burke here in this video we
want to talk about spinach okay uh you
want the good news or the bad news first
the good news okay good good news is it
it's rich in iron and magnesium I mean
it's off the charts it's also very high
in vitamin A but it's a previtamin a has
to be converted vitamin K tons of
vitamin K that's for clotting and if you
are bruise easily you want to consume
that it's it's loaded with chlorophyll
um and also vitamin C so it's really
good for a lot of different things in
the body uh folic acid B2 and B6 that's
for the heart um it's also U can be it
can improve macular degeneration it
supports the eye probably because the
vitamin A and also because of all the
phytonutrients in there uh zanth thing
and lutein and things like that um okay
it's an anti-inflammatory and the list
goes on and on and on and on okay so
that's the good news the bad news it's
loaded with oxalates and if you're
predisposed to kidney stones
um you got to just be cautious because
oxalates are certain things in the body
that will start to pull calcium and
combine and create stones and that can
be very painful um but there are certain
things that you can do to lower the risk
for uh oxalate Stones number one you can
steam the um spinach but make sure you
don't go overboard and cook it too much
um because you just kill everything in
it okay so if you steam it you decrease
the nutrition by about
11% if you fully cook it like I remember
going to an Indian restaurant and they
serve this spinach it's literally been
cooking for a long time there's no
nutrition left in that thing um and
there's probably no oxalates either but
steaming will lower the oxalate uh lemon
putting lemon on it will also help the
uh reduce the oxalates and potassium
citrate okay so that's the supplement
because the citrates combine and
actually inactivate the oxalates and
then there's calcium calcium will help
produce the oxalate Stones because it
combines in your digestive system it
won't let it form in the kidney I like
to get my calcium from cheese and I love
cheese I'm from Wisconsin and I just the
other day I had some raw milk cheese
from the Swiss elves unbelievable I love
that cheese and it's from Trader Jo they
have some really good uh great cheeses
um so consuming calcium will also lower
your calcium your calcium oxalate Stone
all right and and the last thing I want
to mention about spinach is you really
uh have make sure that it's always
organic because if you consume just
commercial spinach a lot of times it's
from sources that could been exposed to
you know DDT and other chemicals that
are banned in America but they come over
from other countries all right thanks
for watching I'll talk to you soon
