so let's talk about how to strengthen
your red blood cell but before I talk
about that I need to explain what a red
blood cell does in your body
they're called three-throw sites okay
and they're there as a method of
carrying oxygen and what they have in
this red blood cell it's like a sack
with a bunch of hemoglobin and that's
basically filled with iron and it
connects to oxygen so allows oxygen to
be transported through the body and in
one red blood cell you have 270 million
hemoglobin molecules so it's quite a bit
of oxygen that cell is carrying your
body makes 2.4 million red blood cells
every single second and they're made in
a factory inside your long bones a red
blood cell will last between 100 and 120
days and it takes about one minute for a
red blood cell to travel from your lung
all the way through your body and back
to the lung so what the red blood cell
is doing it's going to the tiny
capillaries and it's getting squished
and it's pushing the oxygen into the
tissues that way and it comes back
without oxygen and then you breathe and
it gets reoxygenate it just does this
over and over and over the interesting
thing about the red blood cell is it has
no nucleus that's the center of the cell
it has no DNA or RNA now what's
interesting about that is that viruses
use your DNA to replicate so the viruses
can't hurt or mess with your red blood
cells now as far as the quantity of red
blood cell you have between 20 and 30
trillion red blood cells that makes up
70% of all of your cells so you have a
lot of red blood cells in your body the
other interesting thing about the red
blood cell is that it can't use ketones
for fuel it uses glucose now you might
say well oh well where is that going to
come from well your body can very easily
make glucose it's called gluconeogenesis
it could make it from ketones it can
make it from fat
it can make it from protein so you don't
need to consume glucose to feed your red
blood cell now if you're deficient in
red blood cells like you're anemic
whether you have an iron deficiency or a
b12 deficiency and I don't want to
create a video on problems with your red
blood cell at this point but if you do
have not enough red blood cells you're
gonna be tired
shortness of breath you're gonna feel
weak because you you don't have enough
oxygen through the body so now the
question is what can you do to
strengthen your red blood cells well
first of all to make sure you have
enough iron okay but not too much and
you want to make sure you have b12 very
very important okay
but there's something else you can do
and it's called intermittent hypoxia
training now what does that mean
intermittent meaning you're gonna do
something and then not do it
hypoxia meaning without oxygen or low
oxygen training a lot of top athletes do
this and there's quite a bit of research
whether they use a mask when they're
working out or they're in a chamber or
they have a hypoxic tent there's many
different ways to actually do this
training so basically you starve oxygen
to the body for a little bit and then
you breathe back in forth now what I
like to do is I like to use a hypoxic
mask not what I'm doing a certain type
of exercises where I'm not breathing
very much I like to do it when I'm
hopping and puffing so I will wear this
mask for about two minutes and then I'll
take it off for two minutes and I'll put
it on for two minutes and I'll restrict
my oxygen I've done other videos on
hyperbaric oxygen therapy which is
really really cool because it puts
oxygen into your brain into your tissues
it's very therapeutic what's fascinating
about this therapy it's the exact
opposite
we're taking oxygen from the body now at
first you might think wow this is a
stupid thing to do but if you really
understand what's happening it's
actually quite smart when you starve the
body of oxygen for a short period of
time not a long period of time you
trigger certain genes
that create significant changes within
the red blood cell you increase the red
blood cell production by up to ten times
so instead of making 2.4 million red
blood cells every single second you're
making 30 million red blood cells every
second that is HUGE
you also increase the size of the red
blood cell now what is the significance
of this you're basically gonna carry way
more oxygen so when you do a workout or
exercise you're gonna last a lot longer
when you sleep you're gonna sleep better
you're gonna have a better quality of
sleep and also there's various
therapeutic benefits to things like
chronic lung disease or asthma or
hypertension diabetes or even
Parkinson's so you're driving more
oxygen to the tissues and if there's an
area of your body that's not healing
well this can help it it will also
stimulate your antioxidant reserve
especially in the heart and that's why
this therapy is also a cardio protective
as well as neural protective so if you
want more information about in a minute
hypoxic therapy I created a video it's
right here check it out
