hi guys there's one oil that you must
avoid I'm going to tell you why it's
called mineral oil
it's a petroleum derivative it's using a
lot of cosmetics it's used as laxatives
and they have over 70 hidden names for
mineral oil now the reason why it's not
good it's because it depletes your fat
soluble vitamins so if you're taking it
internally think about what it's doing
to your liver it's pulling out vitamin A
vitamin D E and K or even on the surface
of your skin
it's bleaching out these fat soluble
vitamins creating all sorts of
imbalances with the skin you need these
fat soluble vitamins not just on your
skin but internally as well a vitamin A
deficiency will not only cause acne I
mean think about accutane that's it
that's a form of vitamin A and it's
supposed to get rid of acne right of
course it has a lot of side effects but
vitamin A improves skin function this is
also important for the internal skin the
the lining of the esophagus and the
stomach and the intestines you need
vitamin A for that for the immune system
for the sinuses for the vision vitamin D
for the bone and calcium transportation
vitamin k1 for clotting k2 for
transportation of calcium vitamin E for
sex hormones and heart health and so
many other things okay so I would avoid
this if I were you and I put a link down
below so you can get some more data on
these hidden names alright thanks for
watching hey tell me what you think
about this video go ahead and comment
below and give me your feedback
