hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about something called diabetic
stomach know what is that well sometimes
when you're diabetic you have
nauseousness or vomiting sometimes even
when you do the ketogenic diet you might
feel when you're doing in a minute
fasting as a part of it
you might feel nauseousness and even the
the sensation of vomiting as well and
that's a different situation but
typically when you have chronic diabetes
or chronic hyperglycemia which is high
sugar it's going to affect the nervous
system now I've already talked about in
a lot of other videos something called
peripheral neuropathy and that's the the
nerves and the fingers and the toes
where all of a sudden you get either a
hypersensitivity with pins and needles
or burning or a high both sensitivity
when you're getting numbness okay
because blood sugar issues and high
insulin really destroy the nervous
system and the blood vessels that go to
the nervous system as well but there's
also another condition called autonomic
neuropathy okay so it doesn't just
affect the peripheral nerves it affects
the autonomic nervous system which is
the nervous system that runs on
automatic
behind the scenes it's the nervous
system that controls a lot of the organ
functions okay when you have autonomic
neuropathy you get a problem with the
bladder retention of urine you can have
a problem with the cardiovascular system
where there's high blood pressure or a
low blood pressure
you can also have problems with the
digestive system whether it's
constipation low transit time the food
doesn't go through that well creating
this symptom right here or this symptom
right here and with the genitals whether
it's a decreased libido erectile
dysfunction that's this right here
because it's affecting the nervous
system and even the respiratory system
as in sleep apnea now when you're doing
ketosis and in a minute fasting you're
not going to have hyperglycemia you're
usually gonna have hypo usually what
happens is when you do the ketogenic
diet and you already have a preexisting
hypoglycemic situation and you go from
one meal to the next the blood sugars
can really come down a little too low
and
you can feel nauseous from that so if
that's the case you just want to do it
on a very small gradual scale back off
do the three meals a day add more fat
and do that over a long period of time -
you're really comfortable and then
slowly gradually go into the two meals a
day and then gradually go into the one
meal a day until you're fully keto
adapted and that way you can avoid these
two symptoms right here thanks for
watching hey thank you so much for
watching keep spreading the word and
share this video
