hey guys Dr bur here in this video I
want to show you what to do for flat
feet now I have severe flat feet ever
since I was a kid and I did all sorts of
arch supports and it never really worked
because I'm here I'm standing on my flat
foot you know on an arch that's made
from my flat foot it never really fixed
it so I'm going to show you uh some
stretches and and acupressure points
that you can do at least not to
necessarily correct the flat feet but to
give you a lot of relief this is the
only thing that I found that works so
basically we have a situation where you
don't have an arch it's flat right so
everyone's like massaging the bottom of
the foot and doing all sorts of therapy
and it might give you some relief but
you don't want to do that because we
always want to work on the opposite side
of where the problem is why because this
is going to relax this muscle by
stimulating the top part now the first
thing I'm going to do is show you a
stretch so we're going to take the toes
and by the way this is the same thing
you do for planer fasciitis too which is
pain in the bottom of the foot so you
take the toes and we're just going to
stretch them like this we're going to
stretch and stretch about 10
times and we're actually stretching this
whole muscle right through in here what
that will do that will give the
foot the signals are sent to relax the
bottom of the foot it'll really give you
a lot of relief okay so we're going to
stretch
that okay the other thing you can do is
you can sit on your feet like
this and you can see right here that I'm
automatically just the weight of my body
is
stretching the front part of my foot the
muscles on the front part of the foot
which is the called the anterior
tibialis and uh so we're stretching this
and we're rocking back and forth and of
course if you need to use um like some
type of cushion like if you can't do
this position to sit on it that's fine
but you want to gradually stretch this
part right here okay step two is to work
on the front of the foot the muscles and
the tissues in the front of the foot you
just
stimulate the top of the foot like this
especially like right into here and what
you're going to find on people with flat
feet it's going to be extremely tender
so you just want to work out the top of
the foot no one does this they're
working on the bottom of the foot
this is the faster way to give your feet
a lot of relief so I'm just working on
all the different muscles on the top
part for maybe a minute you do the other
side of
course okay and then what happens when
you're done you're going to feel the
bottom of your feet feel so so good it's
going to feel really good now step two
if you have cramping in your feet or
your C half that always means that you
need a little bit of calcium so take
calcium magnesium before a bed don't
take it with with food have it in an
empty stomach right before bed if
there's actual cramping in the foot you
know sometimes when you point your toe
and you get that cramp that's a
different situation okay so go ahead and
apply these techniques put your comments
below and subscribe to my channel and
I'll see you in the next video
