hey Dr Burke here I want to explain uh
vitamin C vitamin C normally comes uh in
a complex in nature it always comes with
a bunch of associated parts so let's
talk about the parts vitamin C comes
from an antioxidant portion right here
or or a protective coating called
ascorbic acid and when you go to the
store and buy vitamin C you're normally
going to see ascorbic acid in very high
doses dosages including up to even Grand
in nature ascorbic acid never never
occurs more than 100 milligram so when
you see vitamin C tablets over 100
milligrams chances are it's made
synthetically now where they make
vitamin C synthetically is from corn
starch and sulfuric acid so they mix
those two together and make this
ascorbic acid and tell you it's vitamin
C when it's really a synthesized version
of one part of the vitamin C complex so
I don't recommend it because there has
side effects in fact when you take too
much of this one part right here
ascorbic acid you will create
deficiencies in the other parts of the
vitamin that normally come in Nature's
package okay so let me let me just kind
of give you an example I had a patient
went to Mexico and went to some of this
alternative uh clinic to get rid of his
cancer and they injected him with a
100,000 milligrams of ascorbic acid well
he came back with the worst vitamin C
deficiency you've ever seen in your life
so he had spider veins he had
hemorrhoids he was completely tired so
vitamin C deficiency is basically scurvy
scurvy is fatigue your joints fall apart
and you have a lot of uh vein uh spider
vein issues or varicose vein issues so
in the vitamin C complex normally in
nature you have vitamin P that's the
bioflavonoids okay that would be the the
factors that support the the connected
tissue around arteries and the veins
that prevent the spider veins on your
nose vitamin J that's the that's the
lung or anti pneumonia vitamin and that
vitamin helps protect against going
upstairs and preventing you from getting
out of breath easily it kind of helps
your lungs increase oxygen and you see a
deficiency in this in a lot of asthma
cases but it's really just the vitamin C
complex and then you have copper each
vitamin complex comes with a different
mineral so copper is one of the minerals
in the vitamin C complex but it's
actually in an enzyme form it's called
tyrosinase and tyrosinase is there to
help as a precursor to build the adrenal
hormones and that's why I'm talking
about vitamin C because it's essential
and to build your your adrenal hormones
the reservoir of vitamin C in your body
is held in the adrenals and so we want
to make sure that we don't burn them out
by taking too much ascorbic acid so if
you're taking vitamin C now go get the
bottle and just make sure it doesn't
have large amounts of ascorbic acid you
want to get a natural vitamin C that has
low ascorbic acid and high other factors
through here now we know about vitamin K
that's like the clotting factors and so
people might get bruising if they're
deficient in vitamin K but this is the
anti pneumonia vitamin this is the
bioflavonoids that support the veins and
without this you get spider veins and
then this is the one that supports the
adrenal and then ascorbic acid really
the only function of that is to protect
these vital internal parts of the
vitamin C complex this is not the active
ingredient in vitamin C like most people
think and the reason why it works maybe
for when you get sick you might take
Vitamin C is the acidifying effect it's
really the acid in the
scrobicularia acid because ascorbic acid
will start depleting you of the other
factors so when I ask people um you know
what was your history what did you do a
lot of and if they had a lot of grams of
vitamin C or so-called vitamin C um and
they end up with adrenal issues it could
be one causation of that okay so I just
wanted to mention this just make sure
that your vitamin C comes from a natural
source so you read the label and you
want to see the foods that it comes from
not just a little pinch of um those hips
you want to see that it's low scorc acid
and it comes from uh Foods vegetables
and things like that so one of the top
three foods with vitamin C are kiwis
papaya and peppers any type of peppers
bell peppers green peppers hot peppers
those are the three foods that have the
most vitamin C on the planet okay so I
hope that helped I will see you in the
next video
