hey guys I'm back in this video we're
going to talk about gall stones and the
massive confusion there is about it some
people say well it comes from a high
carbohydrate diet other people say it's
a low carb diet or a high fat diet high
protein diet so here you are trying to
get rid of your Golf Jones you don't
know what to do okay
so a couple things you need to know gall
stones are cholesterol stones okay it's
concentrated cholesterol all right it's
not calcium its cholesterol and bile bi
le which is made by the liver and stored
in the gall bladder has a couple
functions one is it will help to
dissolve fats and extract fat soluble
vitamins number two it also keeps stones
from developing so gall stones really
are a bile deficiency so anything that
will create a deficiency of bile will
create gall stones all right let's talk
about the high carbohydrate diet
first of all high carb diets increase
insulin and by the way insulin converts
sugar into cholesterol so you're going
to get a huge spike of cholesterol and
this is one of the causes of gall stones
high carb diets okay I'll put a link
down below really because of the high
spike in insulin so if you're trying to
get rid of gall stones you definitely
have to keep the insulin really really
low number two high protein diets so
anytime you consume excessive amounts of
protein you also try your insulin which
can cause high amounts of gall stones
not to mention the strain on the liver
and the gallbladder with too much
protein okay now let's talk about high
fat diets now the main food that
triggers the release of bile is
saturated fats so it's not true the high
fat diets will cause golf tones unless
you consume the high protein or the high
carb now if you're not used to it you
don't have the bile reserve to handle
the amount of dietary fat that you're
consuming that can create a strain on
your digestive system and bloating but
not golf stones it's more of a
distension and strain on the gallbladder
because it's trying to keep up with the
digestion it can also put a strain on
the pancreas as well but high-fat diets
are not one of the causes of gall stones
especially if you're not adding an
lots of carbs and high levels of protein
okay now let's talk about a low-carb
diet now doing a low-carb diet will
definitely lower insulin which is a good
thing but when you lower insulin you're
gonna mobilize a lot of fat release from
the fat cell well guess what's in the
fat cell cholesterol and triglycerides
so now we're going to dump a lot of
cholesterol into the system if your
liver is fatty if your liver is damaged
if your gallbladder is sluggish if you
don't have a gallbladder that can back
up and lead to a fatty liver and also
decrease your bile release thereby
causing stones and this is why I always
recommend consuming a lot of vegetables
if you're doing a low carb diet an
unlimited amount of vegetables to keep
the flow going to keep the liver
cleansed as you dump all this fat
through the system and through the liver
so anytime you're doing a little car and
let's say you're doing higher fats with
moderate amount of protein and not
enough vegetables you potentially could
plug up the liver and actually reduce
the release of bile and cause of golf
stones and this is why anytime you're
doing the ketosis diet you need to add a
lot of vegetables to it okay a large
amounts to keep your liver free of fat
and keep yourself free of golf stones so
if you feel even bloating because you're
consuming too much fat all you do is
reduce that and increase more vegetables
and those symptoms should go away so I
hope that cleared up the confusions on
what causes gall stones if you don't
have a gall bladder this still applies
you might want to add some purified bile
salts because the cause of gall stones
is really low amounts of bile all right
thanks for watching hey before you go
definitely sign up for my free keto
course I put a link down below it's on
messenger in facebook but it will give
you all the basics it's very quick it's
like three or four videos and it's free
check it out
