hey guys I wanted to create a video on a
question that someone uh asked about
genetic high cholesterol okay it's it's
about 1 in 500 people have it where the
situation when your family is high
cholesterol and I would highly recommend
you do a test to make sure that you have
it versus not have it because um
typically the doctors like to jump right
to the statins okay so what is it it's a
situation where the LDL receptors in
your liver are defective so they don't
receive that cholesterol to help break
it down and recycle it like like they
should so what can you do to offset this
there's a couple things one is red yeast
extract that acts like a natural
Statin uh apple cider vinegar with water
and lemon very important a lot of
vegetables you may have to go on a
little lower cholesterol diet but you
can definitely do the intermittent
fasting which is very very important
that's not going to be a problem in fact
it'll probably help you greatly um
because it'll actually help you lower
insulin that then converts to
cholesterol um there is one study that
I'll I put a link down below that has to
do with families with this condition
genetically and it says if you have this
condition and you have premature heart
disease then you're at risk so what
about if you didn't have premature heart
disease let's say your family history
everyone you know lived a long life and
they didn't have any heart problems but
they still had the high cholesterol
chances are you're not going to be at
risk okay anyway I just wanted to make a
point about it and that's my viewpoint
and put your comments below you I just
wanted to take a moment out to thank you
for your amazing feedback that you guys
are giving me it's just mind-blowing the
success is the wins I created a link
down below so you can actually type out
your full success story and if you have
a before and after with weight loss that
would be awesome and if you don't have a
success with weight but other things
just put an image of yourself and your
personal success story and I would love
to read it and also share it with others
so I want to just thank you in advance
for doing that but there's a link down
below fill it out and I can't wait to
read it
