there are seven stupid mistakes people
make regarding their health number one
getting the wrong advice and then
accepting that advice as a fact you know
you go to the doctor and they might ask
you about what you're taking and you say
I'm taking these vitamins I'm taking
magnesium Etc and they're going to just
kind of go oh you don't need that you
can get that from your diet and then you
accept it as a fact unfortunately just
because someone has an MD behind their
name or even a PhD behind their name
doesn't mean they fully eval ated all
the information they haven't even looked
at it they just tell you their opinion
and then you accept it so that would be
a big mistake and this definitely
relates to a vitamin D deficiency there
is so much valuable information on
vitamin D that's buried deep into the
literature and if you just do a
superficial look at you know the first
three pages on Google you're probably
going to find all sorts of uh bias
information and oh yeah vitamin D
doesn't do anything and we get enough
from our diet or the Sun and that is
just ter information because so many
people have vitamin D resistance so the
normal typical amounts even if it's like
2,000 I use are not going to do anything
they'll never be able to achieve this
therapeutic effect number two a person
is depending on all their protein
requirements from a protein powder and
it's not complete compared to animal
protein you're not getting any vitamins
or minerals or other things that are in
animal Meats now the other thing that
comes with that is when you just consume
meat and you're thinking you're getting
all of your proteins did you realize
that out of all the proteins in your
body 30% is collagen there's not a lot
of collagen in meat now if you eat a
tender steak for example you're only
getting like 1 to 2% collagen all right
number three basically a problem with
medicine the whole system you treat the
symptom you don't really get rid of the
cause now I'm not talking about the
doctors that are mending a bone from a
fracture or if you go to the doctor for
an infection I'm talking about how they
treat chronic disease you know with
certain pills a really good example is
just blood sugar right so normally you
should have a certain amount of normal
blood sugar even if you do eat carbs
this hormone called insulin comes in
there takes the sugar out of the blood
so you can have normal blood sugars so
yes that whole system of medicine is
really stupid so the next time you're at
your doctor ask him is there going to be
any point in this treatment program that
I'm going to come off the medication
because medication fixed it all right
number four the hyperfocus on reducing
your salt content for high blood
pressure I mean in nutrition science you
need like twice as much potassium to
sodium as far as the ratios I mean it
would probably be better if you add four
times the potassium to the sodium so
instead of focusing on lowering your
sodium which is going to create weakness
and other problems why not increase the
pottassium and if someone really were to
evaluate what potassium does to your
arteries it keeps them flexible all
right number five having this idea that
unsaturated fats are somehow healthier
than saturated fats and I'm talking
about these unsaturated fats the heart
healthy unsaturated fats it is highly
refined and it's in pretty much every
single junk food which is called alra
processed foods and yes it might lower
your cholesterol a little bit but what
about all the other damage that it can
do and I'm talking about like rusting
out the inside of your arteries creating
inflammation Etc all right number six
this idea that red meat is junk food
we've been eating red meat for a very
long time it still retains all the
vitamins the minerals the other stuff
that's in there that can help you and
yes there is different levels of
processed meat but to lump in the red
meat with the processed meat and even
you know state that they are both the
same as far as causing cancer is stupid
because red meat is one of the most
healing things that you can consume
especially for gut health in fact it was
the thing that actually turned me around
just within probably minutes I remember
years ago when I was a junk food junkie
and then I just started to consume red
meat for breakfast and it was like a
miracle overnight I just felt like the
brain fog went away I started feeling
better all right and number seven
reading nutrition facts this
unfortunately is a very stupid mistake
because if you actually started reading
the nutrition facts you're going to be
shocked it's very confusing when you
focus on the nutritional facts through
up here all these numbers right here I
mean it gives you some data but you
really can't tell what's going on unless
you read the ingredients and of course
the first one is sugars okay and of
course they have sugars hidden is other
words like high fructose corn syrup
things like that and that's number one
and number two is all the seed oils like
corn oil uh canola soy oil cotton seed
oil but number three starch starch is
really the hidden sugar that people
don't talk about let's take for example
this product right here if you look at
the total carbohydrate and this is
actually very interesting 16 gram of
carbohydrate guess how much sugar is in
here zero all right if we take the 16 G
of carbohydrate which is really hidden
sugars and then we multiply it by the
number of serving sizes this right here
is 50 six teaspoons of
sugar and this one bag of Doritos these
refined starches act on your blood
sugars worse than actual sugar but it's
classified as zero sugars you see the
problem a person is literally going to
make stupid choices because it's omitted
now since we're on the topic of starches
I think uh this next video on Malto dein
will blow you away check it out it's
right here
