hey guys in this video I want to share
with you this concept of shampoo and
conditioner does it really restore your
hair I mean it's it's everywhere you
look um if you look at marketing for
shampoo they're always saying well yeah
ours has Biotin and herbs and lemongrass
and collagen and she butter and all
sorts of natural things to restore and
rejuvenate your hair well in truth it
doesn't really do that in fact the fact
is that your hair is dead
I'm sorry to tell you that everything
from your scalp up is dead you have no
blood vessels in the hair there's no
nerves in the hair in fact try to cut
your hair right now and see if you if it
bleeds or it hurts it won't okay so
anything that you put externally on it
will only act as a film to make it
appear to be Fuller when in reality it
doesn't do anything to fix anything okay
it might last for 24 hours until you
have to shampoo the hair again so the
point is that um to really restore hair
it's an inside out job you have to eat
differently you have to avoid certain
things there's a couple things you have
to realize one the fat cable vitamins
are essential that would be vitamin A d
e k all those are essential for your
hair okay and that's in all the healthy
fats avocados um coconut and even
healthy grass-fed animal products as
well um also the other thing is trace
minerals vital for the hair to grow and
it's hard to get trace minerals from the
food because in the soils they really
only replace like three minerals they
don't replace all the trace minerals
trace
minerals um help build proteins okay so
a hair is protein so you have to take it
from the inside out especially like for
example zinc very important if you're
zinc deficiency zinc efficient your hair
will fall out um and then you have the B
vitamins and like biotin very very
important but to get it from food or
supplement but the point is that biotin
is only one of the B vitamins so the
bottom line is getting the nutrition and
then secondly the thing that destroys
the hair is is high levels of insulin so
that would be the sugar the bread the
pasta the cereal the crackers things
like that that raise insulin and
literally block the nutrients from going
into the hair if you ever take a look at
a diabetic their hair is either falling
out they have um frayed little edges
it's dry um it's not good so the point
is that it's really from the inside out
okay so if you want more information
click the link below and share your
comments below thanks for
watching what's the next part what am I
going to say take five do it
and where am I going with this hey if
you're enjoying my videos press the
Subscribe button below and I will keep
you updated on the future events thank
you so much
