hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about how to prevent an afternoon
blood sugar crash okay
now usually you're gonna get these
crashes right around four o'clock maybe
3:30 to 4:30 and the afternoon where
you're gonna get tired irritable your
visions going to start to go and then
sometimes at night right around eight
o'clock you have the need for something
salty to crunch on okay crunchy salty
and then at 11:30 in the morning you
might have a little chocolate craving
right here these are the most common
points in time where you might have a
blood sugar crash now here's the problem
this is what you need to realize when
you give in to these low blood sugar
crashes you actually make things worse
but it's kind of a trap because it makes
you feel better like wow it just takes
the stress out it gives you more energy
because you're tired so naturally you
think well this is the right thing to do
but you're gonna make it worse because
look what's happening you're basically
dependent on sugar fuel that's what
you're doing you're coming up and down
up and down
eating in every hour and a half raising
and lowering the blood Sugar's that's
what's happening but here's the problem
every time you eat use trigger insulin
and then that brings the blood Sugar's
down then you eat again it's really a
trap that makes you worse over time
health-wise inflammation belly fat and
metabolic syndrome and a whole bunch of
other issues so number one realize it's
a blood sugar problem because if you
don't realize that then there's no
problem to solve and number two very
simply what you do is you increase the
fat at the meal so you can go longer
okay without eating and fat has the
least effect of insulin of all of the
foods make sure your moderate amount of
protein because if you don't have a nut
protein that can also affect the blood
sugars make make sure that you have
either a salad or a lot of greens
because that those minerals also help
stabilize the blood sugar apple cider
vinegar is really really important or
did you have some hidden carbs which
also caused the blood sugar problem the
next day that's a very common as well so
this is a really easy problem to solve
if you understand it and you do keto and
I put a link down below of exactly how
to do it hey if you enjoyed this video
press subscribe and I will definitely
keep you updated
