hey guys I recently had a question
relating to how much of my food needs to
be raw vs. cooked okay so I want to
answer that by talking about this thing
called enzymes right it's enzymes are
fascinating they're these little magical
proteins that do all the work in your
body okay so they're they're mysterious
because they get recycled and they can
return to their original state after
doing the work so they seem to have this
little life force in them and it's quite
amazing because they without enzymes all
the chemical reactions in your body
would be so slow you wouldn't be able to
survive so enzymes speed up the chemical
reactions in the body both in breaking
food down and building tissue from the
macronutrients so you have amino acids
of fatty acids and then the building up
of tissue like hair nail skin ligaments
muscles that type of thing so enzymes
involved in building tissues digestion
nutrient extraction they pull nutrients
out all the different chemical reactions
making the vitamins available so when
you go to the store and you look on the
Shelf you'll see all these foods that
have a high shelf life you have all the
canned foods you have the pasteurized
foods you have all the roasted nuts and
things like that and that's because heat
kills enzymes and when you kill enzymes
you can preserve the food of course dead
food can sit on the Shelf longer because
it doesn't have the enzymes to break it
down so the real question is can you
build a healthy body by consuming dead
foods so let's answer that by looking at
the normal digestion what happens when
you consume cook foods goes into your
body it hits an acid in your stomach the
acid triggers a very powerful enzyme
that breaks down proteins then it goes
in your small intestine where that's
broken down further by the pumping out
of all the enzymes from the pancreas so
in other words when you consume food
without enzymes like an overly cooked
food your pancreas has to make the
enzymes to break down that food okay so
you're depleting more of the body's
enzyme Reserve and that is the stress
that consuming cooked foods crates in
your body so you stress out the pancreas
the stomach and other or
so the microbes also make enzymes to
help you digest food but of course if
you had antibiotics that could limit
that part of the digestive tract so I
consume most of my vegetables in a raw
state sometimes I might steam them
sometimes we'll have fermented
vegetables of course I'll cook the
proteins but just realize that every
time you consume pasteurized food
sterilized heated food you're killing
off the enzymes and you're depleting
that part of your body and you're adding
stress to certain organs all right
thanks for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press the button
below and I will keep you in the know
hey that runt
