you never want to take iron supplements
iron is the most toxic mineral that you
can consume and so if you are
unknowingly taking and being exposed to
too much iron over time your organs are
going to start to accumulate iron your
tissues are going to get iron overload
even certain people have a genetic
problem where they accumulate too much
iron and they cannot get rid of it which
is very dangerous you might not even be
aware of how much iron is in your daily
life I mean this is really important
because you might not even be aware of
how you're getting exposed to iron from
all sorts of you know strange places let
me just kind of cover all the the risk
factors if you have iron overload number
one cancer especially color rectal
number two liver disease I'm talking
about Scar Tissue inflammation of the
liver which leads to curosis heart
disease because if you think about iron
think about rust it rusts the inside of
your body if you have too much low
testosterone low libido diabetes chronic
fatigue syndrome infertility neurod
degeneration and a wide range of
inflammatory diseases you know I did a
video on iron deficiency being the most
common mineral deficiency at the same
time it's the most dangerous if you're
getting too much a toxic amount of iron
is the most
underdiagnosed overlooked condition in
relationship to all the vitamins and
minerals and so let's just cover the
common ways that you get iron that you
might not even be aware of one way that
people are being overloaded is is with
their supplements especially the one
aays I do not recommend getting a one a
day supplement with iron and you don't
absorb much which means a lot of it
accumulates and sits around in your
digestive tract which means that it is
time to cause constipation nausea
diarrhea bloating irritation in the
colon you really only absorb like 10% of
it and the rest just kind of irritates
the digestive tract the type of iron
that most people are are taking through
supplements is the type that will feed
pathogens in your digestive tract
pathogens love to eat iron and you can
very easily get an overgrowth of
pathogens by giving them too much of the
iron food the heem iron in red meat and
even in fish get absorbed a lot more at
least 35% absorption and it goes right
into the blood which means there's very
little free Iron that's left in the
digestive tract Plus in red me you have
a lot of other nutrients like vitamin B2
B3 B1 B12 zinc selenium and high quality
protein which can then act to help
balance out iron as compared to just
like taking a supplement with higher
amounts of iron let me just first touch
on this genetic problem with iron this
is um not as rare as you might think and
what's interesting in that condition is
the person usually has way too much iron
in their body but at the same time
they're deficient and that's really the
theme of this video when people have too
much iron or they have not enough iron
they really have a iron dysfunction it's
not as simple as just taking more iron
in solving the problem Beyond The One A
Day supplement you also have iron
supplements which I'm I highly recommend
you never take those again get your iron
from actual food if you're menstrating
for example and you're losing blood eat
more red meat or take Gra fed liver
pills when you consume bread or pasta in
the US it is so heavy with iron it's
going to sit in your gut you're going to
feel so bloated because the iron is
messing with your microbes and it's
irritating your gut because it's not
absorbed that well but the grains itself
don't help just look on the back of the
label with every junk food that you
would eat they have iron added but you
might not even read it as iron I'm just
going to give you three different types
of hidden iron that you might not even
recognize as iron Ferris fumerate Ferris
sulfate Ferris gluconate is another type
of iron supplements
fortification cast iron pots when you
cook with cast iron you're leeching out
a lot of the wrong type of iron if you
drink a lot of alcohol your liver is
going to get damaged and if you have any
liver damage at all that alone can cause
you to accumulate iron the biggest way
that most people have dysfunctional
iron is a lack of copper copper is more
higher level and helps
control iron there are many many
different enzymes that are dependent on
copper that relate directly to the
control of iron the first enzyme with
copper converts iron to a form that is
less accumulative in your body it
changes this toxic iron into something
that's safer copper also allows you to
transport iron through the body if you
don't have copper you can't transport
iron effectively so you accumulate iron
copper is involved in a very powerful
antioxidant to reduce oxidation that
comes from Iron when you combine iron
with something in the body called
hydrogen peroxide which your body makes
certain cells make you form one of the
most deadly free radicals in existence
it creates the most damage in the body
and it comes from hydrogen peroxide and
iron copper helps reduce this oxidative
stress this rusting out in the body
copper is necessary to make heem this is
the protein that allows iron to carry
oxygen you're saying well wait a second
I don't think I'm deficient in Copper I
want to give you some data on that too
because you might be deficient in Copper
I'm not telling you to go take a copper
supplement because just as we have
copper deficiencies there's also a
copper toxicity problem as well let me
just quickly go down the list of things
that really create a copper deficiency
one is glyphosate the chemical Roundup
Ready binds more to the Copper than any
other mineral in the ground if you're
eating any food with that glyphosate boy
you are not getting any Copper at all a
lot of the farming methods now just
completely destroy the soil so you're
not getting these trace minerals
especially copper certain antibiotics
work by depleting copper so that's
another way to become copper deficient
high fructose corn syrup blocks copper
absorption big time when you consume any
of the Cals or the breads with the wheat
products that can bind up the copper as
well the point I'm trying to bring to
your awareness is that iron deficiency
anemia is really iron dysfunctional
anemia which many times is related to a
mere copper deficiency and so the best
foods for copper are
oysters
shellfish organ Meats like I said in the
beginning never take iron supplements
get your iron from actual food animal
food don't forget the copper as well
because many people have a problem with
iron simply because they're deficient in
Copper and if you want a little more
information about copper you should
check out this video right here
