hey guys today we're going to give you
an overview of your liver bile and the
microbiome okay because they all work
together so these are the players
involved in bile production so let's
just kind of start with what is bile
okay well first of all you have the fat
or oil and you have water right they
don't mix too well so basically when you
consume food and some of that's going to
be fat it's not going to really break
down in a water-based situation so bile
is used as a detergent it's an
intestinal detergent okay that's what it
is it's soap so if you were to have a
greasy hands and wash your hands with
soap you would get rid of the grease if
you wash your hands without soap it's
going to be real hard to clean them so
try to digest without bile it's gonna be
really hard so if we actually take a
look at oil okay if I just open this up
here and do my demo and pour in my bile
detergent great I just kind of spilled
all over my hand here keep it nice and
clean here alright so I poured my vial
in there my detergent and then I go
presto and just shake a little bit BAM
look at that it's all being emulsified
right now in other words the detergent
breaks down the fat particles and what
happens it breaks them down to smaller
particles okay so bile basically breaks
down your fat and then you have the
pancreas which comes along and releases
enzymes to break it down even further so
you can actually pull in the fat table
of vitamins and the essential fatty
acids omega-3 fatty acids and like DHA
which is good for the brain so so that's
kind of the function of bile and so
there's many different things that can
happen that can actually interfere with
your bile production one is you have the
gallbladder removed so now you're not
going to have a concentrated bile
anymore normally with the gallbladder
supposed to concentrate the bile but
20 times so if you don't have a
gallbladder it's not concentrated it
trickles down from the liver and goes in
your small intestine and then it
basically you know doesn't it's not
concentrated so it's not going to be as
effective okay so you're going to have
undigested fat and you're gonna have
less fat soluble vitamins less omega-3
so that's one aspect it could be that
you're not taking enough omega-3 fatty
acids or enough fat type of vitamins
from your diet that's another reason why
you can have a deficiency of those those
vitamins and health factors now if the
liver is damaged okay let's say it's
fatty it's inflamed you have hepatitis
or you have scar tissue cirrhosis you're
not going to be able to produce as much
bile so you'll have a bile deficiency
from that alone so many people who have
insulin resistance because we're eating
too much chronic elevation of sugar and
starch develop inflammatory conditions
of the liver and then you start getting
all sorts of problems with the fatty
liver and then you can't produce bile so
that's another aspect that you should be
aware of but the microbiome all the 10
trillion bacteria they're not all in the
gut but good portion of them are helped
to recycle the bile so your bile is
recycled 4 to 12 times in a given day
okay 95% of all the bile is recycled so
your body is very very efficient so if
you don't have enough bacteria in your
gut in the small I'm sorry the large
intestine that could be the reason why
you don't have enough bile to be
recycled to have it work in the body so
we want to look at all the different
aspects especially after antibiotics or
you have some type of imbalance like
diarrhea you lost all that that might
that microbe there and then also the
other thing I would have mentioned is if
you don't have enough file either
because you don't have a gall bladder or
because the livers damaged that alone
can create an overgrowth of pathogenic
bacteria in the gut so we need the the
bile to balance out
this might microbial life it doesn't
seem to interfere with the good bacteria
only the bad bacteria so it actually
will kill off and dissolve the outer
shell of the bad bacteria so you can see
it's very dynamic and each thing works
together and I just wanted to bring
bring this up of all the players
involved with bile and it could happen
from the liver
it could happen from the gallbladder you
can be deficient from the diet or the
gut thanks for watching hey guys so
there's a whole bunch of people that
really need this information
so press the share button and let's get
it way out there
