all right so some of you when you're
doing keto and in a minute fasting you
are having problems sleeping at night
also what you're telling me is that
during the day you have all this energy
you're just not tired anymore and that's
simply because in the transition phase
is called keto adaptation you're
switching over to the fat burning and
fat has more than double the potential
energy storage mechanism more than
double so you're using a whole different
fuel that has more energy and it's it's
kind of getting your brain awake so
you're laying there trying to sleep and
like I'm not even tired right carbs are
more fatiguing okay
fall asleep I remember I used to have a
blood sugar problem I didn't this was
years ago I didn't know what to do but
the only way I could sleep it's
consuming a pint of Ben & Jerry's ice
cream and that would put me out like a
sugar that's why when you have blood
sugar problems you want to take a nap
after you eat right so it's just the
opposite now you can't sleep so just
realize it's going to be temporary and
what you can do to resolve it is there's
just three things one is to start adding
more minerals especially potassium the
next one is a lot more B vitamins okay
because B vitamins
directly relate to the metabolism of the
mitochondria and that's gonna actually
help you make this transition faster and
I would do nutritional yeast you can
give them tablets but just double the
amount and have more of that that will
greatly help you and then the last thing
you would want to do is you just want to
add more exercise to your day to use up
some of this energy but you have so go
for longer walks workout more frequent
just to get the energy out of your body
but that's really what's going on it's
temporary it will improve over time but
I just wanted to explain this mechanism
alright I'll see you later
hey if you haven't already subscribed
press the button below and I will keep
you in the know
hey that runt
