so why would anyone want to do a 30-day
Sugar Detox I mean Sugar's natural it's
what feeds our brain I mean what's going
to happen to our brain if we detox sugar
for 30 days can it survive so let's dive
into this topic I have some new
information I think you'll like but it
revolves around this one term called
metabolic flexibility that is your
cell's ability to make this smooth
transition
between carbs and fat during a fasting
State and then until you eat and when
you're eating and then going into a
fasting State how well can you switch
fuels because when you're eating
sometimes you're living off the glucose
right the sugar but then when you fast
okay that's no longer available can your
body adapt to burning fat and ketones
which are kind of like little packaged
pieces of fat how smooth and efficient
can this transition take place as well
as your cell's ability to utilize fat
and carbs or sugar when you're
metabolically inflexible this transition
is very very dysfunctional your ability
to burn fat when you go into a fasting
state is very difficult so this does
explain what's really behind why people
can't seem to lose any weight when they
do this fasting and then also when you
exercise let's say you're going to do
some type of endurance type of exercise
where you actually need glucose every so
often right your body just cannot seem
to tap into this fat fuel when you're
exercising that means you're metabolic
inflexible so this metabolic
inflexibility leads to diabetes
obesity loss of muscle Protein that's
called sarcopenia because instead of
burning fat the body sometimes will
start using muscle protein as its fuel
so the whole determination of what fuel
your body is using is all dysfunctional
the fuel comes into the energy
mitochondria and it doesn't get burned
and sometimes it doesn't get stored and
it clogs things up if you were to look
at the mitochondria as far as this
little assembly line of turning food
into energy you'd find all sorts of
bottlenecks and traffic jams and this is
what's really behind so many chronic
illnesses including cancer so this
really described what happened to me in
my late 20s boy I could not go for any
period of time without needing a snack
or else I'd get highly irritable ask my
wife I remember one time we were doing
all these things to try to get healthy
and uh I decided to do a a kma okay a
Col what's a Colma It's a combination
between a colonic and an enema and it
was developed by Bernard Jensen and in
this colon cleansing program you don't
eat any food you're drinking uh this
mixture of pelium seed with certain
vitamins with um apple juice and I have
never felt worse during that period of
time and when I was fasting for that
week I couldn't tap into my own fat I
was living off a little bit of sugar I
wasn't transitioning to the fat fuel
because if I was my my appetite would go
away I would feel so much better
mentally but I felt so terribly and I
was so irritable it was just miserable
and so when you have metabolic
inflexibility you're going to be grouchy
you're going to have anxiety you're
going to be tired you're not going to be
able to go for a long period of time
without eating and when you try to go on
a fast you're not going to feel good
you're going to feel tired you're not
going to be able to lose much weight
you're not going to have all the
benefits that you could if you adapted
and you were actually met AB abolic
flexible what's at the core of this
problem is insulin resistance and
insulin is what controls whether you
burn fat or not and so if someone is
metabolically inflexible what's really
going on is they have insulin resistance
and so the insulin is pretty high even
in a fasting State you see this a lot
with a diabetic as well as obesity with
certain obese people they can have like
three times as much insulin as someone
who doesn't have that problem and so the
consequence of all this extra insulin is
that it's the message of don't burn fat
store fat so the person tries and tries
and tries and just can't lose the weight
but there is a way to transition over to
create this metabolic flexibility which
really is insulin sensitivity and
there's many benefits for this okay
you'll be able to go long periods of
time without hunger without Cravings
you'll be able to actually burn fat
which would be a great thing and also
your efficiency of burning sugar will be
better too the sugar that comes in the
mitochondria can finally be burned as
well well and so occasionally if you go
off your Keto Plan and you go on some
carbs your body can burn those fuels so
the ideal situation would be able to
build up your body into a state of
insulin sensitivity and metabolic
flexibility so I'm going to show you
four ways to do that and just so you
know if you did this for 30 days chances
are you would create a huge impact into
this problem number one you eat less
frequently this goes against what people
uh tend to tell you to do right eat
often to prevent hunger like this hunger
is a bad thing like you're starving no
it's actually being hungry sometimes is
a very healthy thing it's it's in our
genetics uh we've been hungry for a very
long time and if we never let our body
get hungry because we're constantly
feeding it we develop metabolic
inflexibility number two eat fewer carbs
all right number three and this may be a
new one for you eat sufficient amount of
fat but don't eat excessive amounts of
fat if you are metabolically inflexible
why because not only can you not
efficiently burn glucose you also can't
burn fat too well either that's why you
can't lose weight so why would you want
to add so much extra fat to the diet
that would be a mistake I'm not telling
you to go lowfat but just don't add all
these additional fats that so many
people add into a ketogenic diet uh I'll
never forget the story of A friend of
mine went on the ketogenic diet first of
all his definition of Keto was just a
high fat diet right and he didn't want
to do in minut of fasting so he made
these fat bombs they're like pure fat
coconut oil and butter and MCT oil and
uh maybe a little almond oil and he was
just Downing these all day long I think
he the first week he gained five pounds
the second week I think he gained seven
pounds that is not what you want to do
so get your fat that normally comes with
the meat okay or other things but don't
go low fat if you're doing cheese or
something like that but don't add
additional fat and that way we can get
your body to tap into your own fat that
is the purpose of the fat to provide for
extra fuel during times when you're not
eating and so when you go on a fast and
you eliminate
glucose now the body has no choice but
to burn its own fat and we can really
screw this up if our meal is very high
in fat because now we don't give the
system a chance to tap into our own fat
so let's say you're doing two meals a
day and you're adding this extra MCT oil
these extra fats
and even if you're going 18 hours okay
all that fat that you ate in the last
meal is still not used up how do you
expect to ever lose weight so I just
wanted to emphasize that one point okay
number four exercise snacking and this
is a probably a new word for you it's a
it was coined by someone back I think in
1970 and it's not eating while you're
exercising okay exercise snacking is
basically short bouts of exercise
through the day like doing this high-
intense interval training bout for five
minutes before you eat and then walking
after you eat what they found was very
interesting when they compare doing that
to like a regular pattern of eating and
doing this workout maybe at a standard
time during the day is that when you
have these short bursts of exercise
throughout the day that produces way
more benefits to your blood sugars to
making insulin more sensitive
as well as to improving your metabolic
flexibility better than the old pattern
so I I recently mentioned this in a
video instead of sitting in front of the
desk all day break it up with maybe
every hour or every two hours you do a
little short exercise that's going to
break up the pattern of sitting all day
being sedentary and it's also very
doable because you're only spending like
five minutes doing a workout and if you
want to take it to the next level you
can instead of doing high-intensity
interval training you can do a version
of that called sit which stands for
sprinting innoval training right so this
is like the Flatout full high intensity
using the maximum intensity type
exercise you can do which is sprinting
and you're only going to be doing it for
10 seconds right and you rest for a
period of time do it for another 10
seconds rest for a period of time and
that produces some serious results in
fact that's what I'm experimenting right
now with actually I'm doing it up a hill
I'm running or sprinting up a hill to
add more resistance and I can only go
like 15 seconds and I'm done and if you
can combine this with intermittent
fasting not overdoing with your fat
within 30 days you're going to produce
some serious results not just with your
weight for your overall health now
because of the censoring and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe be to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other
side
