today we're going to talk about
dysporinia painful intercourse this is a
major situation for women sometimes even
inserting tampons
getting a pelvic exam horse riding
sitting too long all of these activities
can be uncomfortable now what I think is
usually behind this condition is
oxalates okay oxalates can form crystals
that can look like razor blades
sometimes you can get oxalate Stones as
kidney stones sometimes they end up in
the joints sometimes they can create
like gout-like symptoms it's called
pseudogout where oxalate crystals can go
into the big toe but they can also end
up in other tissues too like the vaginal
area and sometimes if you present this
Theory to your doctor they might go oh
well there's no scientific studies that
relate to that that's just you wasting
your time but my thought is first of all
just because something doesn't have a
study doesn't mean it's not effective I
mean are you just going to wait for the
scientific Community to do a study on
something that
there's no profit on you can't
necessarily make any money on it by
having a food recommendation by avoiding
certain things so just because a study
hasn't been done doesn't mean that what
I'm going to present is not true I mean
there's a lot of women out there that
have been very successful just by making
a simple dietary change with maybe a few
supplement recommendations so what do
you have to lose right so these are the
foods that I'm going to recommend that
you avoid for a while to see if oxlets
are involved spinach
beets grains beans potatoes almonds
peanuts kiwi wheat germ soy Xylitol
which is a common sweetener that a lot
of people use on the ketogenic diet
blackberries chocolate eggplant black
pepper Swiss chard
figs and the spice Turmeric all of these
foods have high levels of oxalates okay
now realize that the oxalates come from
your food but your body can also make
oxalates and they do form with calcium
to make these crystals so
let's say for example you accidentally
had some spinach or you had I don't know
some peanuts or something like that what
you can do to reduce the effect of
oxalates is consume some Dairy with
those products okay now it's not going
to completely eliminate it but what's
going to happen is the calcium in the
dairy
is going to bind with the oxalates in
your digestive system and less will be
absorbed into your blood so like let's
say spinach and you have like some
cheese right Dairy can provide the
calcium to reduce the effects of these
oxalates now what food can you eat well
you can do any of the meats you can do
Fish seafood you could do eggs you can
do fats and you can do certain
vegetables that are low in oxalates as
well arugula
cabbage avocado cauliflower are all low
in oxalates
and then also just regular lettuce is
low in oxalates yeah and also the
saturated fats are low in oxalates too
so you could definitely eat a pretty
good variety of foods you know sometimes
people will say
well the diet's too restrictive I can't
do it well how bad is this problem I
mean let's weigh out the advantages and
disadvantages of making these changes I
think it's it's going to be worth it if
you can completely resolve these
symptoms now there's also been some
connection with low B6 and having higher
levels of oxalates I did a video on this
I'll put it down below
but um if you are going to take vitamin
B6 make sure it's in a form
p5p form okay so I'm just going to
mention that and put some more
information down below because I don't
want to get sidetracked but if you add
calcium citrate before bed like just one
tablet that can help you because again
the calcium will bind with the oxalates
okay so you can actually minimize that
reabsorption especially if the oxalates
are being produced in the digestive
system normally there's a microbe in the
gut that's supposed to take care of
oxalates so it could be that you just
don't have that microbe for some reason
maybe you took antibiotics at some point
and it killed it off and it never came
back I don't know but this is why a very
strong Diversified microbiome in your
gut is very helpful to count on this
problem as well the second thing I would
recommend is a product called nag and
this is just a product to help um build
up the lining of the vaginal Canal to
help with some of this discomfort as
well you may find that if you add this
things can get a little bit better and
then there's one less product CMO okay
and I'll put a link down below of all
the different names I'm not going to
mention Brands but you'll have to pick
your own brand but I just want to kind
of give you the general supplement that
I would recommend but I wanted to keep
this video short and sweet just to give
people an option and put them on the
right track into evaluating this
specific symptom and resolving it now
there's one more important Point
relating to citrates
and oxlets that I did a video on
recently if you have not seen that one
definitely watch that one as well and
I'll put it up right here
