so I want to do a quick video on a
recent news flash relating to Monsanto
the company that has patents on certain
GMO foods that use glyphosate which is
Roundup Ready which is an herbicide so
recently there was a lawsuit between
Monsanto and this gentleman who
contracted non-hodgkins lymphoma which
is the type of cancer because he was
exposed to glyphosate okay I think it
was in a school setting that he was
spraying so anyway that jury awarded 290
million dollars to this one person now
there's like four thousand people behind
him that are also suing Monsanto so it's
starting to happen this is the first
time something like this happened which
is really good that they're finally
having to take responsibility for all
the damage that they're creating now
this might be rumor but I also heard
that Whole Foods has like a year before
they are going to be completely GMO free
so I don't know if this is an absolute
fact but I heard that it probably is
true okay so that's exciting so the jury
also found that Monsanto acted with
malice oppression and fraud so there
were certain documents that were
released and in these documents it was
found that Monsanto had employees that
were ghostwriting
some of their research conclusions
incredible they were paying scientists
lots of money to fabricate things and
have certain biases so I put a link down
below to actually see the court
experience of what happened check it out
and comment below of what you think
about this hey before you go I'm gonna
create some new videos on food
evaluation okay so if you'd like to
participate I can't promise that you'll
be the person i'll choose so here's what
you're gonna do you're gonna take a
picture of what you're eating a close-up
okay one day how frequent you're eating
like as an intermittent fasting is it
one meal two meals and anything else
that you're drinking or supplements and
go ahead and add your height weight in
age and any major body problems that
you're having and what I'm going to do
is I'm going to analyze that to see what
you're doing correct and what you need
to improve alright so go ahead and click
the link down below upload your
information and again I can't
I'm gonna pick you but I'm gonna pick
several people and I'll do the
evaluations and I'll post these as
YouTube videos all right talk to you
later
