so I've been talking about the
importance of magnesium in other videos
but I wanted to create a video on what
foods are high in magnesium that are
also keto friendly so men need about 420
milligrams of magnesium every single day
women are a little less three hundred
and twenty milligrams of magnesium every
single day and there's quite a few foods
that have a good amount of magnesium
that are not keto friendly so we're not
gonna recommend it like fruit grain
potato beans legumes and even tofu but I
will say that if you are vegan and
you're trying to do keto some tofu might
be okay as long as it's organic but
generally speaking and not recommending
it I remember one time I went to Whole
Foods and I saw these little chicken
nuggets they look really good so I got
some and I started consuming them and
they just tasted very very strange and I
ate quite a bit of them and I started
getting really really sick well come to
find out they weren't chicken they were
tofu chicken and didn't like it too much
let's go with number one pumpkin seeds
have a tremendous amount of magnesium a
hundred and fifty milligrams per ounce
that's three tablespoons all right
number two spinach at a hundred and
fifty seven milligrams per cup now if
you're a female you need three hundred
and twenty milligrams so you can see
that two cups of spinach will easily
give you that requirement okay and then
we have almonds at 80 milligrams per
ounce
so in salmon has about 53 milligrams and
if you wanted a visual of what that
would look like it would be about half
of a fillet and then you have chocolate
which has 64 milligrams per ounce okay
avocado 58 milligrams per medium-sized
avocado so you'd have to consume quite a
few avocados to reach your daily
requirements so again it's not that high
but it's higher than other foods okay
Swiss chard has 29 milligrams per cut
okay and then cashews have about 28
milligrams per ounce
so as I'm looking at this chart right
here it's gonna be pretty easy to get
your magnesium if you're doing spinach
or Swiss chard or other leafy greens
that I did not mention here you can also
do pumpkin seeds which seems to be
pretty easy so all you would have to do
is consume several ounces of pumpkin
seeds to get your daily amount of
magnesium but I wanted to give you a few
reference points on magnesium and how
difficult it is if you look at the foods
that have the most magnesium of any of
the foods and this explains why the
majority of the population just doesn't
get enough magnesium nor potassium for
that matter they don't consume enough
greens they're probably not consuming
pumpkin seeds they might be consuming a
lot of chocolate but of course with the
sugar when I'm recommending chocolate
I'm recommending the sugar-free
chocolate and if you have not seen some
of my other videos on magnesium I put
them on the screen right here check them
out
