you know I want to do this video on
sticking to
your healthy weight loss plan because
recently I'm doing a search on how to
stick to your program
and the amount of terrible advice is to
spread all through social media the
internet especially the first five pages
of Google and it literally makes me
nauseous to see what information is
being put out there by people that have
zero experience in this area if you try
their advice you're just going to fail
miserably and the big problem with that
is every time you do
a diet that doesn't work over a period
of time
your metabolism becomes slower and
slower and slower to the point where
you're on 500 calories
a day and you're not losing any weight
assume this in practice with the certain
people who have dieted as a child and it
just literally destroys their ability to
lose weight down the road so before I
get into how to solve this problem once
and for all I just want to read a few
things that you should
never follows as far as just bad advice
right it says don't deprive yourself of
those things that you love to eat just
eat in moderation keep a detailed log of
everything you eat well I mean who has
time to do that that's just I mean it's
crazy drink more water okay you fill up
with water well water is not very
satisfying and don't ever let yourself
get
hungry
okay so that would be just frequent
meals okay so all of that is very stupid
advice if you're trying to stick to a
program you know this is just not about
having willpower or having discipline
because even if you have willpower or
you have discipline and you're driving
down the street and you're hungry and
you're craving and you see Chick-fil-A
or Kentucky Fried Chicken
or Taco Bell it's gonna call your name
right it's gonna haunt you or you're
going through a grocery store
and you're walking past
potato chips or the bakery section
it's going to be torture or even at home
let's say you're sitting watching TVs
late at night and you have something in
the pantry that's calling your name Eric
gosh I don't care how much willpower you
have or discipline you're not going to
be able to resist that for very long so
let's just talk about hunger and
cravings for a moment there's two main
hormones involved you have um ghrelin
okay which is the hunger hormone makes
you hungry so we would want to decrease
ghrelin and then we want to increase
this other hormone that makes you
satisfied it's called leptin
so if you look these two up you can just
isolate the factors to balance these out
to help you and I'll just quickly go
down the list so we want to get more
sleep because we know if you're tired
and you're not sleeping you're going to
crave more you're going to be hungrier
decreasing sugar okay we know about that
having adequate amount of protein right
I've talked about that recently in
several videos if you're deficient in
protein I mean think about how much of
your body is protein not only do you
have muscles and you have ligaments and
tendons and even part of your bone all
the chemicals the enzymes are all
protein so from a survival standpoint
your body is going to keep eating until
you get enough protein so we also have
fiber your microbes eat fiber we have
also the reduction of stress The more
stress you have the hungry you are
decreasing alcohol smoking Etc and then
we also have caffeine a little bit of
caffeine can satisfy you but a large
amount can make you hungry and then
they'll mention a medication especially
antidepressants can really make you
hungry and then they talk about gastric
bypass another factor is the amount of
fat that you eat if you eat more fat
you'll be more satisfied and less hungry
and then you also have the speed at
which you eat if you eat really fast it
can also alter these hormones so the
slower you eat and you chew your food it
can put these hormones back into balance
and of course I already talked about
decreasing sugar but also decreasing
carbs you have the menstrual cycle as
well so when you have the menstrual
cycle you have this shift in hormones
that will make you crave if that's your
situation just as a side note a little
L-tryptophan will go a long way that can
totally handle cravings when you have
your menstrual cycle but anytime you
take L-tryptophan always take it in an
empty stomach because it can compete
with other proteins and it won't work if
you have it with meals another factor is
eating nutrient dense foods right that's
going to be more satisfying so that
would include like omega-3 fatty acids
the trace minerals like zinc especially
from
um like seafood for example or organ
meats or just higher quality
um like grass-fed beef things like that
this next thing
is really the big factor of this whole
video it says eat
frequent small meals to prevent hunger
if you've been watching my videos in the
past you'll know that if you take on
this advice it's going to be a big
problem because every time you eat you
increase insulin okay and you start
developing insulin resistance and in the
presence of insulin you're not going to
be able to burn fat and if you're not
burning fat you're not going to lose
weight and if we just look at the
importance between these two things
lowering your carbohydrates
and also eating less frequent eating
less frequent is way way way more
important in other words we're talking
about intermittent fasting if you have
any problem losing weight and you don't
Implement intermittent fasting I don't
think you're going to be successful and
if we just take a look simply at hunger
and cravings What are we really talking
about we're trying to solve the problem
of fuel in your cells because if there's
not enough fuel in your cells you're
going to Crave and you're going to be
hungry that's what it's all about so is
there possibly a way
to feed the cells fuel between the meals
without eating and the answer is
absolutely we can feed the cells your
own body fat you're never going to be
able to do that in the presence of
frequent meals because to get your body
to burn fat
it's all dependent on lowering your
insulin by lowering your carbohydrates
and eating less frequent you see to get
your body to burn fat you have to adapt
to Fat it's called being fat adapted
okay and that does take about two to
three days to get into that state but
once you're in that state your hunger
goes away and your Cravings will go away
if you still have cravings or hunger all
that means is you're not adapted yet but
when you know how to get your body
adapted and you can start running on fat
Fuel and other things called ketones
okay ketones are basically a byproduct
of fat being burned and you're actually
burning both fat and ketones when you're
adapted and to do that you have to lower
insulin through lowering your carbs and
sugar and also eating less frequent so
that way regardless of what environment
you are in okay if you're in a party if
you're at a social event if you're
driving down the street and you see a
fast food restaurant or you're in a
grocery store and you see those
chocolate brownies
you can control yourself you can walk
past those brownies and not have this
incredible impulse to have to have it
why because your cells are finally
getting fuel even though you're not
eating anything and whether you have
resistance to leptins called leptin
resistance okay or insulin resistance
which then will make you hungry all the
time that will be quickly fixed because
getting on a ketogenic diet fixes both
of those problems versus being in
another condition where you're having
these frequent meals to prevent hunger
your carbs are too high you're going off
your program to frequent you're not
doing intermittent fasting and you're
literally trying to lose weight on top
of cravings and hunger which is
literally it's torture so I really want
this to sink in if you want to be
successful when you see all these little
tricks to try to stick to a diet
ignore those because now you really know
how to do it the correct way right now
we have almost 8 000 success stories on
my website you can read them these are
from actual people I don't know any
website that has that many success
stories so how do you do it a healthy
version of the ketogenic diet
intermittent fasting you want to add
other things in there too like a little
bit of apple cider vinegar and water
which will help and make it easier
berberine also helps to speed things up
it's a natural herb and I have a really
good video to get started on this to
make it very simple and I put it up
right here check it out
