hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about why diabetics usually need
additional medication over time okay
first of all what is diabetes it's a
problem with high sugar okay so the body
is high sugar from eating a lot of
carbohydrates so the purpose of the
medication is to lower the blood sugar
so it removes the sugar but diabetes
medication does not lower the body sugar
only the blood sugar so the sugar in
your body is still there it's just not
in the blood so the medication keeps
cramming and stuffing this sugar in
different places it's very similar to in
your house if you have dirty dishes and
you don't wash them you keep sticking
them underneath the cupboard in the
pantry and the suitcase until finally
everything kind of starts becoming a
problem and usually the medication can
get the sugar out and it's converted
into fat so the fat cells start getting
bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger
they start spreading into the liver
around the organs and the pancreas and
the brain excessive fat around the
kidneys and many other organs so
diabetes type 2 is a diet problem okay
and that's why taking drugs will never
fix it because it's a diet problem we
don't want to add more carbohydrate so
the medication basically hides the real
problem continues the problem so
eventually you're gonna have more
complications with the high sugar and
you're going to need more powerful
medication to keep the blood sugar down
more insulin for example and then you
can have side effects from the
medication and then you can have other
complications from high sugar like high
cholesterol vision problems which would
be put on medication so then you can
have side effects from those medications
for example some people have a bladder
problem at night well there's another
medication from that which causes
another problem so the chain reaction
goes on and on and on and on so if this
is the first time you're hearing this
concept in you're a diabetic I highly
suggest that you take my little mini
course down below it's how to do keto
healthily within a minute fasting this
will shed some light on the exact diet
you need to be
to help support healthy blood sugars
alright thanks for watching hey I
appreciate your attention and if you're
enjoying these videos go ahead and
subscribe and I will definitely keep you
updated on future events live events and
webinars that we're going to do very
soon
