hey guys Dr Burg here in this video
we're going to talk about H pylori
helico Bor okay pylori this is a microbe
that creates a lot of digestive problems
and usually it's asymptomatic you don't
have any symptoms and become until it
becomes activated over 50% of the
population has this microbe but they
might not have any symptoms from it now
this microbe is very very um evil
because it drills holes in your stomach
and your intestines and the way it
survives because it's hard to live in
that acidic environment in fact it can't
live in a a pH between 1 and three and
that's why it's important to keep your
stomach really really acid uh it'll bury
into the mucus membrane and live there
where it's not as acid then it has a
little trick to make your own stomach uh
neutralize so it actually
decreases sto uh stomach acids so so it
can live uh and survive unfortunately so
they're they're pretty uh destructive
um now here are the symptoms for this
condition you have brain fog um
fatigue gastritis it's inflammation of
the stomach
ulcers uh abdominal pain decreased
neurotransmitters why because you're not
able to digest protein if you don't have
the stomach acid you can't break down
the protein to really make the amino
acids that are these these
neurotransmitters are made out of and
then we have decreased mineral mineral
absorption especially iron so you become
anemic because you need that strong
stomach acid to absorb the minerals so
there goes the uh potassium there goes
the Magnesium uh iron calcium so you
have all sorts of mineral problems and
then you get bloating of course now if
you think about it if you have a hole in
your intestines or your stomach because
these microbes think about the uh what's
going to happen for like even leaky gut
or these little proteins when you're
eating are going to go into the hole and
you're going to get allergy IES so all
of a sudden you weren't allergic to this
thing and now you're allergic to it um
so that's another problem with a lot of
itching and histamines and allergies uh
these people have a lot of issues and um
so it affects your mood because the
neurotransmitters it can affect a lot of
things and mimic a lot of other symptoms
and people can put you on the wrong
thing but here's what I would do if I
were you uh of course medically they use
a couple very strong antibiotics and a
protein inhibitor I mean I'm sorry a
proton inhibitor so you it's like an
anti acid the problem is a lot of times
you may become resistant to that and now
you have to get another round or try
other medications so I'm going to give
you some solutions to work with your doc
alternatively to see if you can't um
assist the body into doing it more
naturally and these um natural remedies
are anti-h pylor they help inhibit this
microorganism number one lactic acid
bacteria so that would be in all the
fermented foods like um that would be in
um sauerkraut the fermented vegetables
it would be in Kombucha Tea um very
important and then we have sulfurane
which is a natural compound in broccoli
sprouts and broccoli itself and other
cruciferous vegetables so that will
inhibit this microbe and then you have
Mastic Gum mastic gum is a type of resin
off of a tree off the coast of Greece
this island um I mean you can get it as
a supplement but this is very anti-h
pylori as well then you have
lactobacillus gasia uh which is a
specific microb that tends to kill this
you could find a supplement with that
and I'm going to actually have these all
down below in the description so you can
check it out garlic onion okay that'll
that'll kill this thing off and then
horseradish now I hate horseradish so if
I were going to do this I would take
these in pills uh and concentrated them
out and I would start consuming them but
of course start low in the dosage and
maybe increase it and I think uh you may
uh experience a lot of benefit from
doing these natural things so thanks for
watching and put your comments below hey
if you're enjoying my videos press the
Subscribe button below and I will keep
you updated on the future events thank
you so much
