now when you're dealing with complex
health problems like kidney stones and
gout it's really important to break down
the component parts of this problem and
then look at those parts very very
closely because there's some interesting
similarities and differences between
gout and kidney stones uric acid is
involved in kidney stones as well as
gout but uric acid Stones is not very
common compared to the oxalate stones in
the kidney and so my question was is
there any connection between oxalates
okay and gout and there's definitely a
huge connection people who have high
oxalates in their urine tend to have a
worsening gout situation you can even
have it's called pseudogout which is
kind of a gout that's not related to
uric acid coming from oxalates which is
interesting but just like any problem
it's important to have as much
information as possible and I found a
very interesting paper that was written
in 1978 in this connection between in
oxalates and gout and kidney stone so
I'm going to share with you some
information because it can be very very
important in solving this mystery
especially if you are doing the
ketogenic diet now I'm assuming that you
already know that the most common
type of kidney stone is calcium oxalate
stones and I'm also assuming that you
know that some of the highest sources of
dietary oxalates come from spinach
rhubarb
almonds chocolate cacao buckwheat wheat
beans soy which includes tofu and miso
definitely includes the potato chip and
the french fries beet tops a Swiss chard
then we have star fruit as well and out
of all the berries raspberry is highest
in oxalates and we even have black
pepper and black tea
now if you're steeping the tea in some
hot water for a very short period of
time let's say for example a minute
versus seven minutes there's going to be
a huge variation in how much oxalates
are in your tea I mean it can range
between you know two milligrams of
oxalates to up to like 65 milligrams if
you're soaking this black tea in this
water for like seven minutes almonds are
very high in oxalates but also you have
the Brazil nut hazelnut cashews and pine
nuts but just as a side note if you're
doing like coconut or peanuts or
pistachios or macadamia nuts or walnuts
those are much lower another interesting
point is if you're doing a like massive
amounts of ascorbic acid as a powder for
some remedy like over four grams which
is quite large that can actually
increase your oxalate levels as well the
amino acid glycine which a lot of people
take that to help them sleep and to help
various health conditions can also
increase your risk of oxalates as well
and also if you have problems with
absorbing fats like fat malabsorption
because you're low in bile you can have
more oxalates and this is just another
reason why bile is so important in your
body to help you fully digest fats and
also keep your oxalates to a minimum but
Xylitol which is
a sugar alcohol which is an alternate
sweetener that I recommend a lot in the
Keto Plan if you're sensitive to kidney
stones and gout you should just try
avoiding Xylitol because apparently
Xylitol can really spike your oxalates
and just in nature oxalates are formed
in plants
from non-oxidized saccharins which are
sugars maybe that's why the Xylitol can
also turn into oxalates I'm not sure
exactly however there's just a
interesting connection between the
consumption of Xylitol and the worsening
of kidney stones and gout for certain
individuals not everyone but it's a real
simple thing to avoid in your diet to
see if you get better you might be
saying well I don't consume Xylitol as a
sweetener well do you have sugar-free
gum
it's loaded with Xylitol a lot of times
toothpaste has Xylitol and even mouth
washes have Xylitol I mean it's just so
interesting if I look at myself now my
own health Now versus in my 20s I'm much
healthier now I'm 57 years old almost 58
years old I didn't even know the basics
it wasn't even on my radar until I
started having problems later in my well
my late 20s and my 30s so a person can
learn
from their own experiences
which just takes a long time or they can
learn from other people's experiences
and that's what I'm trying to do with
you give you the experience of many
other studies or people going through
these things so you don't have to go
through the mistakes that people made or
are spending yours trying to figure
stuff out now there's another little
interesting point about this topic
related to gout I always ask the
question like why would someone develop
gout as they get older like after 40
years old or 45 or 50 all of a sudden
they end up with gout why doesn't it
happen earlier in life well I found
another paper which I'm going to put a
link down below which is actually very
interesting it's called Ferris
oxalate so in other words if someone has
too much of ferritin iron is stored in
different forms in your body and
ferritin is one form it's like I think
10 to 20 percent of your body stores
iron in this ferritin which is a type of
protein and so as your ferritin goes
higher this can cause it to bind with
oxalates and aggravate gout symptoms and
cause like arthritis in different parts
of your body you know one thing that's
interesting about iron is that it's we
have no mechanism to get rid of iron so
what happens as we age if especially if
we're exposed to more iron we can't get
rid of it especially in men but also
post-menopausal females too because
they're not menstruating and releasing
this blood which is releasing the iron
one big clue is that if you were to
donate blood and you feel a lot better
with your arthritis or your gout then we
need to suspect this could be the
problem so as we age we may start
noticing more of the problems with iron
than when we were younger especially
since the more inflammation we have as
we age the more iron we tend to
accumulate more problems with their
health including gout if that's your
potential situation well you just need
to work on getting rid of your
inflammation but also making sure that
you reduce the amount of iron in the
diet I'm talking about vitamin mineral
products loaded with iron okay and you
should not be taking those at all and
it's definitely the wrong type of iron
another reason why some people might
feel better if they consume less red
meat could be this problem as well
on the ketogenic diet it's not a high
protein diet it's a moderate protein
diet so red meat which is loaded in iron
and so is liver could also be connected
to this in certain people so it's
something to look at personally my body
does really good on red meat but of
course I'm not consuming massive amounts
but I I do very well some people don't
so this could be one of the reasons so
how can we neutralize this problem of
oxalates okay well one thing you could
do is make sure that your fluids that
you consume every day are roughly
between 2 to 2.5 liters that is going to
dilute this concentration of calcium
oxalates in your urine and prevent
stones and also can decrease the
intensity of gout pain number two you
want to start consuming calcium-rich
Foods especially if you happen to be
consuming foods high in oxalates
unfortunately the oxalates are in a lot
of different foods so it's almost
impossible to completely eliminate them
but if you're having calcium or dairy
with these vegetables okay you can
reduce the amount of oxalates that are
reabsorbed into the body because the
calcium binds with oxalates in your
intestine and then that just goes right
through you it's not reabsorbed into the
blood and then ending up in the kidneys
or your urine when you go to the
hospital for kidney stones or someone
goes to a clinic sometimes they're left
with a little brochure and uh
usually it'll say you know things like
oh avoid calcium-rich Foods I'm like no
you need to have calcium-rich Foods the
next point is vitamin D now what is the
big thing that vitamin D does to calcium
it majorly increases the absorption of
calcium by 20 times
this means that much less calcium is
going to end up in your kidneys in your
urine That's What vitamin D does so a
vitamin D deficiency
could be another Factor so taking
vitamin D at least 10 000 IUS per day
could help reduce the formation of
kidney stones as well as gout because
you're going to form less calcium
oxalates and then another factor is
citrates okay in like lemon juice lemon
juice on a regular basis in your water
would be very very important because the
more citrates you have the less calcium
oxalates will be formed a lemonade will
go a long way as well as the lemon juice
in your water now in this article
written in 1978 there is another
interesting factor that I want to bring
up that I think is very very important
people tend to have more oxalates in
their urine when they're B6 deficient
yeah B6 B6 naturally lowers the
formation of oxalates here's the thing
B6 is in a lot of our Foods so it's
apparently very difficult to become
deficient however
if you take B6 as a supplement in the
form of pyridoxine which is the most
common you know form that they put in
supplements you can actually create a
deficiency of the active form of
paradoxine especially if you're prone to
kidney stones or gout I would recommend
taking a different form which you can
find as a p5p form of B6 now another B
vitamin that can help reduce the
formation of oxalates is B1 the number
one cause of a B1 deficiency is
consuming too many refined carbohydrates
so this could also be wise people when
they do refined carbs they start hurting
more in their big toe and they all of a
sudden hurt more on their abdomen
because their kidney stone is growing so
B6 B1 very important now I already
mentioned before moderate amount of
protein because the data of this high
protein connection to this problem is
related to people consuming higher
amounts of carbs at the same time I have
not found any research on just high
amounts of protein or a carnivore
without these refined carbs so kind of
one of those factors that you know we
don't really know for sure but just so
you know a ketogenic diet is really a
moderate amount of protein it's not a
high protein diet and the next point is
sodium increasing calcium in your urine
you lose more calcium if you have a lot
of sodium but again I wouldn't worry
about that as much because that's a
minor point but if you've tried
everything and you still have problems
with gout or kidney stones maybe that
massive amount of salt that you're
consuming might need to be lowered or
you might need to go up with the
potassium to counter
the effects of this high sodium and
that's probably more of the problem it's
not the sodium as much as the deficiency
of potassium because potassium also can
help reduce the formation of kidney
stones and help to balance the pH in
this acidic issue with gout and then the
last point is like I said before start
consuming foods low in oxalates okay so
as far as the nuts I've already
mentioned that I will put a list down
below and then you have seeds also that
are lower in oxalates like pumpkin seeds
or sunflower seeds now since we're on
the topic of oxalates it's important for
you to have all the information so if
you haven't seen this video on oxalates
I put it up right here check it out
