all right so today we're gonna talk
about what is the symptom of
lightheadedness when you're on a keto
and in manna fasting plan okay so if you
start this plan and you feel
light-headed which is kind of a form of
dizziness usually what's happening it's
a low blood volume slash pressure
problem because when you run all these
carbs you were retaining fluid so you're
gonna increase the volume of fluid now
you got rid of all the fluid and the
electrolytes okay so very simply all you
have to do is drink more water with sea
salt of course don't forget the
potassium as well and the other
electrolytes but the sea salt and the
water will increase the volume pretty
quickly and you'll feel better what you
don't want to do is just drink the water
because if you just drink water without
the other electrolytes what what's gonna
happen is you're gonna feel even worse
because you're gonna take the small
amount electrolytes you had and dilute
it more okay so always add the sea salt
with it just probably an eighth of a
teaspoon and some water dissolve it
drink it down with some other
electrolytes and that should go away
now if you have lightheadedness in
general without being on a keto or let's
say you had it before that's usually a
weak adrenals or anemia or low blood
sugar which I have other videos that you
can watch if you search on YouTube
alright thanks for watching so I want to
know what you're interested in as far as
a future video click the link down below
and share some ideas I want to hear
