hey guys I'm going to the chiroprator
you want to check it out come with
me okay so I'm in the waiting room I
guess the roles are reversed usually I
have people in the waiting room waiting
for me now I'm waiting for someone else
I think that's why they call it a
waiting room right and that's why they
call you a patient because you must have
patience but anyway um I've been going
the chiropra since I was ninth grade
I'll never forget it I was in a
wrestling practice and I injured myself
I go to the chiroprator I didn't know
what to expect I was a little
nervous it was the most incredible
experience of my life after that first
adjustment I asked him I said do you
like what you do I says I want to do
that that made me feel so good it was
amazing so that was when I decided to be
become a chiropractor so here I am
getting adjustment again hey guys I'm
here with my chiropractor and uh this is
Dr art now the reason I'm going to Dr
art is he practices a technique called
Chiropractic Bop physics it's one of the
most most researched scientific
techniques out there that actually
corrects the spine and I had so many
injuries starting from birth to car
accidents going off of a cliff
motorcycle accidents so I'm going to
show you how an adjustment works okay so
can you adjust me sure okay good
so all right doesn't hurt by the way
no I'm just
kidding no but it's totally painless you
know I probably had over a million
adjustments so far from Chiropractic
collagen over the years but it's a very
gentle movement aligning now my neck
could move I feel great so anyway if you
are in the Virginia area DC or Maryland
you need to check this guy out I put a
link down below thanks for watching guys
thanks
