hello everyone Dr Berg here in this
video we're going to talk about the best
foods to clean the liver okay the to
make your liver happy all right so now
the first thing I want to mention is the
liver is the only internal organ that
can completely 100%
regenerate and all you need is 25% of
your liver left to be able to do that
that's the good news the bad news is it
takes 3 and a half years of healthy
eating to do it
now the best foods hands down of
anything that you can possibly eat for
your liver would be the cruciferous
vegetables so first of all the word
cruciferous comes from the plant which
means cross Cru so it has a little cross
on the leaves that's what those are but
examples of cruciferous vegetables would
be kale um collard
greens cabbage
broccoli brussels sprouts radish all
those wonderful bitter vegetables okay
so those those vegetables um are not
very uh popular among a lot of people
they're usually used as a garnish on the
um on the plate is like you have the
kale leaf or you have this little um
parsley that's the best thing on the
plate so the thing about cruciferous is
that not only does do they have the most
macronutrients like vitamins and
minerals and amino acids and trace
minerals but they have something very
very unique called
phytonutrients and um if you want to
know some of the names probably put you
to sleep of the indol 3 sulfuranes
lycopenes isoflavonoids all those
chemical names but those are names that
describe these plant-based chemicals
called phytonutrients that give very
unique health benefits now I can't in
this video tell you that consuming those
vegetables or any supplement is going to
cure any diseases but I will say that
you should just go out yourself and look
at the research that's already out there
in Mass amounts showing you that
consuming these vegetables will decrease
the risks of all sorts of cancers
diseases macular degeneration and act as
a protective mechanism um so they're
very very very important to consume and
there's a lot of vegetables out there
and that's why I develop the the Cal
shake you take kale and blueberries and
blend it up and drink it down every day
I hope you're doing that by the way so
these cruciferous vegetables have very
very unique
properties now they have some really
cool things that they do to the liver
and by the way the liver is on the right
side of your body 3 and 12 lbs the size
of a football it's huge and it has 500
functions the liver um makes protein on
your body it
basically controls the blood sugars it
stores sugar it controls
detoxification it stores fat cable
vitamins it makes certain hormones
insulin like uh growth factor that's the
fat burning hormone it's called igf and
also controls growth hormone too so
that's your anti-aging hormone so it's a
very important organ the problem with
the liver is that a lot of um issues
with the liver will not show up until
95% of that liver is destroyed and then
it'll show up in a blood test so you
really can't go by blood test in the
liver um you have to do you know
biopsies which is really not good to do
but if you have a pot belly I know your
liver is a fatty liver because I took
five of my patients and I sent them to
the radiologist for ultrasounds and they
had kind of like a protruding gut and
all five out of five had fatty livers
and um I've sent a lot of other people
in the past just to get a double check
on that and a lot of them have fatted
livers so you may have a fat liver and
not even know it so what I'm suggesting
is start consuming those Foods
immediately because they're very very
good at help dissolving the fat and also
protecting your health down the road the
liver is such a Hub of Health I mean
you're about as healthy as your liver in
fact the thyroid uses the liver to
convert T4 to T3 so without the liver
working you can't convert the thyroid
hormone so again it's part of digestion
and detoxification so many things the
thing that the cruciferous vegetables do
which is very unique is that they um
stimulate certain enzymes in the liver
that are responsible for something
called Phase 1 Phase 2 detoxification
you know if you were to do a cleanse and
with a Herbal Cleanse or maybe some
other type of cleanse a lot of times you
get sick you feel the
detox but when you do it with
cruciferous vegetables you will not feel
any detox and the reason why is it goes
through phase one phase 2
detoxification so phase one is breaking
down poisons or toxins that are stored
in the liver and into smaller particles
and then phase two takes it from that
level all the way down to elimination
completely so it's kind of like the the
cruciferous vegetables are responsible
for breaking these poisons into harmless
particles that will not cause any
detoxification so that's pretty cool so
we live in a toxic waste dump and
welcome the planet Earth and so when you
consuming these foods thank goodness
they actually help us they help cleanse
and clean without the feeling of being
sick okay so for those of you that are
planning and doing a diet or a cleanse
starting January 1st uh I recommend that
you use my chapter 10 it's called the
liver enhancement it's in my book and uh
um it also comes together with a program
of another product that I have which is
the cruciferous so I have my own product
a lot of you are already taking it but
it's called organic cruciferous food and
in this product it has 250 capsules and
it's organic beetroot organic they're
all organic organic brussels sprouts
sprouts um cauliflower
asparagus kale parsley parsley has more
vitamin A than kale yeah but it's hard
to eat it that's why I have to get in a
pill form red radish cabbage garlic
hands down garlic is the best thing for
almost any viral stuff anything I mean
it's just amazing um garlic bul
turmeric and organic
seelp why because when you consume
certain cruciferous vegetables sometimes
they can pull out um iodine so this puts
it right back in so this is the like the
ultimate product um and for the holidays
I'm going to give you a special on this
right here so normally it's 39 34 .95 so
I'm going to give you $10 off so it'll
be
$24.95 which is a pretty good price for
250 capsules this will last you if you
took six of these a day it'll last you
for 41 days okay so that's a nice time
for doing a cleanse okay
so here's a requirement for getting the
coupon code to get the discount number
one you have to buy it off Amazon so you
go to Amazon
search for liver cleanse drberg click it
buy it and then enter the coupon code
below which I give you a discount right
with that it's $10 off and in addition
you need to know what to do so I'm also
going to give you as part of this is my
book in a PDF form
so once you click the link below and you
get the product you're going to have to
know what to eat so you're going to go
to chapter 10 it's called liver
enhancement
and you're going to do this program
after the holidays all right hopefully
if you order it now you'll get it after
holidays you can get started but this is
a this is a product um that we use with
chapter 10 and you would take six of
these a day it might seem like a lot but
it's just food so it's really healthy um
so I'm giving this coupon
code um with and here's the catch I want
an unbiased review on Amazon
okay that's all I ask so order it do an
um of course you have to wait till you
get it right get it in the mail try it
out um and give me an unbiased review
that's all I ask and in exchange I'm
going to give you a discount and I'm
going to give you my book right here if
you don't have a copy a lot of you
already have a copy but some of you
don't you'll like it because this book
took me seven years to create okay so
that is your program and that's my gift
to you have a great holiday and I wish
you the best of health next year
