let's talk about the earliest sign of a
magnesium deficiency that you do not
want to ignore there are 22 signs but
the earliest sign will shock you so stay
tuned for that now check this out most
of your magnesium is right inside the
bone 60% 20% is in your muscles 19% is
in the soft tissues in the different
organs and only 1% of all the Magnesium
is in your blood magnesium is the most
overlooked nutrient by doctors you
cannot determine a magnesium deficiency
by a blood test because half of the
magnesium in your bones
30% can be used as a reservoir for extra
magnesium for your blood so you can be
very magnesium deficient in your body
yet have normal magnesium on your blood
test there's no single quick way to
determine your magnesium status in an
accurate way but first let's talk about
how someone would be deficient let's
first go through the things that can
deplete you of magnesium of course you
have the sugar the refined carbohydrates
you have the alcohol you have curosis of
the liver you also have even uh in the
Farms they put this fertilizer NPK
stands for nitrogen phosphorus and
potassium they don't put magnesium back
in the soil and then if we eat the
plants that are low in magnesium we
become deficient in magnesium
malabsorption is another common reason
that means you have inflammation in your
gut which prevents you from absorbing
magnesium and other nutrients if you're
on a diuretic if you are on a PPI that's
something that helps with acid reflux if
you had gastric bypass if you're low in
vitamin D you're not going to be able to
absorb magnesium if you have
inflammation you won't be able to absorb
magnesium and there are also magnesium
deficiency diseases like diabetes high
blood pressure arthritis osteoporosis
and cardiovascular disease because
there's a huge association between all
of those diseases and low magnesium but
now let's talk about the diet what foods
are high in magnesium well if you guess
leafy greens you are correct these are
vegetables anytime you see green think
chlorophyll chloral is the blood of the
plant so if you want more magnesium
think more green and I'm not talking
about pistachio ice cream or lime green
Jello-O if you do uh certain vegetables
like spinach that have high oxalates
that can reduce the absorption so in
other words some of the foods that do
have magnesium like
almonds chocolate also have oxalates
which can block the absorption now
people will tell you that grains are
high in magnesium right well grains also
have Fates which block magnesium those
are whole grains but you say well I'm
eating refined grains well when they
refine the grain or any food they get
rid of most of the Magnesium so grains
are not a good source of magnesium
whether they're whole grains or refined
grains also when you boil food you end
up leeching out some of the Magnesium
roughly the rdas uh for the recommended
amount of magnesium is between like 300
400 maybe a little bit more there's some
data that shows that Ancient Man needed
a lot more almost double that and so
most people don't even meet the minimum
amounts that we need to prevent a
magnesium deficiency and this is why
between 48 and 90% of the population is
deficient in magnesium also realize you
can get magnesium from various Meats
chicken especially pork you can even get
it from red meat and even cheeses
especially parmesan cheese and
especially
shellfish so now let me go through some
of the body clues that my indicate that
you're low in magnesium and then I'll
get to the first earliest sign because
the earlier you know you have a
deficiency the better okay anxiety
insomnia depression migraine headaches
restless leg syndrome muscle cramps
fatigue tourettes oxidative cholesterol
High homocysteine levels high blood
pressure calcification in the arteries
arrhythmias risk for getting a stroke
metabolic syndrome polycystic ovarian
syndrome it's PCOS risk for kidney
stones higher levels of calcium in the
blood inflammation n stigmus where your
eyes are going back and forth and Asthma
so you're probably kind of surprised how
many different symptoms could occur if
you're deficient of magnesium but just
realize if you have sufficient magnesium
in your body all 350 different enzymes
can finally work and the body can
actually do its job but now let's get to
the number one earliest sign that you
have a magnesium deficiency
neuromuscular
hyperexcitability now what the heck does
that mean that's a fancy word for tetany
or twitching of your muscles whether you
get it underneath your left eye like a
or even on your arm like this it starts
to Twitch like that any of those little
twitching Sensations are the early signs
of a magnesium deficiency you have to
realize that your nerves
require magnesium to work and apparently
when you're deficient in magnesium the
nerves become more excited you get
faster nerve impulses not slower and if
you really want to know what's happening
we don't have enough magnesium to push
the calcium out of the cell so now we
have this buildup of calcium inside the
cell can't come out because we don't
have enough magnesium so we don't have
the normal contraction relaxation so
with magnesium and calcium
uh we have this whole dynamic between
nerve impulses and muscle contraction
and relaxation now since I brought
up these right here it's called leafy
greens if you want to know how much you
really need to not only get your
magnesium but your potassium you should
watch this video right
here
