okay line number one the purpose of fat
is to provide a cushion for the body as
an insulator that is a total lie that is
not what fat is for the purpose of fat
is to act as
protection against the
starvation of
sugar
fuel to protect you against the starv
of sugar fuel what what do I mean by
that well an average body will burn
sugar as the primary fuel source okay
that's what your body runs and that's
why you have the blood sugars that go up
and down up and down up and down but fat
is not a primary fuel source it's used
as a
backup only if you're starving of sugar
and that is the primary purpose why is
that important it's because in order to
burn
fat we have and convert over to fat
burning we have to starve the body of
sugar that's the bad news but there's
some good news starvation doesn't mean
lowering your carbohydrates it
starvation is the elimination or
bringing your sugars down to zero what
happens when you do that is your body
will start to adapt and make all sorts
of cellular machines like enzymes and
things to burn a different Fel source so
it will adapt to burning fat on your
body well that's what we want so this
process of adapting takes two weeks okay
it doesn't happen overnight so when you
are trying to do a diet and someone
tells you oh yeah you just need to eat
this food and you burn fat they're lying
to you no because in order to burn fat
you have to completely utterly eliminate
this right here now you might say well
my Cravings well if you do this you
won't crave any sugar guaranteed in fact
the way you know you're burning fat is
you crave no sugars listen burning fat
is a way way healthier way to do it
burning sugar is like diesel fuel it's
very dirty it makes you feel kind of
funky there's three times as much energy
when you burn fat and it feels much much
better I've been in fat burning for
about 9 years so so number one it is
possible to burn fat but you have to
starve the body of sugar um and that is
one one thing that's very very very
important of anything else because no
matter what you do if you don't do this
it's not going to work you might lose
weight but that weight you lost is just
water weight it's not actual fat I'm
talking about putting you in some
hardcore fat burning and shrinking your
body fast this is one principle you need
to know because the very purpose of fat
so that's that's a confusion people have
okay now one last
thing when you convert your body over to
burning fat and you do this correctly
and let's say uh a Monday you go off the
program and you have a half a glass of
juice or a doughnut or a cookie well
well the problem is that that Sugar will
bring you back here for about 48
hours so all it takes is a very tiny bit
of carbohydrate to bump you out of fat
burning for a good amount of time it's
not until those calories are burned up
like like you say you eat a like a let's
say it's 80 calories for a bagel and you
say well I'll just run that off that's
not how it
works so if you provide a littleit of
sugar in in your diet just a little bit
you could actually prevent your body
from burning any fat at all and what's
going to happen you're going to have
some weird blood sugar things you're
going to be craving like crazy you're
going to be tired you're going to feel
kind of
funky so so there is a correct way to do
it but you have to understand these
little details that make a huge
difference okay so let's lie number one
let's go to lie number two in the next
video
