this is not how to create energy okay I
used to do this I don't do it anymore
because both of these items have made me
very tired today we're going to show you
seven ways to boost your energy in a big
way but I'm talking about generating
true energy not stimulating your body
with certain types of stimulants like
coffee and things like that I'm talking
about truly giving you the energy that
gives you this sustained feeling that
you have endurance and you're very awake
and every part of your body is working
you see things like caffeine don't
really give you energy they get rid of
the fatigue molecule so you're less
tired but they don't actually boost your
energy glucose or sugar might appear to
give you energy but in reality it's
going to make you tired after you
consume the sugar both of these have
over 50 gam of sugar in them that's like
12 and 1/2 teaspoons of sugar so let's
Dive Right into those seven different
ways okay the first thing is using
magnesium magnesium is the co-actor to
make ATP you can look at ATP like a
battery okay so if you don't have
magnesium you can't make ATP so the
number one symptom of a magnesium
deficiency is you guessed it fatigue so
the question is how do you get magnesium
spinach almonds avocado fish number two
there's something called the sodium
potassium pump okay you have millions
and millions of these in all of your
cells but the sodium pottassium pump is
very interesting because it allows you
to generate electrical current in charge
in your cells like a battery that powers
your muscle and your nervous system and
this is why when you're on the ketogenic
diet for example or you're doing fasting
a lot of people don't consume enough
sodium potassium is another mineral that
a lot of people don't get because you
need so much of it you need like 4700 mg
per day I mean where you going to get
that from vegetables salad right but you
would have to consume a lot of salad to
get that much potassium and a lot of
people don't so they substitute or
enhance it with electrolyte powder all
right number three just basically
generating more mitochondria it's called
mitochondria biogenesis the number one
way to do it is through consistent
exercise doing it over time where your
body can adapt and adjust to the work
workload by generating more mitochondria
both endurance type of exercise as well
as resistance type exercise so this is
why it's important to mix it up also
fasting and intermittent fasting can
increase more mitochondria this is why
we always recommend you do intermittent
fasting with your Keto Plan which is I'm
going to cover next cold therapy can
actually increase more mitochondria
because you're shocking the body in this
cold state where the body has to
generate a tremendous amount of heat to
compensate for the L loss of this heat
and the body must maintain 98.6 to the
core so you can imagine there's a
tremendous amount of stress on those
mitochondria to start generating heat I
do notice when I do cold therapy boy it
just definitely gives me more energy
during the day another thing that can
help mitochondria is something called
polyphenols so this could be in just
like eating certain vegetables herbs uh
certain supplements with polyphenols
like blueberries or other berries can
give you polyphenols uh dark chocolate
can give you polyphenols and number four
is ketones this is going on the low carb
diet if we compare ketones to glucose as
a fuel the ketones will give you like
10.5 kg of ATP versus the glucose only
gives you
8.7 kg of ATP so low carb is definitely
the way to go to get more energy next
one carnitine okay carnitine what is
that that is a compound that can help
transport report your fat into your
energy Factory called the mitochondria
it can help you increase endurance while
you exercise it delays the fatigue
Factor it can even act as a antioxidant
to decrease the damage in your muscles
now take a while guess what food has the
most carnitine of any food there is on
the planet and that is red meat this is
why probably when you consume red meat
you have more energy that's one of the
reasons number six Apple apple cider
vinegar it's interesting because apple
cider vinegar is an acid and it could be
used by your mitochondria as fuel add a
tablespoon and a glass of water each day
and number seven B vitamins I like to
get my B vitamins from nutritional yeast
but B vitamins are intimately involved
with every part of your mitochondria
that generates food into ATP this is why
a vitamin B deficiency can make you
tired despite eating all this food you
just don't have the conversion so now
that you know how to get energy the next
thing to know is how to sleep and for
that information I put this video up
right here check it
out
