hey Dr Burg here again I'm just going to
give you a little tip on how to handle
Cravings at night if you crave sweets at
night that means your breakfast is not
big enough so I want you to add a little
more protein for breakfast so instead of
one egg it would be two eggs if you're
eating two eggs add a third egg and
that's not going to be a problem with
your cholesterol because eggs have the
natural antidote to cholesterol which is
L ofin the thing that I do to prevent
Cravings at night is I increase fat and
protein for breakfast so so um it's very
satisfying so you might want to do the
Greek yogurt with nuts you can do cheese
you can do avocado I love avocado a ripe
avocado with maybe some salsa and maybe
some um mayonnaise you mix that together
a little lemon juice maybe a little
garlic pepper put that on the eggs melt
some cheese on the eggs consume that
it's very high in fat in protein and
that will actually get rid of your
Cravings in the evening as long as you
have a huge salad for lunch and dinner
um so just a little tip if you're
craving at night that means your
breakfast is not uh satisfying enough
with the protein or the fat
