so today I want to touch on the
antioxidant Network okay you may have
heard of antioxidants and free radicals
I just want to explain simply how it all
works in a very simplistic presentation
okay so a free radical is a an atom with
an unpaired electron basically if you
envision a little spinning disk okay
with two weights on it if you take one
of the weights off you're going to see
this little non symmetrical spinning
disk and it's going to be lopsided it's
not going to be very very smooth it's
going to be erratic right so that would
be a free radical an antioxidant is an
atom that has a paired electron so it
spins nicely and it's balanced okay it's
stable in nature so this is very
unstable and this can create a lot of
damage inside your body you can kind of
think of it as rust on your car the
oxidation from the water and the oxygen
it goes on there and it's just rest a
hole in your car I'm from Wisconsin we
have a lot of salt on the road and we
have a lot of cars and arrested but
anyway examples of free radicals or
oxidants would be iron free iron like in
some of the enriched foods that we
consume radiation sugar large quantities
of sugar really destroy the body
chemicals pollution smoking vegetable
oils can act as an oxidant and create
free radicals and so an antioxidant what
it does is it donates it gives up one of
its electrons to make this free radical
stable now the problem is when vitamin E
for example gives up this electron it
becomes unstable it becomes a free
radical but not as severe as this but it
still becomes unstable and that's why we
have a network we have many different
antioxidants so for example vitamin C
would then donate one of its electrons
to vitamin E so vitamin C really helps
vitamin E stay in there and do its work
a lot longer vitamin E is really
important in keeping the inside of the
arteries
really really healthy so these two work
together and so then vitamin C will
become unstable and it can borrow
electrons from one of the other
antioxidants so then you have zinc
involved as an antioxidant it actually
is really good to lower inflammation
selenium vitamin b1 it can act as an
antioxidant and it protects the cells
against damage so if you have two
diabetics for example and one is b1
deficient the other one is not the one
that is b1 deficient will experience the
complications of diabetes so these
antioxidants protect your body from the
damage from free iron and radiation and
sugar and chemicals industrial oils this
is why it's so important to consume
foods with antioxidants not necessarily
as some synthetic version I'm talking
about actual food cruciferous vegetables
healthy foods with plenty of nutrients
vitamin C zinc selenium and by the way
zinc oysters seafood lobster high in
zinc selenium Brazil nuts vitamin C all
the leafy greens lipoic acid is another
great antioxidant and it's a fat soluble
so it has the ability to penetrate into
the cell and protect the cell at
different locations and then we have
something called uric acid now you're
probably thinking wait a second I
thought uric acid was bad it's involved
in gout and kidney stones right well
it's also a very powerful antioxidant
even more plentiful than vitamin C in
the body so it's there to help clean up
damage from various things from oxidants
now one point about oxidants is that
your body actually makes oxidants okay
and it also comes from the environment
as well so your body makes hydrogen
peroxide for example it makes things to
basically defend the body kills off
microbes kills off microbes and also
it's there to kill cells to kill its own
cells because you have this constant
repair action so the body is there to
kill off and get rid of old dead cells
and then replace them every
second you replace five million cells
okay now how does the body kill those
cells with oxidants its own oxidants but
you still need the antioxidants to
repair some of the damage that's
happening from this massive killing
action so we have this entire system
that's there to defend the body against
microbes and replace old damaged cells
so then we have all these antioxidants
here to make sure that we don't have too
many free radicals too much damage from
this right here and also to clean up any
damage from our own body making oxidants
replacing the cells and defending
against microbes all right so that's
just kind of an overview in another
reason why you should continue to
consume cruciferous vegetables and other
health foods hey guys I want to
introduce you to my new doctor Berg app
it's right here it's I'm really excited
about it you need to download it it's
free has a lot of great data it has all
my videos it's updated on a regular
basis I also have the audio version of
the videos audio episodes I also have a
mini course that you can take I also
have a button for new content so you can
really know of all the recent content
that I'm downloading and I also have
something called PDF resources which
gives you additional cool little
one-page PDF documents on all sorts of
health things so download it check it
out and tell me what you think about it
and don't forget to give me a review
it's dr. Berg app
