let's talk about the relationship
between a potassium and diabetes did you
realize that a potassium deficiency
could actually trigger a new onset of
diabetes if you have diabetes or
pre-diabetes or insulin resistance this
video is very very important in fact one
of the common drugs the first line of
defense against high blood pressure is
these diuretics called thiazide
diuretics and it's well known that they
give you a risk of developing diabetes
now you think that would discourage
doctors from using it but it's one of
the big side effects these diuretics are
used for hypertension
so that's why they use it on the flip
side there's another drug called an Ace
inhibitor okay which actually protects
against diabetes it actually lowers your
risk of getting diabetes which is
interesting and it too is used for blood
pressure now my question is
what's going on here why would one
increase the risk and yet the other one
decrease the risk and I believe it has
everything to do with what these two
drugs do to potassium first of all the
thiazide diuretic depletes your
potassium if you are consuming a diet
that is very low on potassium like most
people and you're taking this drug on
top of that chances are you can end up
with very low levels of potassium and
without enough potassium okay insulin
can't be released too well so we have a
lessened amount or production of insulin
when we have low potassium now what's
going to happen when we don't have
enough insulin
we're going to have higher levels of
glucose in the blood what's the name of
that diabetes Now with the ace inhibitor
it just so happens one of the things
that it does is it increases potassium
by helping you prevent the loss of
potassium
so there's this certain Ace enzyme
that's basically increasing blood
pressure it also helps you hold sodium
and it releases potassium and so they
develop these ACE inhibitors okay to
inhibit that enzyme to help you lower
the blood pressure and one of the
mechanisms that works is basically by
helping you hold potassium but my
question is this if potassium not only
helps you lower your blood pressure but
also if potassium is deficient your
blood pressure is going to go up in the
first place so if the way this ACE
inhibitor is working by increasing your
potassium levels to bring your blood
pressure down then why not just start
consuming foods high in potassium or
take potassium why do we need to take a
drug to increase our potassium you have
to realize how important potassium is
for your whole body it protects the
kidney against kidney disease it
protects your heart against all sorts of
issues it keeps the arteries flexible it
helps prevent a stroke and apparently it
also helps you protect against diabetes
because it helps to increase the normal
amounts of insulin that you need to
regulate this blood sugar so we have
these interesting drugs used for various
symptoms but I don't understand why they
just don't look beyond that and what's
really underneath this problem
there are so many people that get rid of
their blood pressure problem by taking
potassium and there's also a lot of
people that improve their blood sugars
by taking potassium so as far as
metabolic syndrome where you have both
blood pressure problems and glucose
potassium is probably one of the most
important minerals to take especially
since the majority of the population
just does not get enough the
requirements for potassium are extremely
high and you might not realize this so
one banana will give you like 300
milligrams of potassium you need 4 700
okay banana 300
requirement 4700
potatoes are high in potassium leafy
greens are the best source of potassium
big salads avocado is really good you
can also get potassium from electrolyte
powders because a lot of times the pills
only come in 99 milligrams again you
need 4 700 milligrams okay so you'd have
to have a lot of pills to achieve that
daily recommended amount
our bodies also need potassium for the
sodium potassium pump which is in every
single cell in your body to help power
the nervous system in connection with
the muscles and this is why I feel low
in potassium you feel kind of tired
potassium also helps to regulate sodium
and you need this balance of at least
twice as much potassium as you do sodium
in fact if you have a salt sensitivity
which means that intolerance for salt
what that really means is you just need
more potassium and if you're eating a
lot of carbs and sugar it takes
potassium to store this sugar so a good
amount of potassium in the body gets
locked up in this sugar this is why when
you go on a low carb diet you get rid of
so much fluid because you're getting rid
of all this excess glucose that's stored
as glycogen and some people can lose up
to 11 pounds of fluid just by getting
rid of this this excess of glucose
that's stored but in the process you're
going to lose potassium too because it's
locked up into the glucose this is why
it's really important to take potassium
or Get Enough from the diet when you're
doing the ketogenic diet or a low carb
diet but then again if you're in a high
carb diet you need it even more one last
point about this interesting relation
between potassium and Insulin when
someone's a type 1 diabetic all right
and they forget to take their insulin
they can start generating massive
amounts of ketones way way higher than
you could if you didn't have the problem
and that's called diabetic ketoacidosis
one of the big treatments
for this is to take potassium which will
not only help alkalize the body because
it's alkaline but it can definitely help
protect against this condition why
because potassium is needed to make this
insulin to increase the production of
insulin so it's my belief if you have
enough potassium as a diabetic type one
you probably would not develop
ketoacidosis but of course that's just
my opinion check with your doctor before
taking any actions on this video there's
a lot more to learn about potassium so
if you have not seen this video you
should check it out I put it up right
here
