all right so you're finding you're
getting too skinny on keto what are you
going to do now you could start eating a
bunch of carbs and gain weight that way
but that comes with the package it comes
with a lot of problems and just realize
when I say these carbs so sometimes
people think that let's say they do
organic bread that might be okay well
doesn't matter if it's organic or
regular bread bread is a grain okay so
when I talk about avoiding grains I'm
talking about avoiding even high quality
organic grains okay so no more bread
pasta cereal crackers biscuits and rice
is also a grain so you want to avoid
that as well and I would also avoid
fruit maybe you can do some berries
raspberry and Blackberry but the point
is that I don't recommend go in the carb
route I recommend that you start doing
weight training low reps higher weight
that's going to help you with the muscle
mass but as far as food we need to
increase more fat so one one thing is
that if you drink coffee you can add the
MCT oil and butter and make your
bulletproof coffee I put a link down
below of how to do that and then let's
say because I don't want you to drink a
lot of coffees of the day you can make
something like Ticino and I'll put a
link down below for that as well which
is a naturally decaffeinated drink that
then you can also put the MCT oil and
the butter in there and have maybe
several drinks through the day that
would actually really slow down your
weight loss but because it's fat your
body will then go after this and turn
this into ketones so you'll be in
ketosis so that'll be good but you just
won't lose any weight another really
important thing would be to get some of
these recipes to make the keto bombs
they're not that hard to make I'll put
some links down below but it's get the
ingredients there basically are fat
cookies and if you start adding these
this this way you will stop your ability
to lose weight like that if you have too
many of them so for those of you that
are eating too many and one lose weight
you know avoid them but for those people
that want to prevent getting too thin
this is the way to go keep them in the
freezer and at the at the end of each
meal have several okay until you're
pretty full and I promise you won't lose
any more weight okay
nuts are good nut butters are good
almond butter is great healthy peanut
butter is good you can use it with
celery so we want to go up with the fat
we want to keep our carbs a little bit
higher but not above 50 grams okay so
you could probably add more berries you
can probably add carrots like those type
of carbohydrates the other thing is keep
your protein not above 8 ounces per meal
okay
so I'd rather have you go up with the
fat and keep your protein around 8
ounces maybe 7 ounces that that amount
and try to consume is much salad and
vegetable as you can because we're
trying to keep you healthy as well to
provide all the nutrients and the
vitamins and minerals and lastly I'm
going to recommend you do two meals a
day and actually maybe squeeze it in the
bulletproof coffee right around those
two meals and maybe one in the early
morning alright thanks for watching hey
if you're interested in finding out the
underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quince
