[Music]
hey guys I have a special guest today
Dave Fellman
he's a senior software engineer
okay so work he is the master at
cholesterol you know and what we you
know as far as a ketogenic diet goes
there's so many people that have
questions about all different aspects
but one we're gonna focus on today has
to do with what happens when your
cholesterol goes up because Dave is the
man to go to I mean I think it really
takes someone from the outside of the
now profession that has enough space
enough data on logic and systems and
looking at computers to really observe
this is these interesting phenomena so
because I think your body is very
similar to a computer it has certain
systems and feedback loops and so so I
guess the the let's just talk about the
the most important thing I want to bring
up can we discuss what happens when you
dookied oh you're doing in a minute
fasting and all of a sudden your cluster
goes up and then you start freaking out
is that a concern and let's talk about
that well of course I per your original
comment I like to joke that the human
body was doing cloud computing long
before we were and indeed just like a
computer it can be a bit complex so I
try not to answer you know should I be
concerned or shouldn't I be by a single
marker but I will say this I will say
that to this very day I'm finding more
and more that LDL is one of the least
useful markers to look at to determine
your metabolic health and that actually
there's a very mechanistically sensible
reason for your LDL to climb when you
grow on a low card ketogenic diet if
you're being fueled by fat a lot more
and so I'm gonna try not to get into the
weeds too much I sort of want to keep
this you know friendly for for any
audience member but one of the most
common misconceptions that does need to
get relieved is that
many people think when you're on a
ketogenic diet that all of the fat you
eat gets burned into or gets gets broken
down into ketones and it's not actually
true a fraction of the fatty acids you
ingest will get turned into get ketones
and that's especially important for the
brain but actually the majority of
energy your tissues are using are in the
form of fatty acids that you're
ingesting and that are also stored in
your fat cells in your body that are
provided directly to your cells and one
of the means by which they're provided
or in these kinds of boats that I know
you talked about in some of your videos
before that we like to call lipoproteins
lipid carrying proteins these these
boats are actually amazing it's the
genius of the human body that it makes
it because it carries all of the
different lipids these fats that include
not just what you're using for energy
but also include cholesterol and
cholesterol it's a common misconception
people think of cholesterol as being the
same as poison almost and that our body
is weirdly are making this poison to
kill us but the truth is cholesterol is
in every single cell in your body
in fact the animal kingdom couldn't
function without cholesterol holding the
membranes of every single one of those
cells together yeah exactly and I think
that's a good point just to bring up
from the very beginning um we need
cholesterol to make hormones doesn't
would you agree that cholesterol one of
the functions is it's kind of like a
protective type band-aid or protective
absolutely yeah absolutely well and
another common misconception is that the
cholesterol in your blood is deleterious
and that the lower your cholesterol the
better right as I'm as I'm sure you're
aware there are many many studies that
indicate that when people really
bottomed out on cholesterol there's a a
wide range of different problems that
can occur there's lots of issues with
cognition there are a lot of problems
with sex hormones a lot of females for
example will lose their cycle
unfortunately there there are many other
issues that can come up with for example
infection and disease a lot of people
don't realize that these same boats were
talking about also clear pathogens in
the body and this is why people who even
have the genetic disneys known as
familial hypercholesterolemia which is
genetically they have higher levels of
lipoproteins are known to survive
pandemics which is why it was considered
an advantage before the 20th century
because you typically had a longer
survival time when infection was a much
bigger concern not that it isn't a big
concern now but particularly as you get
older I mean the data is very compelling
that the higher your cholesterol the
more likely your survival and it's
certainly something you want to be very
mindful of before you consider taking
medication wow that's awesome
being an engineer let's compare this the
feedback loop with what happens when you
increase or decrease your dietary
cluster
on that that's right I call it the
inversion pattern so to be sure a lot of
people go on a ketogenic diet and kind
of unintuitive Li the more the more lean
and/or fit you are surprisingly the more
likely it is that your C or LDL
cholesterol go up and that's what I
found in my case my sister and my dad
had also got inspired to go on the huge
ink guide at the same time I did their
cholesterol went up just slightly mine
went up by a lot and so that's what got
me very inspired to try to look into
what was going on and sure enough I
found that my baseline cholesterol while
higher if I then added a lot of fat like
I ate a lot more fat it would then go
down likewise if I if I fasted or if I
just brought down the total amount of
fat I was eating it would then go back
up again and this is super important to
get out to your listeners because one of
the common problems that occur with
people who try to go on a low-carb diet
and then try to score a good cholesterol
test is that though often
bring down the amount of saturated fat
they have in the days before the test
and there's enormous amounts of data
that both I have demonstrated and many
of my followers that that'll actually
spike your total and LDL cholesterol and
it typically makes your triglycerides go
higher and your HDL go lower
that's the inversion pattern in inverts
and so I demonstrated in my first public
presentation of my data this inversion
pattern by going the other way
I ate a ton of fat I was in fact through
this conference that I was holding the
presentation for I had a cooler next to
me where I was just constantly grabbing
meats and cheeses and I was taking it
down and in my presentation I said
you're actually watching my LDL
cholesterol plummet and I've bet my
entire reputation all my data on it that
when I get a blood test tomorrow it's
gonna show that it's dropped
substantially in 3 days and that's
exactly what happened and so a lot of
people said would you do a write up for
this and kind of tell us how how we can
do this and that's what I did at my site
cholesterol code comm it's now commonly
known as the Feldman protocol I'm Bette
many of your your listeners have done
this as well because it's shared all
over the place it's unintuitive but you
eat a lot of fat coming up to a
cholesterol test and there's about an 85
percent success rate for the likelihood
that you'll actually see your LDL go
down you know this I mean it's right in
guidance physiology they found that the
people that eat more cholesterol goes
because there's a there's this balance
mechanism the body will it make
adjustments it just produces less it
controls the excess so for those of you
that miss that cholesterol co.com in
fact I want to play this I have a closed
Facebook lab and we do kind of some
experiments here and there I want to
actually see if I can have everyone do
it we have a hundred thousand people so
oh wow and everyone to do that will get
some great data just to just you know I
think you all see you you mentioned
something about hyper responders and you
want to kind of just touch on that I do
so a hyper responder is actually a term
that predates my time
- the ketogenic diet and what it was was
basically a way to refer to those people
when they go on a ketogenic diet see a
dramatic increase in their LDL the the
common refrain is your LDL may go up a
little and may go down a little but odds
are you're not one of these small
subsets of people for which a lot of
people worried I myself was one of them
when I found out I was a hyper responder
Lucy is a fifty hundred percent increase
in their LDL so my LDL before I went on
huge a diet was around 131 I think was
the last test I'd had and it had jumped
up to 270 which any doctor is gonna say
two things one they're gonna say stop
doing what you're doing and two I have
some drugs I would like you to look at
to help get that number back down and
again I'm an engineer I will tell you
there's a very big difference in the
culture between those and medicine and
those in engineering and those of us in
engineering I'm telling you you could
you could have the biggest bigwig
engineer senior engineer walk into a
meeting with a whole bunch of juniors
and if that engineer says something
that's ridiculous the junior engineers
will challenge and because every
engineer starts from the assumption that
they're skeptical of everybody and every
piece of data they'd like to take it
apart themselves and that's what I did I
started taking apart the lipid system
well that's that's where I found what
seems to be a big originating factor -
hyper responders the reason for the
higher amount of cholesterol that I was
getting had a lot to do with my being
leaner and thinner than my dad and my
sister who were very closely related and
I'll tell you I literally done an
experiment that I'm actually still kind
of in the process of it's pretty long
one where I've intentionally gained body
fat about 20 pounds of body fat and I
incidentally don't want anyone to follow
me on this one but I have a huge wealth
of biometric data leading up to this
point so I wanted to actually capture
what I believed to be would be the case
where my LDL cholesterol would be
actually
if my body fat were higher and I'm happy
to tell you right now that that's
exactly what it was at the very last day
of my weight gain experiment I was back
down to 130 LDL but having having what
would be considered a typical standard
American diet because I had to leave
Quito in order to gain weight and it
worked and I was having footlong Subway
sandwiches I was having pizza and I
wasn't even having that much sugar it
was mainly just starches but it worked
to not only get give me a lot of weight
but on top of that it dropped my LDL
down to 130 milligrams per deciliter I
know my prior position had I shown them
my numbers from Quito and shown that my
numbers from the standard American diet
they probably go you're doing great
that's that's so much better but but it
gives me a segue to talk about the two
metrics and that same lipid panel that
matters so much more and that is your
triglycerides and your HDL cholesterol
and and I'm telling you right now that I
have a challenge that's not on Twitter
that they haven't been able to answer
yet which is I've been able to find
studies that show if you stratify
populations for having low triglycerides
and high HDL cholesterol is something we
see with people going on a ketogenic
diet their total cardiovascular disease
risk and they're all cause mortality
improved substantially so it's only when
they remove those stratifications that
you get a weak correlation with LDL
cholesterol and again this is this is a
challenge I've been putting out for
quite a long time now and that's why for
me I mean I can only speak for myself
but for me I would much rather have an
LDL of 270 so on his mind triglycerides
are super low and my HDL is super high I
see that Wow so let's just touch on this
one point about let's say for example
your triglycerides are low and your ADL
hgo is high yet you have high LDL in
someone's mind initially they're gonna
go oh my gosh that's the bad cholesterol
it's going through my blood what is it
doing do they need to do
special like at Essen and mr test to
figure out what like the type of
cholesterol you want to touch on that
high and I and I will say this the NMR
you're talking about it's a nuclear
magnetic resonance test and at the time
that I was coming into Kido I myself was
very adamant about getting that because
it it does more than just capture those
four metrics total LDL cholesterol HDL
cholesterol and triglycerides it also
grabs the boats themselves we were just
talking about the lipoproteins and it
breaks them out into their different
types so you hear about the small dense
versus the big fluffy and the small
dense is apparently more a thorough
genic as they would call which means
it's more likely to be associated with
the build-up of plaque and the arteries
and the big fluffy are supposed to be
generally benign so they don't they
don't have that same risk because
they're very buoyant they don't crash
into your your arteries as I heard the
refrain go but the truth is when it
comes down to it I've yet to see any
compelling data that LDL particles that
aren't modified in some fashion that
aren't oxidized or glycated are in fact
a threat at all and I realize that this
is this is a something that kind of goes
against what is considered to be
conventional medical wisdom the bottom
line is is the pathogenesis the the
actual disease state has never been
demonstrated with a thorough Scott
o'clock in the absence of injury to the
vessel walls or oxidative stress or
basically anything that shows a
breakdown of the system itself so this
is this is why like having low
triglycerides is such a good sign
because if you have a lot of boats but a
little bit of cargo it means the boats
are succeeding at dropping that cargo
off so you don't even need to be a big
senior engineer to realize this if
you're watching boats that are going out
of the harbor and they're coming back in
the-- sounds like it's proper shipping
all around so let's just help people to
when you talk about boats you're talking
about the carrier of cholesterol LDL and
HDL
so basically when someone talks about
HDL LDL they're talking about a protein
that is caring not just cholesterol
triglycerides fat soluble vitamins and
antioxidants yeah yeah so basically
these boats are carrying material for
for healing repair building tissue
cellular functions and things like that
right basically everything your cells
need that is not already water soluble
so if you can't swim on its own in the
bloodstream again genius of the human
body the body says no worries I've got
one kind of boat I'm gonna pack it all
in two and the primary cargo dr. Berg
the primary cargo is fat based energy
this triglycerides and that's why
triglycerides being low in the blood is
a good sign we're actually on a
ketogenic diet we're actually powered by
triglycerides and that gets confusing
because a lot of people say well wait a
sec I think triglycerides go down well
triglycerides left and the bloodstream
go down because the usage is higher but
having low triglycerides in the blood
whether you're on a fat based diet or
not aren't tightly associated with
positive outcomes
so basically when we're talking about
LDL and H and HDL we're talking about
it's not just the cholesterol it's the
triglycerides they're caring and that
this red is used for energy and other
things yeah absolutely it's it's
primarily energy but it can be used for
other building materials so okay so then
let's just touch on another point that
you mentioned which is the the reason
why it's going in in the first place
well part of this picture it's it's
trying to fix some damage some oxidative
damage a lesion in the inside of the
artery wall right let's let's touch on
that and maybe what could cause that
absolutely and you
- forgive me I'm gonna geek out a little
bit here okay so the best way to think
of it is when you get a cholesterol test
and you're capturing these LDL particles
the truth is the vast vast majority of
them started as something known as the
LDLs very low-density lipoproteins and
these vldls
are the ones that are bloated with the
triglycerides they have tons and tons of
this fat based energy those things
actually drop off the energy very very
quickly and so it's in just a matter of
less than an hour of the LDL is becomes
what's known as an ideal which is an
intermediate density lipoprotein and
then in less than half an hour it turns
into an LDL so when you see your when
you see your bloodstream as blood
markers you actually should have a small
number of those vldls and thus a small
number of triglycerides if everything is
working properly so that LDL stage
that's not an hour half hour that's 2 to
4 days now you might wonder what why
would the body want LDL particles these
boats if they no longer have any
triglycerides the energy to deliver why
would the body want them in the
bloodstream and the truth is for many
different reasons they actually serve
many roles so I discussed earlier how
they bind a pathogen so they have an
immunological role just just the same as
your monocytes for example they're
they're part of that but they're also
part of the reparative process so
imagine for example a whole bunch of
people whose job it is is to get into
delivery truck and in one hour they
deliver a bunch of food but then they
have kind of an all-purpose job where
they're traveling the neighborhood
they're looking for bad guys to run off
the road or they're looking for a house
that's damaged where you know they
happen to have some lumber in the back
that they can then pull up and try to
help and fix it right cells actually
have receptors yet that's they're like
little they're like little arms they
actually reach out to grab these when
they're in need of the things that are
on board and then they can
endocytosis if they actually it's
calling it's like golfing it golfing and
entirely and then they have everything
that's inside it for their own use
cholesterol is one of the things that's
part of its cargo
but the lipoprotein itself is also made
of something known as phospholipids well
guess what our cell membranes are made
of they're made of free cholesterol and
phospholipids so cells when they can't
synthesize enough on their own
fortunately the body wisely make sure a
lot of those lipoproteins are just ready
and able to be provided for the cells to
be able to get use of and that's why it
doesn't surprise me by the way when many
people go on statins will report having
muscle pain particularly they tend to be
a bit more athletic this for me I mean I
and again I'm not really put a lot of
research into this but I would not be
surprised at all if it's the lack of
availability for LDL particles for
muscle repair and growth which is
absolutely what they get used for so
that whole stage I mean the whole stage
of low-density lipoproteins I know it
gets villainized a lot but it's actually
very powerful and necessary to the body
where we find problems with LDL
particles being associated with
cardiovascular disease and risk is where
we find that they may in fact be getting
recruited at a higher amount so here's
what I'm going to get a little geeky if
you don't mind describe those cells that
line our vessel wall they're called
endothelial cells and endothelial cells
when they get damaged they release a
signaling molecule that signaling
molecule is known as a cytokine and
those cytokines at a certain amount when
there's really a problem that actually
signals the liver to route to up
regulate more low-density lipoproteins
so it's actually calling for help very
specifically for low-density
lipoproteins because it's so important
for muscle repair when you when you
twist your ankle and you see some of the
swelling and some of the heat and so
forth there's dozens of different
chemical reactions that are going on
right but part of what there
trying to do the swelling itself is
they're trying to pool blood they're
trying to get those raw materials to
that area and something a lot of people
don't realize is there's something known
as growth hormone particularly
platelet-derived growth hormone that
endothelial cells when they're in the
presence of will express more LDL
receptors now I am an engineer dr. Byrd
I'm an engineer and when I see processes
already in place that not only say hey
this could possibly have something to do
with lipoproteins but are specifically
receptors that bind to little poor
low-density lipoproteins themselves I
have to say give me a reason why this is
inappropriate for the body to be making
available to the cells right Wow
that is it's just it must from just the
level of understanding that you have it
must be almost I don't know how you
react to it but you have this other
group of people out there that are
saying no no no it's the cholesterol and
fat is that's the main problem which is
totally the exact opposite and I don't
know how you react to it but the the one
thing I want to mention is like through
you know some people are saying that no
it's the it's the fat it's the
cholesterol that is causing the insulin
resistance I guess it's fat within the
muscle receptor for instance I don't
know I don't know exactly the argument
but it's what's your what's your thought
on that well in your you're talking to
somebody who probably has more personal
data points than maybe anybody you'll
ever even meet I I am close to about a
hundred blood draws since November 2015
and it's completely ridiculous I'm
commonly referred to as a human
pincushion but I'm a bit OCD and making
sure I conduct these experiments in a
very controlled manner and I the vast
majority of these tests I have fasting
insulin so I'm very very mindful of
exactly
what my basal insulin loads are and from
that perspective I I have to point this
out I have observed these changes and
how much they correlate with weight gain
weight loss how much they correlate with
fasting glucose and so forth and without
question the points in which I am at the
highest levels of saturated fat in my
diet the lowest levels of carbs and at
very moderate levels of protein I have
absolutely floored near bottom insulin
levels typically under a 2 to 4 milli I
am just really really super low but on
top of that there's a particular group
of people that you may have heard me
talk about that are kind of step beyond
hyper responders I call them lean
massive responders they tend to have the
highest levels of LDL but they also tend
to have the lowest levels the
triglycerides and the highest levels of
HDL so they're almost like a super class
they operate on really really really low
levels of insulin I I call them in it
basically in a blended fasted state and
I guarantee I know several that eat 5000
calories a day mostly fat and it is
absolutely having nearly no impact on
their insulin levels because you need
insulin primarily particularly the
postcranial insulin to deal with glucose
glucose coming into the blood your body
actually slowly adjusts to exactly how
much insulin it needs to use to shuttle
energy away and it seeks to keep that as
low as possible it does this because the
higher your insulin the less capability
your body has for something known as a
tapa G and that's that's kind of like
the housekeeping that your cells get to
to make use of so this is why by the way
I think people on the far end I
speculates totally speculative but I
believe these people these lean mass
hype responders may be enjoying a higher
level of etapa G and might literally be
actually having their cells aged a
little slower because of that being in a
blended fastest state is very powerful
and that's why the ketogenic diet is so
powerful is you're in many
is mimicking a fasted state which there
are plenty of studies on long before the
ketogenic diet became big as to why
that's so good for longevity Wow
so Wow this this is fascinating what's
your thought on some of the top few
triggers two things that can start this
whole cascade of affect like I know
insulin is gonna be pretty one at the
top the list right yeah you talk in the
Cascade of affect that can bring around
a disease state like with cardiovascular
disease yes endothelial cells yes so
here's where it's gonna get a little
there's there's kind of almost two
channels two directions we can go and
ironically or maybe not so ironically
they both kind of end up with higher
levels of triglycerides this is why I'm
very mindful to watch for triglycerides
so the first one is you actually reach
what is known as the personal fat
threshold and that tends to be somewhat
individualistic there can be some
commonalities with ethnicities but what
that means is you're probably insulin
sensitive up to a point where you've now
part so much triglycerides into your
adipose tissue again your body fat that
now your body needs to find other places
to park those triglycerides so this is
where you come up with things like fatty
liver fatty pancreas even places you
really don't want to see fat like say
parts and heart muscle and so forth
right that's that's a huge sign and a
very common one for insulin resistance
and this is this is where you also tend
to see a lot of this you see a lot of
things like just a larger waist
circumference and so forth that you want
to be mindful of well this is getting
back to sort of the fasted in fed state
this is where you're now moving your
body into a place in which it's more
predominantly in what it believes is a
fed state and how you can know this is
because fasting insulin is high if
you're if you have fast if you've fasted
for 12 hours
and your fasting insulin is above 10 for
example then what's going on is your
body still feels like there's too much
energy and that usually is the case you
find your fasting glucose is pretty high
and it's still keeping the insulin high
to try to put it away
well now you have less etapa Chi you
have less of your cells abilities to do
their housekeeping because it's like the
lunch Bell is constantly ringing right
well this is a big problem for
cardiovascular health too because now
even the endothelial cells don't get
their housekeeping time and they need
that state switch because a lot of
people don't know this high density
lipoproteins the HDL the so-called good
cholesterol they need a fasted phase
they need a low level of insulin to get
their job done so during the period of
time where insulin is high like when
people get really sick for example and
there you've heard the term feed feed a
cold right there's there is a tiny bit
of truth to that and that that as
insulin goes up it's part of not just
the store and build state but it's also
oftentimes part of the fight state it's
often a way by which your body can fight
disease and my colleague Siobhan Huggins
by the way gets into this quite a bit
this is how insulin resistance can
sometimes proceed hyperinsulinemia high
levels of insulin in the blood well
again this is important because if
you're not getting the switch back and
forth between being fasted and being fed
and being fasted or for that matter
fighting a disease and then getting back
to fasted your your emergency vehicles
these HDL particles they don't have the
time to also go out and grab the excess
cholesterol that might have been used as
part of the reparative process and what
is also known very commonly in the
literature is reverse cholesterol
transport they're not able to get as
much of that time as they need to get it
done overall you just want to have a
larger amount of time in a fasted State
this isn't even by practice and fasting
but just by remaining insulin resistant
so not maxing out your personal
threshold in the first place sorry I
know there was a bit of a long-winded
answer but to really kind of unpack it
it's important to kind of get that sense
there I mean as an engineer it makes
perfect sense you have insulin handling
a lot of things at the same time so why
not go ahead and piggyback these other
operations on it
if throughout all of our ancestral
history we knew they were infrequent
right we knew when we eat it wasn't
going to be very common or if we were
eating a small amount that it wouldn't
take a lot of insulin to deal with the
food that was necessary and therefore we
could count on many other operations you
know piggybacking on to insulin so in
short whether you're on a high-fat diet
or a low-fat diet or whatever diet
you're on if it brings about
persistently high insulin in the blood
it's almost necessarily the worst kind
of state you can be it Wow so let's go
back because there's one point that I
want to clarify you mentioned something
about reverse something reverse reverse
cholesterol transport yes let's just
define that so people drink
sure so LDL particles these ones that
we're talking about they're often talked
about as bad because they'll put
cholesterol into the arterial walls it's
really a huge oversimplification but
there is some truth to that and part of
the reparative process can be argued is
in fact atherosclerosis
it's just progressive atherosclerosis is
clearly bad just like progressively just
like insulin is not bad you need insulin
but progressively high levels of insulin
aren't bad inflammation absolutely can't
live without inflammation chronic
inflammation is bad right so we fully
anticipate the operating system the
human operating system fully anticipates
that cholesterol is coming in to cells
on a constant basis and for many reasons
both for the reparative and also for the
cells themselves but likewise there's
this whole fleet of HDL particles these
high density lipoproteins that are on
hand that are constantly also
part of the pulling it back out and
that's why they're commonly associated
with having better outcomes for
cardiovascular disease the higher your
HDL see almost universally the better
your outcome with cardiovascular disease
they it's reverse cholesterol transport
they reverse they bring it out of the
tissues and then they take it back to
the liver and some of that cholesterol
is reusable and they will use it your
body is actually greedy about holding on
to and using cholesterol it's very hard
for it to make and there's some that's
not so good and that that isn't so good
goes out through bile acids that we make
and goes into our digestive system and
that eventually gets sent back to the
other side if you know what I mean so
basically it's kind of a a reverse is
that a buffer or is it a reverse
everything just works in Reverse I I
don't know if I'd say everything works
in Reverse but it's basically a means by
which cholesterol has taken out of
tissues and brought to the liver kind of
recycling yeah recycling is actually a
really good way of putting it okay in
yeah so that the oxy sterols the the
oxidized cholesterol and so forth that
ends up getting sent out but anything
that's usable cholesterol that's going
to end up getting reused so so as a
reparative action you have cholesterol
you also have a calcium right calcium
tell yes calcification that tends to be
on a more advanced level though that
usually tends to that's kind of to keep
it layperson friendly that's where
things are bad to the point that we just
want to pave over the area Kathleen but
yes that would be a good way of putting
it so the coronary artery calcium
scoring test that's a pretty isn't about
it's a valuable test right to get great
yes yes and to be sure there is a little
bit of risk that should always be
mentioned and that there is some
exposure to radiation I think the last
one I saw was like 0.6 millisievert
something like that comparable to a
mammogram I believe a mammogram
0.4 so that would be nothing compared to
like a cat scan of your abdomen or your
kidneys right no no no in fact a cat
scan tends to be the equivalent of
around 200 chest x-rays yeah so we by
the way I just want to insert real quick
I know it's common practice for a
hospital to just give you a CT for any
particular reason be very mindful of
that that really is a lot of radiation
exposure and just you know I would want
to say it feel confident that what
they're awarding it is appropriate given
the ailments you're talking about oh
yeah they do and I do think it's a
modern problem but I'm glad you brought
it up because I do believe that a CAC I
mean as metrics go it is one of the most
powerful neuro but there are if not be
most powerful for disease progression
detection certainly you can have heart
disease without having calcification and
that should definitely be said but if
you do have council vacation you do want
to know about it as soon as reasonably
possible and you do want to understand
its progression so it's not even if you
get a calcium score right now and like
what would be considered a not good one
would be say like a four hundred right
if you find out that you have a four
hundred it's not really the end of the
world what you want to be sure of is
that it's not progressing at a high rate
such as like 50% per year or something
along those lines you want to be sure
that it's you know if it's progressing
one or two percent let me put it this
way
I wouldn't mind have or I would rather
have a calcium score of 400 that was
progressing at 1% per year then a
calcium score of 50 that was progressing
at 50 percent breeder right that's like
a no-brainer for me right but that's but
that's important and I will say this one
of the most heartbreaking thing is
heartbreaking things that we have at
cholesterol code calm is people that
come that have just gotten their first
CAC and they're now four years into huge
Inc diet they've had high LDL but
they've they're now questioning whether
the high LDL was good because their
first days
four years in says that they have like
say a 200 and the problem is is that
there's now no way to know how much of
that was due to the lifestyle that they
had before going ketogenic and how much
was after and that's why I generally
give advice to people who are pretty
sure they're gonna go on keto forever
that it's it's nice to get the CAC as
close to when you started as possible so
that you can actually have bookended you
know when that data start it and that
way you can I mean first of all
certainly you would want to know if you
had a CAC of like 200 or 300 or
something at the point that you were
starting to hear genic die anyway right
um yeah okay I mean the you can't
evaluate something with one number you
need two numbers before and after you
need to see progression was it better
worse and so do you I'm guessing you do
in a minute fasting not exactly I would
say probably my window so when I'm in
the process of doing these experiments
my intermittent fasting window may be
something like 14 hours which I kind of
don't count because intermittent fasting
I sort of feel like you have to be at
least 16 hours to you know it's it's
like at the ride where you have to be at
least this tall I'm not I'm not quite
that tall but but Gian do you do snack
between meals
I probably snack more than the typical
ketover and I and this is actually
fairly common for lean mass hyper
responders you'll find a lot of people
who are very lean and or athletic who
practice keto and actually they have a
few things that are in common beyond
being lean and or athletic and having
very high levels of LDL they have a very
difficult time doing fasting
particularly law particularly very
elongated fasting like multi day fasting
they also tend to have higher fasting
glucose levels which I believe is due to
more adaptive glucose pairing but it's
important to keep the context in mind if
if you have higher fasting glucose as
you've gotten leaner and healthier and
feel great
don't freak out
because it's very likely that you also
have lower fasting insulin which is very
suggested that it's adaptive glucose
very and by the way lean mass type
responders also also tend to have lower
levels of beta hydroxy butyrate so
relative to a typical kid or for example
they'll tend to have like say you know
point 4 to 1.0 and then they'll be
frustrated because they're couch potato
keto friend you know is running it like
three or four or something along those
lines but again all of this suggests
higher faster utilization the reason I
gave a little bit of that set up is that
I probably like meeting my lean mass
type responder friends and probably just
having a tougher time fasting because my
body is already in such a blended fasted
state when I'm down at those levels that
I get more signaling to do something
about it so it's it's okay in fact that
there's already probably much more of
the benefits of the fasted State in the
first place the downside is that you
know the famine hits Lima Cyprus martyrs
will be the first to go like there's a
price for getting that way in it I think
you're not going to worry about the
famine so that's good anytime Lina yeah
right exactly this is awesome
do you have any um any less last points
you want to bring up absolutely yeah so
I have to tell you dr. bird one of the
very first and biggest things that I
want to get across to your listeners is
please have a fasted cholesterol test or
for that matter any blood tests you
should be 12 to 14 hours water fasting
if you were not and I know the current
guidelines will say you don't really
need to be fasted but you physically are
putting triglycerides from your food
into your bloodstream and that is why
oftentimes we have a lot of people that
come to our site let's say ever since I
went keto it looks like my triglycerides
have exploded and look at you know score
of 200 or 300 and so the first question
out of it shoot as we go
was it a water only fasted
what tests often times let's say no they
then retest later and it's fine like
everything's you know below 100 or
something along those lines so that's
number one number two is whatever your
cholesterol score is if you see just 1%
of my research you'll find that it's
insanely dynamic it's it's I've moved my
I move my numbers up and down hundreds
of milligrams per deciliter in just
three years I I had the unique
distinction of having changed my lipid
numbers more than anybody else in the
world and I believe anybody else could
actually do the same thing bear in mind
this is about any medication supplements
exercise anything and it's it's because
the human body is actually fantastically
a depth and very adaptable and
cholesterol is really just kind of a
shadow of the larger energy metabolism
so you you really need to know that the
lipid system is very dynamic and
whatever your cholesterol score is you'd
be surprised at how quickly it can
change assuming that you're close to
metabolic flexibility I do want to throw
in the caveat because if you're kind of
down the line it may take a little more
while to recover from where you need to
be but that brings me back to the last
point I really want to get across which
is even for somebody like myself who may
be snacking more than the typical person
or eating a little bit more in the
typical person when I get down to my
leaner levels you do want to have your
body generally in a in a fasted state
most of the time like this shouldn't
even really be shouldn't really even
need to say this but that's what's great
about the ketogenic diet if you get it
to work properly is you should actually
be operating on very low levels of
insulin overall and I believe that if
you do it's it's such a huge benefit to
longevity
so that's that's definitely what I want
to fit in awesome that was great advice
Thanks thank you so much for this
interview you guys you need to go to his
website it's cholesterol co.com
cholesterol code calm alright thanks so
much Dave I really appreciate it
thanks for having me on dr. Berg I
really love your material oh thanks
