I want to talk about the number of
problems with something called BMI body
mass index this is an index to help
someone identify if they're underweight
if they're normal weight or if they're
overweight or obese but there's quite a
few uh problems with this measurement
that I want to discuss today one of the
biggest problems about this BMI is that
it doesn't tell you how much fat you
have versus Muscle because let's say for
example you're an athlete with a lot of
muscle right you're going to register as
being either overweight or obese because
it doesn't tell the difference between
the two so that's a big problem it also
doesn't tell the difference between uh
you being healthy or
unhealthy there are people that are
overweight but are healthy metabolically
you know they're metabolically flexible
which means they can handle certain
carbohydrates much better than other
people so BMI is not a good test for
whether someone's healthy or not now
another test that could be done using a
certain uh calculated equation is BMR
which is basil metabolic rate this is a
fairly decent test to help you measure
how fast you're burning calories and
then you have something called
TDE which stands for total daily energy
expenditure so BMR measures the rate at
which you burn energy but the TDE
measures the quantity of energy being
burned and then there's something which
I like called the keto calculator which
also looks at BMR and TD together with
several other factors and it'll tell a
person uh how many calories they should
be consuming in a given day how many
macro uh nutrients proteins fats
carbohydrates they should consume in a
given day based on their basic metabolic
rate and the total energy that they're
consuming per day to give a person kind
of a a rough idea of how much food they
should be consuming to lose a given a
certain amount of weight and I do have
this calculator on my website and I will
put that down below in the description
but I do want to mention one very
important Point um just weight loss in
general per week A lot of times people
look at that as kind of a determination
of how well or healthy their metabolism
really is or their metabolic rate but
here's the problem when someone attempts
to lose weight especially if they're
following what I recommend which is get
healthy to lose weight not lose weight
to get healthy in the process of getting
healthy and also working out you are
going to build more muscle mass okay
you're going to gain more muscle which
is a point that a lot of people kind of
omit in calculating if their weight loss
program is successful or not so when you
lose fat and gain muscle that's called
body recomposition and that's a good
thing especially if you're
postmenopausal and you have atrophy or
even if you're not a female and not
going through a menopause you're just a
a male who's lost muscle mass and you're
going to regain that of course since
that muscle is a bit heavier than fat
there's going to be certain weeks where
you're not going to lose anything but
your clothes are going to feel more and
more loose so when you lose weight
initially you lose the water weight and
then you plateau and then maybe you lose
the fat and then it plateus right what
could be happening and which is I think
is very common if you're doing this in a
healthy way is you're building up the
muscle mass which is a really good thing
so sometimes you have to take a look at
that with how loose your clothes are and
look at the BMI with not too much
importance really because BMI is a rough
idea if the person fits into this
average height and uh the calculation is
you're basically dividing your total
weight in kilograms by your height in
meters squared but I would not put a lot
of importance on that evaluation instead
if you really want to know how much fat
versus protein versus bone that you have
you want to get a dexa scan that's a
very accurate way of doing it you can
also get an MRI you can also do a simple
waist to hip ratio assessment because
that calculation is very simple and it's
very quick and uh it it takes in
consideration this visceral abdominal
fat which is a very good indicator of
over all health and then again you have
other really important biomarkers too
that contribute to that information like
an A1C test which measures the average
blood sugars for three months as well as
getting a blood glucose monitor and
assessing your blood sugars maybe even
through the day or even after you eat
very very valuable as well as you can
get some of them that also do like
Ketone evaluations too like a blood
Ketone evaluation not necessarily a
urine Ketone test with those strips
because those are not as accurate
especially after the second week because
you've adapted and now that might show
negative uh because you're not wasting
all these ketones you're using them so a
blood Ketone slash blood sugar little
device like keto Mojo has a really good
one that's what I would recommend
another really good test for overall
health especially Fitness is called V2
Max you have to go somewhere to get this
test but it's a very Dynamic test of how
much Fitness you have and how much
oxygen you're consuming uming through
the mitochondria then you have another
test called the HRV heart rate
variability test and I really like this
test it's a simple device not terribly
expensive to be able to um look at the
autonomic nervous system in relationship
to the two different systems the the
fighter flight and the recovery system
and also the HIV is a good predictor of
mortality but the coronary artery
calcification test the CAC test measures
how much calcium is in your coronary
artery and it's a fairly inexpensive
test to do to figure out how much longer
you have on this planet you want that
test to be zero uh sometimes it can be
up to over a thousand which is not good
but even if there's calcium that's
building up in your arteries which
indicates there has been damage there
are things you can do about it you just
want to make these lifestyle changes and
over time reassess it until it's as
close to zero as possible and then you
have probably what is one of the best
assessments that you can do for your
overall health and that's called a
metabolomic test okay I wouldn't just
have that test done by anyone I would
make sure that person is extremely
competent and I will be sharing more
information about that but metabolomic
testing is the wave of the future for
medicine and even in the field of
alternative care because it looks at
your metabolic pathways real time the
areas of blocking AG of where there's a
problem and there might not even be a
disease process happening at this point
but it gives you great data on
predicting what could happen down the
road so you can do something about it
right now and I mean just one little
part of this metabolomic testing is
measuring uh the KB cycle which is in
the mitochondria which is huge because
you're about as healthy as your
mitochondria most diseases including
cancer result from damaged mitochondria
so in this video I just wanted to cover
big problems with BMI and give you some
other uh types of things you can do to
evaluate your overall internal health
and uh your longevity now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other
side
