hi guys this is a really good test for
adrenal fatigue dizzy when you stand up
like when you get up too fast and you
feel a little dizzy that's an adrenal
fatigue adrenal weakness okay so here's
what you can do you can do a test it's
called a Raglin test you can lay down
for 3 minutes check your blood pressure
write it down stand up right away check
your blood pressure write it down
there's a top number called the systolic
and the bottom number called the
diastolic normally if you're dreaming
glands are healthy the systolic top
number will go up by 6 to 10 points okay
if it goes down or it doesn't go up
hardly at all that would indicate a
possible adrenal weakness okay why
because gravitational changes you're not
adapting you're not recovering from this
gravitational stress you stand up your
body has to adapt to it so the adrenals
are are part of the Adaptive mechanism
to ad adapt to stress so this is like a
kind of a micro test to see if you're
adapting to stress or you're recovering
from stress I've tested people where
their blood pressure or their systolic
drops down by 10 points or 20 points it
just drops down and they're like really
dizzy when they stand up that's a real
weak adrenal now if it goes too high
that's a hyper adrenal that's a adrenal
that's going too fast and that's usually
what happens and then it burns out but
but if it's if it's low it's a more of a
hypoadrenal it's it's a weak adrenal
you're not it's not producing the
hormones correctly so now what do you do
about it there's a lot of things you can
do to support a weak low adrenal I'm
going to put a link down below because
that's a whole video but I just wanted
to first show you uh what this is okay
thanks for
watching hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
