today we're going to talk about the
eight signs and symptoms that you need
to go see a doctor now my first
disclaimer is I'm not giving a medical
device this is my opinion and check with
your doctor before taking my advice of
going to the doctor right it doesn't
make sense now I know you're gonna say
this is obvious this is common sense
everyone knows this but you'd be
surprised
number one if you're fainting or passing
out go get that checked now it could be
that you just exercised or you did
fasting where you didn't take
electrolytes in which case you need to
take electrolytes or a sea salt but
depending on the circumstance if you're
fainting
definitely the regular basis so you're
passing out get checked out there could
be a problem with something called the
autonomic nervous system alright number
two you have some significant weight
loss but no change in diet okay maybe
you're still eating junk food and all of
a sudden you start losing massive
amounts of weight get an evaluation and
find out what's going on all right
number three chronic constipation when I
was in practice I had this patient come
to me out of town and she wanted to lose
weight she was a very large woman but
when we did the consultation I found out
that she has serious constipation she
goes the bathroom every two weeks and
she's concerned about weight loss we
need to handle your constipation so that
would be a putting attention on
something not as important anyway I gave
her some advice and then when I went to
lunch I walked out the building and I
walked past her car and he was filled
with wrappers from fast-food places in
all sorts of all sorts of junk so if you
have chronic constipation get an
evaluation get your colon scoped out
find out what is going on because it can
be quite dangerous also chronic diarrhea
okay what happens you can lose a lot of
electrolytes and that can be very
dangerous
you can lose zinc and potassium sodium
even vitamin D and this can actually
greatly affect your heart all right
number four excessive urination or
thirst now
hopefully you've been watching my videos
and you know that healthy keto and
intermittent fasting is the solution for
diabetes however if you're peeing all
the time and you're thirsty
chances are you have high blood sugars
and you should get it tested and see
what's going on alright number five you
have chest pain left arm pain or jaw
pain now it could be indigestion and it
could be some other thing but it's
always good to get a test an EKG some
deeper evaluation just to rule out a
problem with your heart alright number
six if you start getting slurred speech
facial drooping on one side loss of
vision or half of your body becomes
paralyzed go get it checked out that
sounds like a stroke and by the way as a
side note if you can do hyperbaric
oxygen therapy right after you had a
stroke you can actually minimize the
damage big time alright number seven if
you have blood in the urine mouth or
nose get it checked this could be your
coughing up blood from maybe an
infection or something else and this
could be just a simple situation where
you have some allergy and you blew your
nose and there's some blood but I'm
talking about more of an excessive
situation when you have blood coming out
of your body not good alright number
eight you have symptoms that are
unchanging after you change your diet so
you get in healthy keto you're doing in
a minute fasting and you still have some
symptom that's been chronic the thing is
when you run into a problem especially
if it's a chronic you want to evaluate
and sometimes you need more data you
need tests to be able to figure this out
all right in summary to avoid this these
signs and symptoms and that's always the
best way to avoid these get on healthy
keto and intermittent fasting and I put
the links down below
