[Music]
hey guys I have another very interesting
guest John Wood who is a CEO of us
wellness meets okay basically it's an
online site and you can actually buy
grass-fed animal products he has a lot
of other products and the reason I
wanted to talk to him is because I
wanted to do a video on grass-fed foods
and the problem is that you know it's
not it's hard to find some experts I
wanted to go right to the source find
like the expert of this topic who
actually is a farmer that's been doing
this for a long time so thanks John for
being here and I just want to welcome
you I appreciate you spend the time I
know you're extremely busy with your
arms dr. Berg I appreciate the
invitation and I also appreciate your
knowledge on grass-fed meats and what
you've done for the industry you're a
great asset to our community because you
understand the value of smart nutrition
and and understand if we go back in the
planet you know four million years we
all of our ancestors ate grass-fed meats
and 1900 only 2% of us were diabetic and
cancer and heart disease or not even
discussed by a modern medicine at that
time point so it gives you this a little
bit of a clue I think our ancestors had
this pretty well figured out totally
totally
so the first question I wanted to know
just from your viewpoint in a and I'm
gonna ask you two series of questions
you can just kind of you know just give
me the summarized version I know there's
a lot more to it but the difference
between grass-fed and grain-fed just
kind of tell us like the basic
differences and I know all all of the
factory actually all the factory farming
with the catalyst is grain fed I think
they are switching over to grass-fed but
that's a whole different conversation so
just kind of give us the essence of
grass-fed versus grain fed with some
basic information people need to know
about that the most basic simple point I
want to make is that the grazing animal
is consuming a forage diet plant-based
diet and the pH and the fermentation
that the grazing animals
whether it be the Bison be the lamb be
the dairy cow be the beef cow these
animals all for these animal groups have
a four chambered stomach and we have a
simple we have a simple stomach and
humans and pigs and chickens but in the
first four animals mentioned the
fermentation VAT is the first step in
the process and when you're fermenting
forages you have a pH of seven and that
creates this wonderful two-to-one ratio
of omega-6 to omega-3 it creates CLA
conjugated linoleic acid which fights
cancer diabetes with homing muscle and
good for the circulatory system on the
other hand when you take the same group
of animals and you introduce them to
grains and put them on a starch-based
diet the pH goes from pH 7 down to four
and a half or five and then you
completely change the suite of fatty
acids because those families change
completely and so the omega-6 3 ratio
goes up to 20 bad guys and one good guy
omega-6 the co e levels fall apart and
you have a you have a product that's
just not near as healthy and I don't
think we realized what we were doing in
the 1960s when this was from this change
is being made but in a short very short
simple statement the the fats and the
grazing animal are very very healthy and
the fatty acids and the grain fed animal
are not there's healthy and I think the
why are why the in population has
decreased in health in the last thirty
years Wow not to mention the grains are
mostly GMO and that's a whole other
topic as far as tell me about that you
see a lot of times you have grass better
you have grain finished explain that
well that's a sad story because
basically all animals are on Mama's milk
and grass until they weigh 600 pounds
and then the next six hundred eight
hundred pounds of them gained on the
animal you know is either grazing
operation to do it correctly keep them
on grazing all the way to the last day
of their lives a few people think that
you have to feed them 30 days of grain
at the tail end of the grazing period to
get the good flavor good taste but they
don't realize that they simple
annihilate to the CLA levels the the
good omega-3 levels about a mega six
levels all right back in 30 days of
grain will ruin 200 days of sunlight and
and and grazing animals and yeah what
I've learned from Marc shots Kerr who
wrote the book hall steak New York Times
bestseller about six or seven years ago
it's the inter muscular fat is what
makes the flavor makes the wild flavor
and that's not the same fat in a ribeye
it's it's the inter muscular fat and
it's coming and it's called he called it
a photo lipid that's the term I picked
up from mark shots cure and the photo
lipids is where the really wild flavor
comes from I go to a nice restaurant and
if I have a the grain feds the only
choice you know I'll be asked by the
waiter how is your steak I said it was
tendered but it was really bland in
flavor and they're really unique flavor
comes from the properly raise grass-fed
animal it's been on a really high
nutrition diet of good grasses so that's
that's the short answer
oh wow interesting now there's one thing
that's very unique about your farms and
by the way anyone watching I'm not
getting another affiliate I'm not
getting any kickbacks for his products
just FYI but I want to just I like his
products and I wanted to promote the
farmer because that's kind of a high
quality I know it takes a tremendous
amount of work and I appreciate you
doing this and other farmers doing this
but I I wanted to talk about the unique
thing about your soils I you you guys
have some like you don't just feed your
your cattle and animals on any any grass
like you you really put a lot of
attention on the soils you mentioned
that and one of your vlogs can you tell
us a little bit about the soil where the
vegetation that is growing that is
feeding these animals
well there's far more life in the soil
below the surface and above the surface
and and I've become very intrigued with
with the ability to to create really
healthy soil there's there's a
tablespoon of soil has got like a
million microbes in it people don't
really understand that and we were
trying to store carbon in fact grazing
lands around the world if you go back to
Africa million years ago there was no
deserts in Africa it was all grazing
lands from Cape Horn the Mediterranean
then the large herds of grazing
herbivores were on that planet and they
were managed by the Predators that lived
there as well so they they grazed in a
group and moved in a group and and the
Predators would eat the stragglers the
old and the wounded or whatever but
that's what we're trying to mimic and at
North America today is by managing these
animals they spend if you can imagine
the the floor in the room you're
standing at now broken up in the 30
different cells and each day they moved
to a different paddock well after 30
days you've got a really nice growth of
grass and that's what we're trying to do
we're trying to get the plants a chance
to rest and every time you know these
plants have healthy root systems are
pulling more carbon out of soil and when
you have a really healthy vibrant sow
you produce healthier more vibrant
animals you produce more minerals in the
beef and the flavor goes up Gabe brown
is kind of the Guru and in the state of
North Dakota who's led this revolution
several other friends around the country
have really perfected it but we recently
in early late August early September
Northeast Missouri my landscape received
twelve inches of rain in about ten days
I've got three rather large lakes on my
property and they barely showed much
gain in water level my neighbors have
water running over roads and you know
quite a quite a runoff and I was able to
capture and hold almost all of that
water which was amazing wouldn't have
happened 20 years ago and because the
soil is just like a sponge when it's
healthy it absorbs water sorbs nutrients
and and we call it biodiversity we're
growing instead of a single monoculture
we were growing 10 and 12 cover crop
mixes summer annual plants that these
animals just have a smorgasbord they've
got numerous things to pick from and
these animals are very astute they'll
they'll pick the top of the plants we
actually like to graze 30 or 40 percent
of the available forage and the hoof
action will put the rest of it on the
soil surface so the microbes can feed
it's a really hard thing to get through
your head
the early got a harvest 30 or 40 percent
of the top of them plants that's where
the energy is the rest of the plant goes
to the soil surface to feed the microbes
but once you understand that principle
you're really getting into the into the
new term of biodynamic farming and then
then you require no fertility mother
nature does all the work that's what was
if you look back a million years ago
there is no fertilizer plants there was
nothing being done
mother nature that's what we're trying
to mimic fascinating
now I've hard time finding certain
questions or finding certain are certain
answers when I do research on this topic
maybe you can help me figure this out
but like a typical commercial factory
farming especially with cattle or let's
just say chickens me you see studies
that that show that they're high in
arsenic they're high in frozen I'm not
high prozac and their feathers there's
always medications histamines and so
basically it sounds to me and I don't
know if this is a hundred percent true
but they're even to grow these animals
they have to you know fill them up with
things antibiotics they get bigger but
then that might make them tired so they
have to give them caffeine and then that
keeps the problem so they have to give
them Downers I mean like is that what's
happening in the commercial farming
industry it's just completely out of
control with drugs and things to
stimulate and hibbott their growth well
you know that I'm not a chicken producer
but you know the chicken industry has
been vertically integrated now for
probably the last 25 years you know they
they produce massive quantities of
poultry on the market very inexpensively
but the you know these chickens if you
can imagine a metal cage you know
there's room for maybe one bird to stand
or two birds to stand to don't maybe a
room for two to lay down and to have to
stand and so that's a pretty confined
environment even though they're only in
that situation for six weeks and I'm not
sure they're given mood-altering drugs
but arsenic was something they used to
put in chicken feet
that was done and I forget the reason
but that was very low levels of that but
the free-range chicken producers which
we're working with we have a family and
it's a co-op in northern Arkansas
Central Arkansas which is doing this
correctly they move these birds twice a
day on fresh pasture and these chickens
are really astute they will you know
they will pick up lots of things from
the land they eat the crickets and the
in the earthworms and the other they're
getting a lot of nutrients they wouldn't
normally get through a diet and so
they're they're non-gmo it's a non GMO
diet a little bit of corn however their
protein needs they get some non-gmo
soybean meal we actually have one
producer using field peas which we do
have a soy free option now but they
generate about 30 to 40 percent of their
diet off the land chickens are pretty
resourceful but there are some with
there's a size of a thimble and so it
requires a little bit of concentrated
energy to get them to grow with proper
rates but there are no mood altering
drugs you know these are these chickens
and you can tell chickens on stress
levels if they're stressed you know
they'll start losing feathers and these
birds look really really clean when I've
gone to look at them so they're they
actually you know both farms were
utilizing or using they call them
chicken tractors these are these are
movable pens that that are you know six
feet tall the water is there they move
into fresh patch of grass twice a day
sometimes three times a day and granted
chickens are fair game to predators and
coyotes and roaming dogs so you got to
keep them Moira tur populations is why
you got to have them at the confide
setting some egg layers will put up a
large perimeter fence and the chickens
can roam by day and then they shot them
up at night and into a chicken house to
keep the to keep the wily opossums and
raccoons away from them but chickens are
a very interesting animal they they're
the most efficient converter of the feed
into and the muscle fiber on the planet
hmm interesting you know I always at the
grocery store yesterday and I saw
they're doing a sale and chickens like
$3.99
whole chicken I was fully cooked I mean
how could the grocery stores actually
make a profit you know that the cost of
feed and the production is so low I mean
it's just you know the quality is is
zero yeah when you said it's a cooked
chicken that also makes me suspicious
that there's a story behind that bird in
order to sell it they had to cook it to
you know get it into into a clean label
state so to speak and and who knows it
might be a loss leader there may be
other items in that meat counter they're
going to make their money but when I see
when I see a cooked chicken like that it
makes me a little suspicious that
there's you know a fresh chicken can
only stay on the counter so long and
then they have to cook it so I'm always
leery of a fully cooked chicken
interesting I didn't think of that
there's one point I want to bring up
about even your company it doesn't have
a label of organic so tell us why that
is and I I know actually in your your
state I think it's a you know they they
pretty much you have to label it a
certification of organic basically
charges you what 3% of the gross profits
I mean I just clarify that for me well
2005 the state of Missouri the
legislature unbeknownst to me or why
they did this they actually used to have
a state office for organic certification
it was a really simple thing didn't cost
much money Missouri had a lot of
certified organic producers anywhere
from chickens to apples you know wine or
whatever and they elected to to take a
hundred and twenty thousand dollars out
of the budget and turn it over to
private industry and there was a company
in st. Louis had picked it up and and I
approached him in the fall of 2005 and
they you know we the farm I had had
barely been out of row crop production
for about seven years and then it would
pass and I asked a lady I said how do we
renew this and she says well we're going
to look at your financial records and
we'll take three percent of the previous
year's gross sales in order to maintain
the license and I send gross sales and
net sales and GS your gross sales I just
thought it was insane
it was going to cost dramatically more
than what
you know the stages you just paid an
annual permit just like a license fee
and so you know we've elected to use you
know apple cider vinegar for that's out
to these animals here around for
parasite control does we're pretty good
size very good job when external
parasites as well that's kind of a trick
I picked up ten or twelve years ago and
so you know we're not we've never used
hormones anything with an antibiotic
it's gets growled and goes to the
standard auction and these animals don't
really hardly ever get sick the diet
they're on the land they live on the
health of the soil we rarely ever see a
sick animal and you know apple cider
vinegar is kind of our fan base and the
whole for that and we're not mind
prepared fertilizers we let the what the
soil microbes do it so we're pretty much
an organic product right now but in when
you certify organic you've got a paper
trail you got to maintain that's more
staff and then the harvesting plants
gotta keep track of it they charge more
money and then there's just a whole
series of cost and role into that thing
and it ends up the consumer is going to
spend more money and I can't agree with
Joel Salatin what I call it very
populous of the grass fed mimic grass
grass fed is beyond organic because
ninety nine percent of all the organic
beef sold in America today is been green
fed organic corn and organic corn will
give you the same omega-6 levels is not
organic hard so I've always said
grass-fed is Beyond Organic and and to
me that's the real that's a real
separation right there interesting as
far as where this is going I think even
the factory farms are are going towards
grass-fed but they're gonna do in
pellets or something or well no we're
not we're not feeding grass-fed pellets
I mean that's I know there's some of
that going on but I mean you can buy off
alpha pellets I guess which would be a
form of grass but we actually have a
large number of animals right on the
Gulf Coast year around now and the
southern tip of Alabama which is kind of
a you know it's protected by Mobile Bay
in the Gulf and we can actually do your
around grazing and the
for our deep south and that's where our
winter production takes place so it's
very expensive to feed animals stored
hay and stored Bale aged in the winter
months it's just difficult to do when
the air gets really cold it takes a lot
of energy for them to maintain body heat
so we try to have most of our animals
along the Gulf Coast and the and the
winter during during during the winter
time frame interesting another thing
that you I noticed I and I purchased
some of your hamburger with was like 55
percent right it was I think it's 45
percent fat incredible in fact that's
been Greenfield is kind of a famous part
and racer in the United States and a
great fan of aggressive industry and he
encouraged us to do that I guess in
April of 2017 and he got behind it and
promoted it and I think by the end of
the year last year there was a number
thirteen selling item in the entire
webstore I would have never believed how
it took off but we not only have it's er
correct is fifty five percent lean to
forty five percent fat which by the way
is the exact same ratio of our pemmican
bars which is we've had around now for
15 16 years and Pema Kunduz is my
breakfast fuel so to speak and it's also
55 percent beef jerky and 45 percent
straight beef tallow which is about 230
calories and about 12 grams of protein
and a 2.1 4 ounce serving which is
probably well the most intense foods you
can take and we actually have a sailor
is Vanko par who is in the great global
race going around the world 30,000 miles
of transit from the coast of France and
left there in July coming back hopefully
in March of this year of the 18
sailboats that took off there's hoist
seven or eight left in competition and
this man has got three hundred and sixty
pounds of pemmican and all of his ship
he's got excited by by his Explorer diet
but that's another interesting story on
pemmican but that's you know the
ketogenic movement is real and alive and
and I think people start eating that and
I I just keep hearing stories about the
stars eating in Quito and I lost 20
pounds 30 pounds and talked to someone a
couple
lost 100 pounds in the last year by
changing their diet yeah yeah the is
it's happening it's it's a really
amazing thing you want something that's
higher in fat and protein you don't want
lean like I've got some one time I by
mistake I bought some hamburger from the
grocery store it was 90% lean 10% fat I
couldn't even eat it it was just too
dried out too disgusting but but your
your high fatty hamburger and also like
you have a version that has some organ
meats mixed in there I really like that
as well and also your liverwurst
so because define a grass-fed high
quality product organ means which
actually is has more nutrients than even
and vegetables iron vitamin A the B
vitamins I mean incredible it's just
very sustaining so I hadn't done that
well thank you the organ meats you know
it's just amazing how many organ meats
we've sold over the last 18 years but
when you add the when you add you add
the organs to your diet you know just
neat things happen and that's the that's
been the really really fun part of this
business and liverwurst believe it or
not out of the 308 90 products we sell
it ranks third or fourth it kind of
flips between three and four for the
revenue generator it's just stunning how
much lower works we sell and it's that's
15% kidney 15% heart 20% liver and and
if you talk to any old-time medical
doctors you know they would always say
eat your liver and in eat your hearts I
mean those organ meats have a lot of
enzymes and you know you understand as
well as anybody about the importance of
that and just amazing how many people
I've talked to in the last 15 or 16
years have raved about those organ meats
and those recipes actually go back about
a hundred years a gentleman that help us
create those and back in the first three
or four years of business that's a that
was his grandfather so you know 3x4 card
which interesting story but it's and
then if you go back to dr. Weston price
when he
studied when he travel the world back in
the you know pre World War two or World
War two error he found that the
Aborigines in Australia had the lowest
number of cabins for carries I guess as
a proper dental term of any population
on the planet and unique feature about
the Aborigines they had the highest
consumption of organ meats of anybody in
his travels and he'd most seen on
America bent over he can gone to Europe
to Africa or gone into Australia so the
more organ meat you consume you know the
better your odds are meeting the long
longevity game absolutely
well I know that you're probably
extremely busy it was hard to nail you
down to do this interview but I just
appreciate the increased awareness on
some of these points that people might
not be aware of so thank you John I
appreciate it I'm gonna put a link eyes
down below to his website check it out
it's awesome thank you so much John dr.
Berg thank you and it's been great
so I want to know about what you think
about this video
so please comment below and tell me what
you think
