so I guess this is the end of vitamin D
research there was some research done
called the vital study that involved
26,000 people and they have found
conclusively that vitamin D
supplementation is basically worthless
so they don't want to waste any more
money in doing research in vitamin D
because this is the last nail in the
coffin for vitamin D research so I guess
I can stop doing vitamin D videos since
I have like over a hundred right now
probably just have to delete them so let
me share The quick summary of what the
study found vitamin D supplementation
did not reduce the risk of cancer didn't
reduce the risk of major cardiovascular
events stroke or cardiovascular death so
this data I'm going to share with you
came from a recommendation uh from Dr
Bruce Hollis who is the Pioneer of
vitamin D research and he sent me a
fascinating summary of this study and
some of the holes in the study in this
study they Ed the same trial Proto
as they use in drugs let's say for
example I'm going to study statin drugs
okay and I'm going to take two groups in
one group I'm going to give them the
Statin drug and the other group I'm not
going to give them a Statin I'm going to
give them a placebo and then we're going
to compare what this drug did right now
normally we don't have any statin drugs
in our bloodstream naturally and if
you're taking the placebo you're not
going to get the Statin vitamin D is a
little bit different because we
naturally get vitamin D from our diet
from the Sun so there was no Baseline
vitamin D tested during the study they
might have tested it but they didn't
give us the data so why is that
important to get a baseline well let's
say for example someone is deficient in
vitamin D and they take vitamin D
they're going to probably see a result
right versus someone else who has enough
vitamin D are they going to see more
results if you give them vitamin D
probably not because they weren't
deficient in vitamin d right off the bat
this study is is pretty much null it
shouldn't even have been published and
not only that everyone in the study
including the group who took the placebo
were permitted to take up to 800 IUS of
vitamin D3 every single day yes even the
placebo group when you take more vitamin
D many times that extra that you don't
really need is converted into an
inactive form of vitamin D3 and then you
also have the fact that this study
measured the amount of vitamin D that
was in the blood now when they test the
vitamin D in the blood they're always
testing the inactive form of vitamin D
kind of the reservoir of vitamin D that
inactive Reservoir is mainly for the
system of vitamin D that involves
skeletal system bones and calcium
there's another system of vitamin D that
involves the immune system that can help
you prevent cancer inflammation diabetes
dementia that does not involve vitamin D
in the blood to measure that you're
going to have to measure the active form
in the cells they're two different forms
and you're assuming that the vitamin D
in the blood is also acting in this
other system which is a huge err because
it's not you can have normal vitamin D
in your blood and be virtually empty in
the cells and then we also have the
subject of how much vitamin D was given
in this study and the even called it
high amounts of vitamin D3 which was
only 2,000 IUS now 2,000 IUS might sound
like a very large number but it's only
50 micrograms okay 50 micrograms not
milligrams that is not enough to affect
the rest of the body any type of
favorable research on vitamin D is not
welcomed by the journals Dr Hollis also
U mentioned to me that he was involved
in AUD
called the VD a t which talked about the
prevention of asthma which concluded
that if you were to give a woman 4,000
to 6,000 IUS of vitamin D3 in the first
trimester of a pregnancy you would very
likely get rid of almost all cases of
asthma but you can't do it with 2,000
IUS of vitamin D3 it needs to be closer
to 4 to 6,000 and in the towns and
letter which I'm going to put down below
uh there were six additional papers that
Dr Hollis mentioned one that showed that
vitamin D decreases autoimmune disease
by 22% another one shows vitamin D can
decrease the incidence of advanced
cancer another one says that the more
vitamin D in your blood the lower risk
of cancer rate and cancer mortality
reduces autism another one talks about
reducing asthma significantly and then
another one that he was involved with
that decrease
pregnancy adverse outcomes and the New
England Journal of Medicine would not
publish that article but he eventually
got into another uh publication so even
though the vital study showed that
vitamin D was worthless there's plenty
of other research that show that vitamin
D can significantly decrease breast
cancer tooth decay depression skin
disorders especially psoriasis prostate
cancer cardiovascular disease high blood
pressure diabetes and even colon cancer
this is also interesting women who
completely avoid the Sun have an
increased risk of breast cancer by a
th% compared to women who get regular
sun exposure sunbathing itself um has
shown to decrease blood pressure being
out in the sun can increase serotonin by
up to
80% just in one day without any side
effects so if you have not seen my
interview with Dr holl
I put it up right here check it out
