hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I
want to share my opinion on do we need
carbohydrates okay so now there's going
to be a lot of different viewpoints that
people are going to talk about I'm just
going to give my two cents I don't want
to get in argument with anyone but let
me just give you some Basics on what I
think is very workable but whatever
works for you go ahead and go for it so
people think they need carbohydrates
mainly for energy but you can run your
body on other types of calories you can
run your body on protein you can run
your body on fat and um so you don't
always have to run your body on
carbohydrates so there's this myth that
you have like all the energy you have in
your body comes from a carbohydrate not
necessarily true so let me just kind of
explain so you got simple carbohydrates
and complex carbohydrates simple
carbohydrates are like sugar honey agaba
nectar so what happens is that goes in
your body really fast and it spikes the
sugar it might give you some temporary
energy but then you're going to come
down because you have the hormone called
insulin that regulates that but then
complex carbohydrates have a lot of uh
additional things like fiber that slow
the breakdown of the carbohydrate in the
body and so it doesn't create that same
effect as table sugar so here's the
thing though let's just kind of break
down each type of carbohydrate now some
of this actually contains proteins amino
acids but mainly it's a carbohydrate
okay
we definitely need more vegetables not
necessarily for the carbohydrate but
mainly for the vitamins okay and the
minerals that's really why we need those
because that's where most of the
vitamins and minerals come from it also
has fiber but what fiber does it's it's
not necessarily um something like a
bulking agent it's mainly to feed the
microbes your intestinal Flora your good
bacteria live on microbes and they need
fiber and you don't have to get your
fiber from Bran or grains you can get it
from the vegetable family okay so that's
why we need vegetables in large
quantities too um beans now the thing
about beans is it doesn't turn into
sugar as fast as other types of
carbohydrates however if you have a slow
metabolism if you're trying to lose
weight I have found that people have a
hard time doing this on beans because
it's it's a lot of carbs okay so if it
work works for you try it if you have a
slow metabolism you might not want to
consume very many beans okay a lot of
people have gas with beans as well so
that's my viewpoint on that now fruits
fruits are great but the problem is that
it can range from a high glycemic index
to a low glycemic index if you have like
berries and things that's a little lower
than apples apples have like 19 to 30
grams of sugar per Apple that's like a
lot of sugar so the thing about fruits
is this
and some people it's going to slow them
down to lose weight okay they're not
going to be able to lose weight as fast
now you're going to have exceptions to
the rule with people with a faster
metabolism but I'm dealing with mainly
women in their 50s who have had a hard
time and I get the fruit out of the diet
and boom everything starts going down a
lot easier so again you're going to have
exceptions but typically fruit it's just
too sweet it's too much carbohydrate now
there are viewpoints out there that you
see people that do a fruit diet and they
lose all the weight well probably
because they cut out all of the sugar
okay that's in the diet as well and
their metabolism might be a little bit
faster but I'm just talking about if you
take someone that's been dieting for
many years and you keep them on fruit
it's going to slow him down I used to
recommend fruit I don't recommend fruit
if you're trying to lose weight okay
there is some vitamins in Fruit maybe a
little bit of berry but not much okay
now grains grains you have like whole
wheat bread and white bread the whole
thing here's the thing thing it's very
very similar as your glycemic index so
it does turn into the sugar fairly fast
and I don't recommend grains for two
reasons number one there is not a lot of
nutrition in grains some people disagree
but just look it up it's not that high
if you compare to
vegetables um the other thing is it's
real hard in the digestive system
because it has gluten gluten is the
protein in grains and gluten creates all
sorts of celiac problems and irritable
bow syndrome and
irritation to the colon and it's one of
those things that you just have to try
yourself and see if it if you feel
better not consuming it okay I found
that when you consume grains people get
a lot of bloating and you just have to
know yourself and just try it out um the
other thing is starches so there are
diets out there that recommend tons of
starches and some people lose weight
some people don't well here's the point
I don't want to get into a whole debate
on starches I just want you to go ahead
and try it for yourself eat starches for
a week and see if you lose weight and if
you do great my experience is that you
probably are not going to lose weight
because these starches turn into sugar
pretty darn fast it's not the highest
sources of vitamins compared to
vegetables so I like to stay away from
these right here okay now if you're
trying to gain weight I think potatoes
are the best food that you can consume
okay maybe wild rice if you're a
highlevel athlete doing marathons okay
then you might you have a high
metabolism maybe you're going to need
some brown rice maybe potato but for the
average person they they can't get away
with it okay in summary do we need
carbohydrates well we do need
carbohydrates for our vitamins and
minerals and fiber okay hope you learned
something make some comments below and I
will see you in the next
video
