hey guys I'm back for another video
we're gonna talk about 11 funny keno
comments starting with number 1 I can't
do Kido because I have type 2 diabetes
that's exactly why you need to do Kido
even the American Diabetes Association
is validating and acknowledging that a
low-carb diet is actually beneficial for
diabetes okay so that's all I'm gonna
say about that number 2 all that bacon
fat is gonna clog my arteries well first
of all when you're frying bacon you're
frying off the majority of the fat I
don't know anyone who's going to consume
all that grease that you fry off in the
bacon pan okay so you're gonna be ending
up with this piece of protein with a
little bit of crispy fat and if you're
not adding carbohydrates to that it's
not gonna clog your arteries it's not as
high in fat as you may think
number 3 keto is recycled Atkins no it's
not
Atkins is higher protein Atkins does not
recommend large quantities of vegetables
okay so that's the difference because
it's similar doesn't make an identical
and before keto causes ketoacidosis
anyone who tells you that just does not
understand what ketosis is ketoacidosis
only occurs if you're a type 1 diabetic
and you fail to take insulin and your
blood Sugar's get out of control if you
don't have type 1 diabetes you're not
going to get this okay and even if you
are a type 1 diabetic and you control
your insulin you're not going to get
this because they both have the same
word in them doesn't make them the same
okay number 5 high fat diets will kill
you well it is true that there are some
studies out there in rats that will
state high fat diets will kill you but
if you actually read the study and
observe what the mice consumed it wasn't
just a high-fat diet it was a high fat
high carbohydrate diet so you have to
read the studies and that probably will
kill you because you're gonna when
you're combining fat with glucose or
sugar it's gonna exaggerate insulin
number six our brains running carbs
that's true but it's also true that our
brain prefers ketones over carbs okay so
if the brain has a choice and there's
ketones in your blood and there's also
glucose it's gonna go after the ketones
first why because your brain loves
ketones and ketones can help fuel a
brain that is damaged from high levels
of glucose 7 keto will cause your
muscles to shrink absolutely not true
when you're doing keto you're improving
insulin resistance and you're increasing
the absorption of amino acids personally
I've gained nine pounds of muscle on
keto so this is totally false
number eight keto is not good for your
thyroid completely false it is good for
the thyroid a high carb diet is bad for
the thyroid
it makes the thyroid work harder when
you go low-carb the thyroid can be more
efficient and the thyroid does work
better the key is consuming a diet that
has all the nutrients alright number
nine there is no long term studies that
prove that key to is good long term yes
it's good for short term but not long
term but we do know this we do know the
long-term effects of a high carbohydrate
diet okay and if you look around the
effects our diabetes heart disease
cancer a fatty liver so I'm gonna go
with the key to right now and we'll just
tell this person to stick with those
high carbohydrate diets and let us know
how that works for them in another
thirty years okay number ten keto gives
you bad breath honestly I don't know of
a lot of people who have bad breath from
keto unless they're doing dirty keto but
if you're doing the healthy version of
keto I really don't think you're gonna
have bad breath because you're getting
your nutrients you're getting info
ketosis your body's using all those
ketones as fuel and you have adapted
enough where you're not breathing out
the ketones because you're metabolizing
and using those for energy and number
eleven Chito is not sustainable actually
it is very sustainable because you get
rid of your hunger and you get rid of
your cravings
the high carb diet is definitely not
sustainable because you're hungry all
the time so that's completely and
utterly false if you have a funny keto
comment go ahead and put that in the
description below I'm gonna check it out
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
