so today we're going to talk about some
natural remedies for jaundice and what
is jaundice it's a situation where your
skin or the whites of your eyes turn
yellow or slightly yellow orange okay
and that's your bilirubin backing up
into the skin
what is Billie Ruben it's an end
compound that comes from the breakdown
of red blood cells so if there's Billy
Ruben that is backed up in the system
your liver is not clearing it out now
with an infant with usually happening as
the liver isn't quite up to par or
developed enough to process this
chemical out of the body but in an adult
it's usually liver damage from many
different sources and one really good
remedy for an infant who has jaundice is
just sunlight okay it will give you the
vitamin D and if you can't get the Sun
you can use a certain type of light
which is 165 to 180 watt halogen light
which is a type of photo therapy which
helps clear bilirubin out of the skin
and it will give you the full spectrum
of sunlight without the UV radiation and
vitamin D in general will clear this out
of the skin as well okay number three
rosemary rosemary is a paddle protective
and this is liver protective okay so it
decreases liver damage and as the liver
gets healthy it can then form the
natural detoxification process of
getting rid of excess Billy rhythm and
before lemon juice lemon juice has nine
unique flavonoids which are final
chemicals that help decrease liver
enzymes like alt and ast so basically
they improve liver damage then we have
ginger which also has powerful
phytonutrients or antioxidants which can
also decrease liver enzymes the studies
were done in mice not humans so I just
want to point that out number six
Amla berry and labarie is very very rich
in vitamin C the whole complex not a
synthetic version and vitamin C in
general being a very powerful
antioxidant can help take the stress off
the liver
reduced liver enzymes reduced liver
stress it's a paddle protective so it
protects the liver oregano oil is one of
my favorite antimicrobial herbs but it's
also good for the liver as well and then
we have milk thistle which has been
thoroughly studied it's very very
important in repairing liver damage and
as you improve the liver function you
can clear this out of the system so in
summary jaundice is simply a visual
symptom that you have an underlying
liver problem alright thanks for
watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
