hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about alkalizing confusion okay now when
someone tells you you need to alkalize
your body okay your entire body you
pretty much know right there they have a
major confusion on pH because the body
is composed of many different pH levels
you don't just have one pH yes the
saliva is alkaline the blood is alkaline
the bile is alkaline the small intestine
is a clean but the stomach is very very
acid the large bowel is acid so if you
were to alkalize those two tissues you
would create a lot of health problems in
fact you probably wouldn't be able to
live if your entire body was one pH
alkaline you need the different PHS to
release different enzymes you need
different pH gradients to cause movement
of fluids throughout the cell and
throughout the body so we don't want the
body all one pH here's another example
if your stomach was too alkaline
you're gonna have heartburn you're not
gonna absorb minerals you're not going
to be able to kill off microbes h pylori
is a pretty serious microbial infection
that loves an alkaline environment it
can't be activated if the stomach is
normal and it's acidic state in fact
yeast in the body turns into fungus when
you alkalis it so again there's a lot of
false information on pH let's take a
really abundant microbe a friendly
microbe in your gut called acidophilus
guess what
it makes acid you need that acid in your
large bowel to help you kill pathogens
my unfriendly microbes and to absorb
nutrients so these acids are very very
beneficial so no you don't want the
entire body one pH being too alkaline if
you want each part to be in its own
specific pH range and the way you do
that is by eating healthy not
necessarily by eating too much acid or
alkaline foods just eating healthy
alright thanks for watching hi guys
listen I want to thank you so much for
your wonderful comments and I want to
ask you if you wouldn't mind giving me
your review on Google I put a link down
below I'd really appreciate it and thank
you in advance
