So today we're going to talk about some
really really stupid advice okay it's
eating everything in moderation I'm not
sure who came up with it but the
definition of moderation is you're
avoiding extremes you're consuming a
reasonable amount of something something
that's kind of rational something that's
more balanced and of course a lot of
people will say that keto is unbalanced
it's too extreme to lower these
carbohydrates and of course there is no
bad food group
it's about just eating everything in
moderation so let's go through the
reasons why this is a really stupid idea
the first thing is that low carbs really
are not low carb unless you compare them
to what everyone else is doing the
average person consumes at least 65
percent of their calories being carbs
and of course if you compare the keto to
that which is five percent of your
calories being carbs yeah that would be
extreme that would that would be
considered a low carb but even when we
talk about moderation it's so subjective
is it 50 or is it 70 is it 80 what is a
moderate amount of carbohydrate if we
compare normal blood sugar okay this is
a good reference what is normal blood
sugar well I'd say about 80 milligrams
per deciliter that would be considered
normal right now there's there's a
little range a little higher a little
lower but I would say 80 would be a good
average now how much sugar does that
mean in your blood all of your blood
well if you take 80 milligrams per
deciliter that really only comes out to
one teaspoon of sugar one teaspoon of
sugar that is only 4.2 grams of
carbohydrate okay that's pretty darn low
because in keto we're allowed up to 50
grams of carbohydrate it almost sounds
like keto is kind of high carbs if you
compare it to your blood sugars and then
we have insulin resistance now a much
more scientific name for that would be
carbohydrate intolerance
if you were lactose intolerant right or
glucose intolerant would it be okay to
consume milk sugar or gluten in
moderation
if you had an allergy to something would
it be okay to expose yourself to that in
a certain moderate amount well if the
majority of population is truly insulin
resistant and then allowing people to
eat a moderate amount or a much greater
than the 50 grams per day that is going
to lead to a lot of problems with all
sorts of things because the person is
already carb intolerant they already
have insulin resistance so what we're
going to do is we're going to make it
worse and that's going to produce more
insulin it's going to produce more belly
fat more liver fat more blood sugar
problems
more bad lipid profile problems high
blood pressure and the list goes on and
on and on now there are people that can
tolerate carbohydrates it's not the
majority of the population but certain
people can and for those people I'm not
necessarily talking to them but they can
tolerate more carbs I mainly focus on
the majority of population which
probably includes you watching this
video right now the other point about
insulin resistance if you have insulin
resistance which probably you do
your ability to absorb nutrients is
going to be less your ability to absorb
potassium and B vitamins and calcium and
magnesium and zinc is going to be less
because of those receptors involved with
insulin which means you're going to be
less satisfied because it's the
nutrients many times that will satisfy
us and tell us to stop eating anytime
that we're eating something that we
don't get these nutrients the turn off
switch is not going to be there and this
can cause you to overeat let's move on
to the next point which is your genetics
now when I had my DNA tested there was a
very specific Gene that showed up that I
had a problem with and they call it the
Sweet Tooth Gene which is called
tas-1 are two if there's a problem with
this Gene I'm going to keep this really
simple your ability to be satisfied from
sugar is a lot less than someone else's
so this may means as soon as you start
eating sugar you have a difficult time
stopping and that is totally me my
entire life once I start I can't stop I
mean I remember Halloween right I would
collect
huge bags of candy and I would literally
eat the whole thing in one sitting
there's also 38 additional genes related
to diabetes and if you have a mutation
with those genes you're more susceptible
to eating more sugar and developing
diabetes so if someone has a kind of a
genetic issue not only will they
gravitate to eating more sweets they're
much higher risk for cavities because
they're eating more sweets but that's
just the tip of the iceberg okay there's
a lot more health problems than just a
cavity you're talking about heart
problems you're talking about liver
problems you talk about brain problems
and then we get into another topic of
Addicting Foods okay because when we're
talking about eating everything in
moderation we're mainly talking about
junk Foods maybe alcohol maybe pleasure
Foods sweets if you give me permission
to eat a moderate amount of Doritos I
will not be able to do that as soon as I
start eating Doritos I have to consume
the entire bag no matter how big it is
obviously you have a combination of
these incredibly flavored corn chips
right with these great spices but with
no nutrition at all with certain
chemicals like monosodium glutamate that
stimulates hunger and it just doesn't
satisfy you as soon as you eat this it
tastes great but there's no actual
nutrition to turn off that switch so I
will just keep eating more and more and
more I mean try to eat just one Oreo
cookie just a you know just a small
amount you know everything in moderation
and see what happens again this is
really bad bad advice and then you have
the topic of just refined Foods in
general or you have like the pizza and
the chips and the candy and the cookies
because they're not nutrient dense it's
very difficult to moderate that amount
that you're eating because your body
will never get satisfied and this
relates to the next part which is
eating anything will stimulate insulin
an insulin tends to increase hunger so
just having a little bit of something
which is going to make you more hungry
and now you're actually going round and
round around you can't go for any period
of time without the need for food it's a
never-ending cycle okay it's a trap
because once you're in it then you just
have to constantly eat every hour and a
half so this idea of everything in
moderation is just really stupid across
the board it's really hard to have
willpower when your physical low blood
sugar issue is causing you to want it
more and more you're not going to be
rational in fact do an experiment
take your kids to the grocery store okay
unfed okay and just go past the uh you
know the chip aisle or the junk food
aisle and see what happens they're gonna
be demanding okay that refined carb the
only door to burning off your fat is
through bringing your carbs down below
50 grams or less that is the only way
you're going to shift your metabolism
into burning off the fat that you need
to burn off of and also it's the only
way to being able to rely on your fat as
your primary fuel source and not have
the hunger okay when you burn fat the
hunger goes away it makes everything
work it's easier to follow a program
when you don't
need sugar when you are not hungry when
you're satisfied
when you're not eating okay your body is
eating your own fat but only if you drop
your carbs below 50 grams so this low
carb thing really solves a lot of
problems health-wise now if you're new
to the channel or you fall out the wagon
and need to get back on the right plan
you should start with this video right
here
