hi guys dr. Berg here in this video
we're gonna talk about how to stop your
bad habit of late night snacking okay
why would you want to do that well
simply because your insulin is going to
be too high okay we want to lower this
we want to correct insulin resistance or
our like a pre-diabetic situation by
eating less frequent meals and no
snacking between so you're doing three
meals no snacking or better yet two
meals no snacking that would be very
very therapeutic to your weight and your
health but I won't let you know I had a
very serious problem with this a while
ago and I would be constantly grazing by
the time I end a dinner until the time I
went to bed I would have to have a
little bowl of nuts or something an
apple with peanut butter and you know
not even bad foods but just kind of so
so-called healthy foods and I would just
graze and I would go to bed just stuffed
okay so that just was unworkable so what
you want to do is number one not have it
around so if there's definitely any junk
food and get it out of the house that
includes the chips okay just get it on
the house
anything sugary get it out and
definitely don't have these snacks like
nuts on your table where it's just
sitting there that you're just gonna go
consuming especially if it's by the in
your TV room whatever so just get it out
of the house and then anyone that's
snacking around you just you know tell
them don't snack around you because it's
gonna be more tempting but number two
your last meal dinner chances are if
you're snacking you need to add more fat
to your dinner
the fats gonna satisfy you and it's
going to prevent you from snacking
because you're gonna be satisfied you're
not going to be hungry anymore and
you're definitely not gonna crave if you
are craving late at night that means
you're you're not fully key to adapted
yet if you don't know what that means I
put a link down below but the goal is to
get you in such a state where you're
burning fat 24/7 that you have no more
hunger and no more cravings to the point
where you can make it really easy on
yourself but start without any more fat
at that last meal to the point of you're
good you don't have to consume anything
else and it's just much better to
consume
a few meals even though there are large
meals then a lot of small meals spread
out through the day because of the
insulin spike okay go ahead and apply
this and put your comments down below hi
guys hey listen I created a pretty
amazing evaluation quiz down below that
actually analyzes your symptoms to find
the cause the root cause of all of your
symptoms the most likely cause so take
the quiz now and we'll send you a report
