hey guys I wanted to create a little
video on your cells okay because it can
be very complicated I'm gonna try to
simplify it alright
okay so there's various parts of the
cell it's like a universe there's all
sorts of things happening you have the
center part which is called the nucleus
okay and in the nucleus you have what's
called DNA so the DNA is basically going
to give the program to tell what the
rest of the cell should do as far as
what body tissue to make and what
actions to perform then we have what's
called the RNA now there's three
different kinds but just to simplify it
you can look at the RNA as a copy of
their DNA you have a copy machine in
your cells so it makes a copy of the
code and then it paste it into certain
transport units that send it out through
the rest of the cell so just like a
computer programmer that would write his
certain code and then maybe cut and
paste it into a different thing to make
a website your body has the RNA to do
that as well now what's even more
amazing is the DNA and the RNA could
have over 10,000 errors every single day
from things like radiation to chemicals
to things that oxidize the cell free
radical damage etc etc but we have an
entire repair unit in the cell okay that
can go in there like a like a
proofreader read the code translate the
code and look for errors then what it
will do it will cut out the section of
errors cut it out
replace it with new one or fuse it
together and then there's another
proofreader unit that comes behind the
initial proofreader to make sure they
didn't make any errors to look and read
the code to make sure it's exact and
they also have the capacity to cut out
the bad code put in the new code and
replace it to the point where you can
reduce the errors to one in a billion
this is incredible because if these
errors are there you have these
mutations which are alterations in the
code and that can lead to cancer and a
lot of other diseases okay next thing
we're talking about is the mitochondria
the mitochondria is the energy factory
of the cell it takes your food mixes
oxygen and it produces energy and in the
the energy is called ATP it's kind of
like an energy currency and then you
have something called the endoplasmic
reticulum which is the part of the cell
that either makes protein if it's the
rough part or makes lipids or steroids
if it's the smooth part because a lot of
your body tissue is composed of fat and
protein hair nails brain nerve etc so
this is one part of the assembly line in
the manufacturing of body tissue and
then we have these little things called
ribosomes which are basically protein
making machines on steroids so they
actually help in making different
protein structures not just for body
parts but for body chemicals like
hormones and neurotransmitters blood
cells you name it then we have something
called the Golgi apparatus okay the
Golgi apparatus is similar to the post
office or you probably order things from
Amazon well they have a whole shipping
department where they package the item
that you bought and then they put a
scanning code on it they tag it well
that's what this unit does the Golgi
apparatus packages and tags protein and
fat to then be shipped out to the other
parts then we have something called the
lysosome which is basically the
digestive stomach it's the garbage
disposal it helps break down waste and
also breaks down damaged parts to be
recycled
okay so there's another term called
etapa G where you would be going on a
long fast with doing in a minute fasting
and you would cause the lysosome to
start recycling the damaged proteins
that are unusable maybe from the repair
pathways and also microbes to then
recycle those into new particles so you
we can reuse that so it's very very
efficient that's what the lysosome does
and then we have something called the
peroxisome which is a slightly different
it's similar but this cell makes enzymes
to get rid of something called peroxides
okay so if you were to use hydrogen
peroxide for example to clean a wound
you can see that it fizzes up because it
kills all the microbes it kind of
disinfects it well your white blood
cells also make hydrogen peroxide to
kill viruses and bacteria well we don't
want to let that
lingering around so this little guy here
cleans all that stuff up so our bodies
actually make oxidants or free radicals
to kill things and you can also have it
coming from the outside as well and
that's why you can consume antioxidants
and also your body makes antioxidants as
well to balance this whole thing out and
lastly we're going to talk about the
membrane the membrane is like a double
layer of fat and surrounds the cell and
when you take vitamins you have two
types you have water Seibel and you have
fat soluble the fat soluble vitamins are
different and that they can cross this
fat layer and go to the nucleus and
create effects all right so there you
have it that's the simplicity of a cell
thanks for watching so we've been
getting a lot of success stories but I
don't have your success story yet so
click the link down below and upload you
before-and-after I want to actually hear
about your success story I want to see
your before and afters and every week we
do featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
