now the one thing that we all know is a
hundred percent true is that drinking a
lot of water is very good for our bodies
and dehydration is very bad for our
bodies we know that we've been told that
by everyone but why is it that when you
over water a plant uh it dies in fact
the number one cause of plant death
plants in your house is over watering
them we also know that to make a really
good wine you have to not put too much
water in fact certain really good wine
makers found that if you don't over
water if the plant or the Grapevine goes
through a short period of no water The
Roots will go deeper and the flavor of
the wine is greater you have a lot more
phytochemicals because that plant adapts
and we also know that nutrition is good
for our bodies right vitamins and
minerals that act as cofactors to help
all the biochemistry the biochemical
reactions in our body to make us healthy
but the time restrictive eating the
fasting also at the same time greatly
benefits the biochemistry of your body
and the two main types of fasting is
water fasting okay and dry fasting when
you do water fasting you're basically
not eating but you're drinking liquids
when you do dry fasting not only are you
not eating food but you're not drinking
water so that is a topic I want to touch
on and just explain something that's
actually quite fascinating and you may
want to consider doing a short dry fast
one of the biggest benefits of fasting
is something called autophagy autophagy
is a condition where your body is
recycling
damaged proteins okay and it's turning
those into new biochemical
enzymes and structural proteins things
like that like your hair now skin bones
muscle
Etc and fasting is a potent stimulus of
this autophagy autophagy also helps you
clear out intracellular pathogens
microbes
viruses very interesting now if we take
a look at the importance of getting
nutrients versus the importance of
detoxification they're pretty close as
far as benefit to your overall health
and in some cases detoxification might
even be a little bit more important
one of the big purposes of sleep is to
detoxify your cells and this is why when
you don't sleep you might feel kind of
very toxic and sluggish especially in
your head well when you do fasting
especially dry fasting you mimic a lot
of the benefits to sleep you're getting
rid of toxicity inside yourself now to
explain this I need to explain another
thing
about eight to ten percent of the water
that you get is produced by your own
selves in the mitochondria as the last
step of the mitochondria if you're
burning fat you're changing that fat
into water and oxygen roughly about
eight to ten percent of the water in
your body is produced within your body
it's called endogenous Water Production
or metabolic water I mean even in nature
animals especially those that live in
the desert have a higher function of
this they can make water from within and
one of the big benefits of your body
making this water is you get this
internal water flushing from the inside
out so you enhance the detoxification
process but if you're drinking all this
water the body never gets a chance to
produce this metabolic water this is why
when you do a water fast okay you don't
get the benefits from a dry fast because
you're actually drinking water water and
that water inhibits the production of
your own body's water so a dry fast
really is enhanced autophagy it's just a
better way of your cells taking out the
trash and getting rid of all the extra
metabolic waste and the benefits are
very similar to sleeping as far as the
detoxification of your cells and I think
a lot of people
um don't realize how much extra waste
that we generate in our cells through
the day especially if we're not eating
well so anything you can do to remove
extra waste is a very good thing
especially for a longevity so let me
just kind of summarize the benefits in a
little bit more detail for you number
one dry fasting can help remove
intracellular toxicity more than water
fasting number two dry fasting actually
strengthens the biochemical enzyme
Pathways the whole biochemistry the
machine that runs your body number three
and this is very very important MO most
diseases are related to the mitochondria
mitochondrial dysfunction and doing dry
fasting can help improve mitochondrial
function because when you go through
autophagy you also clean up damaged
mitochondria and that's called mitophagy
which is the recycling of mitochondria
as well as improving damaged
mitochondria themselves because I would
even venture to say that probably 80
percent of all disease including cancer
is related to a problem with the
mitochondria if you add exercise with
dry fasting during that period of time
which I'll explain the details in a
minute you can really take your
mitochondria to the next level because
exercise as a stimulus by itself can
increase the number of mitochondria and
the health of the mitochondria as well
as the capacity for the mitochondria to
handle more stress and also produce more
energy all right number four
you know we have different epigenetic
factors okay epigenetics are above your
genes the genes really do not control
anything okay it's the epigenetic
lifestyle actions like eating and even
not eating short-term starvation or
fasting is a very potent stimulus
for survival and so is cold therapy
because our bodies have evolved not in
very comfortable environments but
environments that were very very cold
and environments that we didn't always
have a lot of water and so if we inhibit
the production of water at certain parts
of the day it just may be very
therapeutic to the cells just because
we're going back to how our bodies were
originally adapted they did not involve
with constant food Constant Comfort a
lot of water all day long number five
dry fasting can mimic some of the
benefits of a deep rejuvenating sleep I
mean sometimes I'm wondering if
someone's really tired because they're
tired or they tired because the
accumulation of metabolic waste that has
accumulated through the day or from some
of the things that they ate I personally
know when I fast
I don't get tired as much as when I'm
eating and I feel better and I don't
need as much sleep and even the real
deeper purpose of sleep is
detoxification of metabolic waste and
the last point I want to bring up is is
just there's not a lot of people who do
any type of dry fast and it's one thing
that we're told you must always drink so
much water to be hydrated
but dehydration as an epigenetic
stimulus is something that I think you
should just test out for yourself yes
there are people that do three day dry
fast or even longer I'm not suggesting
you dive into that what I am suggesting
you test the waters on no pun intended
is let's say for example you're fasting
for 16 hours okay or 18 hours just try
not to drink any water in that period of
time then when you eat okay your eating
window that's when you start getting
your liquids and I do suggest you drink
a lot of water right like maybe two and
a half liters to get all your fluids
within your eating window okay now I'm
not saying to force yourself to drink
but the point is that for example if you
have a weakness with kidney stones or
you're gonna have to get more fluid in
your body but you should just see how
you feel if you can go 16 or 18 hours or
even 20 hours without drinking any water
while you're fasting what about the
coffee in the morning
well you could actually take a green
coffee extract okay it has caffeine in
it so you get the benefits of the
caffeine like so you don't have
withdrawals from your coffee
yet you're not drinking the fluid of
that coffee so you get the feeling of
coffee but without the fluid it's just
an extra thing to look at if you want to
enhance the epigenetic factors you may
want to consider or look into doing a
dry fast a shorter one to start out and
then experiment a little bit longer now
if you're new to fasting by itself and
you need to know how to do that you
should probably start out with this
video right here
