hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're gonna discuss how to germinate
seeds and nuts okay first let's talk
about germination in general it's a
process by removing something to go from
an inactive state to an active state so
it can start to sprout and develop into
a plant or a tree okay so what you would
do is you would soak the seeds and nuts
in water overnight and you're going to
add two teaspoons of sea salt one
teaspoon of a lemon juice
what that's going to remove is something
called enzyme inhibitors okay
which then will allow the process to
occur so there's all these anti
nutrients and there's also phytic acid
which blocks minerals so you're getting
rid of 90% of phytic acid and enzyme
inhibitors so germination that only
allows the seed to develop into a plant
but it also allows you to digest seeds
and nuts and it also releases a
tremendous amount of nutrition so after
soaking it for about 12 hours now you're
going to dehydrate it for about 12 hours
so you just want to make sure that you
put the setting on the dehydrator as low
as possible because heat destroys
vitamins in fact a lot of vitamins are
destroyed at 160 degrees Fahrenheit now
cook foods add a lot of stress to the
pancreas so when you consume roasted
nuts or roasted seeds you get rid of the
anti nutrients in the phytic acid so
they're easy to digest but they don't
have as much nutrition so try to consume
as many raw vegetables as you can to
increase your enzyme content but also if
you could germinate the seeds of the
notes you'll have even more benefits
thanks for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press the button
below and I will keep you in the know
hey that rhymes
