hi guys I want to answer the question
what does s to 10 cups of salad look
like well let me show you okay so the
question is what does 7 to 10 cups look
like well this is seven cups right here
so here's a cup right
here okay this is one
cup I'll show you in a handful it's just
like a
handful it's a handful
this is one cup
okay seven now personally I can consume
more than 10 cups of salad one sitting
some people can only do five cups this
you can see this in the grocery store
it's not organic but it should be this
is 5 cups 1 o equals 1 cup this is 5 O
okay you could do this in one salad do
two of these a day and you got your
potassium
this is five cups this is 5
ounces okay you can do this as a salad
it's not that hard so I eat my salad
first then I have my protein okay very
simple uh when I get the salad dressing
I read the label you're going to be
shocked to find out it's hard to find
something without sewing corn this one
has olive oil and no
canola and um
bomic vinegarette
okay and then this one here's one I
found has no soy sunflower oil organic
vinegar okay so we want to keep the
sugars low no soy no corn oil no canola
okay you want olive oil vinegarette or
sunflower oil or safflower oil or make
your own okay all right thanks for
watching hey guys I just want to take a
second and thank you for your recent
uploads uh a lot of you are uploading
your success stories and they are
mind-blowing check out the one from Jeff
before and after I mean that's
incredible and then we have uh Moroso
and Quinn and aot and helina check out
George and
Debbie John Lee an I mean this is just a
few of the many I mean it's amazing so I
am just blown away so if you haven't
filled out your success story uped
before and after I want to see it I I
put a link down below it's not only
mind-blowing to me but it inspires other
people because it gives them hope that
they can be helped as well so click the
link below and share your success story
with me I want to check it out
