I want to touch on metallic or metal
minerals versus plant-based minerals if
you ever taking chemistry you probably
saw that periodic table all those
different boxes with those elements well
those are things that make up this
planet and the way it works is those
metallic minerals and rocks are supposed
to be in the soil and the plant is
supposed to break it down and pull it
into the plant and convert it into a
plant-based mineral that we're supposed
to eat because it's easier to digest a
plant-based mineral but unfortunately um
manufacturing companies especially like
cereals and vitamin companies and even
um companies that make baby food are now
using not just synthetic vitamins but
metallic minerals and even rocks like
calcium carbonate and the metallic
mineral for iron would be feris sulfate
so it's my belief my opinion that
there's a huge difference between
plant-based
and these rocks and metals for our
health I believe that they're definitely
not the best so let me show you what I'm
talking about check this out I have some
ordinary cereal from the grocery store
and I have a very strong magnet and I'm
just going to I crushed up some of the
cereal just to show you what happens to
look at this look at
this look at that it's magnetic it has
metal in there and that's why it clings
so the metal that's attracted to this
magnet is iron so they use metallic iron
in a lot of these cereals that are
promoted to be health foods and that's
why they cling to the magnet yeah it's
amazing so I just wanted to do a little
demo there and uh show you that this is
what we're feeding our
kids amazing
and there we go reduced iron and
synthetic vitamins
