you know I've talked extensively about
diet and intermittent fasting improving
your health but today we're going to
talk about three additional things that
are so powerful to fix your brain to fix
your sleep to help you live longer to
help you be healthier now these three
things I'm going to talk about relate to
epigenetics which are above your
genetics so things that you can do to
turn on and turn off certain genes
related to improving your health and
another purpose or function or action of
these three things
are a term called a hermetic effect and
this relates to giving a kind of a small
dose of stress to create an adaptation
to create some powerful benefits so the
first two actions are a combination of
two things cold and heat and if you
combine those two therapies together
it's called contrast therapy now
superficially it's going to help your
circulation because you're creating a
vasodilation and a vasoconstriction
effect which increases circulation and
basically communication to the whole
body so anything that you can do to
increase communication in the body will
help you in amazing ways but
specifically I want to dig down into
there's two proteins that are involved
with heat therapy and cold therapy and
let's start out first with the Protein
that's involved with heat it's called
The Heat shock protein so what is this
heat shock protein
protein that gets triggered with various
things mostly heat like a sauna a
Jacuzzi a hot shower anything heat it
can also be stimulated with a fever but
there are other things that go beyond
just heat that can stimulate these
proteins as well like fasting calorie
restrictive diets certain various
phytochemicals and plants hypoxia like
doing exercise at higher altitudes and
even breathing through your nose and so
when you trigger these heat shock
proteins you're creating in higher
enhanced ability to repair to rejuvenate
let's say from an injury or even from
exercise you're improving the immune
system you're decreasing stress you're
definitely increasing your ability to
sleep at night you're extending your
life in regards to cancer
if you don't have cancer it can actually
prevent the risk of certain types of
cancer but there is some conflicting
research on whether you should do this
when you have cancer or not and at this
point uh probably not a good idea but if
you don't have cancer it's a good idea
so now let's switch to the cold okay we
have cold shock protein which work a
little bit differently so how do we
trigger the cold shock proteins well we
drop the temperature okay primarily
stimulated by cold now that this can be
a cold shower this could also be cold
immersion therapy which I recently
bought one of those units and it's quite
amazing there's also research to show
that this therapy can decrease the risk
of cancer but some fascinating research
that I want to mention that you might
not know about is in its ability to help
you lose weight because of the
stimulation of brown fat and the
increasing of metabolism apparently the
cold therapies help you lose weight and
the heat therapies don't probably
because they're just more uncomfortable
and it shocks your body and it creates
some real interesting changes I know
people that have allergies or certain
chronic health problems that like
fibromyalgia or even chronic fatigue
syndrome when they do cold therapy
whatever that immune circuitry is is
doing it kind of snaps your body out of
that state of illness but cold therapy
definitely can help decrease the risk of
certain types of cancer it greatly helps
your sleep cycles so probably the reason
why it improves your sleep is because it
improves the brain yeah cold therapy
greatly increases certain things in the
brain that help you fix the brain and
make your brain protective against
certain illnesses and inflammation and
so this is why you also improve your
cognitive function your mood your energy
and something called the parasympathetic
nervous system which is all about rest
and recovery and regeneration and it can
help you lower the sympathetic nervous
system which is all about the cortisol
and adrenaline so this is really good
for stress and so is heat therapy
combined together now both heat and cold
therapy strengthen the immune system
even though it initially creates a
stress on the immune system I know
yesterday when I got into this cold bath
immersion therapy at 50 degrees you know
I really had to remind my body that I'm
not in a dangerous state I'm not in a
pond that I just slipped through the ice
I can get out at any minute and the key
is just controlling your breath because
it can actually be very uncomfortable
but I'm getting used to it I can stay
now in this cold merging bath for about
five minutes combination of using this
cold and heat are really good for post
exercise recovery and especially for
pain in anything related to your brain
so you really have a lot of great
benefits going on when you combine these
two so we talked a little bit about heat
therapy talked about cold therapy now
let's talk about the third action and
this is a type of exercise that I think
is the most
potent it'll give you the most benefits
in the least amount of time is sprinting
now what is so special about sprinting a
lot it's a short workout because you can
only go so far and it's definitely part
of the high intensity interval training
uh pattern of exercise that I recommend
but with sprinting you're actually using
every muscle in your body you're using
your lower part of your body using upper
part of the body for momentum to get
your speed up and what I like to do is
do this for 10 seconds now anyone can do
a 10 second workout you can do that
without breathing so a 10 second workout
you don't even have to breathe you can
literally hold your breath and you can
just start out with several of those
spread out I'm doing seven of those per
day I'm doing other type of exercise too
but I mean think about it 70 seconds
let's see how long is 70 seconds
um that's like a little bit more than a
minute
of exercise to produce some serious
benefits sprinting aligns with
um how our bodies were designed you know
running away from a tiger or running
towards an animal to get food a lot of
the benefit from sprinting occurs 24 or
48 hours after your sprinting not during
the process because you're not really
burning fat but the fact that you do
this high intensity very short duration
you're going to find that your growth
hormone at night is going to increase
and that's going to help you lose weight
but it's also going to help a lot of
other things as well especially your
heart the inside of your arteries and
there is this certain molecule it's
called a myokind and Mild kinds have
different effects depending on what type
of exercise you do but the release by
the muscle and then they do certain
things throughout the body one of the
things they do is they increase your
muscle growth the mass of your muscles
so when you're doing sprinting you're
actually building up your muscles they
also increase increase making brown fat
that's the fat that helps increase your
metabolism to help you lose more weight
the explosive type exercise stimulates
the fast twitch muscles so you have the
slow twitch muscles which are more for
endurance but the fast twitch muscles
are more for explosive moves and just so
you know as you age you lose those fast
twitch muscles so this tends to directly
counter the aging process and a very
common condition called sarcopenia which
you're you're losing muscles as you're
getting older so sprinting can greatly
prevent that can help your brain as far
as memory improvement Focus
concentration energy especially sleep
and your overall mood okay if you're
depressed you should do sprinting if you
have anxiety you should do sprinting now
when you're doing sprinting I recommend
using some flat shoes so you don't have
this this tennis shoe that has a heel to
it you're just going to be more stable
if you're running on a flat surface or
the hill that's going down
that's a little bit more
dangerous than running up a hill
slightly not a steep hill but found you
can have more control over your body so
I run up a slight incline Hill when I do
the sprinting activities now I like to
vary it up sometimes I'll do 10 seconds
sometimes I'll go 15 seconds but usually
the first few seconds you're running on
a certain type of stored fuel then you
kick into another system called the
glycolysis where you're running on your
stored glucose which is basically not
using any Oxygen it's the anaerobic and
that lasts for maybe one to two minutes
and then what will happen you're going
to build up as a byproduct this lactate
or lactic acid and then your body is
going to kind of cramp up unless you
slow down and get more oxygen so that's
when the Aerobic System kicks in and so
what I recommend is when you do these
workouts don't ever go past a minute
okay of course when you're doing
sprinting we're only talking about you
know 10 seconds maybe 15 seconds maybe
20 seconds but the key is the intensity
okay the more intensity the more growth
hormone that's stimulated of course you
need to do it within your capacity if
you have bad joint or you're getting
older you go slower and you work up to
it maybe you even do the spin bike the
point is you want to take the concept
very very high intensity short duration
I also like to combine this with
resistance training and I'll do all
sorts of stretching type of exercises
too simply because of all the arthritis
in my body from past injuries and about
a couple weeks ago I bought these um
called the mobility sticks and I love
that workout I'm not affiliated with
that company but I think it's a great
way to stretch your body unique ways to
get rid of myofascial scar tissue and
things like that so a combination of
these three things can be very very
powerful to add to your current healthy
eating plan as well as doing
intermittent fasting and I really think
that these are the most potent natural
types of medicine you can use on your
body I mean really when you think about
what compares to the effects of these
epigenetic factors I mean no drug can
even come close to this no therapy can
come close to this and if you can't do
all three do one of them because
something is better than nothing but I
think the synergistic effect of all
three of these are probably some of the
most important epigenetic things to keep
your genes helping you survive longer
now I touched on growth hormone but if
you haven't seen this video on growth
hormone I give a lot more data on this
extremely important anti-aging and a
hormone that can help you lose weight I
put it up right here check it out
