today we're going to talk about tinnitus
okay ringing in the ears and how to get
rid of it this is an updated video and I
will say that tinnitus can literally
Drive someone crazy if you had some
history of auditory damage somewhere in
your brain later in life it can come to
haunt you now tinnitus is something a
little mysterious they don't have it
fully figured out okay but they do know
that certain medications drugs can
improve tinnitus so I looked at two of
them and the mechanism to actually
understand this a little bit more now
one drug is called gabapentin and the
other is called Klonopin so what do
these two have in common well they both
are Gaba agonists what does that mean it
means that they have a mechanism to
increase
Gaba in the brain and so let's take a
look at this Gaba like exactly what it
is it's an inhibitory neurotransmitter
it slows down the central nervous system
and if you think about what ringing of
the ear is it's a hypersensitivity of
the brain so this would make sense that
the brake pads are a problem and by
putting more brake pads or inhibitory
factors into the brain it would help
something that's hypersensitive and
they've also done some interesting
studies I'm going to put the links down
below of people having tinnitus and
having a lowered amount of Gaba as well
as an up regulation of another
transmitter called glutamate that
stimulates the brain and so when you are
missing the brake pads in a car and you
only have an accelerator you're going to
have problems and that's what tinnitus
is and so tinnitus is kind of like an
overcompensation with a problem in the
auditory part of your brain and so this
overcompensation is basically making
this hissing sound so based on that you
probably are thinking well I just need
to increase Gaba and maybe you don't
like the side effects from the
medications that do that so you might
then typically go to a Gaba supplement
which is natural which has virtually no
side effects but the problem with that
is that
Gaba as a supplement does not cross the
blood-brain barrier so it's going to
have a hard time penetrating into the
brain to create the effect but we have a
solution for that there's another
compound and it's called taurine okay
that's an amino acid that turns into
Gaba and it does
pass the blood-brain barrier but just
make sure you take it in an empty
stomach okay when you take it because
when you eat you could have some
competition from other amino acids and I
don't have a specific brand you're going
to have to do the research on that now
in addition to increasing Gaba the other
thing you need to do is inhibit the
glutamate neurotransmitter that is
potentially speeding things up now
you're probably asking well what foods
are high in glutamate MSG monosodium
glutamate which has been known to
increase or stimulate or trigger
tinnitus also Aspartame is another one
that has been known to trigger tinnitus
now you might say that I don't consume
MSG well it's in a lot of foods and I
will put a link down below just so you
can get more reality it's in pretty much
all junk Foods fast food restaurant type
foods Chinese restaurants they even put
it in cottage cheese unless you buy it
organic but if you've been following my
videos
and my recommendations on eating you're
probably not going to be consuming MSG
now I need to mention the hidden foods
that are loaded with this glutamate that
you need to be aware of and eliminate
from the diet anything with these two
words hydrolyzed protein avoid that
another one is calcium caseinate another
one to avoid is yeast extract or
utilized yeast definitely avoid textured
protein whey protein soy protein
isolates and of course soy sauce so this
is the update information
I do have another video that's been very
very successful for many people and if
you haven't seen that I put it up right
here check it out
