in this video we're going to talk about
how to save your lower back from sitting
too long some of you sit for hours and
hours and hours all day long on the
computer you're driving your car you're
sitting down on the couch it creates a
lot of low back pain and sciatica and a
loss of the lower back curve normally
the spine should have a small curve
going forward in the lower back so when
you sit on the couch or a chair you your
pelvis rocks back okay and then you lose
the curve so the curve is going to be
pretty much flattened and over time
that's going to wear out the discs okay
because you're bringing your your knee
up and it's causing the loss of this
curve right here what I'm going to show
you to do is just simply you're gonna
get a foam roller about this size right
here this is what I do and you're going
to put it in the very lower part of your
chair or even your car and it's going to
put pressure on the foundation of the
entire spine the sacrum okay and it's
going to push it's going to support the
sacrum to the point where a lot it allow
the lower back curb to come in it's much
better to put it here than it is in the
lower back okay so let me just show you
something okay so what happens is you
have this lower curve right here this is
called a lumbar spine there's five
vertebra and then it's supported by this
something called the sacrum
okay this bone right here and normally
you want this curve going forward right
here so when you're sitting the sacrum
curls back and you lose the curve
because there's nothing to support the
foundation you're going to use this foam
roller and you're going to put it right
on the sacrum not necessarily just right
here all the time on the lower part and
it'll actually push the sacrum forward
to allow the kerb to come back so let me
show you how to do it right now okay so
look at the situation we have your whole
pelvis as you're sitting is rocking
backward that's gonna cause a lot of
pressure on these nerves back here
because you can alert lose the curve so
sitting all day is a killer with low
back pain and sciatica and degenerative
disc problems etc so this is what you
want to do you want to get a foam roller
this little thing right here okay and
you don't necessarily want to put it in
your lower back for the arch you want to
stabilize the very foundation the sacrum
which is this bone right down here so
you're gonna put this right behind the
sacrum and it's going to naturally tilt
your pelvis forward and allow the kerb
to come back really nicely okay so you
get the curve back this foundation and
that way you have to sit either erect or
slightly forward if your knees kind of
going down right here because with the
chair your your thigh bone is coming up
here and that's dropping the pelvis back
so if we have a foundational support
that's right and back of that sacrum it
rocks the whole pelvis forward and so
you can maintain that lumbar curve and
these discs will stay open it's great to
reduce pain if you're sitting doing
computer work for eight hours a day and
then sometimes you can switch it you
could put it up here too but the
foundational point right here will be
best and you want to use that just to
you know keep the pelvis rock forward to
keep that curve there at all times okay
so go ahead and get one of these foam
rollers get a skeleton now you're not
going to need a skeleton get your own
body and but you all you can use a towel
maybe but this really works good because
it's it's very firm okay so I hope that
helped you and it'll save your back
thanks for watching hey I appreciate
your attention and if you're enjoying
these videos go ahead and subscribe and
I will definitely keep you updated on
future events live events and webinars
that we're going to do very soon
