hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about when you transition from two meals
to one meal per day there's a couple
things you need to know some people have
a hypoglycemic situation it's a low
blood sugar situation behind the scenes
and when they do this they tend to crash
and burn because they're so hungry going
23 hours of fasting and then eating for
1 hour and that's a long period of time
if you have hypoglycemia so what I'm
going to suggest is you do a transition
of one and a half meals a day ok so
let's say we go two meals a day and you
feel comfortable with this instead of
going to one meal a day what you can do
is the first meal could be a very large
salad and you could put salad dressing
and even maybe some olives and things
like that it's not a problem or you can
do a kale shake pack the blender with
kale with maybe a little bit of berry or
better yet put the lemon wheatgrass
juice that way there's absolutely no
sugar add fill it up with water blend it
up I'll put a link down below if you've
never done this before
blend this up and that makes two huge
containers of this great green drink and
then you drink both of those right
through here
okay as your first meal now before that
you can do a cup of coffee I don't
recommend more than one because that can
stimulate the adrenals and increase the
glucose a little bit and insulin but you
can do teas right here dooty here you
can do tea through the day prefer if
it's naturally decaffeinated but the tea
will help you and then with your big
meal okay so you have at this meal do
episode of vinegar with water add a good
amount of fat so once you eat your meal
you might feel like you're not satisfied
because you're a hypoglycemic so you
know get out the jar of almond butter
and consume that until you're like okay
I'm good I had enough fat make sure you
add enough potassium or electrolytes and
b1 or nutritional yeast because that's
gonna help but make sure that this meal
is really solid nutrient-dense then at
night you want to make sure that you get
a really good sleep so try to go to bed
a little bit
earlier try to sleep a little bit later
support your adrenals with some
nutrition to get a good night's sleep
because if the quality of this sleep is
not really good it's gonna make it hard
to do in a minute fasting so it's some
rate what I'm recommending if you have a
pre-existing low blood sugar situation
instead of going from two meals to one
meal go to one-and-a-half meals do this
for a while and then down to one meal
thanks for watching hey guys a lot of
you already have my book some of you
don't but this new edition called the
new body type guide is an upgrade from
my last Edition called the seven
principles of fat burning it has 156
images 378 pages full glossary I talk
about keyed out in a minute fasting the
body types in detail I have a new
stressed chapter I'm going to show you
exactly what to eat any comprehensive
FAQ I put a link down below check it out
