hey guys so I recently had a question
about rice and someone wanted to know
what is better white rice or brown rice
okay so I'm thinking are they watching
my videos have they seen any of the
videos on ketosis okay because we're not
recommending grains okay but that being
said let's just kind of go into the
differences between both of these types
okay white rice is a refined product
they take the bran the germ the husk
away so you strip it down to like a pure
carbohydrate and it's just what happens
that all the vitamins especially the B
vitamins are in the brand the germ okay
so brown rice obviously has more
nutrition okay it's a little lower on
the glycemic index and this is higher so
both of these are pretty high so they're
not good for losing weight now the brown
rice also has phytates
which are things that helps preserve the
rice they're very powerful antioxidants
and they're kind of anti nutrients
because they tend to chelate with other
minerals but I like phytates in a
supplement called ip6 and that
supplement helps to lower iron it helps
to chelate copper and doing that it's a
real powerful way to prevent this excess
free iron and copper from causing a lot
of oxidative damage so it's a really
powerful probably one of the most
powerful antioxidants if you were going
to take ip6 take it an empty stomach
because when you take it with food it
could key later take out some of the
other minerals but it's not going to
take out potassium it's not going to
take out some of the other minerals but
it will take out things like some of the
heavy metals and might deplete some
calcium not to any significant amount so
take it on an empty stomach and then
take it a few times a week okay and then
you'll be totally fine but it's not a
big deal but the benefits from ip6 are
quite huge especially in kind of
avoiding cancer because it actually
helps this oxidative stress situation
now the other problem with brown rice
is that it has arsenic in it and there's
a lot of other products that you can be
exposed to arsenic with rice that go
beyond just actual brown rice like the
puff cereals you have the rice crackers
and the rice syrup so it's in a lot of
different things but we don't want our
snake on our body
it acts as a poison it blocks certain
pathways in the mitochondria it's a you
can consider in a very powerful free
radical because it's really destroys the
mitochondria and the way that you would
know that you have arsenic poisoning if
you look at the nail bed you have like a
kind of horizontal white streak through
it and you might have one or two that
could mean that you have arsenic
poisoning but it does block a very
healthy antioxidant called lipoic acid
other symptoms for arsenic poisoning
would be headaches drowsiness confusion
metallic taste in your mouth problems
swallowing cramps and your muscles and
hair loss okay so which is better
and it's hard to tell because brown rice
has more nutrition but it also has this
darn more arsenic white rice has less
arsenic but it has no nutrition pure
carbohydrates and it's higher in the
glycemic index so I honestly would avoid
both of these alright thanks for
watching
so we've been getting a lot of success
stories but I don't have your success
story yet so click the link down below
and upload you before and after I want
to actually hear about your success
story I want to see your
before-and-afters and every week we do
featured success stories so click the
link down below and share your success
