hey guys in this video I want to talk
about the nine top superfoods on the
planet okay we're GNA talk about kale
first now kale is very bitter anything
bitter is really good for your liver in
removing fat from the liver in
decongesting the gallbladder making more
bile so it's basically you want to start
consuming more vegetables that are
bitter most of these are bitter but kale
has tons of vitamin C C Vitamin K
Vitamin A but mainly what it will do is
it helps to slowly clean and detoxify
your liver all right it's also
anti-estrogenic too so if you have a
buildup of excess estrogen the bad kind
it'll help balance that okay
cabbage so this is the L glutamine
that's a that's the nutrient that's
really good for your brain it's good for
the heart it's good for the muscle it's
good for leaky gut uh cabbage juice is
wonderful for healing and ulcer and
anything related to an irritable bowel
even acid reflux or heartburn cabbage is
really good for that uh brussel sprouts
brussels sprouts are very similar to
Cabbage they're like almost the same
properties um but what's interesting
about brussel sprouts is they do not
have any negative effects on your
thyroid because sometimes the
cruciferous vegetables um
are apparently bad for your thyroid
because they deplete iodine well you'd
have to eat a lot of them but what I
like to do is I just like to recommend
having some seelp with these vegetables
and then you're good to go but brussel
sprouts have all the effects that
cabbage has but without the thyroid
negative aspects okay so now we get to
the radish radish is really high in
Sulfur so it's it's really good to help
detoxify the liver uh specifically
chemicals and poisons that are actually
in the liver it helps to eliminate them
um it supports something called Phase 1
Phase 2 detoxification which basically
you take a poison and turn it into a
water soluble particle so you it's
eliminated safely through the body but
radishes are really good for sinus mucus
congestion because they help pull out
mucus especially the Spanish black
radish but you can take them for a sinus
congestion you can take them for deep
mucus in the lungs that just can't come
out it's a really good anti mucus it
thins the mucus then we get the Beet
okay beets the Beet top is really good
for potassium like it has the most
potassium of any other vegetable but the
actual beet is good as well why because
beet is loaded with uh nitri nitric
oxide and nitric oxide is good for um
decreasing tension in the arteries
decreasing blood pressure uh helping
increase testosterone and balancing out
estrogen
so that's just one of the many functions
but it's really good for the liver and
the gallbladder then we get asparagus
asparagus has not just fiber to feed the
colon but it's very uh anti-anxiety it's
good for relaxation it's good for stress
it's loaded with vitamin B1 um I like to
take asparagus when I take it I notice
that I'm really calm after I consum it
like the day after I just feel really
calm so I recommend that it's also uh
good as an anti-d it pushes fluid out
it's good to prevent kidney stones it
has a lot of great things um garlic of
course we know about garlic garlic is
the most potent anti- cancer antiviral
antibacterial anti- fungus anti- yeast
it just cleans up bad microbes in your
system and it prevents issues that I
can't really make claims in this video
but you can look it up but it's really
just a good immune Builder
turmeric is a powerful
anti-inflammatory uh agent it's good for
the brain it's considered an
anti-aging nutrient okay and then we
have parsley parsley is another one of
my favorite it's kind of like the
garnish that no one eats but parsley has
more vitamin A than kale it has three
times the the vitamin C to oranges it
has twice the iron spinach has so it's
it's like a superfood it has massive
amounts of vitamin K so I will take the
parsley combine it with kale with lemon
juice and make my Kale shakee like that
but it's very bitter good for the liver
but these are the top superfoods that I
think are the absolute best ones on the
planet so hope you enjoyed this now the
CH now the time is to apply this
information and start eating these Foods
I'll see you in the next video
