today I'm going to show you the magic
formula for being calm under pressure or
being relaxed in stressful situations
you know sometimes we can't control our
environments but we can definitely
control our attitude towards stress and
I have some very important information
to share with you based on this book
right here called relax and win this is
by an author Bud Winters who was a coach
for 30 years and guided athletes to over
37 world records and there's some great
data I want to share with you in this
book some things you can do to train
yourself to be calm in stressful
situations now before I start um go
ahead and comment down below how you
cope with stress is it good is it bad to
use medication drugs junk food sugar
smoking alcohol
just make a note in the comments section
I'm just very curious I mean the
significance of how stress affects our
body is massive have you ever heard of
the stressed induced ulcers or what
about stress induced diabetes how could
that possibly occur especially if you're
not eating a lot of sugar or junk Foods
well stress activates two hormones one
is called cortisol and the other one is
adrenaline and both of those actually
switch the fuel that you run on it
basically switches the body to run on
glucose even though you're not consuming
sugar or carbs the body takes your
protein and turns it into glucose and
that's called
gluconeogenesis and so going through
chronic stress can actually cause you to
have diabetes and of course lose your
muscles that's called atrophy you can
actually get fat from stress you can
even develop cancer from stress from
different ways it suppresses the white
blood cells it inhibits the immune
system from working and it causes
viruses to come out of remission and be
active as an Epstein-Barr virus and the
herpes viruses as well as developing
autoimmune diseases like Ms Hashimoto's
lupus rheumatoid arthritis nearly every
person in practice that I talked to that
developed an autoimmune disease always
had some stress event that occurred
right before it and it's usually chronic
stress or some major loss there's also a
thing called stress-induced stroke or
stress-induced heart attack stress can
cause infertility definitely insomnia
lack of oxygen throughout the body
muscle tension and this other thing
called cortisol resistance where you
just get a lot more inflammation so even
though stress kicks in cortisol which is
an anti-inflammatory
over a period of time you developed as
resistance to cortisol and now you're
inflamed because you're lacking cortisol
inside the cells and this is where they
give people prednisone and prednisone is
a synthetic type of cortisol just like
they might give insulin to a diabetic
type 2.
to override this resistance to insulin
or even the prednisone overrides the
resistance to cortisol and look at all
the side effects that occur with
prednisone
diabetes complete destruction of the
joints so I think it's really important
to understand this stress component you
know when you're under stress your
ability to solve problems your ability
to be creative is going to be greatly
inhibited why because you're stuck in
your head pictures and your memories of
stressful events your ability to be
creative and solve problems occur when
you're in more on the present when
you're calm when you have a better state
of mind when you have more space this is
why I always recommend going for a walk
so this book is interesting because
um after World War II this author took
the same techniques which were taught
people who flew planes to relax under
pressure of combat and applied them to
sports and the results were not only
good they were amazing 37 World Records
incredible uh he also talks about like
Joe Lewis the great boxer Joe DiMaggio
great baseball player and noted they all
had sleepy relaxed looks on their faces
their arms were kind of dangled what's
more important is they let nothing
bother them whether it was hot or cold
whether the stadium was full or empty
whether the competition proved vicious
or gentle so one of the things you have
to do is you have to really train
yourself to have a relaxed attitude one
of the things that the author talks
about is working on relaxing the
antagonistic muscle
if you're just sitting there right now
right if you just kind of scan your body
where you're holding your tension uh
with me it's in the upper back the neck
and lower back so if you can just
let those areas go and just focusing on
relaxing those areas
that would be one thing you can do he
talks about also relaxing the wrinkles
you can look in the mirror and see where
your wrinkles are on your forehead and
just start relaxing them relaxing your
jaw muscles and your tongue
okay because so many people hold tension
in their jaws a lot of people hold
tension in their gut especially when
they eat so when you eat you should slow
your eating chew more and really relax
your whole digestive system that'll help
not just digestion but it'll actually
help you sleep at night because I think
the number one reason why people don't
sleep is they have certain
parts of their body that are under
tension
so you have to actively kind of let
those muscles go so these are little
exercises that you can do on a regular
basis and these are meant mainly for
athletes but I would apply this to
anyone when I was in wrestling in high
school and college before a match I
would literally be so nervous I would
have the adrenaline pumping through my
heart I would just feel this
pounding just incredibly loud and I was
so freaked out the last thing I was is
relaxed in fact when I went to State I
started getting more nervous and of
course that did not lead to a good
performance but the person that did take
first place and stayed at 185 pounds I
remember watching him
he was basically almost like bored
before doing the final match he was just
sitting there just completely and
utterly relaxed and that's a good state
to be because the more stress you have
the more nervous tension the more
muscular tension the less good
performance you're going to have in that
competition because you're going to
choke you're not going to be able to
think clearly I remember another
incident in college in order to graduate
I had to give this speech and I had a
terror of public speaking I had to go up
in front of my peers and do this
presentation I was this close to
dropping out of college and I don't know
how I got through it but it was very
very nerve-wracking and so public
speaking is another fear that a lot of
people have and the way that I overcame
it is I basically just
force myself to do a lot of
presentations I think I did 4 900
presentations over a period of time to
get rid of that fear of public speaking
I think the goal should be
really have the Viewpoint of being
carefree and calm under stressful
situations no matter how stressful
things are you have to just change your
mind and have a relaxed Viewpoint and
that also includes controlling your
breathing breathing to your nose I
remember I went out to dinner with a
patient of mine and as we're talking
she started to choke on her food she
couldn't breathe and here I am in this
restaurant and I had to give someone the
Heimlich maneuver and I have to remember
how to do it so I I started to do it and
it didn't work and I can see her eyes
were bloodshot and she's turning blue
and thank God I just said
sit down and just totally relax
calm down
and that's when things started to open
up in her throat so anytime someone's in
a panic mood
you want them just to calm down and you
want them to breathe normally if they
can breathe
especially through their nose we're also
going to basically be starving for
oxygen in this panic attack so a lot of
times when people are stressed out and
they're stuck in the past and not in the
present and so this is so important to
connect with your environment to go for
a walk in nature to do something
physical uh you know whether it's
something like bird watching or playing
with your animal or playing some sport
or being active in your environment that
kind of pulls you out of that stress so
you have more control over your thoughts
and as a side note to that be one
natural B1 can really help those
excessive thoughts that randomly test go
through your mind at night and through
the day as well so if you're deficient
in B1 because you're doing too many
carbs that can actually create a bad
effect but taking some natural B1 will
put you in a state where within minutes
you just feel like oh feel calm more
myself now the other thing that I
recommend is when you exercise
you should maintain
a relaxed body you're gonna have less
injuries you're gonna have better
performance
even when you walk or hike relax every
part of your body find out where you
hold tension what is in your ankles find
out if you're kind of limping to one
side because of an old injury and start
to walk and relax every part of your
body including your upper back and your
muscle and your jaw and try to breathe
through your nose okay so here's some
other things out of the book
to get rid of all your tensions in your
head and your neck drop your shoulders
as low as they'll go
get them down there and then lower them
even more when you breathe out lets the
tensions go out of your body remember to
breathe slowly and regularly as you
exhale drop your attentions talk to your
right bicep tell it to let go then to
your left bicep then the muscles on the
front part of your body then the muscles
on the back part of your body then the
right leg and then the left leg imagine
your body like a jellyfish you have no
bones in your left arm it just sags just
let it go let the tensions go if you
have any trouble relaxing your arms
clench your fist tightly and then let it
go and see the difference
I think one of the things that people
run into is that
when they kind of scan their body for
tensions they might not be able to
identify where these tensions are
so
I notice another thing that you can do I
bought this it's called the mobility
stick and there's a whole series of
stretches that you can do that are very
different and they create a lot of very
cool stretches in certain positions that
you don't normally get into and so when
you put your body through these range of
motions I'm laterally flexing this way
and rotating as I'm stretching and I'm
finding tension in my body that I never
knew that I had and I would never find
those tensions unless I put my body in
those
really strange positions because going
the other way it's totally fine but
going to the left it's really restricted
and I notice when I worked out those
areas of tension
I had the best night's sleep so
sometimes you have to go through a range
of motion and stretching to find out
where your tensions are so you can start
working on relaxing those tensions
either with letting them go or just
stretching your muscles and then we have
also this hormone called oxytocin I
talked about this in other videos
oxytocin is that hormone that
assists in the
bonding of a mother to their child after
birth they call it the love hormone but
there's some other things about oxytocin
that can help directly lower cortisol
and stress and some of the things that
can increase oxytocin is bonding with a
pet or an animal or even donating or
contributing to something which is
really helping another I don't know of
anyone who's helping a lot of people who
are always in a stress State this video
might be a simple video but I think it's
really important
if you have not seen my video on doing
um like a stress extraction technique
using manual therapy this is another
thing that I think if you add to what I
talked about it can greatly reduce your
stress and help you sleep I put that
video up right here check it out
