you know what's really fascinating about
the statistics on what type of health
conditions people get like
cardiovascular is number one cancer is
number two but there's some fascinating
information to show that there's another
epidemic condition that's even higher
than both of those combined and that is
autoimmune diseases and so today I
brought in a very competent doctor Dr
Demitri to discuss this topic because he
has a lot of experience in there so
welcome Dr
Dimitri hello Eric hello Dr bur how are
you I I appreciate you taking the time I
I interviewed you before because you're
actually my doctor so I wanted to tap
into your knowledge base but you you
even mentioned this and this is like
mind-blowing there's so many people that
have autoimmune diseases nowadays um I
mean it's like it dorfs some of these
other conditions which is crazy but what
I want to uh ask you is out of all of
the autoimmune conditions that people
are getting what is at the top of the
list the number one
condition okay let me give a picture can
I show a picture of some stats that
could help um okay uh autoimmune disease
is the number one cause of chronic
disease and now I'm going to refer a few
statistics about us population so while
in US there are 9 million people
suffering from cancer and 22 from
cardiovascular disease there are 50
million probably more people suffering
from a type of autoimmune diseases
autoimmune diseases are conditions where
the immune system does not recognize its
tissues or organs ourselves so it
attacks them considers them as being
estrous uh U particles or tissues and
attacks them this creates a chronic
inflammation and gradually uh leads to
the destruction of the organ interested
now from all these diseases the number
one the most common one is Hashimoto
disease which is an
autoimmune thyroid autoimmune condition
yeah this is interesting because um you
know if you take a look at
hypothyroidism which you know you know
you just assume that the thyroid is not
working that well it's a thyroid problem
but isn't the majority of
hypothyroidism
Hashimoto yes the great majority it's
the number one cause of hypothroidism is
Hashimoto's disease so in reality um
would you say that um this Hashimoto is
not necessarily a thyroid disease it's
more of an immune disease would I just
clarify that with me of course Hashimoto
thyroiditis is a autoimmune Condition
it's a chronic inflammatory condition of
the thyroid that is caused from the
immune system itself the immune system
attacks the thyroid gland and gradually
destroy it when the destruction of the
gland is above a certain percentage and
influences the function of the organ
itself we go into hypothroidism a lower
function of the thyroid GL at this
moment in us it's calculated that 26
million
of the population are suffering from
Hashimoto thyroiditis if you consider
that nine out of 10 of these patients
are
women it's a it's a huge part of the
women
population uh that is suffering from
this disease and it's pretty wild that
you you you know I know when I was in
practice people would come in with um
hypothyroidism and they would just think
oh I have low thyroid hormones so I just
need to take my thyroid hormones and
it's going to correct the problem but
this is a little
different this is a little bit
different the the problem here is that
since the thyroid gland is not
recognized from the immune system it uh
produces antibodies they are called Auto
antibodies which attack the thyroid
gland and then these antibodies um get
attached to thyroid cells and then uh
cells of the immune system are guided
towards these antibodies and destroy the
gland itself so we have a chronic
inflammation of the thyroid but in order
to arrive at that point where the body
produces these antibodies and
distruction and chronic inflammation of
the gland there must be some prior
metabolic um dysfunctions and
deficiencies that brought to that
so uh it's a small this diagnosis it's a
small uh part of the whole problem the
whole
picture so basically there's a Cascade
of things and this is usually late on
the chain of events te tell me some of
the um potential triggers or
causes that precede this condition yes
um first of all while we said that there
are 26 million uh people with hashimotos
and nine out of 10 of these uh uh people
are women nine of
10 that are diagnosed with Hashimoto
thyroids are women this is caused mainly
because women have a lot of hormonal
adaptations and changes during their
lifetime they start having menstruation
they have mensturation every month they
get pregnant they stop menstruating and
so on and all these change in and out
and changes in the balance to
Progesterone and estrogen um create
adaptations of the immune system and the
theid has to adapt also and these
changes when there are uh the body is
not in an optimal condition guide to
dysfunction of the immune system and the
inflammation that causes the the disease
wow so 18% of the US population us
adults uh which is more than 60
million are have is calculated that they
have Auto antibodies against the
thyroid the Hashimoto is not a one the
auto antibodies against the disease uh
are one part of the diagnosis in order
to make the diagnosis of Hashimoto
thyroid it is the actual is with
biopsy but usually we don't make biopsy
to everyone uh so we measure the TSA
which is a hormone secrete to regulate
theid function we measure the thyroid
hormones like T3 and T4 we also see
through
ultrasound uh test the form the the
structure of the theid and all these
data uh contribute to make a diagnosis
but let's say that the final diagnosis
the is Hashim modus is a biopsy
diagnosis no through about so okay so
then um now you you have a you know a
very large clinic in both Rome and also
Greece so what what are you seeing
um as far as the common things to be
able to reverse this and first of all is
it reversible and then what what are you
finding that you have to change to make
things
better okay yes uh this is a very often
question we have if this is reversible
from patients also there are various
points we can intervene and this um uh
in relation to
reversibility uh when we ask about
reversibility we mean we stop the
destruction of the thyroid we mean the
inversion of the damage of the thyroid
or we mean stopping taking medications
because all this are different points
where the disease has arrived and uh uh
if we answer the first question uh so
stopping the immune system destroying
the thyroid gland and lowering the auto
adding bodies this is uh almost in 90%
of cases we can do that it needs um
usually in in six to months to a year
this is something that can um can occure
uh reversing the destruction of the thid
is probably the most important uh for me
and for the patients because uh we
Salvage the thyroid which is uh it's
vital for the quality of life and the
health of the patients and then uh
reversing also the
inflammation of the gland also this is
possible if it's in the um starting
stages of the disease but if the person
has started taking an um medication and
T4 usually uh to supplement the thyroid
hormones uh this is not uh in most of
case this we cannot do uh cannot reverse
and stop taking the medication because
thyroid gland is a is a gland that is
very slow in regenerating uh each tissue
in our body has a different time of uh
regeneration for example our blood cells
regenerate in a few months three four
months uh the skin cells in a few days
and so on but the theid cells regenerate
uh in they have a time of regeneration
of seven years so it's a very slow
process we had some cases that we follow
them for many years and it happens that
they had they managed to stop taking the
medication but it's not something we can
say for every case or this is going to
happen so reversing the disease means uh
initially the most the first Target
should be to lower the out antibodies so
this means that that the body stops
destroying the gland uh it means also
managing and stopping the inflammation
at the level of thyroid so the cells
that have remained uh they can function
in the best possible ways so this can
bring gradually to a diminishing of the
dose of the supplementation of the
hormone uh through a medication but
stopping complet completely the
medication once this uh the treatment
has started it's not something that we
can see that can it's possible for
everybody and as far as um you know we
know the thyroid hormones go into almost
every actually probably every single
cell in the body so they can they
directly affect the metabolism and so
many different things um what are some
of the common symptoms that someone gets
with a hypothyroid hashimotos type
condition the first symptom that
manifest is um in it's one of the Prime
uh symptom it's low
energy so the person doesn't have the
energy it used to have uh in Prior years
usually the people often think that this
is due to because they get older which
is not true uh it's a mitochondrial
dysfunction the the energy of the body
is lower um and I need to clarify this
point that the thyroid is gland is a
it's a hormone that actually regulates
metabolism regulates the rate of
metabolism so our body doesn't function
uh in the same condition uh actually
these conditions change
continuously we are in a in indoors and
it's hot we go outside and it's cold we
can be angry we can be relaxed we can
eat we can
uh do physical exercise all these
conditions
uh need a different metabolic rate so
our body has to adapt to the needs of
energy and this the major adaptation
mechanism of the of this
um uh metabolic rates that change is
regulated through the thyroid gland so
thyroid increases the rate of metabolism
of decreases based on the needs when we
sleep we need lower energy and makes
that possible for the body to have the
Optimum output of energy so when the
thyroid
dysfunctions uh this means that our body
cannot adapt and this when we we speak
about adapting means about the function
of every organ almost every cell in the
body is influenced by the thyroid
hormones so by losing this ability to
adapt and uh respond to Chang in the
environment influences our uh health and
the fact fun of the body as a a whole
one of the first things so that people
note is the lower of the energy levels
because the body cannot adapt to that
then uh the second is difficulty in
modulating regulating the body weight
people that usually have problems with
weight problems increased weight
sometimes even um they cannot get uh
increase their weight uh because have a
higher metabolic rate than needed uh
from the dysfunction of the thyroid but
the most common thing is that people
cannot adapt cannot uh regulate their
body weight they are overweight they
have more weight than they should
because the metabolic rate is low uh and
the body stores fat instead of being
able to to burn it and use it as energy
uh one one other thing is hormonal
hormonal imbalances so in women that
also most of the patients that suffer
from the disease are women we have uh
disregulated uh hormonal Cycles we have
um pain we have inflammation we have
infertility so many problems uh
migraines correlated uh with the
hormonal cycle and hormonal
imbalances another simp SYM which also
influen a lot the quality of life of
these patients is emotional instability
uh this people hasmot can
experience within the same day um a lot
of changes at emotional level they can
be tense they can be exhausted they can
be angry they can cry they have so many
Chang they often refer that they are
overwhelmed from thoughts that come that
they cannot control
and uh often they try to handle that
with uh meditation or other means um
believing that this are due to mental
causes but the thing it's a hormonal and
metabolic imbalance that when this is
corrected all these uh problems uh uh
get improve a lot if not handled uh
completely that's fantastic what what
are um as far as things that you found
are there multiple different uh things
that you're
finding that are like certain patients
are missing in their nutrition or things
or or have you found like there's like
only one thing that always causes this
problem or is it multiple
things actually there are uh some
metabolic dysfunction that are common to
most of the patients with Hashimoto
with some
variations uh as in regard to deficiency
everybody I have not find the PA with
Hashimoto have vitamin D
deficiency so this is you have vitamin D
deficiencies yes they they every
patients at the moment they are
diagnosed with hashimotos thyroiditis
they have vitamin D deficiency this is
100% or not close it's 100% we have made
the statistics we have announced the
results and it's 100% of patient with
Hashimoto they have um vitamin D
defici then one common uh problem uh
also goes hand in hand with hash Moto is
insulin
resistance uh also in this case
everybody with hash Moto or more than
90% in this case they are insulin
resistance or have insulin metabolic
dysfunction insulin their cells do not
respond uh to insulin signal they are
they have lost to degree the sensitivity
uh to
insul uh another very vital problem is
micro multiple marginal micronutrient
deficiencies so these marginal
deficiencies along with the um insulin
resistance also disbiosis alteration of
the
microbiome um they end to disrup
mitochondrial function so just to
clarify the marginal you're talking
about there's a um I guess subclinical
or slight deficiency of micronutrients
like trace minerals is that or is there
some other meaning of that okay when we
have a complete deficiency of vitamin
like vitamin D or vitamin C we have
brism have a complete a manifestation of
the disease that is completely uh caused
by the lack of this nutrient when we
have lack of vitamin C have
scorbut uh so in this cases we don't
live in a an environment that there is a
complete deficiency of a nutrient but we
have multiple marginal not complete but
uh deficiencies of micronutrients so
they lack of zinc
magnesium omega-3 and other minerals
potassium and so on uh chromium B
complex vitamins
uh vitamin E antioxidants amino acids uh
so the body in order to function needs
166 uh nutrients and elements and this
they have to be present all of them at
the same time in a correct equilibrium
and this can vary from person to person
uh in order for the body to function
optimally and this in most cases there
are multiple deficiencies this not one
of these various micronutrients that are
necessary for life to function to uh to
so our body can function
healthily the thing is that all these
multiple def uh deficiencies end up to
disrupt the mitochondrial function so
one
common uh problem here for this patient
probably one of the basic problems that
bring to the manifestation to the
development of Hashimoto theotis is
mitochondrial dysfunction mitochondria
are little organel that are within the
the cells that 90% of the energy in the
body is produced in these organal so all
these multiple deficiency even though
not complete deficiencies they disrupt
the function of the of the mitochondria
lower energy levels the efficiency of
the body and then the thyroid has to
work more m
so I got it it's a backup let's say that
your body has to produce 100% of energy
and your mitochondria function at the
50% level that's fascinating because so
in this
situation th is just overcompensating
for a lack of mitochondrial production
so one thing that's very unique about
what you do versus other doctors you
have a specialized test that you do that
really pick up um um these subtle
changes that really are very very
important almost like you get more of a
complete picture and I guess that would
be called metabolomics right yes true we
measure small molecules called
metabolites that participate in the
chemical reactions within our uh within
the human body so instead of measuring
the nutrients in the blood because this
does not reflect the deficiency or the
needs of our body because our body tries
to to keep the the concentration the
consistency of the blood uh constant
because if for example someone is
missing calcium even though he has
osteoporosis the levels of calcium with
the blood are going to be within normal
it's even in advanced stages of
osteoporo and lack of calcium because if
the concentrations of calcium go higher
or lower the heart will stop and many
functions or cells will die so the
body tries uh to keep the consistency of
the blood stable so when the
consistency the the levels of a nutrient
the BL changes this means it's very late
it's too too late in order to overcome
this problem we have to measure chemical
reactions that Cur the presence of the
nutrient we want to test for example we
can measure uh the uh transformation of
one metabolite to another that needs B12
or needs magnesium on its glutamine and
so on uh so by measuring this chemical
reaction if this is occuring at a normal
levels optimal levels we can see if the
body needs more or less of the nutrient
we are testing so basically you know
instead of looking at the uh rdas for
certain nutrients we're looking at how
these rdas are really being utilized in
the body and seeing if they're
sufficient or not depending on that
individual so it's a very
uh uh completely different strategy yes
it's individualized yes personalized so
so for those of you listening if you if
you have a condition like this and you
want to get it evaluated a lot deeper
I'm going to put your link down below
where you can um get this test get it
evaluated um I will put that link down
below and I know that you mentioned that
you you have a small amount of time to
do this interview so I just wanted to
cram as much as I can in this interview
and
and just get these uh the overview of
the thyroid and this is just fascinating
information so anyway I want to thank
you for spending the time and uh
hopefully clarifying some of these
confusions that people have about this
thyroid problem hashimotos and not to
mention just autoimmune in general and
how different that is so thank you so
much thank you thank you Dr B for the
interview you're
welcome
