hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about how to fix the shoulder now
the first thing you have to realize is
this 95% of all shoulder pain is coming
from the gallbladder if it's the right
side and there's two nerves down here in
your digestion that run up through the
neck and they're called the Fric nerves
so there's a huge connection between
your digestion and the shoulders and
neck so many people have tightness and
tension up here especially in the upper
back the traps right here and it's
coming from down here so if that's the
case you get like a massage tool and you
press into these points now I already
know even her she had surgery for her
digestive system and ever since then
every time she eats she has a pain on
the left side so we know all we have to
do to fix that is work on massaging
these points over here okay so that's
how you would do that that's just kind
of a quick thing um and also you want to
avoid certain foods that might be
causing the distension in your
gallbladder like the bread pasta sereal
crackers biscus waffles pancakes muffins
sodas grease all the foods that you
probably shouldn't be eating and that
pain probably will go away but people
don't connect the dots you always ask
like when did it start and what happened
just before well I just ate something I
shouldn't and all sudden boom you get
the pain okay so now let's say it's it's
an actual shoulder problem all right
let's say it could be multiple things
but let's say she had an injury to the
shoulder there's two ways to fix it um
if it's an injury to the shoulder you
can press on the opposite side anywhere
it hurts over here you can turn it off
by pressing on the opposite side but
only do this after you did the
gallbladder work through here or the
massage on the digestive system because
this won't work unless this is working
here cuz you'd be surprised even if
someone injured themselves a lot of
times it's still connected to the
digestion they don't know until they do
that but anyway let's just pretend that
you have pain in your shoulder you can
press on the opposite side okay that's
one thing but there's several joints on
the shoulder you have on the top part
called the AC joint right here and
sometimes that gets a little bit
arthritic right here so we don't fix
this by rubbing on it what we do is we
always work on the opposite muscles now
the muscles that attach to the top uh
you would work on the bottom muscles so
I like to take my thumb up underneath
you can probably even take this it's
hard to do this one on yourself there
are ways you can do it but you want to
take your thumb and raise up underneath
that arm and press up into the shoulder
right there and hold that that will
knock this pain out like that okay if
there's pain on the front part like
right
here this is called the bicipital tendon
there's pain here I always like to work
on the opposite side side right here
that should get rid of the pain really
fast anytime you work on the opposite if
it's the exact Mirror Image it'll be
twice as tender on this side that means
you have the right spot so that's
something that you can do you can work
that out and boom it goes away like that
secondly a lot of shoulder problems
especially in the back um you have to
work on underneath the clavicle so you
can you can even take this
tool and kind of press up
underneath this little collar bone here
there's muscles underneath here so tilt
your head back forward good
back
forward let me just use this back
forward and you start working on the
front part which will actually relax the
back part okay so those are some simple
things that I do the other thing that's
interested is that interesting is that
um all this stuff up here like right up
in here the knot up here that's all
digestion or liver it's not coming from
just tight muscles that's why you
massage it massage it it never ever goes
away comes back the next day because
it's all digestion so I use a product
it's called gallbladder formula and that
actually gives you nutrition to support
the gallbladder it helps lubricate the
bile duct it helps even the pancreas in
the stomach and that takes a lot of
pressure off here and the pain goes away
it's really interesting it also helps a
lot of neck problems too so those are
some simple tips now one last thing
rotator cuff if you have a tear in the
rotator cuffs back here um you're going
to have to get surgery because they
don't grow back if it's completely tore
okay maybe if it's partially tore but if
it's completely separated all these
techniques are not going to help all
right and then there's one common other
shoulder problem that I noticed with
people that um when they lift up their
arm if you take your arm out here and
try to lift it up this way you see how
she can do that fine okay so let's say
she lifted this but she couldn't get far
and she's raising the shoulder up like
let me do it like this if they do
this that that's not good that means
that this tendon has been tore okay so
there's a little tendon that comes the
supinatus muscle right here that allows
us to raise up and a lot of people cut
this uh from a fall whatever just age it
just separates right here it's like a
little Poley and they won't be able to
do this okay
so if you can't do this then we know
you're going to have to go get it
ultrasound and probably get it zwn back
and it's very successful to do that but
let's say for example she has a hard
time lifting this side and it's like we
don't know if it's completely severed
but it could be just traumatized and she
can't raise the arm all the way up here
well this is really cool because we can
go and press on the opposite muscle that
makes that arm go up which is the this
side right on the top and we press in
there and we hold and then we have a
raise that up and a lot of times it just
kind of free right up it goes right up
like that so in this technique you have
to think in opposites anything on this
side you work on that side anything on
the front side you work on the back any
motion that you can't go into like
raising up um you know you want to think
what raises the muscle going up
like these muscles here well then you
work on these muscles down here so you
always have to work on OPP opposites
okay so that's just kind of a brief
introduction of the shoulder hope that
helped and make some put some comments
below I'll see you in the next video
