hi Dr Burg here um I realized the last
webinar that I did um is about an hour
long so some of you might not watch it
so I wanted to create a quick summary of
the webinar that I just did okay so we
talked about stress and that's the first
thing we want to talk about so stress
activates a hormone called cortisol
cortisol would be considered like liquid
stress so what it does is it basically
um creates adaptations to your body body
so your body can adapt to stress so it
affects the muscle the bone the brain
the kidneys the blood sugars so if
you're being chased by a tiger uh you're
going to actually run on sugar so you're
going to spike your sugar that's so
chronic stress leads to diabetes because
of that effect um it's going to create
mental focus Acuity because you know
you're being chased by a tiger you're
going to be mentally acute but you don't
want that when you're sleeping when
you're thinking about stress all day
long and then over time when cortisol
goes
higher the little receptors that receive
cortisol in the different parts of the
body they start to become resistive
because too much cortisol is very very
damaging to the brain for memory and you
name it and then so the effects becomes
less and less and less so you have this
high amount of
cortisol but no benefits from the
cortisol so you get belly fat but you
get inflammation because the adrenals
the cortisol is an anti
anti-inflammatory and that's why they
give you cortisol or steroids or prazone
for inflammatory conditions because you
run out even despite your blood test
being normal or high see how that works
so someone's talking but no one's
listening the same exact thing happens
with the pancreas when it pumps out
insulin the liver receptors become very
uh resistant they call the insulin
resistance that's type 2 diabetes so
they give you drugs metformin and um
gluc
which is the same thing that makes that
receptor dilate get bigger so the
insulin works now but why don't you just
cut down the sugar that would do the
same thing or better so really what
happens with chronic stress is it can
affect a lot of different things um
autoimmune stuff all autoimmune problems
occur after an injury if you ask anyone
when did it start what happened just
before there'll be a loss of a loved one
a divorce a stress an injury you name it
it's a stress event
okay autoimmune what is the only
treatment for autoimmune prazone what is
prazone cortisol it's all the same thing
so Coro is very destructive to your
immune system to your bones
collagen your blood sugars your proteins
uh of your leg uh your belly fat uh your
minerals your memory sleep apnea high
cholesterol high blood pressure
allergies asthma all these conditions
that's a cortisol that's a stress effect
so in medicine what they're doing is
they're taking the disease and treating
them separately they're not looking at
the foundational underlying cause of all
these symptoms these are symptoms these
are stress effects so they're side
effects of stress and then I also talked
about what to do there's several things
you can do from a nutrient standpoint
the number one nutrient for stress would
be vitamin B1 but you have to be careful
because most of it's synthetic so you
want to get a natural B1 um I'm going to
be coming out with an adrenal day
formula which has a natural B1 a couple
weeks but in the meantime I would
recommend getting nutritional yeast take
a heaping teaspoon and some yogurt every
single day that will help with stress
especially mental stress because stress
depletes B1 so does sugar so does refine
carbohydrates we talked about the best
exercise for stress would be walking why
because you increase oxygen and you get
your attention going out versus trying
to all day long we're trying to counter
stress we need a lot of oxygen low
stress walking is the absolute best
thing okay and then I also talked about
the number one um place on your body
that holds most the stress would be
right up here in the atlas it's the
first cervical vertebrae and there's a
technique you're when you download the
manual I I grave you a link down there
we show you you can use a tool or you
can use your hands if you go all the way
down I show you I give you link
uh on the videos so if you go to that
link I think it's drberg massage tool
manual or massage hyphen Tool uh hying
manual uh I give you videos on how to do
it with the tool or without but I
created this tool for my own body
since I have practitioners but usually
I'm the guy that's fixing everyone and
so I'm the last guy to get any help with
my body so I develop this this is my
best friend because I can lay back on my
couch and hit these points and just pull
the stress right out within 2 minutes so
right back here if there's any
practitioners watching or doctors it's
called the parasympathetic the heart of
the Vegas nerve and the rapi nucle but
if there's but if anyone else just
forget what I just said all that means
is that this is the turnoff switch to
help you go to sleep at night and you
lay back on the couch melt the stress
and I show you seven other places in the
manual that you can download of how to
use this on the different places in your
body to pull stress out every right and
then I showed everyone how to do a
technique how to get rid of um like
right shoulder pain left shoulder pain
low back pain planner fasciatus in a
very unique way okay so you'll like that
all right so you can download that stuff
and then the last thing that I suggested
if you don't have this tool and you want
to get it I gave you a coupon code to
get 10% off and then plus if you get it
and then write a review on Amazon an
unbiased review I don't really care if
it's whatever it is I'm going to send
you as a nice little thank you my
Advanced acupressure do-it-yourself
program with all the techniques it's 4
hours it has manuals on each and we'll
send you a link because I'll see your
review and I'll actually capture your
name and send you um that link so
normally it's 4 $495 on my website you
can have it for free because I'm trying
to get reviews on Amazon all right right
so that's only good till the end of the
year all right so I hope you enjoy the
summary uh click the link down below and
start applying these techniques on your
body all right that's the summary
