hey guys hi I mean hi I have a new cool
mic so I can hear myself when I talk
breaker break
[Music]
break what are we making today cam come
in Dr BG come in can you read what you
making we're we're doing a lot of
cruciferous
recipes and this color is interesting I
mean maybe this is going to go good with
for kids um it's a broccoli Fritter and
um got St Patty's Day it's a little St
Patty's DEH it's just there's nothing
when you're doing when you're cooking
with broccoli it's going to be green
right yeah so you can um you know put
something on top of it you can put some
sour cream on top of it but let's try it
oh Dr Burke's not gonna try this one
right I'm gonna watch you're gonna watch
he doesn't like broccoli I just for some
I like it I just can't eat it for some
reason you know just one of those
vegetables that kind of tears up my in
this is really good oh good I really
like
this there's a little bit of curry in it
and it's really
subtle broccoli is really good for you
cruciferous just don't look at me it's m
no no no no that was a really good like
doctor thing to say broccoli is really
good for you no it's anti-cancer on
steroids I'm going to eat more um no
actually this is really good I um it's
like a pancake it's like a pancake and
and I'm from Pennsylvania my family is
Pennsylvania Dutch so there's a lot of
German foods a lot of potato pancakes
and things like that can you put syrup
on it this I wouldn't no sour cream it's
a little more Vegeta sour cream okay if
they're served warm these are not warm
but if they were warm a little sour
cream would be really good on them
awesome yeah that's that is the broccoli
pritter okay let's go right into the
howto part
[Music]
oh
[Music]
oh
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the Subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
