hey guys I want to talk about the
anatomy of atherosclerotic plaque okay
so a lot of times people think it's this
big uh clogged piece of cholesterol
that's clogging the arteries because
cholesterol is so evil and it's it's
really bad and it's clogging arteries
and we're going to get a stroke and a
heart attack right well let's take a
look at really what this plaque is did
you realize that 70
68% of the plaque is fibrous plaque
that's a fibrous tissue that is collagen
so we're not against collagen right I
mean like if that's clogging your
arteries um you don't see anyone against
collagen like it's a bad thing 8% of it
is
calcium 1% of it's called the foam cell
that's the immune cell that's kind of
engulfing some of the
debris 7% is white blood cells okay it's
creating the inflammatory response and
the
lipids compose only
16% of that plaque and out of the
16% 74% is unsaturated it's not even the
cholesterol it's unsaturated fats so
this whole cholesterol
um being the connected cause of your
clogged artery is totally and utterly a
lie cholesterol is a Healer it's coming
in after the fact trying to heal that
officer try to put a bandid on that and
we're not asking why we're just trying
to lure it assuming that it's the bad
guy it's actually the good guy okay all
right I just wanted to give you some
awareness of that and put your comments
below press it and uh yeah you'll get
future uh updates that's right updates I
knew there was a word press it forget it
forget it I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
event it's
