hi guys Dr Berg here I want to give you
a couple tips on what to do if you have
these dark circles underneath the eyes
okay just right here this is my image
right here it's not really just one
thing it could be coming from multiple
things uh many different causes um and
yes it can be genetic okay but if it's
not genetic if it doesn't run in your
family here's some things you can look
at number one the sinuses if your
sinuses are congested with mucus you
have a lot of lymphatic congestion and
the lymph nodes go all around the eyes
and and that can create a puffiness and
um also a backup of the Venus which is
the veins which is kind of blue which
will look kind of Darker underneath the
eyes because you're seeing this
congested uh um backf flow of blood and
lymph um so if that's the case the one
of the best remedies to clean out the
sinuses would be some of the nasal um
rinses that I'm going to put down below
but there's a really good remedy called
colostrum which actually corrects the
immune system to improve allergies
um and I'm going to put a link down
below of some data on that but there's
another thing too that you can take
which is Mormon tea now what is Mormon
tea Mormon tea is a weak version of
aedra I don't know if you heard about
aedra they took it off the market
because it increases adrenaline um but
honestly the risk of that is so so small
compared to even aspirin out there the
amount of benefit that it did for people
with sinus congestion and lung uh
pneumonia and Asthma and bronchitis I
mean it's very very effective it's been
used for over 2,000 years um but of
course you can't patent it and it's very
inexpensive but if you monitor someone
to make sure they don't have high blood
pressure and you don't take it when
you're pregnant it's totally fine but
Mormon tea is a really good thing to
take in the early part of the day to
actually uh handle a runny nose and to
get rid of congestion okay and of course
the diet make sure you're not doing any
uh milk products um that could do it or
any Wheat products those two will
definitely back up the sinuses and one
more thing too if you ever go out to a
restaurant and you eat something with uh
meat and sugar or like anything like a
bun and hot dog or a burger in a bun
with fries or a Coke you are going to
create a lot of sinus congestion from
that and that could be one of the causes
too so as you clean up the diet this
will clear up too and then we get to the
liver okay if you're detoxifying or your
liver is toxic um that can create
disappearance underneath the eye as well
the best remedy is milk milk thistle
okay that actually can repair liver
damage so it's quite amazing and it's
very safe and you won't get this
detoxification reaction from that many
people who even do colostrum or
probiotics start having an immune
reaction and then they end up getting
this problem too so if you're going to
take anything for the first time always
take small amounts including colostrum
and and I think you're going to be okay
with this one all right then we get to
the adrenal adrenal fatigue uh with the
amount of stress that you have with the
amount of lack of sleep you're going to
have the dark circles as well and so you
want to support the adrenal that's a
whole video in itself I put the link
down below but of course start out with
long walks every day don't sit in front
of the computer
247 um good amounts of sleep whatever
you could do to improve sleep is going
to be a good thing in fact that brings
us to the next thing which is sleep
which is probably the number one thing
if you were to improve would it would
fix this dark circle underneath the eyes
so that's really important and then
vitamin D not only helps the adrenal but
it helps sleep as well so Sun every day
if you can get it and then we have you
know we talked about walking decrease
the stress and lots of potassium foods
potassium is the physiological
tranquilizer it relaxes you it gets rid
of sodium excess and retention the fluid
which could create this as well but
mainly the the sodium potassium ratio
issue if that's a problem will create
bags in the eyes not necessarily
discoloration but we want to get you to
sleep okay so I'll put some links down
below and then
allergies if you are allergic which kind
of gives us puts us in this category as
well um high levels of vitamin C would
be very beneficial for allergies and
also colostrum is another thing that
actually corrects
allergies as well and there's other
things too I'll put some other links
down below but what you want to do is
you want to just see if there's anything
that kind of pop out for you and focus
on that part right now um but the lining
of the skin underneath the eyes is very
very thin and you can very easily see um
all the different uh the Venus um
pooling in there which is blue but it
shows up as a dark circle all right so
try some of these and put your comments
below thanks so much for
watching hey press the Subscribe button
and let's keep you in the in the no I'll
keep you in the no no that doesn't make
sense hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
