hi guys it's me again in this video
we're going to talk about carotenoids
okay
carotenoids are a special type of
phytonutrient basically they're an
antioxidant that comes in different
colors yellow orange and reds in the
fall you see these beautiful colors
right well those are carotenoids so in
the fall you lose the chlorophyll and
the carotenoid colors start showing up
so there's two main roles in plants that
the carotenoids have number one to help
absorb light involved in the
photosynthesis process where they're
converting light into energy and to
protect chlorophyll from photo damage so
the benefits that we get are number one
it's a pre vitamin A which helps the eye
and the immune system and the skin it's
also really good for the retina in fact
carotenoids help filter 90% of the blue
light which is really harmful to our
eyes so it's a it's a powerful
antioxidant type of function so it helps
support the brain and it's very neural
protective against all the nerves in the
body has anti-cancer properties and it's
a fat soluble compound and this is why
when you have your salad leafy green
salad you need to add a little bit of
olive oil or some other fats in there
it'll help absorb it also when you have
a Cal shake add some coconut oil to it
maybe just a half a teaspoon to start
really absorbing these fat soluble final
nutrients so you get the carotenoids and
the leafy greens the spinach the salads
the carrot tomato pumpkin the kale right
here okay the pepper dairy fat like in
butter egg yolk krill fish algae that's
where you get it there's over 750
different carotenoids and they are the
phytonutrients that go way beyond just
vitamins and minerals thanks for
watching hi guys listen I want to thank
you so much for your wonderful comments
and I want to ask you if you wouldn't
mind giving me your review on Google I
put a link down below I'd really
appreciate it and thank you in advance
