hey guys Dr Berg here in this video I
want to talk about the number one brain
Focus tip if you have any lack of focus
or brain fog this video is for you and
has to do with something that's related
to blood sugars okay when the blood
sugars go high you have a whole series
of symptoms okay that relate to
cognitive function in your brain when
the blood sugars go low you have a whole
series of additional symptoms that can
occur let's just kind of talk about the
difference for so high blood sugar and
that would be mainly diabetics or
pre-diabetics um brain fog headaches
loss of memory and focus Vision issues
your vision starts going absent
mindedness um things like um you go in a
room and you're like okay what did I go
in here for
drowsy that's for high sugar mainly it's
going to be sleepy though you're going
to like want to take a nap and and uh
try to go to school try to study when
your when your blood sugars are high
it's almost impossible and then we have
low blood
sugars and even diabetics they can have
high and low depending on if they're
taking their medication it drops too low
okay low blood sugars
forgetfulness anxiety from worry to
panic attacks nervous
irritable highly critical
restlessness depression confusion OCD
I would venture to say over
50% of the mental disorders that a lot
of psychiatrists use are related to
blood sugars but they never look at the
blood sugar issue at all instead you put
on a medication unfortunately but it
really does affect the brain because the
brain needs uh fuel okay it could run on
sugar fuel it can also run on ketones
we'll get into that in a second but the
point is this blood sugar issues are
related to consuming too much sugar
that's one thing consuming too much
refined
carbohydrate um the worst advice for a
diabetic or anyone for that matter is to
have five small meals a day and spread
out and have snacks because every time
you eat you spike insulin so insulin is
the issue and there's a condition called
insulin resistance if you watch my
videos you you pretty much know all
about it if you don't click the link
below because that's very important but
here's a here's an interesting situation
you you see these commercials um uh
people being tired and consuming a an
energy drink or a Snickers bar all
you're doing is you're temporarily for a
minute spiking and then boom you end up
with brain fog maybe five minutes later
so what happens is over time when you do
that is you have this this blood sugar
that um the door that opens the blood
sugar into the brain is insulin so
that's the hormone that regulates that
sugar and over time that door becomes
resistant to Sugar so it need it takes
more and more and more sugar to create
that effect and so in other words your
body is resisting it so basically
consuming sugar starves your body of
sugar fuel over time okay and it takes
10 years for a pre-diabetic or insulin
resistant client to turn into a diabetic
so this can happen below the radar for
many many years the problem in the
medical community is that they don't
really recognize uh Hy glycemia for
example unless it shows up on a blood
test and they're mainly using several
tests like um a fasting glucose test
well what they should do is check uh a
fasting insulin test which is a lot
better and that's going to show the
subclinical issues because we want to
know what's happening to that insulin
okay now here's the point the point is
over time um your brain becomes um less
sharp uh more foggy
and it becomes more sensitive to sugar
and you might not connect the dots at
first you're just going along and you're
eating the regular things and you're
you're wondering why you're just you're
losing your cognitive function so I'm
going to show you what to do to get it
back and fast it's the simplest thing
but you really need to realize that it
is a blood sugar problem even though it
might not show up on a blood test and
and that's probably why when you eat
sugar you feel better temporarily but
then then you crash and burn so we we
constantly are trying to raise the sugar
up when it's kind of coming down um but
your brain would be much better if it
ran on a different fuel source and uh
it's called ketones and to do that you
have to consume you actually have to
drop your your sugars way way down as
close to zero as possible actual added
sugar and things like that um and you
would cons compensate by adding a little
bit more fat but over
time the the consumption of excess sugar
and refined carbs will decrease oxygen
to the brain okay so that's probably one
of the reasons also why when you
exercise you might feel better with your
blood sugars because you got this surge
of oxygen and also it helps to
temporarily kind of adjust your blood
sugars also the the brain becomes
atrophied gets smaller over time with
too much sugar I mean what do they feed
you in the hospitals it's all sugar
right it's just it's insane um when I
broke my shoulder when I fractured my
shoulder uh I was in the hospital and
you can't eat before surgery um for a
period of time so I was literally
starving and uh so I get the surgery and
then I am I wake up and I am just so
hungry and of course what do they have
Jello crackers yogurt with sugar I mean
I just ate it and man did I have a crash
after that blood sugar crash so I'm
looking at this uh situation ation it's
just like no wonder uh people um have a
lot of issues with going to the hospital
and trying to get healthy right now um
here we go atrophy and then starvation
so basically sugar starves your brain of
fuel of sugar over time because you'll
develop a condition called insulin
resistance okay so that's that is what
what's going on so what what you want to
do is you you must do several things
right off the bat you got to cut out the
sugar you have to stop eating sugar okay
anything sweet you have to cut it out
including honey and agava nectar and all
that stuff okay that's number one number
two um stop snacking between meals um so
those two things are the most important
regardless of what else you ate I mean
if you just did those two things You'
probably do very well so what I like to
do is in the morning um I don't eat
unless I'm hungry so like this morning I
went till 11:00 before I ate breakfast
why because if you eat when you're not
hungry you'll Spike insulin and then all
of a sudden it comes down and then guess
what you're going to be hungry again
you're going to be craving sugar again
or or just be hungry in general so
basically eating creates more hunger so
uh 11 so um right now it's probably
around
220 and uh I'm not eating lunch and
probably until 4: I'll probably go till
4: and I'll have my late lunch I'll
probably just have two meals a day day
and my body can do quite well on that
but the point is that you don't want to
eat when you're not hungry and then when
you eat have Protein healthy fat I'll
put some links down below with specifics
and then you want to do um a lot of
greens a lot of salad lot of vegetable
things like that you don't want to do
frying grains um also what kills people
is the going out to the restaurants too
often you go to the restaurant and uh
it's really hard to find food without
them bringing the bread last night I
went to a restaurant and the first thing
they brought was the bread okay and they
put it right in front of your face well
you're already going in there a little
hungry right so it's really tempting for
a lot of people the bread and then you
have the dessert and you have the wine
the whole thing uh the point is that
it's very dangerous to go to a
restaurant unless your your blood sugars
are in control and you don't have a
problem with blood sugars because look
it when the blood sugars go low you're
not in your right mind you're kind of um
you're not going to be as rational
you're not going to be as disciplined so
that's the the the danger of going to a
restaurant because it's it's too open
for um the wrong options okay so anyway
I wanted just to create a video on this
I hope some of this uh kind of put
things in perspective but uh if you want
to get your focus back you have to fix
your blood sugars thanks for watching
