hi guys Dr bur here I want to talk about
long-term chronic sustained stress okay
now normally when you go through
emergencies with your body a stress
event short term cortisol is released
cortisol is a hormone that's made from
the adrenals and it's pumped out in
response to stress or an emergency or a
trauma situation okay what it does is it
adapts every tissue in your body to cope
with with a stress state for example it
basically increases your blood pressure
right if there's a tiger chasing you you
need higher blood pressure to run away
uh it actually turns your body into
burning sugar as a primary fuel instead
of fat because sugar is a quick fuel
it'll actually even turn your muscles
into sugar as well uh heightened
awareness so it makes you very ment
mentally uh focused and Hyper uh focused
okay it decreases inflammation because
think about it if you're being chased by
a tiger you don't have time to have
inflammation you have to be able to run
out of there so it stops all long-term
healing in the body it stops
reproductive sex hormones you're not
going to have time to reproduce because
you're being chased by the tiger so all
these hormonal um sex hormones are put
on hold anything repair is put on hold
um also it decreases white blood cells
that's your immune system because you
don't have time to go through this whole
healing process again or your immune
system and this is the problem it
increases your risk or susceptibility to
infections okay but it'll turn off
allergies that's why um chronic exposure
to cortisol over a period of time if you
have too much cortisol over a long
period of time everything starts working
in Reverse you start becoming allergic
to everything you start having being
inflamed in all the joints and muscles
loss of memory no longer do you have
heightened awareness now you have brain
fog because the receptors it's kind of
like insulin when you have high levels
of insulin you get insulin uh resistance
the same thing happens with cortisol
your your body starts to reject too much
cortisol in the body and now the cells
have low cortisol and these are all the
symptoms of low cortisol but what
happens the signals come back and the
body tries to make more but it's not
effective cortisol see cortisol is a
really good thing but not in large
amounts so it affects the memory it
decreases oxygen to the brain um uh
long-term stress so uh allergies we
talked about that asthma
autoimmune almost every single
autoimmune case is always has a stress
event that occurs just before because
the stress opens the door for the immune
system to lose control viruses come Mo
remission as well that's why stress will
activate a canker sore or shingles pain
loss of memory insomnia belly fat just
it just creates a problem within the
entire body so our bodies were never
designed to handle the long-term um
stress and I'm not just talking about
physical stress mainly now it's mental
stress it's losses it's uh just the the
amount of pressure that people are on
now it's just it's astronomical so um
what can you do about it right that's
the next question what you have to do is
you have to repair the deeper causes
look what they're doing now they're
treating each one of these with a
different drug big mistake what you want
to do is you want to support cortisol by
rejuvenating cortisol you need to spend
time extracting yourself from life going
out every single day and going for long
walks like an hour a day I mean you
spend 24 hours a day working or front of
a computer we need to spend some time
outside without talking to anyone just
getting out in nature and just
extracting yourself uh we need to do um
vitamin D is very very healthy walking
in sunlight is very good uh doing acur
pressure on the adrenals I'll put a link
down below very powerful to take the
stress out physically uh nutrition you
need a lot of potassium a lot of
magnesium a lot of B vitamins from
nutritional yeast we need to get off the
sugar and mainly we need to start
sleeping more more more so we can
rejuvenate I'll put some links down
below and some ideas but I just wanted
to talk about this is what's really
killing people now is the sustained
stress thanks for
watching hey you probably already
subscribe but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
