hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to do a before and after on
neck pain so you had a car accident
about how long ago 10 uh it was in 2010
so six years ago wow so tell me you were
sitting there did you see the other car
coming no I was looking into the reval
mirror and I was rear ended so I got
whip blushed okay so when you're rear
ended your neck goes back first and then
it whip backs forward right here so we
get a lot of damage in the neck so right
now uh you've been having a lot of neck
problems right you have you have pain
and stiffness right that's correct so on
a scale from 1 to 10 I'm sorry on a
scale from 1 to 10 10 being very severe
pain zero being no pain how would you
rate it right now um probably 8 to nine
wow now let's take a look at the range
of motion go ahead and um tuck your head
forward okay that seems to be somewhat
okay some yes okay now go
back okay so it doesn't go back so your
neck is kind of stuck that's right all
right so look to the left look to the
left okay and the right good any problem
with that uh it seems okay okay all
right so we got a problem in extension
now the first thing we know that there's
damage from the Whiplash so and I can do
that um but I want to make make sure
that we really resolve this thing as
fast as possible and of course I know
that there's two things that will cause
a problem with the neck one is the neck
problem itself number two is digestion
okay I did find out she has a lot of
digestive issues okay so we're just
going to first see how much of the
digestion is keeping your neck locked up
okay so to do that we're going to do a
little um work with the gallbladder so
you you can lay on your back so we're
just going to do a little mild pressing
over the gallbladder area now what's
happening the gallbladder right here has
nerves that go right up into the neck
and if it's congested which it is that's
going to keep your neck really
tight okay now we're going to press the
other side too why because there's two
nerves there's one that go goes up here
and this this one over here and they're
called the frenic nerves and they affect
the the connect to the diaphragm and the
organs underneath the rib
cage and so if your pancreas is working
too hard the gallbladder they can refer
pain the hip bones connected to the
thigh
bone and I know this is uncomfortable so
I'm going kind of light
it's
okay okay so you can sit up for me and
if you can sit back in the chair here
all right so I just did a little work on
the digest system and I want you to tell
me the pain where is at at
now it feels relaxed actually I feel
like a big weight is off my shoulders
actually H it feels great actually and
and the back actually feels lighter wow
too so it was at a I think a seven or
seven or eight what is it now um pain
probably a two a two that's pretty good
now go ahead move your head back let me
see what happens to your
neck okay is it going back a little bit
better a little bit better okay so we
knocked out some of the pain now here's
the interesting
thing did you would you ever think in a
million years it was connected to your
gallbladder or your digestive system no
yeah so this is going deeper into the
system and I just already have done this
a million times so I already know it's
connected but what's interesting is like
you can knock out so much problems with
the neck by working on the digestive
system and no one does this so I'm going
to recommend
that um she's already I already found
out what she's eating she's following
all my videos so she's eating good but I
think what you benefit from is a little
help with your stomach and the
gallbladder just from nutrition
standpoint because if you took probably
the gallbladder formula and then alider
vinegar plus before you ate that would
allow her to eat more more complete
digestion take the congestion of the
gallbladder reduce this and your neck
will feel better and better and better
okay so that's one thing I'm going to
recommend now we're going to actually
clean up some of the injury from the uh
car accident so let's do that next um I
have to first
differentiate if the problem is in the
neck or is it in the shoulder muscles
because her neck muscles or shoulder
muscles are like really tight and so is
your neck so I need to find out what it
is okay so I'm going to stretch your
arms I'm going to stretch and you can
relax your arms I'm going to stretch it
up okay so what I'm doing is I'm
stretching the muscles right underneath
her arms relax your shoulders and I'm
stretching as the person is relaxing
stretching up what this is doing it's
relaxing all the upper back muscles now
I want you to tilt your head back see if
it's any looser yes look at that come
back
up go back
again is that better mhm yes it is so
she has a lot of muscle problems in her
upper back that are tightening the
problem but she was in a whiplash so the
first action was going back so she tore
all the muscles and the tendons on the
front part of her vertebra so we don't
want to do any stretching back okay
unless she moves her head back the
stretch you want to do is forward so
what I'm going to do is I'm just going
to stretch some of the muscles
forward and I'm lifting the back of her
skull up stretching forward like just
like that we're just G to do that like a
few
times I'm kind of isolating her skull
and lifting and stretching the spine
going forward now the only time I
wouldn't do this if she was in a car
accident from the front end
it's real
subtle okay now
now tilt your head back let's see what
it is
now okay good is that a little bit
better at all it is better yes okay good
so now the next thing we're going to do
there's two collar bones right here and
there's two little muscles underneath
there we're going to stretch the collar
bones not the collar bones but the
muscles underneath the collar bones I'm
going to take my hand and she could even
probably do it with a massage tool but
we're going to show how to do it up
underneath here so I'm going to have you
tilt your head
back forward good go back and
forward
forward good and
back
forward and back and I'm
lifting one more time
more
time okay okay so let's try it again on
your on your own tilt your head
back okay seems like it's it's doing
okay so now there's a couple other
things that we're going to
do there's a lot of
muscles that go from this bone right in
your neck up underneath the the
chin and this these are very tender the
this is what you can do yourself you can
work on these muscles up underneath the
chin so we're going to kind of stretch
those a little
bit because think about it her neck is
being pulled forward she's not able to
go back so all this is too tight so what
we have to do is we have to stretch all
the muscles
underneath the chin which are connected
to there's a bone right here called the
hyoid bone
good it's probably very
sensitive okay good
all right so we stretch that now I
already know one of technique if someone
can't go back we go forward we stretch
them going forward so what we're going
to do is we're going to have you flex
your head forward as much as you can
good come up do it again and I'm just
going to assist
her just as as much as you can but just
a little bit more
so you always stretch the opposite
muscles okay
good okay you can bring your head back
up now do you feel more relaxed yes I
do um go ahead and tilt your head back
and tell me what it feels like
now it feels better actually there
discomfort yeah so this is what I think
that's going on you don't want to like
do more than that per day but I would
definitely you can do this on yourself
get a massage tool or your hand and you
work on these points right here that L
they that gave you a lot of relief in
your neck you work on your digestion you
can stretch these muscles right here you
can even take your head and stretch
forward like this every single day and
what's going to happen just do that
every single day just maybe like maybe
five minutes and each day it's going to
get a little better and better and
better and better because it's been
going on two years your neck is like so
used to this position um but I think you
can get this thing back probably within
a week and a half um there's some other
things you can do as well um but I think
this would be the first step but you do
have a lot of tightness right here so
like for example let me just show you
one
more if she took uh like a bar where she
hung her arm and stretched this relax
your arm good and she just stretched
this arm relax your arm I'm just kind of
mimicking
stretching and we stretch this one right
here this is going to actually take a
lot of stress off her
neck in fact if we just did this go
ahead and tilt your head back and relax
your
arms see how your neck comes back yes
come come forward yes okay good just
don't do that in public and mention my
name that's um but if she stretches all
these muscles it's going to give her
neck more and more relief so so there's
a lot of things you can do but that
should at least give you get you started
and give you some relief and you look
like you're ready for a nap right now
but it just takes a lot of tension
because it does for two years your
muscles have been holding on to
something so they're fatigued so now
they can finally chill out so she'll
probably sleep good tonight M so does
that make sense yes thank you you're
welcome so your pain was a seven it went
down two what is it at now um it's
probably closer to one now I love it yes
awesome too are you happy I'm very happy
thank you Dr you're welcome okay go
ahead and apply some of these and put
your comments below
