so in this video I'm going to talk about
pain now we talked in the last video
about the symptom is not the problem we
want to pull a string and the problem in
medicine is we they treat the symptom
and the pain um I'm going to show you a
little technique just for the fun of it
um of what I do to get rid of uh 99% of
all the pain that people have and so
it's very it's very simple um and I'm
just going to demonstrate it right now
so you have you have pain down this arm
right it's going down
that way down this way right
here okay so first thing we're going to
do is and you can do this to your
friends and family or yourself uh 10
being very severe zero being no pain how
would you rate it right now five five so
we want to get a number because we're
going to ask her before and after so it
works on the principle of opposites the
way to fix any part of the body is work
on the opposite side so I'm going to
just take this side and I'm going to
just rub rub the opposite side
okay now it could be coming down from
the neck too but all you have to do is
rub this thing wherever it hurts on the
right side or left side you rub the
opposite side right through in there and
you're just getting circulation right
through that area okay and it goes does
it go all the way down your hand on the
other side it goes to here okay so we're
going to rub down here okay right down
here okay so now uh that was at a five
what's the number
now I definitely don't feel it's a
shooting pain I don't I don't feel the
shooting so what would you how would you
give me a number uh two two okay did you
see how fast that was um did it shift in
location mhm where did it go now it just
feels warm now I don't feel the the and
it's stiff and shooting and I don't I
don't really feel the shooting this so
she doesn't really feel the shooting you
see how fast that works this stuff is
like pure magic because all you do is
you work on the mere image side but if
she told me let's say it move to right
this area right here then I would just
rub rub this area right here so we want
to rub the opposite side okay now you
also said you had some leg pain too
right well it's now in my shoulder oh so
it shifted meaning it's on my shoulder
blade okay so can you just kind of uh
stand
up turn this way all the way here so
it's right here yeah right it's kind of
aching right there right here okay so
then we're just going to rub this area
right through here on the
opposite don't rub the side that hurts
that's what everyone else does it's
going to take too long okay what does
this one feel like now it's I don't it's
gone not aching it's gone um so go ahead
and turn around right here and have a
seat so you can do this with any part of
the body let's say she had a tooth uh
problem after she had a tooth extracted
and it still hurts find the opposite
tooth on the opposite side and press on
the gum area right here and it it'll
just uh massage a little bit and that
pain will go away and the way this works
is this this is the principle um your
body avoids pain right your body doesn't
like pain your brain doesn't like pain
you probably don't like pain for some
reason people don't like pain
so when you have an injury or a pain
what happens you lose the connection to
that part of the body whether it's a
chronic knee injury or foot injury or
whatever so if you lose the
communication lines or the connection
you lose the ability for your own body
to heal itself so all we're doing is
we're working on the opposite side
simply because the opposite nerves are
actually connected the left and right
side of the body are connected on
circuits so when you do this side right
here you're actually sending signals up
to her brain to heal the opposite side
and it can happen like that so that's
one thing that I want to show you and
then um um so you can take this any part
of the body so left and right and let's
say it hurts right here you can work on
the back if it hurts on the back you can
work on the front so try this at home
check it out and see how you like it
