so I recently flew to the farm where
they grow our wheatgrass and convert it
into a powder but I have to say it was
an amazing trip talk about the quality
the quality of the soil the quality of
the processing as you're about to see in
this interview with the CEO of the farm
so the question is why did you choose
this location in Utah versus other
places okay
this valley was ancient sea bed was
under ocean water for a very very long
time so this next question relates to
soils it's the quality of the soil that
the plant is grown on that determines
the health of the plant and how much
nutrition that plant is gonna contain
because the trace minerals and the
minerals in the soil convert into
vitamins and phytonutrients this used to
be the bottom of Lake Bonneville and so
it was ocean for a very long time than
it was lake bed Inland Sea for a very
long time then about 10,000 years ago a
Lake Bonneville drained and since then
we have a watershed the severe watershed
that drains from big sections of central
and southern very rural Utah that has
been evaporating in this valley for the
last 10,000 years depositing a
tremendous amount of minerals and those
minerals not only give us a more
nutrient-dense product from me a mineral
and trace mineral point of view it also
helps grow unusually healthy crops
dairy farmers in the surrounding area
even in Nevada and as far as California
will pay extra money for the same what
they call nutritional school so I wanted
to ask the question what is the
difference between wheatgrass juice
powder versus wheatgrass powder and as
you're gonna find out there is a huge
difference check this out so you know
I'm sitting here holding this blade of
grass and I love many people when you
get especially when the grass is this
good we love to chew on it mm-hmm
it tastes good it's sweet it's delicious
but as I chew this grass or is it eat
this grass something really important is
going on I'm chewing it and when I chew
this grass I'm rupturing the cells and
if we think of fresh grass think of
water balloon cells being like a water
balloon
you have this membrane of cellulose that
is not digestible by humans I'm
rupturing on popping those water
balloons and I'm taking all the the
abundance of nutrients that are very
digestible in a similar bit and i'm
rupturing them in an essentially juicing
this grass in my mouth as i chew it i'm
juicing the grass and I'm taking that
juice in I'm utilizing it think of this
water balloon and it's now all shriveled
up and dried out and the nutrients that
we need are essentially locked
encapsulated inside that membrane that
we can't break down if I juice it I'm
good I can get those nutrients but if I
try and take in a dry product where the
membrane has been shriveled around those
cells even with a fine grind I'm only
getting a portion of what I would get if
I were chewing on fresh bread of grass
or or drinking the fresh juice in our
case the powder that's equivalent to
fresh juice when reconstituted the vast
majority
the chemical compounds of phytonutrients
in this grass we know nothing about we
will be learning about those things for
centuries to come in most of the food we
eat we cook it
we're drastically altering those
chemical compounds we're making them
into something that our body may not be
able to use and in some cases there's a
benefit some nutrients are actually more
available and cooked form well I think
we get plenty of those in our diet we're
not short on whatever we get from cook
food we get plenty of that well most of
us are short on in our busy
hustle-bustle life are the nutrients in
raw foods especially nutrient-dense raw
foods leafy greens in particular have
abundance and nutrients that most of us
do not get nearly enough of and when you
cook it your trash tickly changing those
nutrients and so our passion our goal is
to produce a convenient product that
retains the nutrients that I get when I
chew on fresh grass that's the goal so
we crafts not only has vitamins and
minerals and essential fatty acids and
essential amino acids but it has
chlorophyll and phytonutrients if we
have high chlorophyll counts we have
found we'll have high beta-carotene
we'll have higher protein we'll have
high s OD or superoxide dismutase we
have high chlorophyll we have high
nearly every other compound that we have
found to be sensitive to some kind of
processing condition but I wanted to
measure the amount of phytonutrients in
chlorophyll in our wheatgrass and
compare that to the top three greens
products on the market while we measure
a lot of different things we measure
chlorophyll extensively and so we
measure it to determine how we're doing
on the farm it tells us when to harvest
if we harvest too early or too late we
don't get that maximum chlorophyll
and with the protein and all the other
nutrients that we're aware of that have
value so we use a third-party
independent lab and as you can see it in
these graphs our we craft contains much
more carotenoids xanthan an and
chlorophyll brass juice I believe
because of the the abundant of enzyme
activity is probably the most unstable
juice we've ever I've ever encountered
and we process a lot of different fruits
and vegetables and most fruit and
vegetable juices you could you could
juice and put it in your refrigerator
for a week or two and it would still be
good
crash juice it's not like that juice it
put it in your refrigerator and within
24 hours it's not any more interesting
it's very very unstable Wow we found
that if we take two hours before from
the time to harvest it to the time we
juice it we lose significant quality
just in that two hours Wow
you wouldn't think two hours of matter
it really does interesting and so we've
gone to great lengths to figure out how
to go from harvest to juicing as quickly
as possible and we're typically less
than an hour so I wanted to bring up the
question is how can you make a
wheatgrass virtually raw without heating
it okay and what you're about to find in
this answer is an unbelievable process
where they're able to take a liquid and
turn it into a powder and less than two
minutes under a hundred and six degrees
that's the temperature of bath water
check this out
once we juice the product it breaks down
and goes bad we started seeing it at you
know drop in chlorophyll it starts
turning brown it starts tasting losing
its fresh flavors and aromas and so
these are the things we pay very close
attention to it what happens is at a
hundred and sixty degrees if we take
just fresh juice you heat it to 106
degrees over time we will see a grand
your calculation of the chlorophyll now
at a hundred and ten degrees Fahrenheit
for more degrees it's instant within a
fraction of a second the chlorophyll
becomes coagulated and drops out of
solution and you get this yellow looking
liquid wow that's interesting and so if
we are not managing our machine properly
if the settings aren't quite right if
the operators aren't paying attention if
our instruments are calibrated if we do
anything wrong
we know it instantly that's the feedback
instant feedback instant feedback our
product off the machine will come back
and we'll have what we call poor
solubility which means we exceeded a
hundred and six degrees Fahrenheit so
the proof is in the solubility of the
chlorophyll so you're talking a very
short period of time a few minutes going
from liquid to a dry material but how
much time would it go up to 106 degrees
product exceeds body temperature 98.6
for just under two minutes and so that's
the time because it enters on your
machine at about thirty five degrees and
it comes out at 106 when it comes out
Wow and and then it goes through a
process that instantly cools it down to
around 75 to 80 degrees yeah this this
we Chris is just it stands out I mean
when you drink it it's just like it just
hits you you just feel like you're
satisfied you can you know there's just
like this kind of a and a knowing this
like wow this feels really good feels
really good and you have other other
types of just like the specially the
wheatgrass powder which is just doesn't
do anything for you
but I do really appreciate the amount of
work that you've done to pull this off
because I know as I was doing a little
tour through everything I'm like this is
massive amount of work first of all
figure it out do the work grow the
product I mean there's not many people
that go the distance to be able to pull
that off so I can come in there and just
get the end product it's a lot of work
so I really appreciate that
no it's 20 years of blood sweat and
tears well that's not dears and and but
it's been rewarding
the essence of your product is really
low temperatures I want to know how you
came up with that what what made you
come up with this lower temperature like
106 so it's actually kind of funny how
this came to be I grew up in the
nutritional supplement industry and many
years ago a customer came to us and said
and wanted us to produce a product that
they were buying from another supplier
and having some supply issues with and
claims where this product was dried at
97 degrees Fahrenheit believing that
taking that at face value we set out to
do that and it was not successful at
first we had actually years of trial and
error and eventually we succeeded and we
actually dried a 106 instead of 97
because we find the 106 is adequate we
don't gain anything by lowering the
temperature but ironically many years
later we found out the claims were not
even true oh my god that's so funny yes
so we did what we thought someone else
was doing and because we believed it
could be done we did it I think people
are concerned about gluten in wheat
grass juice powder right but that's that
doesn't happen in a small baby grass now
gluten exists in the green the actual
seed itself and so in addition to trying
to maximize nutrition our goal is to
harvest the plant at the peak
nutritional content we also want to make
sure there's no gluten and occasionally
you'll have a few plans that mature
ahead of all the other plants and will
produce ahead early and we we just can't
let that happen
so we have to harvest before there's any
any kind of formation of the actual seed
or the kernel or the grain that's what I
thought now the plant cycle starts from
a seed sprout and in a larger and larger
plant right
so the peak nutritional profile is at a
certain time that's when you're
harvesting is that is that part of the
survival mechanism because you need all
these phytonutrients to be able to to
build up to survive to grow into an
adult plant in order to produce the
had the plant first tries to build
nutrients nutrients that will later be
converted to starches and sugars and
ultimately produced the grain the most
number of seeds the biggest fattest
seeds that's the plant's goal is to
produce big fat seeds to do that it
first will put out it'll put out as much
energy as it is able into producing lots
of leaf and lots of chlorophyll lots of
protein those are the nutrients that
we're after so the plant is for the
first portion of its lifecycle is simply
trying to build that nutrition the old
build built and it'll build as much as
the soil and growing condition will
allow and at some point it switches from
okay now it's time to convert all those
nutrients into essentially a grain and
stress will we'll make that happen
early so if we can make that plant happy
and healthy it's a it you know from a
survival point of views okay we've got
time we've got resources let's go ahead
and produce lots of leaf let's you know
produce and store up a lot of energy so
then when we go in to produce ahead mode
that seeds from the plants perspective
that's his goal we harvest it just
before that conversion process begins to
take place so we're converting protein
and chlorophyll and beta-carotene and a
lot of those kind of nutrients get
converted to starch and sugar Wow well
this so glad I came out because I was
able I'm able to see who's behind this
amazing product and I can see you're
passionate you put the work out so I
really appreciate that and thank you so
much thank you
hey this grass is so good you can
actually even just eat it as a grasp
actually I'd much prefer juicing up
you
