so I'm driving my tractor
carrying a bale of hay and the bell of
hay weighs about two thousand pounds
right and I had it on What's called the
front loader the front part of the
tractor I'm going down the hill and
there's nothing flat where I my farm is
everything's on angles steep angles
Cliffs things like that
so I'm driving
down this pathway
to this Paddock and of course my wife
said you probably should let someone
else do that you know you're not very
experienced in a tractor I'm like I can
do it I'm driving down and I have too
much weight too high on the front of
this tractor driving on a hillside which
is not very stable
so the tractor started to tip over okay
at that moment
um I had what they call a stress event
okay this is called flight or fight
now
in flight or fight you know you have two
options you can fight or you can fly get
the heck out of there so I chose the
flight part get off the tractor real
fast try not to kill yourself
as the tractor went through the electric
fence and off the cliff so I experienced
stress so today we're going to dig into
this and I'm just using myself as an
example I was under some severe shock
stress and what happens in that mode you
have the flight or fight mechanism kick
in that's part of What's called the
autonomic nervous system
so the word autonomic uh means
involuntary okay it happens
automatically without your control or
will
okay and that's the key point is this
word
control you're going to be stressed out
as much as you are out of control in a
situation and you'll be less stressed
the more you're in control so there are
stress States like exercise you're
stressing your body or a Jacuzzi or a
cold bath those are all stresses very
positive stress it's going to help you
but any stress that you are out of
control
um puts you in a bad place but in my
situation I had this sudden burst of
adrenaline massive adrenaline that
stayed in my bloodstream all day as well
as cortisol I was in a state of panic
I was hyperventilate I was breathing
really fast at the time so my blood
pressure went up my pulse rate went up I
was sweating that's what happens when
you have the stress event because the
autonomic nervous system kicks in there
as a survival mechanism and it starts to
alter your physiology uh and your
Anatomy to deal with this stress first
of all I wanted just to really Define
the differentiating factor
of this thing that happens when you get
stressed out and that is
whether you're in control or out of
control and that can be with a situation
a condition a relationship with a person
it can also be in a relationship where
you don't seem to have a lot of control
over the situation you're really stuck
in that relationship and you're not
controlling it it's controlling you so
in a stress State you have a lot of
these involuntary glandular secretions
and reactions occurring that are below
your control now there are two
organs in your body that have both
involuntary as well as voluntary control
and the first one is called the
diaphragm
okay that's the muscle underneath your
lungs that allows you to breathe and if
you are aware when you're in a stress
mode you're usually hyperventilating or
your breathing is always off it's like
could be doing that or you can be
hyperventilating and what's interesting
it's really the imbalance in oxygen and
CO2 that's the problem when you get too
much oxygen and not enough CO2 the
oxygen cannot be absorbed this is why in
a panic attack where if you have asthma
you breathe in a paper bag
you're breathing in more carbon dioxide
which automatically releases the
absorption of oxygen which is
interesting so anytime you are in a
panic attack or a stress event or trying
to sleep because you're too stressed out
you should start to do controlled
breathing where you're under
photo voluntary breathing control okay
slow your breath down
breathe in
breathe out maybe at a count of four
seconds okay you just focus on that that
is very very powerful to put back in the
control over this whole system and pull
yourself out of this
reactive
lighter fight mode okay it's called the
sympathetic nervous system and that's
what I did when uh during this tractor
event I just as I walked home because I
had nothing to drive home I
slowly worked on my breathing in and out
to pull myself out of this shock and the
second organ which is really the
skeletal muscles of your body the
skeletal muscles have reflexes in them
that respond to various things for
example if you touch a hot stove or like
in my case an electric fence to see if
it was alive or not
I didn't have to think about taking the
hand off it's just an automatic reflex
so that would be an involuntary uh
skeletal muscle reflex but you can also
voluntarily control your muscles right
so this is another thing I would highly
recommend when you're in a stress event
you use your muscles you either exercise
okay where you're controlling your body
and or go for a long walk which is also
exercise you can go for a long walk and
you start moving your muscles flushing
out the adrenaline the cortisol so those
two things I think are going to be very
very important to quickly pull yourself
out of any stress State okay
now the origin of
this autonomic nervous system which is
the flight or fight is actually in the
brain and it's in the brain stem that's
the part underneath the rest of the
brain and also it's in the limbic system
that's connected to certain emotions so
of course when you're experiencing
stress you experience different emotions
too like fear anger that type of thing
but in the brain okay the limbic system
and especially the brain stem are highly
susceptible to a vitamin B1 thymine
deficiency so what does that mean it
means that if you are deficient in B1
uh for any reason those two areas of
your brain will suffer okay and the
tissue can even break down now it's
reversible but it can break down so if
you're deficient in B1 the effects that
can happen because of this problem in
the brain stem and the limbic system
is almost identical to hypoxia that is a
condition where you're lacking oxygen
there's something about oxygen that is
uh really good right I mean breathing is
really good so when you are suffocating
or let's say you're under water and you
can't seem to get above water because
and you can't breathe you will
automatically trigger the sympathetic
nervous system or the stress reflexes
well guess what a B1 deficiency can
mimic a mild version of that of hypoxia
and they call it pseudo-hypoxia and also
what comes along with that is difficulty
breathing and the reason I'm bringing
this up is because I want to emphasize
the importance of this B1
in pulling yourself out of a stress date
and preventing stress especially with
your breathing especially with your your
nervous system even the condition called
SIDS sudden infant death syndrome is
linked to a B1 deficiency and that's a
situation where an infant can die in the
crib because they stop breathing so B1
keeps the oxygen High it keeps you
breathing it keeps you out of the stress
mode so those are the three things that
you should focus on when dealing with
stress I'm just reminding you of this
because you probably already know this
but I wanted to emphasize it but there's
a lot of things you can do with stress
but when we're talking about a B1
deficiency you should really know all of
the factors that can create a deficiency
and for that information you should
watch this video right here
