hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about the best way to measure
insulin resistance now of course you can
go through blood tests and and go
through that but there's another
indicator of insulin resistance that's
pretty darn accurate and it has to do
with the waist height ratio okay you
basically then divide your waist into
your height in inches okay and here's
the chart right here just make sure when
use a tape measure that you measure at
the level of the belly button
where your stomach is totally relaxed
and you're not trying to suck it in or
anything and then you just divide this
number by this number and then see where
you are on the chart this is male this
is female and you can see if you're
highly obese extremely overweight
overweight healthy slender and healthy
extremely thin okay and then anything
from this point up means more and more
insulin more and more insulin resistance
anything down here is normal and healthy
and your insulin is sensitive it's
working all right
so use this instead of just weighing
yourself it's much more accurate thanks
for watching hey thank you so much for
watching
keep spreading the word and share this
video
