I'm telling you right now it's amazing
the things you can find in your food
these days and they're deemed healthy
because they don't exceed FDA standards
hey flip a coin on that we're back with
the author and nutritionist Dr Eric Burg
is with us uh Bob you're on the air
thanks for waiting buddy go ahead hey
Glen how you doing bud pretty good man I
respect that young man but um I go back
to late 60s and early 7s if you keep
working out and you eat right I remember
I used to go down to Leos and Sil Silver
Spring but anyway U I was right with you
Bob yeah buddy me and you together but
if you work out and eat right you lose
weight mhm and it's that simple you
don't need any uh scientific discovery
MH and uh that's all I have to say Glenn
I love you bud thanks buddy okay Bob
what does the doctor say about that
that's true but um there's other factors
as well you have sleep for example uh if
most of the fat that a person has in
their body is burned at night in the
Deep Sleep Cycle so if they're not
getting the good rest they're not going
to lose weight um for example if you
even if you exercise you'll burn about
325 calories but if you you weigh
yourself it'll be zero there's not a lot
of weight loss it's the fat burning
hormone that are created 24 to 48 hours
later in the Deep Sleep Cycle so that's
where you burn the fat so you have to
get at least 7 hours of sleep if if you
want to lose weight right well how do
you get people to stick with a program I
mean people just don't you know they
don't want to stick with it
because I don't know man it's just just
too regimented and they just don't want
to do it you know if if you tell that's
a good question because if you tell
someone what to do without giving them
any background mhm it's tough and uh if
the person gets the right plan for their
body type and it's working they're going
to stick to it but what happens is if
they have the wrong program and they're
working out they're working out and it's
not working they're going to give up
they're going to start having low
willpower so I honestly don't think
people are as bad as they think as far
as willpower I think they just haven't
been given the right thing to do because
if it works you're going to stick to it
let's go back to the Sleep part as we
get older we don't sleep as much I know
I don't
um with your dietary program the program
that you diet for uh the diets that you
give to certain people does that help
them sleep better yeah because you're
you're saturating the body with high
amounts of potassium in the foods and
potassium is a relaxer without potassium
you're going to be on edge people are
going to irritate you you're going to be
nervous you're going to be restless so
just that alone will help people sleep
mhm um let's go to Kelvin you're on the
air go ahead hey Glenn how you doing
good man Dr bures how you doing Dr ber
Dr Berg I'm sorry that's okay quick
question um I'm trying to uh get that
ever so sexy six-pack um what food and
exercises are good for losing body fat
and uh those fat burners like hydroxy
cut are there any good or will they
elevate uh your blood pressure and
things like that well I like to do it
through natural means rather than taking
some type of stimulant because the uh to
get the belly to get the stomach you
have to um handle the thing that's
causing and it's not really a lack of uh
abdominal muscles that's causing the
stomach it's actually a hormone called
cortisol that's too high it's a stress
hormone so you have to do things to
lower your stress level and that would
include sleeping the foods a certain
type of exercise for your body type
certain nutrients in the foods those are
the factors that I would focus on rather
than taking some some pill that it just
it doesn't seem to uh work long term
well first of all let me say you don't
like pills at all you don't like
anything foreign in the body you are a
purist uh you would rather go that way I
mean pure natural rather than like my
brother's a vegan vegetarian so he
anything that moves he doesn't eat it so
you know I mean so I mean that's just
the way he does it you know but you
would rather not do pills of any kind uh
other than uh cruciferous uh the stuff
that you made up well I was very sick at
one time about 12 years ago when I found
that I was tired so I would try to go
find some pill to wake me up and people
ask me what do I do for fatigue what
pill do I take but we tried to find out
why you're tired there's something wrong
in your body that's making you tired
rather than just trying to cover it up
MH Mary on the air go
ahead hi
Mary are you there from waldorth
Maryland yes and I'm going through a a
lot of problems now with weight gain and
uh menopausal hot flashes and and no
energy and tired and I just don't know
what to do I'm you know i' I'm
lost yeah there's a couple things that
uh even a even a hot flash for example
is a stress to the body and that alone
could raise cortisol which makes the
belly fat and prevents you from losing
weight so that would be something that
you might want to look at maybe some
dietary um um Quality high quality soy
products a small amount of soy products
now I'm not pro soy but there are
certain soy out there that are more like
Tempe or tofu or even a good high
quality soy milk small amounts will help
flat lashes that would be a simple
remedy uh but there's many other things
that you could do uh the soy from Beans
uh good bad and different uh you say a
little bit they a lot of the soybeans in
America are processed they're
genetically modified uh so they're
altered in a certain way I like the ones
that are more organic the ones that are
more natural that the ones that like for
Eastern company uh countries they don't
have soy Burgers they don't have soy hot
dogs uh they make everything out of soy
now how about labels are they believable
um well labels as far as uh when it
becomes when you
