hey guys I recently had some questions
about the summit what was the feedback
from the summit so I want to create a
little video to tell you what happened
okay so the first question people want
to know what was it like well it's
basically overwhelming I finally had a
chance to see who's on the other side of
my little camera because all day long
were videoing Jared and I in a room
there's no one else I'm looking at that
camera but I can't see you so I finally
had a chance to see who's at the other
end and I've never met that many cool
people in a room in my entire life with
500 people fly from all over the world
to come to this one event and I think
the the biggest thing that I noticed was
the quality of people were so incredible
people were just so appreciative the
success stories incredible the amount of
transformation the guy that was 600
pounds and now he's like to think is 230
or 240 he came out this lady came up to
us with this incredible poem I'm I
started crying or I Karen cried I didn't
cry but I mean just just touching
stories people that had PCOS polycystic
ovarian syndrome no longer has it
anymore people were infertile had kids I
mean it was just literally mind-blowing
at the stories and success and the
sharing the speakers were incredible
very diverse there's all different types
of people in the crowd so each specific
speaker kind of spoke to certain people
so that was really good is a wide range
of knowledge on cancer on brain
physiology and memory so I personally
covered three sections I did one on the
basics on keto NIF I covered one on
nutrition I also covered one on
troubleshooting every single possible
reason why someone would plateau so we
had Zach bitter there he talked about
endurance exercise and he's a keto guy
we had dr. Westman and his experience in
the clinic how he only uses keto as the
primary therapy doesn't use drugs
incredible then we had Jackie Eber Stein
was there she was dr. Atkins
nurse for many many years people loved
her she shared a lot of practical
information just filled with a wealth of
information so we had Dave Feldman was
there we talked about cholesterol but
because it was a very highly complex
subject we broke it down we did a whole
skit so we actually had people dressed
up in costumes and it was just hilarious
I'll put that up but we had kedo Connect
as part of that Logan's need was there
he does lean fusion so he acted out one
of the characters so we just had a blast
it was just it wasn't like a summit it
was like a class reunion there was not
no weird people there it was just a lot
of cool people sharing their experiences
it was really nice and wonderful to get
together with people that have the same
common reality so Karen my wife emceed
she was great one point I I wish I would
have mentioned you know there's one
thing about my wife that one quality
that I just love she loves helping
people she will help anyone I mean even
like the Friday before the event she
came in the house she was dripping wet
it was raining I said what happened to
you she goes oh I had to help some
people through their car I'm like what
do you mean she was at the grocery store
and here she is with her umbrella one by
one taking each person to their car I'm
like I would never do that like people
were like shocked like who would do that
so that's just a quality that I really
really like about her it's really cool
so the event was just an experience that
I will never forget it was awesome all
right next question will there be
another summit well we were not planning
on doing another summit just because the
amount of stress putting this on and the
preparation within three months it was
quite stressful so the last two weeks I
probably had a couple hours of sleep
each night so it was a lot of
preparation but you know what I think we
are going to do another summit so we'll
probably start preparing in January this
time and give us some more time
but most people want to come back so we
will have a summit in 2019 last question
will this event be available for others
to watch yes it is going to be
available for purchase we are editing it
right now and it's gonna take a couple
weeks one thing I'm going to be doing is
I'm gonna be going through each talk and
adding in a video glossary okay because
some of the talks use some big words and
I want to make sure that everyone
watching this gets the full
understanding of every single word in
every single topic so once that's done
it will be available very soon so if you
want to see some really cool pictures of
the event I put a link down below it's
on my website and you'll see a ton of
pictures that are uploaded on the event
and all the people that were there it
was exciting it was the largest keytool
event ever
and I just thoroughly enjoyed the people
and I really hope to see you at the next
quito health summit 2019 hey guys I want
to introduce you to my new doctor Berg
app it's right here it's I'm really
excited about it you need to download it
it's free has a lot of great data has
all my videos it's updated on a regular
basis I also have the audio version of
the videos audio episodes I also have a
mini course that you can take I also
have a button for new content so you can
really know of all the recent content
that I'm downloading and I also have
something called PDF resources which
gives you additional cool little
one-page PDF documents on all sorts of
health things so download it check it
out and tell me what you think about it
and don't forget to give me a review its
dr. Berg app
