if there was one food that can fix your
brain what would that food be go ahead
and put it in the comment section below
now there are a lot of foods that can
support the brain but out of those Foods
there are certain foods that are much
better than others based on the
nutrients in those Foods so today I'm
going to talk about the key nutrients
that support your brain and then what
foods would match that more than others
now when I'm talking about the brain I
want to mainly focus on cognitive
improvements okay I'd like to emphasize
improving attention your perception your
memory your ability to learn reason plan
problem solve make decisions and
multitask there's a huge connection
between what you eat and how your brain
operates and I think that even more than
nutrients the fuel that you run your
brain off is probably the most important
thing is your brain running off
primarily glucose or
ketones we'll talk more about that there
is a huge liability running your brain
off primarily glucose and there's
virtually no liabilities when you run
your body off ketones in fact your brain
will respond much better when you feed
it ketones now the first nutrient I want
to talk about is B1 thyine now what does
it do well in relationship to the brain
it's essential to act as a
co-enzyme in the production of energy
and I'm talking about ATP in your mital
condra which is the energy Factory of
your entire body but as far as your
brain goes B1 is very very very
important in fact without B1 your
neurons your nerve cells that make up
your brain cannot receive glucose in
fact if you look at someone with
Dementia or
Alzheimer's what's really going on is
their nerve cells are starving to death
okay and so even if you're on the
ketogenic diet a certain portion of your
brain will still need glucose but that
glucose can be made by your own body
through a process called gluconeogenesis
so you really don't need any additional
glucose to feed your brain but you
definitely need B1 to be able to utilize
that glucose or those cells will die so
out of all the nutrients that your brain
needs uh B1 is right up there at the
very top if you want look up more data
on this I put some videos down below um
but you just need to look up something
called berry berry and you'll you'll get
the whole picture of what what happens
but if you're deficient in B1 related to
the brain because there's a lot of other
connecting problems that can occur your
memory is going to suffer your ability
to focus and have attention on certain
things will be very limited you'll feel
agitated you'll be irritated depression
is a very common symptom that the B1
deficiency so if you have depression I
would highly recommend taking B1 and I
would also add in vitamin D3 those two
together will uh most likely pull you
out of that depression another symptom
would be something called latic acidosis
because you're not able to metabolize
glucose you get a lot of builtup of
lactic acid and uh that can show up in
restless leg syndrome and another
interesting symptom of a B1 deficiency
is autonomic nervous system dysfunction
so let's say if for example you stand up
and you get dizzy or you have a
condition called pots where it's a very
severe situation where you can't stand
up or else you feel very very
disoriented so B1 is essential for
getting the fuel to your brain now
there's also something called brain
derived
neurotrophic factor and that is like
Miracle Grow for your brain it allows
the neurogenesis or the formation of new
nerve cells and there's three things you
can do increase this compound and two of
them um go beyond just nutrition so one
is vitamin D3 vitamin D3 is so so
important for your brain and you
primarily need to get that from Sun you
can also get it from fatty fish like
salmon you can get it from cob liver oil
and I even did a video on how to uh make
your own Vitamin D supplements using
mushrooms sundried I'll put that link
down below but vitamin D is essential in
helping you generate new nerve cells
exercise is another really big factor
because it supplies a lot of blood flow
to the brain and then of course you have
fasting fasting hands down is probably
one of the best ways to trigger this
compound and it does a lot of wonderful
things for the brain and I did a whole
video on that I will put that video down
below as well and then we have zinc I
mean zinc is the most important Trace
mineral it's involved in more enzyme
Pathways than all of the other trace
minerals combined but as far as the
brain goes it's Vally important and
where do you get zinc well zinc is in
red meat it's in fish like salmon it's
in
shellfish it's in uh seelp and it's in a
lot of other foods but the primary
reason why people are not getting enough
zinc is not from the diet it's because
they're eating something that's
depleting zinc it's usually cereals or
grain products that are loaded with
phytic acid and of course sugar and
alcohol and other things will deplete
your zinc all right the next nutrient
that's really really important would be
something called DHA that is a type of
omega3 fatty acid and where do you think
you find that fatty fish like salmon as
you see I keep coming back to Salmon
which is a common thread through this
video but DHA is vitally important in
supporting the membranes around the
neurons and these membranes are made
from fat primarily DHA and so so we need
a lot of this unique fat to support the
brain and of course on the flip side of
that we don't need a lot of omega-6
fatty acids to support the brain so the
more omega-6 fatty acids you have as in
corn oil soy oil canola cotton seed oil
the less omega-3 fatty acids you're
going to get and so I think a really big
problem with a lot of people is they do
not consume enough omega3 fatty acids so
salmon um halib
tuna Civ oil sardines vital now the
other big connection to someone's
cognitive Improvement has to do with
their gut so I can't really talk about
improving cognitive function without
talking about your gut because there's a
huge connection between your gut and
your brain in fact a lot of the
microorganisms in your gut make
neurotransmitters and they also make B
vitamins okay as in vitamin B1 and the
other B vitamins that are essential
for cognitive function so when we're
talking about gut health I'm talking
about fermented foods okay sourkraut
would be one of them but there's also
kefir and kimchi and and fermented
vegetables and there's a lot of other
fermented foods and from different
cultures and of course the microbes also
live off fiber that's usually in these
fermented foods so there are a lot of
nutrients that support the brain but the
most important one would be B1 okay and
then you have D3 you have zinc and
omega-3 fatty acids okay now to reverse
engineer this we just need to know what
foods are high in B1 okay or what food
is high in B1 vitamin D3 omega-3 fatty
acids and zinc okay so the number one
food that I think is best for improving
your cognitive function is salmon
because it's loaded with B1 it has
vitamin D3 it has zinc it has omega-3
fatty acids and a lot of other nutrients
that are good for the the brain that I
didn't mention but again I'm not talking
about just having salmon you have to
have a lot of different foods and you
can get these nutrients from other foods
but salmon tends to have some really key
nutrients to support your brain and of
course I'm talking about wild CAU salmon
okay I'm not talking about uh farm
raised salmon and uh I highly recommend
consuming the skin on the salmon okay so
you can you can bake it bake the skin
and U it's actually quite delicious now
getting back to B1 there's some other
key uh foods that are very important to
supply B1 one would be nutritional yeast
you can put on your salad you can um
cook with it you can just take it as a
supplement but nutritional yeast not
only has B1 but it has um pretty much
all the B vitamins now the reason I like
nutritional yeast is because it is a
natural source unless you're getting the
Fortified nutritional yeast which I
don't recommend you need the unfortified
nutritional yeast and if you want a good
source for that I put that link down
below then we get uh sunflower seeds
they also have B1 now out of all the
meats and and meats including beef and
chicken have be one but out of all the
meats pork is at the top of the list now
I'm not telling you to consume pork I'm
just telling you that pork has more B1
than other meat
now we talked about the nutrients for
the brain now let's talk about the
things that
deplete nutrients in the brain
specifically B1 because it's not just a
matter of getting B1 from the DI it's a
matter of making sure that you don't
deplete your B1 which is probably more
the situation that people run into so
I'm going to list off these items that
will deplete B1 which affects your
cognitive function number one alcohol
especially if you're an alcoholic you're
going to be very deficient in B1 and
that's going to affect your cognitive
function art number two is sugar okay
refined sugar refined carbohydrates okay
which is a common problem uh tea because
of the tanic acid blocks B1 from being
absorbed so if you're a tea drinker you
better make sure you're taking B1 um
caffeine okay caffeine will definitely
deplete B1 so if you're a coffee drinker
and you drink a lot of coffee you might
think it's enhancing your cognitive
function well it may for about an hour
but if you drink a lot of it you'll find
your cognitive function decrease over
time also your ability to but your
attention will decrease and your ability
to learn if you're consuming too many
things with caffeine too much caffeine
actually lessens the blood flow to your
brain and then we get to the topic of
stress okay stress really can do a
number on your brain it can uh increase
glucose which will affect the brain and
it also just basically destroys the
brain if someone's under chronic stress
boid is that affect your cognitive
function big time but having enough B1
will protect you against this extra
stress so a high carb diet that turns
into the glucose that feeds your brain
cells at least temporarily needs a lot
of B1 and it depletes B1 so when you run
it a B1 now you can't use that fuel and
the ner nerves starve why because you
don't have enough B1 to metabolize the
glucose all right antibiotics can
deplete
B1 uh certain medications will deplete
B1 like metformin uh diuretics and
consuming chocolate okay so if you
consume a lot of chocolate and I'm
talking about the ketogenic version of
chocolate uh you could end up with a B1
deficiency there's a really good um
paper that I was I read on this topic
I'll share it down below but it talked
about starving your brain by overfeeding
it okay too many carbohydrates it's very
counterintuitive but that's what's
happening versus fasting okay so if you
think fasting is starving it's not in
fact your brain loves fasting once you
adapt to the ketogenic diet your body
starts to turn your fat into ketones and
your brain loves it so the most
important thing you can do for your
brain is is to switch to a healthy
ketogenic diet with periodic fasting
call that inited fasting that's the most
important thing the second most
important thing is to consume foods high
and B1 okay we've talked about that but
parallel with that you want to avoid the
things that will deplete B1 now I just
got a picture of like a a typical
college student right is's not getting
enough sleep who's using their brain a
lot who's probably eating a lot of car
carbohydrates like donuts in the morning
with their coffee maybe a cigarette and
maybe at night some alcohol going
through a massive amount of stress talk
about creating a B1 deficiency that
would do it in fact that was my story
and that's what this video is about my
history of how I ended up with a very
severe B1 deficiency so I have a lot of
um experience to tell you some of these
side effects now I think the next best
video to watch would be the one on
doing fasting for your brain check it
out I put it up right here
