hi guys it's me again someone had
another question about um should I
consume table salt or sea salt let's
just kind of cover that the basics of it
table salt only has two minerals sodium
chloride that's it sea salt has at least
84 minerals maybe more okay so there's a
lot more minerals which give you a lot
of other benefits um you could get uh
high blood pressure from table salt but
not from sea salt interesting sea salt
has 85% sodium chloride and 15% trace
minerals like selenium iodine Boron
malignum all those minerals which are
really important in nerve conduction
muscle contraction and even just
building proteins in general um now it
is true because they're uh salt um it
doesn't absorb as much as plant-based
trace minerals but you still get some
absorption it's definitely better than
table salt in fact I don't consume table
salt at all it also will help your pH
it's
antibacterial it helps mucus and uh
muscle cramps especially as you're
transitioning uh through this ketogenic
diet if you're doing that I highly
recommend some of it put it in your food
so then people want to know should I do
the Celtic Sea salt or the Himalayan sea
salt they're both very similar but the
Himalayan has more benefits uh for your
bone for your immune system so if you
have a choice go for the Himalayan sea
salt all right one last thing about
table salt uh they heat it
1200Â° f to process it and crystallize it
they have to put additives anti- caking
agents so stick with sea salt and you're
going to be fine hey if you haven't
already subscribed press this little
button down below okay thanks
