you know I I don't even know how to
respond to this but we just hit n
million subscribers on my YouTube
channel I'm just thankful I appreciate
so much all of you watching my videos
and the wonderful comments I read most
of your comments by the way
um I might not respond all of them
because there's many of them but I read
a tremendous amount of your comments I
just want to say thank you we finally
did it after all these years
it wasn't easy I started off I think in
2008 and it took me two or three or even
four years before I got up to 400
subscribers I remember at that time I
was so excited because I was like wow
400 people watching my videos or
subscribing this is amazing I mean I was
thinking about like in a room because I
normally when I do uh a seminar I have
like 20 people but when I think about 10
million it's very intimidating it's very
humbling and um just to give you a
little update on what I've been up to
um I've been doing a deep dive into DNA
and so I may either start another
YouTube channel specifically on DNA and
what all that means with the different
Gene problems that someone might have
and make it really simple or I may mesh
it in with my existing channel so that's
coming up there's just a lot of learning
in this area and to be able to explain
it simply you have to understand it so
and that takes quite a bit of time and
the other thing that I'm working on
which I'm very very excited I decided to
start to grow
my own ingredients or as many
ingredients as I can on my own farm that
way I can control the quality I can
control the micro biome and the soil the
health of the plant I'm going to video
the whole thing so it's going to be very
very exciting because talk about quality
and really the health of an herb or a
plant is really all about the microbes
in the soil so in reality that's we're
going to be focusing on mostly and from
that we'll do a lot of research we'll
have courses on gardening and growing
and things like that but I just wanted
to create this short video and just say
thank you from the bottom of my heart I
hope I am helping you and I'm going to
continue to do so and I really
appreciate your
attention I value your attention and
your time that you spend watching my
videos and I just wanted to say I
appreciate you and thank you so much
