hi guys I want to talk about why I love
kale so much this stuff right here this
is what it looks like right there and
hopefully at the end of this you'll love
it as well kale is very a very
interesting vegetable because a lot of
the other cruciferous are high in
oxalates okay when that turns into the
kidney stones but kale is very low in
oxalates believe it or not okay so it's
not going to contribute to kidney stone
and definitely not like spinach spinach
is like very high in oxalates okay it's
also unusually high in protein it has
all nine essential amino acids it has
all nine non-essential amino acids so
it's like an amazing source of protein
which is pretty cool it has more omega-3
than Omega 6 fatty acids I mean if you
think about like grains and beans and
seeds they're usually 40 to1 sometimes
6:1 Omega 6 to omega-3 rarely are they
ever high in omega-3 which are
anti-inflammatory so so another great
benefit um it's the king of carotenoids
those are the previtamin a complexes
vitamin A is essential for the eyes and
the skin and the immune system and uh
even though this has to be converted
into the active form we also need this
for other health benefits okay it's a
phytonutrient it's also part of the
vitamin it's it's like a previtamin a uh
vitamin C 80 milligrams per serving
that's pretty high um more calcium than
milk per calorie and it's a bioavailable
calcium okay so it's very
observable huge amounts of lutein lutein
is really good for the eye to prevent
macular degeneration it's good for
glucoma it's good for vision it's good
for restoring Vision uh eye eye damage
itself kale is also a Prebiotic so it
actually the fiber feeds your microbes
okay that's what they eat is the fiber
it also it's high in Sulfur so it can
detoxify at the genetic level so all the
chemicals that you're exposed to this
can help reverse some of that and I like
to do it in a kale shake like for lunch
today I had a kale salad now when I go
home I'll probably have a kale shake and
I will put a small amount of berries I
like blueberries and then I'll take kale
that's already Frozen it's organic I'm
going to put that in the blender fill it
up with water put a couple of berries
I'll usually put some other stuff I'll
put a little wheat grass in there I
might put nutritional weat yeast
sometimes I'll put beet tops and even
parsley and I'll blend it up really good
you got a good good blender and I I'll
drink it'll make two huge things like
that and I'll drink one I'll wait an
hour I'll drink the other one okay so
definitely add kale to your diet it's
going to really help you what's the next
part what am I going to say take five do
it and
where am I going with this hey if you're
enjoying my videos press the Subscribe
button below and I will keep you updated
on the future events thank you so much
