today we're going to talk about the most
powerful trigger of epigenetics now what
is epigenetics so epigenetics is those
factors that are outside of your genes
that affect your genes that turn them on
or turn them off it's called expressed
or silenced so epigenetics are the
controlling factor for what diseases
you're gonna get how long you're going
to live what's going to happen to your
health so it's not just about this
predestined gene that you're gonna have
to live with because your genes are a
certain way there's a whole other aspect
to this and that's called epigenetics so
there are certain things that influence
epigenetics your environment medication
drugs your diet your age so as you get
older you have more more DNA damage but
realize all these work together so you
also have do you die if you die it's
really good that can actually help slow
this down if you're taking too many
drugs and chemicals that can speed
things up then you have the stress level
of the person that can affect your
outcome and then we have nutritional
efficiencies which is a huge factor that
has the ability to mimic radiation as
far as damage to your DNA and exercise
is also an epigenetic factor but there's
actually something even bigger and more
powerful that can create a more dramatic
effect I don't know if you ever heard of
the term spontaneous remission where
someone has a disease and all of a
sudden it just goes away or they're HIV
positive and then all of a sudden
they're HIV negative or they had a tumor
and it shrank and just completely
disappeared and there's an interesting
book mind over medicine by Lisa Rankin
MD who talked about this I'm gonna put
the link down below and actually on this
page at the end but it's a fascinating
book about spontaneous remission and
also the placebo effect and why that
works in certain people and maybe not
other people quite fascinating and
there's a spontaneous remission project
which is a database of over 3,500
references 300 journals 20 different
languages documenting case after case of
unexplained spontaneous disease
remission where someone had a disease
they had no treatment and then it just
disappeared fascinating so we need to
add another one on this list so I'm
gonna have to put an 8 right here and
this would be your thoughts your beliefs
how much confidence you have on
something or your viewpoint or your
agreement on something and this is why a
lot of times if someone has cancer they
go the doctor this is you have exactly
four months to live and they die exactly
a four month so your mental state and
your thoughts are by far superior to all
of these right here and this also
explains why when someone's stressed
their outcome is not good in fact it's
almost impossible to heal if you're in a
stress state and of course because
thoughts are invisible you can't measure
it people tend to downplay it especially
within the medical profession but you
should check out this link that I put
down below and also check out this book
quite fascinating so anyway I wanted to
expand your viewpoint on epigenetics and
check out this video on this page
you
