hi guys Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about why people smoke
cigarettes okay well primarily because
they want to look cool right not
necessarily maybe that was the original
reason but there's some other reasons
why would someone want to smoke
cigarettes when it has
4,000 chemicals it has 42 known
carcinogens those are things that cause
cancer carbon monoxide fahid cyanide
arsenic DDT cadum Benzene fungicides why
would anyone smoke well primarily
because it creates relaxation
sharpness more alertness and calmness
okay so it's it's really the The
Addictive nicotine okay nicotine is a
very calming effect on the body it's a
vasodilator it relaxes the body so
nicotine is very very very addicting and
it creates these positive effects but it
comes with a package of all these
harmful things right here it's
interesting if you were to take the
nicotine patch or take consume nicotine
it does not cause cancer it doesn't it's
these chemicals that cause cancer so
yeah the patch The Vapor um cigarette is
way way better okay now the way that
nicotine works is that it stimulates
part of the nervous system called the
parasympathetic nervous system and I
want to talk about that you have two
parts the nervous system well actually
there's three but there's really two
we're going to talk about the
sympathetic nervous system that's the
flight or fight that's the stress mode
and then you have the parasympathetic
and that's more rest and digest okay
flight or fight rest and digest so it's
a calming relaxing nervous system that
also you know just chills you out and
helps you focus too um so the parasitic
nervous system is stimulated by nicotine
the problem is nicotine is very very
very addictive um so when someone stops
taking nicotine what happens is you have
all sorts of things that happen with the
parastic nervous system that thing shuts
down you no longer feel relaxed you no
longer feel sharp you feel irritated go
through all sorts of withdrawals for
about two weeks um or longer so my
suggestion now that you understand what
we're doing here is at least switch to
the pth or the vapor cigarette okay
that's number one number two to
eventually come off nicotine because
even though it's it doesn't have any
effects of causing cancer it's just
highly addictive and it can wear out the
adrenals and this system over a period
of time okay because you need more and
more it's like a drug um there are
several things that you can do to to
create this effect by stimulating the
parasympathetic nervous system okay one
is uh taking adaptogens those are like
ashwaganda certain herbs that actually
calm the nervous system down and
actually trigger the
parasympathetics potassium is also the
mineral that improves the
parasympathetic because it's calming
that's why it helps you sleep black tea
Believe It or Not helps stimulate the
parasympathetic also green tea as well
but you're going to have to have it
decaffeinated uh B1 vitamin B1 also
improves the parasympathetic nervous
system interesting
and walking as far as an exercise like
calm lots of oxygen low stress exercise
uh or yoga would be really good to
trigger this system all right so I just
wanted to kind of give you a background
of why people really smoke they're
trying to get some relief with stress
but why not just improve this another
way okay without this stuff right here
because it comes with a package all
right put your comments below and let me
know what you
think
