hey it's me again in this video we're
going to talk about kidney stones if
you've ever had a kidney stone they can
be extremely painful I personally had a
kidney stone at one time I thought I was
dying I lost my sense of humor I forgot
who I am I mean it was it was torture
because it was an intin internal pain it
happened in the middle of the night I
told my wife to drive me to the hospital
um it was just unbearable so I could
barely walk and um so
and then I realized I said you know what
um I can do acupressure on this and I
did the acupressure and the stone just
kind of popped right out um so kidney
stones uh come from an imbalance with uh
calcium called calcium oxalate Stones
there's different types of stones but
there's a couple reasons why people get
kidney stones personally myself I always
experiment with different detoxes and I
actually did um a detox and it dislodged
all sorts of things from my liver and
then the next couple days boom I got a
stone so uh it released something um but
here's the thing if your pH is a bit too
alkaline uh you'll tend to develop more
stones or soft tissue calcium but this
calcium doesn't just build up in the
kidney it can build up uh all over the
place in the joints as arthritis btis
tontis and the I ex cataracts um and the
arteries is plaing so the pH controls
calcium
uh that's one aspect and also low
vitamin D levels or low vitamin K2 U
levels these are fat Cy of vitamins that
transport calcium so if you're low on
the fat Cy of vitamins because you don't
consume any omega-3 fatty acids or fish
oils that have these in them or K2 is
the new one that's coming out there then
calcium won't be transported that well
especially if you're taking calcium um
so that's why you would need to take
those the wor calcium to take is calcium
carbonate that's Limestone uh a lot of
people get kidney stones from taking
that a lot of the anti- acids are made
with calcium carbonate too and um so
when the stomach acid is too low um
people get acid reflux and I did a whole
video on that and
so what happens is the lower bow acids
come up to the stomach and recruit so
acid reflex is really a situation where
you have low stomach acid and that means
your pH isn't acid enough to handle
calcium so calcium doesn't transport
well on top of that people take calcium
carbonate and other anti acids and oh my
gosh that calcium just plugs everything
up you get kidney stones that's one of
the side effects or if you go on a lows
salt diet Salt and calcium do compete a
bit and if you don't have enough salt
the calcium could also block stuff as
well one of the best uh things to
protect you against kidney stones on an
natural aspect is lemon juice if you
take lemons actual lemons or a lemon uh
uh juice and you put that in your water
every time you drink water that will
protect the kidney stones from
developing as a preventative thing and
also like the apple cider vinegar in
with it so in my book I I talk about the
cranberry drink that's really really
good to help clean out uh any buildup of
excess calcium in the soft tissues so
those some tips on on kidney stones and
the other thing too if you have to get a
kidney
stone uh and you press over your kidney
to try to milk it and push it downward
on the left and right side uh it can
give you a lot of relief sometimes the
kidneys just go right through that
little tube um right through there right
into your bladder and then they can come
out a lot easier um so it's something
you might want to try if you happen to
be in a situation where you need to you
have you need some relief acupressure to
the kidney it really will help uh give
you relief for kidney stones I'll see
you in the next video
