hey guys in this video we're gonna talk
about iron deficient anemia okay what is
anemia
it's basically either decreased red
blood cells or decreased hemoglobin
because iron is the mineral that's in
the center of this molecule okay or
decrease ability to carry oxygen all
right some of the symptoms are you're
tired you crave chewing ice you're weak
shortness of breath and in advanced
cases you start looking pale okay
some of the causes blood loss
menstruation ulcers parasites trauma
fibroid could do it cancer colon cancer
infection like malaria it could be
genetic but this is what I want to talk
about here it's decrease absorption of
iron so let's say for example you're
consuming foods with iron but it's not
absorbing this is very very common the
number one cause is this right here low
stomach acids so many people are
deficient in hydrochloric acid in their
stomach and we don't have enough acid
you are going to have problems like Girt
you're gonna have heartburn acid reflux
why because it takes a very strong acid
to keep the valve closed at the top of
the stomach if you don't have the strong
acid the this the acid comes up through
up into the esophagus so you get a
reflux situation and as you get older
you lose your stomach acids so apple
cider vinegar very very very very
important with the meal and that will
really help the absorption of iron now
if you're taking any acids that's really
going to wipe out your stomach acids and
you're really not going to absorb iron
so why are you taking anti acids we'll
have to get rid of the heartburn which
is caused by not enough acid because the
babylon clothes so it's a whole cycle
because so ni acids work until the next
time you eat then you have to keep
taking them ox 'lets okay but it's a
compound in things like spinach and
Swiss chard which basically bind to the
iron and it blocks the iron in those two
foods from from you
using them about a hundred percent of
the iron is locked up with oxalates and
spinach and Swiss chard and don't forget
if you're consuming spinach and Swiss
chard make sure you add lemon to prevent
the oxalate stones because you're also
blocking other minerals too like calcium
magnesium and zinc okay so if I toke
acid what's that if someone's doing a
lot of grains it has a lot of phytic
acid in there and that is also going to
prevent the absorption of iron zinc and
other minerals okay
gastric bypass you don't have the
surface layer so you can't absorb
minerals as much as you did before GI
problems IBS Crohn's silly act these are
all problems mainly with the small
intestine and guess where you absorb
iron right in the small intestine so
that's another common cause okay in
which case I put a video down below of
what to do for this to help heal this so
if you're deficient from the diet here's
the foods that are very high in iron
clams oysters meets egg liver octopus
which by the way I love octopus
spirulina
is loaded with iron so these are some
things that you can consume more of to
get more iron alright thanks for
watching hey I appreciate your attention
and if you're enjoying these videos go
ahead and subscribe and I will
definitely keep you updated on future
events live events and webinars that
we're going to do very soon
