hey guys dr. berg here in this video I want to show you how to regrow your
brain with intermittent fasting do you need more brain cells we'll check this
out intermittent fasting is one of the most
powerful things to trigger neurogenesis which is the production of new neurons
or new brain cells in a bit of fasting triggers something called the brain
derived neurotrophic factor it's like a natural antidepressant it has
anti-anxiety properties it will help increase your productivity and your
memory it also helps the retention of existing neurons so it makes new neurons
and it it preserves the ones that you have and it's triggered by several
things but intermittent fasting is the most powerful thing if you don't know
about intermittent fasting you need to try it I'm going to put some links down
below of how to do it but there's other things that will trigger this natural
compound as well lowering your sugar doing a ketogenic diet taking niacin
that's vitamin b3 doing high-intensity interval training will also increase
this as well vitamin D and DHA so if you show signs of Parkinson's or Alzheimer's
or you have a mood disorder or your memory isn't sharp as it was you
definitely need to check this out I'll put some links down below and give me
your feedback hi guys hey listen I created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you report
