today I want to talk about the best
remedy for dry wrinkled hands as well as
skin in general well I recently found
some updated information on this that I
want to share with you that I think
you'll be quite excited about people use
these moisturizers and they keep putting
them on their hands and their face and
of course the next day the effect is
gone they have to keep doing it over and
over and over if you look at the labels
and read the ingredients in most of
these moisturizers they nearly all have
alcohol alcohol dries and dehydrates
your skin and I don't think people
realize that when they put lotion into
the hands or on their face it gets
absorbed it goes into the bloodstream
and then it ends up in your liver there
are a lot of different things you can
use that are natural vitamin E you can
use uh various like coconut oil you can
use Tallow but what I want to talk about
today is something a little different
it's called hyaluronic acid a lot of
yourselves if not all of yourselves make
this very specific a compound and
hyaluronic acid is not just in your skin
it's in your joints it helps hold a
thousand times its weight in water now
as far as it relating to your skin if
you kind of Envision having this body
size wet suit that's what it look like
it's a very thin layer and it's in the
Deep layer of your skin it keeps your
skin looking youthful it's also involved
in wound repair and also repair after
sunburn it actually increases if you
have enough vitamin A and this could be
why when someone's deficient in vitamin
A they get like dry eyes for example or
even dry skin but even the fluid inside
your eye has a lot of hyaluronic acid so
what people don't realize is as they age
especially when they start to get 40 45
50 years old it starts to go down and
down and down and down to the point
where you're 80 years old you've lost
80% of your hyaluronic acid I don't know
if you've ever heard of the disease
called Progeria kids with progeria lose
20 times as much hyaluronic acid as
someone who doesn't have that disease so
you can see in this image of someone
with a young youthful skin then if you
compare that to someone that has older
skin you can see it kind of is wrinkled
and it's it's missing something
hyaluronic acid now there are certain
clinics you can go to to get this
substance injected into the skin people
apply it topically some people take it
orally that's what I'm going to talk
about today some people will tell you
that it cannot be absorbed if you
consume it that's absolutely not true
you don't absorb a lot of it but you do
absorb some of it like 2.5% of it and
that can be just enough to replace what
you're losing as you age now Connie
Chong did this whole show on hyaluronic
acid and She interviewed people in Japan
because in a certain Village you have
had 100-year-old people that were still
working and apparently it was attributed
to a certain root that they were
consuming that was very high in
hyaluronic acid let's say you're 45
years old you might have between like 14
to 15 grams of this hyaluronic acid in
your body by the time you reach 80 years
old you might only have like 3.6 G So
based on that data it might be a good
idea to start taking it as a supplement
now one thing I would caution you on you
don't want to do what a friend of mine
did he had this idea that he was going
to take high doses okay so he took I
think it was like three or
4,000 milligrams of this stuff per day
you don't want to do that because it
swells up in your body remember it holds
water right so we took way too much and
he started having some serious problems
and he B basically found he had to drink
actually straight Brandy to help
dissolve some of this gel that was
plugging everything up and so he did
survive and there's a there's more to
that story which I'll leave in another
video but you just want to take smaller
amounts of it so typically an average
person would want to take you know 200
milligrams per day but also what I'm
going to recommend is to get it
topically but make sure you get the one
that does not have alcohol and and what
you do is you wet your hands okay and
then you put a couple drops in your
hands rub it together and just rub it
throughout your hands and do that like
once or twice a day I'd also recommend
that you just put a little tiny water in
your hand put a couple more drops rub it
into your hands and rub it through your
face as well to help with hydration the
other important thing that I always
emphasize is that you really need to
work on creating internal health
starting with uh the basic eating right
it has to be good foods nutrient-dense
and so in other words I'm recommending
the healthy version of the ketogenic
diet to make sure that you're covering
all basis so for that information you
should watch this video right here check
it out
