hey Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about the most common
cause of disease what I believe is the
real underlying root issue and yes you
guessed it it's sugar but let me just
explain the mechanism what occurs in the
body the average person in the US
consumes 140 lbs of sugar in their diet
every single year but that doesn't even
count the hidden sugars from the breads
pasta cereal crackers biscuit w
wine alcohol baby food it's in
everything um I mean that's just
outrageous so what happens is all that
Sugar gets into your bloodstream and
then there's a um hormone called insulin
and what it does is it basically just
pulls the sugar out of the blood and
insulin is made by a gland called the
pancreas now the pancreas has these
little cells called beta cells right
beta cells are the cell that makes the
insulin that lowers the sugar that gets
the sugar out um because your too much
sugar is deadly our bodies were never
designed to consume that much
concentrated sugar I I had a patient
come in the other day she's consuming
two liters of juice a day at another
patient consuming a sixpack of soda
every single day not every single week
and they're not even 8 O they're
actually 12 O there's 6 12 O sodas a day
I don't know how she's alive that is our
bodies just are not designed to consume
that much jet fuel and what happens is
it really puts stress on this cell this
beta cell here because it's constantly
like pumping out tons and tons and tons
of insulin so over time what happens is
that the um the receptor that's supposed
to kind of take in the insulin so
receptor is not receiving it actually
starts
become very resistant of insulin so what
what happens with the sugar is it all
occurs in the liver so there's a lot of
um insulin sugar metabolism in the liver
and so it goes in the liver it locks
into the liver through the receptor and
it's supposed to create a certain effect
like lowering of sugar right well what
happens you eventually end up with
something called Diabetes Type 2 which
is a lesser problem than type one type
one is more serious typee two is less
serious but it's still considered
disease so diabetes type two is simply
too much it's a high sugar situation
it's too much sugar in the blood so they
label you as uh Diabetes Type 2 now what
happens really is your body is simply
trying to reject this insulin by causing
the receptor to stop receiving insulin
okay so that's what Diabetes Type 2 it's
really a receptor problem in the liver
it's rejecting insulin it's saying I
don't want enough I had enough it's like
if you have people talk to you too much
and you close yours it's like talk to
the hand don't talk to me anymore that's
what's really happening and so what
happens now the insul sugar goes up and
that's very dangerous because you can
have um a coma you can have all sorts of
um mental cognitive issues you're going
to be irritable you're going to be tired
you're going to have nerve problems and
vision problems and there's a lot of
side effects so you're going to belly
fat cholesterol high blood pressure goes
right down the list okay so that's
pretty much what happens at this level
all right so now they're labeled as
Diabetes Type 2 by the doctor and then
they're treated by either metformin or
glucophage which are the same thing
metformin is comes
from a an herb called goats R but you
can't patent goats r so they basically
synthesize it synthetically and then
they basically me uh they actually
created
metformin what metformin does is all it
does is it makes this receptor receive
the insulin better so basically what it
does is it makes this connect better
that's all it does but it's it's kind of
forcing your body to connect when it
shouldn't and that's the problem that's
why it gives side effects so if people
take too much metformin they can get a
condition called lactic
acidosis that's a fancy word for you're
getting too much acid in your blood and
you're depring your depleting your
oxygen so if you can Envision working
out really hard and your muscles get
full of lactic acid and you can't you
can't breathe anymore because you're out
of breath and you're huffing and puffing
and that's the same thing lactic
acidosis occurs in the blood so you
decrease oxygen and you're going to have
all sorts of uh hyperventilation and
breathing problems that's one of the
side effects of metformin and there's
another side effect called liver failure
and kidney failure so these things don't
come without side effects right now
what's very very very sad is there's not
this connection between what you put in
your body and your
diet and the correction of this issue
instead it's the labeling and the treat
the management of the symptom over time
it's not very profitable to make this
link and to actually have the person
stop eating all the sugar it's much more
profitable to manage the symptom and
continue the diet I would say nine out
of 10 patients coming in um have not
been changing their diet the doctor
didn't really talk about diet change um
other than portion control now if you
look at the American di U Diabetes
Association I think it's called
diabetes.org uh they have the I think
it's the seven myths of diabetes and
this is like almost comical they said
myth number one sugar uh caused diabetes
they said that's a myth all right they
said it's a myth that starches will
cause diabetes and it goes on on to
listen you can go ahead and um read it
it's ridiculous and uh the problem is
that they're they're
um they're assigning cause to obesity
like obesity is causing this diabetes as
the culprit and what they're telling you
is genetic or there's environmental
factors and obesity is a risk factor
it's linked to obesity so there's really
no cause effect it's mainly
there's risk factors it's genetic we
don't really know yet it's the cause is
unknown we don't understand
this so uh unfortunately the uh the uh
American uh Diabetes Association is
funded it was in the past I don't know
if it's still being funded $ 23 million
by the pharmaceutical companies and the
food manufacturing companies so we know
that that credibility has been lost just
from that funding link but the point is
that um this whole link here is ignored
and they'll pretty much tell you that we
do recommend you reduce some of the
juices that you consume but not for the
sake of the insulin problem or the sugar
problem but because of portion control
because their whole thing is to lower
the calories so you see the confusion
what they're doing I mean it's so so
classic so if you have diabetes if you
want to prevent diabetes if you have
family family that you care about and
friends you care about please show them
this video teach them these simple
Concepts but this is the underlying
source of diabetes and then eventually
it wears out and goes into type 1
diabetes in which basically they have to
be injected by insulin and if we come
back over here to the pancreas type one
is basically ex complete exhaustion and
breakdown of the beta cell and so now
you don't produce any insulin anymore
okay um
so that's pretty much the Simplicity of
the most common cause of disease and um
got to get the junk out of the trunk get
the sugar out of the trunk and
definitely um you know spread the word
this is Dr Berg I hope this helped
