hey Dr Burg here in this video we're
going to talk about a myth that you
probably heard that if you eat yeast
you're going to get yeast or people tend
to avoid uh eating mushrooms because
they have toenail fungus or they're
going to avoid consuming um apple cider
vinegar or vinegar because they think
they're going to get a yeast infection
from that that is a myth there is such a
thing as a good yeast and a bad yeast
and even if we take candida for example
candida can be totally harmless in the
body and if there's a shift in um
unfriendly yeast coming in the body that
can turn against you and create problems
so there's a lot of microbes that are
even kind of neutral and they can go
either side depending on the
environment um kefir for example is a
type of a sour yogurt it's a fermented
um um Dairy that is really the only
thing that I know that will help get rid
of uh certain types of candida stuff so
you have to actually consume the good
yeast to destroy the bad yeast because
they're both competitive uh and you get
kefir at the health the store make sure
that you don't get the flavored kefir or
the flavored yogurts get the actual
plane and the other thing too it's
difficult to find you try to find yogurt
and it's all nonfat it's all low fat
it's all 1% you need the whole milk
yogurt and kefir that is way way better
grass-fed is even better but um yeah
that fat is very very very beneficial to
your body um so there's over 400
different types of microbes in the body
you have friendly bacteria friendly
yeast friendly fungus all those
microbes um help protect you against the
unfriendly fungus or unfriendly yeast so
if you have fungus growing on your skin
or your toenails we know um that you
don't have some good fungus inside your
gut to be able to counter that so and I
use Liquid U alive probiotic Flora it's
a liquid probiotic that I take on a
regular basis just to counteract that
it's a really good way to get friendly
yeast and friendly uh bacteria so
fermented foods do not worsen the
situation and I know there's might even
a book out called the Candida diet it's
filled with false information it's not
true you these foods are very very
beneficial uh so so fermented foods
would be like sauerkraut uh kimchi um
apple cider vinegar
um um yogurt kefir those are really good
for your digestive system fermented
foods are foods that are enhanced
nutritionally they're foods that are
easier to break down because they have
certain things in them like lactic acid
which our bodies really need um so
they're very very easy on your system um
there over a 100 trillion different
microbes um living on your body and you
only have um I'm sorry there's a,
trillion I got to I have to add a zero
to that uh a thousand trillion microbes
living on your body and you have 100
trillion cells so these
microbes are by a factor of 10 times
more than we actually have cells so
they're living outside your body they're
living in the the inside of your body in
your mouth and your esophagus they align
everything uh and so don't be afraid of
consuming yeast like nutritional yeast
for example or kefir or fermented foods
because it could be very beneficial on
the unfriendly
side all right so hope that helped I
will see you in the next one
