hey Dr Burg here we have another uh
success I just wanted to ask you um how
do you like the U the eating plan so far
oh it's fantastic it's uh very easy to
follow um and instantly feel better I'm
on day five of working with you and I'm
off a caffeine and I was drinking nine
nine cans of di Coke a day nine
cans and um uh I just have an incredible
amount of energy but the uh you going to
the grocery store it's easy to uh
purchase the fruits and vegetables um it
makes entire sense when you're reading
your book and uh it's it is truly an
easy plan to follow great so were you
kind of surprised that you would feel
this different on the eating plan uh
completely I'm I'm I eat a lot of food
in general and um I'm amazed at how
satisfied I am uh the lack of Cravings
that I've had and um the energy level is
just mindboggling and the U the ability
to not be re tired during the day it's
fantastic wow and what about your
cravings for like the diet sodas do you
missed the diet sodas or what's
happening with that I don't have a
craving I missed the idea of a soda but
I don't miss that but I've I've
substituted that with kuch kombucha yeah
Kombucha Tea right which has been
fantastic than water and to your point
in the book where drink when you want to
drink not drink eight glasses a day my
body tells me when I when I want to
drink now so it's versus before I was
just popping sodas one after another
just to maintain an energy level I don't
have that I don't have that need anymore
wow what about that used to be a meat
eater right I'm sorry a meat eater a
meat yes uh I'm having a little bit of
protein as you as you said and uh the
the minimal amount of protein is is
unbelievable I I I used to be on a very
high protein diet and um you know after
dinner after a steak dinner I'd have
cheese to uh satisfy or have a have a
bar of some sort and um I no longer have
those those urges so it's if I do have
an urges for an apple now and it
satisfies me dramatically
wow so do you find that um that you
could incorporate this as maybe a
lifestyle change um and
also do you think for just by letting
anyone else know that you know going on
a diet do you consider this a diet how
how would you describe this um I I
really this as a lifestyle change and um
as part of my you know my future outlook
you know in five days if I feel this
good wow what could you know what's 10
what's 15 what's what's a month two
months going to be like so I'm looking
forward seeing that so I look at this as
a lifestyle it's not a diet that's great
yeah because we're not telling you the
cut calories right no I'm I'm eating uh
the same amount you know a large amount
of of fruits and vegetables and uh again
with a a small amount of protein and
it's been fantastic wow thanks thank you
you're
welcome clst it again yeah
