let's talk about the seven foods that
destroy your kidneys your kidneys are
simply amazing each kidney has about a
million little tiny filters they're
called nephrons and they have the
ability to selectively get rid of
certain bad stuff and retain certain
good things and with the 2 million
nephrons you have you filter out 50
gallons of blood every single day and so
these kidneys recycle 99% of all of your
blood so only a little bit is released
and one of the big problems with your
kidney is high blood pressure because if
you have chronic high blood pressure
that can really destroy those little
tiny filters another thing that's even
more destructive than blood pressure to
your kidneys is high levels of sugar as
in diabetes so all the sugar that's in
your blood has to go through these
little tiny filters and then what
happens when it interacts with the
filters is it makes those little filters
smaller so now it can't filter so now
you're going to be losing sugar and
losing protein in the urine a couple
simple ways to determine if there is a
damage to the kidney is number one do
you have sugar in the urine and number
two do you have protein in the urine
because if you do that can mean kidney
damage and also the color of your urine
is important too because when the
kidneys stop filtering the color of the
urine is no longer kind of an Amber
yellow it can get darker and it can turn
actually a lot of different colors but
one of the most important things the
kidney does is activate vitamin D and if
there's damage with the kidney you're
not going to be able to activate vitamin
D and that could be one reason why
people are very very deficient so we
need strong healthy kidneys to get rid
of waste and to even retain nutrients
all right let's start with food number
one instant noodles like Ramen noodles
so it is true that these noodles are
loaded with sodium but there's something
more damaging about these noodles it's
actually a preservative it's called
tbhq this preservative is very toxic to
the kidney it can actually cause the
kidneys to work harder where you
actually enlarge your kidney and it also
has the ability in some cases to produce
cancer in your kidneys now I just want
to bring up sodium for a second because
sodium definitely is a problem with
blood pressure when you go to the doctor
they might say that you're salt
sensitive so you have to reduce your
sodium but the question is do we really
need to reduce sodium or do we need to
increase pottassium which is more
protective because there's just as many
problems with too much sodium as there
is with a deficiency of sodium there's a
condition where a person is drinking a
lot of water but not consuming enough
salt and that's called
hyponatremia with that condition you can
even create fluid retention in your body
which puts a lot of strain on the kidney
and also just drinking more water puts a
big strain on the kidney getting rid of
all this extra fluid so when people
think oh yeah what's good for the kidney
oh drink a lot of water not necessarily
you want to drink when you're thirsty
but forc yourself to drink tons of water
without the electrolytes could create
problems in the kidneys and anytime you
consume salt always consume sea salt all
right number two Skittles or things like
this and I'm talking about things that
contain a lot of food dyes these
artificial dyes are very hard on the
kidney the kidney has to get rid of them
now also realize at first the kidney is
going to recycle a all that dye and it's
going to kind of go through your
bloodstream over and over and over again
you don't want artificial dyes going
through your body like that all right
next thing is fried chicken I'm talking
about the fried chicken that you would
get at a fast food restaurant you put in
seed oils at very high Heats so anytime
you heat a protein with a carbohydrate
as in all that flour breading you get
something called glycation let me
explain what glycation is here's some
protein here's a carbohydrate and they
get connected and they bind under high
Heats so now this sugar molecule is
stuck to the protein now this protein in
your body can't work anymore that's what
glycation is so let's say for example
you took a test for diabetes called A1C
what they're measuring is the amount of
glucose that's stuck to the protein your
hemoglobin your protein your blood and
it's making that no longer available to
do its job so if you have higher amounts
of A1C you have higher amounts of sugar
that's connected to your protein to the
point where you start getting all sorts
of complications from diabetes okay
where things don't work because when the
glucose gets stuck to the hemoglobin or
the protein or any protein in your body
it clogs everything up especially in the
kidneys and so when you consume
something that's fried what you're going
to get is this junk that just clogs
everything up the next one is commercial
bread now the expiration on this was mid
July right now it's September and look
it it's it's not even going bad it's
still soft how can that be because it
has preservatives and it also has
something called potassium bromate
pottassium bromate is really harmful on
the kidneys in fact it's banned in a lot
of countries except the US and I think
Japan and apparently it's carcinogenic
in our bodies especially with kidney
cancer the next one is soda okay what's
in the soda that's harmful for the
kidneys phosphoric acid okay phosphoric
acid is destructive on the kidneys not
just from the phosphoric acid but from
the added sugar as well and by the way
the number one cause of kidney damage is
diabetes Now what's diabetes diabetes
means the person has too much sugar in
the blood well isn't there some sugar in
here yes there is and then also why do
they put the phosphoric acid in there
well number one it's cheaper than other
types of acid like citric acid it can
act as a preservative it helps retain
the carbonation and it's an overall
flavor enhancer all right number six is
aave syrup agave syrup has been known to
be even keto friendly which it's totally
bogus because 80% of agave syrup is
fructose even high fructose corn syrup
is like 55% fructose Agave is 80 even in
some reports 90% fructose and yes
fructose is low in the glycemic index
but all the fructose is metabolized
different in the body body it goes to
the liver and it overloads the liver
with a lot of stress so why is that so
damaging because the metabolism of
fructose is similar to alcohol and it
also creates a lot of problems with
insulin resistance which is the
precursor to pre-diabetes and then
diabetes and since diabetes is the
number one cause of chronic kidney
disease then agava Nector is right up
there at the very top level of
irritating the kidney all right last one
cereals even instant cereals why not
just because of the the seed oils and
the refined sugars and the refined
starches but glyphosate it's not going
to be listed as one of the ingredients
because legally they don't have to put
it on the label but they can volunteer
using a different name bioengineered
ingredients okay you might see that that
means glyphosate now in certain parts of
the world where they use a lot of
glyphosate in agriculture the workers
who work the fields have a much higher
risk of chronic kidney disease because
of the heavy exposure to this glyphosate
the other thing to know is that anything
gml like soy corn cotton seed is going
to have glyphosate on it but also things
that are not gml like oats and wheat
because they use glyphosate to dry out
these grains during the processing of
them and so even though it's not GMO
they're still using them so we talked
about all the foods to avoid okay but
now the question is what to eat to
improve kidney function and for that
information you should watch this video
right here
