I'd like to discuss the common mistakes
people make when they're taking vitamin
D vitamin D is the most important
vitamin because it's involved in over
10% of all of our genetics it's a fat
cable vitamin which means that it
absorbs better when you consume it with
fat whether it's MCT oil or olive oil or
something like that the absolute most
important thing to know about vitamin D
is that it won't work unless you have
enough magnesium thing about magnesium
it's the second most important nutrient
because it's involved with 300 different
enzymes magnesium regulates excess
amount of calcium that builds up in your
arteries you don't want to just take any
old magnesium because the one called
magnesium oxide you do not want to take
that it only absorbs like 3 to 4% and
you're going to get diarrhea usually if
you take more than that a better one
would be magnesium glycinate you take
that in the evening it'll help you sleep
you get like an 80% absorption if you
take magnesium citrate okay that's fine
too the other side I want to mention
about magnesium is that the more vitamin
D that you take the more magnesium is
going to be required some people that
take vitamin D they react they get a
symptom from it whether it's uh nausea
heart palpitations muscle cramp
sometimes it's a headache realize that's
probably just a magnesium deficiency
because the more vitamin D you take
without magnesium the more magnesium
your body's going to have to pull from
the reserves and if you're already
deficient you're going to be really def
efficient now thereby giving you more
symptoms which might happen more in the
early morning when you wake up because
that's when you have the lowest amount
of magnesium in the body other mistake
that people make with vitamin D is they
don't take it with vitamin K2 vitamin K2
is another Co Factor very very important
because think about it vitamin D helps
you absorb calcium in the blood right
well K2 takes that calcium in the blood
drives it into the bone and your teeth
it keeps the calcium out of the soft
tissues what type of K2 do we need the
mk7 version is really good if you have a
lot of calcium build up in your arteries
and it's also really good for cancer
believe it or not and the amount that I
would recommend would be a 100
micrograms for every 10,000 I use of
vitamin D3 next point is another
co-actor zinc and one of things it does
is it helps you convert cholesterol into
Vitamin D I would recommend if you're
taking 10,000 IUS of vitamin D3 to take
like 20 milligrams of zinc zinc does a
lot in fact it's a co-actor for all sex
hormones next point I want to bring up
is the mistake of not taking enough
vitamin D3 if you take the typical
recommended amount which is between 600
to 800 iuse it's not going to do
anything you need daily vitamin D3 of at
least 6,000 to 8,000 to 10,000 I use
every single day and that data is not
really understood by some of these
researchers and so when they do studies
they might give the people in the study
uh vitamin D once a week or once a month
or even once a year you're not going to
see a lot of great results with that on
top of the fact that they don't like to
publish positive things about vitamin D
that are literally free you can get from
the Sun Dr Michael hollik one of the
Pioneers in vitamin D research
recommends 10,000 IUS every single day
and he talks about this you're not going
to get any toxic effects from that Dr
Bruce Hollis also personally takes
10,000 IUS of vitamin D3 every single
day a big part of the medical profession
scares people about taking too much
vitamin D3 they talk about the Toxic
effect all it takes is a little fear
like that to make someone hesitant but
if you look at the actual data and I've
done a serious dive into this uh topic
you would have to take hundreds of
thousands of vitamin D3 every single day
for months to develop a Toxic effect the
point is that when we're talking about
just 10,000 I use or even up to 50,000 I
use and you're taking also the co-actors
Magnesium K2 the zinc all three protect
against the toxicity because it helps
control calcium and just as a side note
on that if you're taking high doses of
vitamin D3 and you're drinking the water
and you're taking the co-actors one more
thing you could do you could actually
just avoid uh taking calcium supplements
and also foods that are high in calcium
like Dairy these are are all just
precautionary things um if someone needs
to take high doses of vitamin D3 now
when I'm talking about high doses I'm
really talking about maybe doses over 30
40 50,000 IUS up to 100,000 iuse per day
now make note of this I didn't say toxic
doses okay I said high amounts there's a
big difference and of course I'm just
giving you data to research I'm not
telling you to do it check with your
doctor before implementing any of the
things I am mentioning another mistake
that people make with vitamin D is
taking vitamin D2 vitamin D2 does not
even come close to working like vitamin
D3 you're going to need a lot more of D2
to achieve the effects of D3 the other
important thing to do is to actually get
a vitamin D test and when you get a test
make sure you take your last vitamin D
like 3 days before the test so that way
we can get a more of an accurate blood
level of vitamin D3 the vitamin D in the
blood is not the active form so in other
words you could have this so-called
normal vitamin D level and be extremely
deficient in the active form of vitamin
D deep into the cells other points about
vitamin D if you're on statins if you're
on steroids both of those things are
going to inhibit your ability to make
vitamin D and allow vitamin D to work in
your body just think about statins right
that's going to lower cholesterol where
does vitamin D come from it comes from
cholesterol if you're going to get your
vitamin D from the Sun realize that
you're going to get it if you expose
yourself between 10 a.m. and 2: p.m. in
the summer also you're not going to get
a lot of vitamin D in the early morning
or the late afternoon you really have to
expose a good portion of your body if
you do that and everything is right you
might get 10,000 IUS of vitamin D3 in
maybe like 20 minutes to a half hour
make sure you don't let yourself get
burned get slightly pink go in the shade
and then the next day keep working on a
tan a tan is really just an increase
melanin that allows this pigment to then
protect you against the UV another thing
not to take with vitamin D3 is iron they
compete if you're going to take iron
take it at a different time the other
thing is sunblockers or sunscreen what
happens is that most of the sunblockers
will block a type of ultraviolet
radiation called UVB which is the type
that you need to make vitamin D but
those sunscreens don't block the UVA
which is the stuff that ages your skin
so here you are protecting your skin by
rubbing on this uh sunscreen when it's
not filtering out the en entire spectrum
of ultraviolet light it's only blocking
your ability to produce vitamin D3
unfortunately I hope you learned some of
the mistakes and some of the things that
you can do to correct those mistakes
with vitamin D3 and if you have not seen
my uh video I did when I interviewed Dr
Bruce Hollis you should check that out
it was fascinating and I'll put that up
right here
