now if you have a double chin or what
they call a turkey neck where you have
this loose skin you're going to be very
glad you watch this video their
exercises SL stretches that if you do
these on a routine basis you're going to
see massive Improvement here's the
problem as we age gravity pulls down our
tissues and there's certain parts of our
body that we develop a lot more loose
skin especially underneath the neck
through here people don't exercise this
part of the body at all you have a
couple layers of fascia in your neck you
have one just underneath the skin and
then you also have one on top of your
muscle so there's a superficial and a
deep layer and the cool thing about
fascia which is connected tissue it has
contracti tissue it's not some extra
tissue that is going to be permanently
sagging but you have to activate it the
muscles and fascia through this area are
responsible for flexion okay so the head
going forward okay as well as the chin
coming down as in when you open your
mouth and also taking the bottom of the
mouth and then bringing it downward
that's going to affect this muscle right
here and there's really only four
exercises you need to do and so just do
these yourself along with the person
that's doing these exercises all right
the first one is going to activate the
muscles and faosa that pull the bottom
part of your jaw downward you're going
to be opening your mouth just like the
person that's actually doing this
exercise right now so go ahead and
follow along as you do this 10 times so
you're basically going to drop the lower
jaw and and open your mouth as much as
possible this is creating tension and
tone underneath your chin again it's
probably been years since you activated
this muscle and it's a very neglected
area of the body what's going to happen
over time as you do these exercises it's
going to start to tighten the loose
Skin's going to go away and you're going
to have a nice firmness underneath your
chin okay so now let's go to the second
exercise with this exercise you probably
don't want to do it in public you're
going to be basically taking the outer
part of your mouth okay the corners of
your mouth and bringing it outward and
downward okay and so this facial
expression this frown is going to
activate slightly different muscles
underneath your chin this is going to
activate more of the superficial fascia
just underneath the skin and it's going
to focus more on the fascia right here
versus lower in your
neck okay let's go to the third exercise
okay for this one you're going to tilt
your head all the way back okay and then
you're going to jut your jaw forward or
upward as much as you can okay and
you're going to do that back and forth
follow along as this is demonstrated in
the video so we're completely extending
the neck okay we're stretching ing all
the fascia out we're also elongating the
muscles then we're going to take it one
step further and activate that last
maneuver where we're pushing our jaw
forward and getting that last very
important stretch you have to realize
that all this fascia is attached not
just to your chin but it wraps over
underneath the bottom part of your lip
into your face so that's something very
interesting about fascia it covers a
broad base area and this is why we have
to take all the slack out and then
create as much motion as we can to
create this
elongation okay so we're at the last one
now you're going to be lying on your bed
with your head extended over the bed now
what this is going to do it's going to
activate the flexion or the deeper
muscles of the neck but actually we're
trying to activate the deeper fascia
right superficially on top of those
muscles to do that we have to create a
flexion so we've already done the
extension with the head back now we're
going to activate the muscles going
forward so this is going to work this
tissue and really put more blood supply
into it and create more contraction and
toning of the deeper fasha so go ahead
and follow along as we do this
exercise now some people will be very
surprised when they do this how weak
their neck is you just don't work this
area of the body very often so of course
if you don't use it you lose it right so
all we're doing is we're putting
attention on this missing piece of the
puzzle which is the the stretching and
the strengthening and the tightening of
this fascia and after you do this for a
period of time please comment down below
and share with us the success that you
had
