hey I'm back listen I had a question
relating to the gallbladder someone
wanted to know what happens to the fat
absorption if they don't have a
gallbladder okay well here's the thing
if you have a gallbladder you're gonna
get about 95 percent absorption of the
fats without a gallbladder you only get
a fifty percent absorption of fats but
the question is why do you need fats
mainly to help support all the cell
membranes about 44 percent of your cell
is actually made out of fat so without
that cell membrane it becomes
susceptible to viruses and damage and
all sorts of problems so we need that
lipid layer to protect the cell you also
need fat before the hormones okay all
the sex hormones to keep the amount of
testosterone there and to balance
estrogen and cortisol for
anti-inflammatory purposes it also helps
you absorb the fat side will vitamins
vitamin A D E and K so if you notice for
example you can't see in the dark like
you used to that could be a vitamin A
deficiency also could vitamin A
deficiency could be a sinus issue it
could show up in some skin issues let's
say you have the little brown dots in
the skin a really dry skin rough skin
scaly skin that's usually a vitamin A
deficiency vitamin D would be bone pain
vitamin E could be a decreased libido
it could be chest pain a whole bunch of
things vitamin K could be bruising or
ketu could be a buildup of calcium in
the soft tissue there's a lot of
symptoms that can occur just from this
so without a gallbladder you're just not
going to have the quantity of bile B il
e which does the work of a breaking down
fats but bile this breaks down the fats
to a certain level but then the pancreas
releases an enzyme called lipase which
takes it from that level all the way
down to the smallest particle so it can
be used in the body so not having a
gallbladder basically just adds more
stress to the pancreas and forces the
pancreas to work harder okay so you may
not notice any symptoms right away
because these fat soluble vitamins take
a long time to show up deficient
however you may want to consider adding
a purified bile salt to your diet like
one after a meal to help you get the
necessary bile so you can have complete
digestion I put a link down below for
some more information so I hope that
answered your question hey thank you so
much for watching keep spreading the
word and share this video
