hey guys I wanted to create a short
video to answer someone's question what
is a - milk okay
there's certain types of protein in milk
one is called casein which makes up
about 30 percent of the protein and
there's an a.1 version and an a2 version
in which what makes these different is
that the different orientations or
patterns or strings of amino acids okay
the a1 version is a genetic mutation
what's a mutation it's a sudden chains
of alterations in the genetics and a2 is
not a genetic mutation
okay a one being a genetic mutation
allow something be cm - 7 I'm not going
to tell you the chemistry you don't need
to know that but you just have to
realize that this thing right here can
invade the digestive tract okay and
create problems that just - bloating and
inflammation
whereas a - does not allow BCM - seven
to go in the digestive tract okay so
that's really all you need to know it's
that simple
Jersey cows produce a - and if you
consume cheese from a goat or a sheep
you're going to get a - now I personally
don't recommend consuming milk but if
you're consuming cheese it would be
awesome if you can actually get cheese
that's a to do some research there's one
company I found called Cascadia Creamery
okay so all of their cheese is a - and
it's probably gonna have a lot better
response on your digestive tract than
other types of Jesus and of course
cheese from goats milk and sheep's milk
would be awesome alright thanks for
watching now I always love getting
feedback from you on these videos so
comment below and tell me what you think
