hi guys I wanted to create a simple
video on the most important things that
you should look at when you're reading a
label when you buy food it's called a
nutritional facts okay so number one the
first thing you're gonna look at is the
ingredients and what is the first
ingredient whatever the first ingredient
is that tells you what's making up most
of that product so if high fructose corn
syrup is the first ingredient the
majority of that product is high
fructose corn syrup if it's soy it's
mostly soy so that's how they list
things based on the quantity of a
certain ingredient in this product this
would be first and then the second third
fourth okay so also observe all the
different types of sugar anything that
the ending of us like maltose dextrose
is sugar you might see inverted sugar
cane sugar etc etc okay number two we're
going to find the quantity of sugar scan
down the sugars and this will give you
the total sugars in grams now we want
this as close to zero as possible it's
going to be somewhat hard to find foods
always at zero sometimes they're one to
three but you want to keep it as close
as your as possible now the next thing
we want to do is we will look at the
serving size per container and this is
interesting because we're not looking at
the total amount of sugar in this whole
box of food or a whole container we have
to multiply it times 10 servings per
container so we got 15 times 10 that's a
hundred and 50 grams now this is
interesting when you get into like
yogurts or flavored yogurts because
it'll say per serving sizes I don't know
ten fifteen thirty and then you're going
to multiply it times four or whatever
same thing with ice cream I mean you'll
see that they'll say like 35 grams then
multiply it times four it really comes
out to a lot of sugar and then you have
dressings for example per teaspoon so
then you have to multiply that many
teaspoons in the entire container next
thing we look at is total carbohydrates
okay
35 and then we're going to minus the
fibre to give you the net carbs now if
you're on the keto plan we want to make
sure our total carbs are between 20 and
50 grams per day the worse off your
metabolism is the closer to 20 that you
need
keep it and realize that we're talking
about the whole day not per meal now the
next thing you want to look at is go
back to the ingredient and make sure
there's no GMO products okay like the
common one is soy canola cottonseed corn
oil so you just have to realize that the
majority of these oils are nearly always
GML unless they say organic so that
would be the basic most important things
of reading a label thanks for watching
hey thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
