if you tell someone you they can't have
something they're going to want it more
so deprivation dieting all that causes
the need to want it more so what you
have to do is you have to have
substitutes for the things you crave in
this recipe you're going to mix coconut
almond and chocolate with stevia it's
very very simple to make and this tastes
almost equivalent to Almond Joy that
candy bar so what you do is you mix
coconut oil which has medium uh chain
triglycerides which have been shown to
increase the fat burning process
increase your metabolism so and then
we're going to combine baker's chocolate
unsweetened chocolate with stevia and we
show you how to do that with in the
recipe right below this video and then
what you can do is you can mix pour this
over the coconut you're going to add
coconut and this blend it together add
chocolate put it in the refrigerator or
the freezer and you have the most
delicious treat that you can possibly
imagine you can have this as a
substitute every once in a while so you
don't have to deprive yourself this
stuff is amazing
