this one thing could literally replace
our entire medical system now I'm not
talking about Emergency Care things like
that I'm mainly talking about chronic
disease I really looked at this topic
from many different angles just posing
this question what is the most powerful
thing you can do for your health
everyone can afford it it will produce
the most weight loss of anything that
you do it will fix a stubborn metabolism
and that's called the set point so you
might lose let's say 20 lbs but then you
your body will not let you lose more
than that this particular thing will
address that and fix that this Natural
Therapy has the ability to fix your
brain repair brain tissue it actually
helps regrow your brain cells it
increases your mood your cognitive
function the effects of this therapy on
your mitochondria are very similar to
exercise can you guess what it is if you
guess fasting you are correct if you did
fasting your medical expenses will go
way way down you're not starving your
body you are just controlling when you
eat and when you're not eating when I
was first introduced to fasting I really
did not think anything about it I
thought it was like what's that going to
do it's not changing the calories that
you're eating until I started looking at
it especially from our history of how
humans have developed because the root
problem of over 80% of all diseases is
insulin resistance so all you really
need to know at this point is that too
much insulin creates a lot of problems
for your body so fasting fixes that
problem so you have genes right now in
your body to fix almost everything okay
but the question is how do you turn on
those genes to fix things well there's
certain triggers things that you can
control lifestyle food not eating it's
the absence of eating that triggers a
lot of these survival genes so in this
process of not eating your body converts
over into burning fat and ketones so
there's going to be a point where your
body is now adapted to burning ketones
and that takes sometimes like 3 days now
another question I give a lot is how
should someone fast if they're a woman
versus a man and there's a really good
book I recommend I'll put the link down
below it's entitled fast like a girl now
because a woman goes through this whole
monthly cycle you have to adjust the
fasting schedule a little bit so in Dr
Mindy's book to keep this really simple
as soon as you have your period and the
hormones are starting to build up
between day 1 and day 10 is when you
want to do some hardcore fasting because
you have enough hormones to be able to
afford to do fasting and this is the
time you want to do fasting especially
to lose weight but as we get to day 20
okay so now we're on day 20 all the way
to the end of the month that's when you
don't want to fast there's already too
much stress in the body you don't want
to add fasting to alter those hormones
but then as soon as you have your period
the next 10 days you're right back on
track that doesn't mean I recommend
snacking maybe just three meals I think
that would be sufficient so that's a
real rough summary of her book you can
get a lot more details if you want to
get it up I'll put the link down below
if we're dealing with hormones these
hormones are made out of cholesterol
then that cholesterol is then turned
into these steroid hormones out of all
the hormones progesterone is probably
one of the most potent Protectors of the
brain when progesterone goes too low
your brain is at risk so the whole point
on that is just to make sure you have
enough of the raw material and the raw
material I'm talking about is
cholesterol there is a lot of
cholesterol in egg yolks in shellfish
like shrimp liver has cholesterol fatty
cheese has cholesterol you also want to
make sure that you really deal with this
stress level because if the stress is
really high during menopause what will
happen is your adrenals will start
stealing some of the raw material and
take them away from progesterone and
other hormones so doing things to reduce
stress is super super important there's
actually two co-actors that are really
important that a lot of people people
are missing and that would be magnesium
and zinc what you need to know about
magnesium is number one most people are
deficient number two it's almost
impossible to test for it you can't test
for it in the blood because most of it
is inside the cell you have to do a very
sophisticated test to measure it and
most if not all doctors do not test for
magnesium the one you want is magnesium
glycinate before bed and you want at
least 400 migrs now as far as zinc goes
you need about 50 mg of zinc but if you
had shellfish you can easily get your
zinc especially oysters now a couple
rules about fasting the rule of thumb is
don't eat if you're not hungry ride the
wave go a little longer because if you
were able to go 36 to even 72 hours of
fasting you literally are going to
generate immune stem cells that's huge
so number one let your body tell you how
long to fast if you do fasting and you
feel like crap you need to eat I would
say everyone could do this intermittent
fasting but when we get into more
prolonged fasting allow your body to
tell you if it's working and also it
really depends on what you're trying to
solve if you're trying to lose weight of
course you want to fast a lot longer now
there's also this topic that you may
have heard when you do low carb your
cortisol is going to increase there is
no hardcore evidence that shows that
cortisol is going to increase when you
do fasting or on a low carb diet because
that study was done on rats okay and
yeah okay so if something works on rats
it may work on humans but that is in the
area of opinion it's not based on facts
I have over 8,000 success stories on my
website from people doing this getting
off medication to losing a ton of weight
to sleeping better to getting rid of
inflammation so how do you explain all
that also I've talked to a lot of people
who have done low carbon init fasting
for many years I don't know if anyone
who told me all of a sudden they started
getting stressed out or they having
stress problems at all also when you do
fasting you're making your cells more
sensitive to insulin and that alone is
going to offset the the raising of
cortisol because insulin Now is working
it's more efficient so there's two types
of fasting I want to talk about you have
water fasting so you're not eating food
then you have something called a dry
fast where you're not eating any food
and you're not drinking any water now I
looked into the dehydration genes so
when you dehydrate yourself okay to a
certain degree you have a series of
genes that kick in or are expressed and
in started looking at those genes and a
lot of the functions have to do with
hydration and keeping your body hydrated
and not letting too much fluid go out
but one is enhanced weight loss this
might be hard to believe but your fat
can be converted to water if you take
one pound of fat and you burn it with
oxygen it'll turn into a little a little
bit more than one pound of water so it's
not that fat is saturated with water
when you burn that fat it turns into
water and this is really bizarre it's
look it up it's totally true the point
is we're not trying to dehydrate you
we're just trying to control when you
feed the body water there's more
antioxidants to develop in the brain you
get enhanced autophagy so you get a
deeper cleaning of the cells you get
more detoxification from the liver as
far as what I'm doing presently okay and
I will switch it up occasionally but I
used to fast from dinner all the way and
just skip breakfast and have the first
meal let's say a late lunch at 2: maybe
3: and then also have a dinner now what
I'm doing is I'm actually consuming a
breakfast in the morning sometimes it's
at 9:30 sometimes it's at 10:00
sometimes 11:00 and then I'll also have
a lunch at 1 sometimes my second meal is
at 2 but what I've done is I'm feeding
my body more when I need more energy
which is in the first part of the day
versus later at night I don't need all
that energy I don't want to go to bed
with a big meal on my stomach now if you
do fasting and you notice your hair is
falling out or you're losing your cycle
then you need to look at what you're
eating more closely chances are you're
not getting enough protein and I'm
talking about the highest quality
protein that you can get and that would
be grass-fed red meat I would start to
beef up that no pun intended to the
point where your body can get those
amino acids and plus with the red meat
comes all the B vitamins the trace
minerals everything you need for hair
growth if you're not getting enough sea
salt when you're doing fasting you're
not going to be able to sleep as well so
don't forget about that most people need
about a level teaspoon of sea salt every
single day sleep is really really
important too if you don't feel like
you're getting enough sleep you're going
to be hungrier and for some people that
just can't sleep when they're doing
fasting at that point I do recomend
recommend taking melatonin maybe you
work up to 5 Mig and eventually up to 10
mg and you take that before bed all
right so now that you know a little bit
more about fasting if you want to know
what to eat you should watch this video
right here check it out
