hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I
want to share with you what to do if you
have varicose veins now I will tell you
that most Herbal Remedies most vitamins
for vericose veins just don't work I've
tried so many different remedies and you
just end up expensive urine it just
doesn't seem to correct it I'm going to
show you what does correct it but let's
just first explain what the veins do now
veins carry blood from your extremities
your fingers and your toes all the way
back up to the heart okay so the heart
pushes blood through the artery system
and then the veins bring it back to the
heart so it's return blood flow and one
of the
biggest differentiation from arteries to
veins is veins uh don't have the
assistance of the heart as a pump okay
so arteries can just take allow the
heart to pump blood through the body
body but veins need your muscles to
contract to push the blood back to the
heart so if you're too inactive and
you're not exercising and you're sitting
all day chances are you're going to
develop some varicose veins or spider
veins okay now there's other causes of
varicose veins as well especially from
pregnancy that's an estrogen problem
it's also when you have developing this
baby this huge uh mass in your abdomen
you could cut off circulation you can
have the excess weight that puts
pressure on these veins and also you
have the relationship between estrogen
and the side effect one of the side
effects is spider veins or uh varicose
veins okay so that could be a situation
too so really the solution is to um get
out there and start exercising okay it's
as simple as that you want to start
doing uh walking workouts on a
consistent basis now depending how bad
the problem is like some people have
really bad varicosities or varicose
veins that they might need to have those
removed okay because you have other
veins that can take up the slack but if
it's a medium problem or it's an easier
issue um exercise should handle it but
it takes like a year to two years to
correct that it's not going to happen
overnight uh so that's one thing now for
spider veins that's a little bit
different uh you want to do the same
thing but one of the interesting things
nutritionally that will cause a spider
vein is excessive V vitamin C now I'm
not talking about the food based vitamin
C I'm talking about excessive ascorbic
acid which is synthetic vitamin C so
people that do grams of ascorbic acid
actually create deficiencies in the
other vitamin C complex normally vitamin
C has many parts to it and so when you
buy vitamin C from the healthy store
what you're really getting in most cases
is a bunch of uh synthetic ascorbic acid
especially if it's like 500 milligram or
more um if that's the case just realize
you're buying something that's made from
corn starch and sulfuric acid there's
really no vitamin c in there okay so
they sometime I don't know who did this
but they change the name of a
scorpicol the best source of vitamin C
is from food or food
concentrates um so you want to do a lot
of vegetables and things like that okay
okay so if you want to correct spider
veins you just want a lot more vitamin C
Foods in the diet over a long period of
time okay and avoid any type of ascorbic
acid synthetic vitamin
C so what's your next step get out there
start walking start exercising on a
regular basis and that will correct the
pooling of the varicose veins a normal
vein you have this straight shot the
blood returns back to the heart in a
vericose vein it pulls the valves get
loose it becomes enlarged and then you
get pulling of blood which could create
problems with Strokes as well so we want
to go from here to here start exercising
start walking I will see you in the next
video
