you know when some people do prolong
fasting they might end up with various
symptoms related to the gallbladder and
that would be right shoulder pain or
tightness that can go into the right
side of the neck through here it can
even cause jaw issues or even a headache
on the right side of the head uh
nauseousness uh bloating a full feeling
underneath the right rib cage or pain or
tightness or discomfort underneath the
breast bone and What's happen happening
is the bile is becoming a sludge okay
it's called biliary sludge or bile
sludge because the bile is becoming very
very thick because normally when you
have the right ratio of bile and
cholesterol everything's fine but when
the bile becomes deficient to a certain
degree the concentration of cholesterol
and other things in bile become more
concentrated or super concentrated and
things start getting thicker and it
backs up to the pipes or tubes bile
ducts and that causes the symptoms that
I just mentioned the person may even
find that their cholesterol goes up
because one of the purposes of bile is
the elimination of cholesterol and they
may even notice on a blood test that
they have higher levels of Billy ribon
or alkaline phosphatase that is just an
indication that there's some type of
problem with the gallbladder and it's
backing up into the liver now normally
this shouldn't happen when someone f
fast unless there is a pre-existing
problem with bile like a bile deficiency
going into the prolong fast because what
happens normally when you eat the
gallbladder contracts and it squeezes
out the bio but if you're not eating it
doesn't contract and the purpose of the
gallbladder is to concentrate the bile
but if there's a deficiency of bile for
some reason which I'll go through those
reasons um the person can start
developing this sludge that kind of
backs up through these little ducks so
we should probably get our ducks in a
row another definition of duct so I'm
going to explain this simple solution
but let's first just mention the things
that can cause a bile
deficiency well bile is produced by your
liver so if there's any problem with the
liver as in a fatty liver um or an
inflamed liver like hepatitis or liver
that's filled with scar tissue as in
therosis that could be why you have a
deficiency in bile now also if you're on
a Statin drug that could be a reason
because statins work by blocking the
production of cholesterol and bile is
made from
cholesterol uh if you're on a low
cholesterol or a lowfat diet that can
create a deficiency in bile if you're
eating a diet that's spiking insulin or
have high insulin that can create a bile
deficiency if you have high cortisol
from stress that can create a problem or
high estrogen for some reason maybe
you're on birth control pills or hormone
replacement therapy or you just became
pregnant have you ever heard about
someone being pregnant and then feeling
nauseous well that's the reason now also
could be that the person had gastric
bypass because that alters the release
of bile and that could be the problem
another problem is that if someone
doesn't have enough microbiome they
don't they don't have enough friendly
bacteria let's say they just came off an
antibiotic and your microbes May bile so
that could be the reason why you're
deficient and one last very interesting
reason why someone can be bod deficient
they're on um like um an IV nutrition
it's called parental nutrition okay that
has to do with um having an iv put
nutrition into your body versus
consuming food that goes through your
digestive tract it doesn't have anything
to do with parenting or being a parent
so what's interesting about parental nut
nutition is that if someone is on this
for 13 weeks or longer um based in one
study 100% of the patients developed
bile or bilary
sludge which by the way is the precursor
to golf Stones I mean if you think about
what's in this nutrition it's just
terrible 50% of it is dextrose which is
a synthetic sugar they have soy oil
which is probably the worst Omega 6
fatty acid out there it's highly
processed it probably has hexane which
is a solvent and has been known to
increase liver enzymes as well as a
fatty liver in people taking parental
nutrition and then they add amino acids
synthetic vitamins minerals some trace
minerals so what is a solution it's
called tdka tdka it's a type of Bio salt
that I would highly recommend that you
can buy online I'm not going to
recommend a brand you have to find that
brand yourself based on maybe some good
reviews but TKA is a type of Bio salt
that thins the bile okay it will really
give you a lot of relief and you want to
take TKA on an empty stomach you want to
take two and if it's very severe maybe
you want to take two on an empty stomach
twice a day in addition to that I would
also recommend taking bile salts with a
meal uh the one I'm going to recommend
is called gallbladder formula I will put
a link down below if you want more
information on that but this TKA remedy
is fast
and I created a video on it so you can
see all the other things it does check
it out I put it right here
