we're going to talk about the seven
reasons why you might be tired on keto
and when you're doing in a minute
fasting number one it could be that you
need more B vitamins specifically b1 and
b5
those two vitamins are crucial in your
metabolism and your ability to make
energy okay I recommend getting your B
vitamins from nutritional yeast that's a
natural form you can get it in a powder
or tablet form
make sure it's unfortified because you
don't want to use synthetics the only
time I'd recommend B vitamins in a
synthetic form is when you're doing some
type of detoxification okay but
synthetics are made from petroleum so
it's not the same as natural so
nutritional yeast secondly increase
potassium that would be large quantities
of vegetables so make sure you're doing
that if you're not that could be the
reason if you can't seem to consume the
quantity of vegetables that you need
then enhance it with something like an
electrolyte powder or some type of
concentrated green powder
number three you could have a deficiency
of stomach acids and this is very common
by the way so if you don't have enough
acid in your stomach the food just sits
there and it doesn't digest and you get
tired apple cider vinegar is a really
good way to enhance the acids but also
the potassium from the greens will
actually help you make harder chloric
acid also sea salt sodium chloride the
chlorides help make HCl hydrochloric
acid will also help do this but you can
also get up soda vinegar
in a tablet form and if that doesn't
work add another thing called betaine
hydrochloride okay that's an acidifier
and that will help increase the energy
especially if your energy is tired after
you eat okay
and before hidden carbohydrates this is
a big one too if you're doing keto and
you're not doing it correctly let's say
you're adding potato chips with your
protein or adding a little bit of sugar
or something like that that combination
will really make you tired big-time so
look out for that and then number five
decrease blood sugar
so if your blood sugars are too low you
are going to be tired especially if
you're fasting and your and your
hypoglycemia you're going to be kind of
like really really tired but the
combination of healthy ketosis and
intermittent fasting will correct low
blood sugars over time but you may want
to adjust what you're eating like add
more fat maybe a little bit more protein
for that the way that you know you have
low blood sugars is when you have this
feeling of fatigue and then you eat and
you feel instant energy then we know the
blood sugars were an issue number six
high blood sugar so if your sugar is too
high you're going to feel tired after
you eat that would be a good test or
indication that your blood sugars are
too high again get in the basics do
healthy ketosis and intermittent fasting
and that will eventually correct this
okay and number seven you may need just
more sleep so support the sleep what
causes sleep problems mainly is stress
so I put a link down below of exactly
what you should do to improve the
quality of sleep so your body is
stress-free you go into a nice
delta-wave sleep and you wake up feeling
refreshed I one person who said that
they sleep fine but they retired and I
told them to try to just take a long nap
they nap for three hours and woke up
feeling so refreshed so apparently they
weren't really sleeping that well
alright thanks for watching hey I
appreciate your attention and if you're
enjoying these videos go ahead and
subscribe and I will definitely keep you
updated on future events live events and
webinars that we're going to do very
soon
