hey Dr Burg here this video we're going
to talk about um a fat burning hormone
called growth hormone and some something
that triggers it and that's called
Arginine arginine is an amino acid it's
a type of protein that's in certain
foods that will activate growth hormone
pretty powerfully and it just so happens
that the eating plan that I'm
recommending called the liver
enhancement in chapter 10 it's a lot of
green it's a lot of nuts it's a lot of
seeds it's a lot of fruits those are
very very very high in arginine um in
fact Arginine um if you consume like a
lot of meat and a lot of heavy animal
products it actually is very small
amount of arginine which is very
interesting because you would think that
the fat burning hormones are in the
protein but protein also other proteins
will stimulate growth hormone but ARG is
one of the most powerful growth hormone
stimulators now here's the problem when
you
consume um the liver enhancement which
is a lot of greens and things like that
and you're supporting the
liver the problem is that Arginine also
increases viruses and certain people who
are have a low resistance which would be
those adrenal types so if you're an
adrenal type your resistance to
infection goes down and you're more
susceptible for releasing viruses that's
why when you get stress you get that
little zit right here or the canker
sword in your mouth um you know or you
have to speak in front of a you have to
do a speech right and you have to go
tomorrow and do this whole speech and
you get this this pain that pops out or
this little canker sore or shingles pain
well that means your adrenals are
already weak and susceptible so the
virus is going to come out of remission
so if you if you have weak adrenals and
you consume lots of arginine you're more
susceptible getting more viruses and if
that happens don't be alarmed the virus
is already in your body it's just coming
out of remission
all you have to do is
increase uh more um animal protein like
some meat or something and you will put
the virus back in remission so I like to
use even I almost I'm almost glad this
happens because when someone goes in the
liver enhancement and they have a virus
thing it just tells me they're more
adrenal and they should have more
protein because I'm always trying to
juggle the elevation of protein without
going too high
so do the liver enhanc see how it works
and that is one of the reasons why your
body will burn more fat on the liver
enhancement
