hey guys it's Dr Berg here I wanted to
create a video on how what to do to
actually handle this skin problem here
and here there are things you can do but
there's some mistakes that people make
uh the first thing you need to know is
that hormonally at age 38 things start
shifting in the body now over a period
of a few more years when you hit 50 now
things really bottom out so during the
menopause time period which is actually
52 but it can happen like 48 it could
happen
56 hormonally the ovaries stop working
okay so there's a backup organ and the
backup organ is the adrenals on top of
the kidney you have two of them and so
you have this huge shift from ovarian
hormones to adrenal hormones okay if
there's any problem with those adrenals
before menopause everything is magnified
you get half lashes you have bone loss
you have a lot of loose skin things like
that but really this is a loss of
collagen okay and that comes from a loss
of certain hormones so I'm going to
explain what hormones um all of these
hormones decrease during menopause
testosterone which is more lean body
mass DHEA that's a anti-stress hormone
that's kind of like a a prehormone that
gives you all the other hormones and
it's made by the adrenal gland and then
you have estrogen that goes down and
estrogen uh controls the fertility and
the menstrual cycle and all that and
then Pro progesterone progesterone also
goes down that also involved involved in
the second half of the menstrual cycle
and they estrogen progesterone work
together so um when one goes down they
should be in certain ratios so when
women are after menopause they're
considered estrogen dominant which is
kind of weird because it's it goes down
what they mean is the relative ratio of
estrogen to Progesterone is off so even
though estrogen goes down a little bit
progesterone really goes down low so
that be create a situation when you're
estrogen dominant very similar to if you
were to like take um I don't know uh
sodium and um salt and pottassium they
work together so if you have too much
salt and not enough potassium you get
fluid
retention but if you have an what you
can do is you can lower salt but you can
also raise potassium and get rid of the
fluid that way instead of just avoiding
the salt so there's in other words
there's just ratios you have to look at
okay and these work together but the big
one that really messes people up and
that's responsible for the loose skin is
this growth hormone it's called human
growth hormone now in a in a child it's
mainly responsible for the growth of the
child okay but when you become an adult
it doesn't make you keep growing it
controls other things fat burning tight
muscles um energy collagen all the
protein synthesis or creation of
proteins hair nail skin muscle all that
so growth hormone is the really the one
that goes down as you age unfortunately
so there are people that actually take
growth hormone as a
supplement it doesn't work um unless
you're injected by an actual growth
hormone a synthetic growth hormone that
will work and that will actually help
with your weight loss lean body mass and
it's an anti-aging thing but it has some
slight minor side effects it's very
expensive it's like $155,000 for every 6
weeks okay and then number two if you
take it over a period of time your own
glands shut down and you become
dependent on it and then you have to
take more and you get side effects like
diabetes so there's a lot of problems
with taking hormones and that's why um I
would only recommend taking it if as the
last resort and you get people taking
HRT hormone placement therapy
bioidentical hormones which again if you
take those you're going to create a lot
of confusion in the different organs so
you're going to any hormone you hormone
you take you indirectly shut down the
gland that's supposed to to produce it
so you basically put everything asleep
same thing with the thyroid you take it
over a period of time and then thyroid
doesn't have to produce anymore okay um
so now when we have growth
hormone that goes down this is the
buffer this is the opposing hormone to
cortisol cortisol is the stress hormone
from the adrenal that's the one that's
very destructive on your protein so if
that's too high you get you your body be
becomes in a what's called a catabolic
state or a cannibalism it breaks down
proteins faster than it's building back
up so you get loss of muscle protein in
your thighs and your butt yet you get
loose skin here and here not a great
sight saggy skin in your belly so really
the loose skin is a combination of not
enough growth hormone and too much
cortisol but remember cortisol might
test POS uh normal in your
blood but the ratio is very very high
cortisol low growth hormone so even
though it's normal it has nothing to
oppose it there nothing to buffer it
there's nothing to uh kind of minimize
it so it's just a free cortisol that
goes out there and destroys everything
so that's is too much of this and not
enough of this so in the next part I'm
going to show you what to do about this
situation so check this out all right
now over here we have things to lower
cortisol over here we want to raise
growth hormone okay so let's just kind
of go back and forth cortisol is
triggered by stress so everything we're
going to do is going to reduce stress
number one low intensive ex intensity
exercise that would be like walking now
over here you have to raise the high
intensity because full body
high-intensity exercise will increase
growth hormone the problem is if you're
an adrenal body type you're you can't do
this yet so you're going to have to do
walking for a period of time because
just because you're an adrenal body type
doesn't mean you're always going to be
an adrenal type you want to get out of
that type and shift over here to be able
to increase the growth hormone but we
have to get you sleeping first to be
able to handle this intensive exercise
but ideally we want to work up to more
intense exercise so you're going to walk
at first and then as you graduate slowly
or gravitate into higher intensity you
want to do high-intensity full body
short workouts with lots of rest now the
P90X is a great workout but I would
extend that rest longer if you had an
adrenal problem because the key is you
could be overtraining especially if
you're doing high intensity every day
and you're not sleeping you're not going
to actually lose weight you're going to
your body's going to turn to Mush I had
a lady that did the boot camp and she
was just her whole body turned to
atrophy just skin hanging on her body
and just no tone at all so that person
you she maybe she work out once a week
but the whole key is recovery okay so
you can overdo it so we started with the
low intensity exercise walking long walk
every day just get in your space um not
sitting in from a treadmill watching TV
but getting out there okay so sleep will
increase lower this and increase this so
sleep is really important there's a lot
of videos I have on sleep there's
nutrition you can take there's
techniques you can do but um that's for
another video but the bottom line is we
need to increase sleep I do not
recommend um staying up past 12 the
optimum time to go to sleep is about
10:30 maybe 11: but don't watch the news
before you go to sleep watch a comedy uh
don't watch a scary movie it's going to
mess up your sleep number number three
support the gland again there's
techniques I have ACU pressure nutrition
you can support the gland instead of the
hormone that would be smart uh avoid
stress mainly uh stressful people uh
relationships that you're involved with
um you know that always messes someone
up I have a gal who's stuck with this
particular individual and she can't get
out of it she's married she has kids and
she has a situation because um he's not
willing to change so it's a constant
battle that messes everything up then
you compound that with
menopause not a pretty sight okay but we
want to try do things to avoid stressful
people and situations potassium foods
important that's the leafy greens huge
salads um not bananas or sugar B
vitamins nutritional yeast is the best B
vitamins I would highly recommend that
uh these two actually lower stress and
then avoid sugar because that will raise
this as well okay now over
here intense exercise sleeping protein
does trigger growth hormone but not a
lot if you have too much it'll increase
insulin which will inhibit this so we
want just a little bit maybe 3 to 4
ounces each meal and uh but we need some
Pro if you're a vegetarian and you don't
have the density of protein it's very
difficult to stimulate growth hormone
okay animal meat or animal products is
the best for this but just just small
amounts okay intermittent fasting now
with this one it's not necessarily you
have to fast for days but you don't if
you actually eat all these snacks
between the meals that's messing up the
liver and that keeps the liver
overworking all the time if you did
three meals a day and no snacks that
would be intermittent fasting okay
that's what I consider inent of fasting
even if you did breakfast and then a
good lunch and you didn't eat anything
after after that that would be
intermittent fasting that will increase
growth hormone but if you're snacking
and
grazing yeah why because the liver is
where the growth hormone works through
so that liver is the Hub and that's
connected to digestion so anything that
is a strain on the digestion will slow
the liver and slow this hormone so if
you have constipation for example or
bloatedness or a gallbladder problem
it's going to be hard to raise this
because growth hormone comes from the
brain goes right through there and
doesn't always work and then the next
one is the decreased cortisol fixing
this and avoiding sugar again will also
improve these so these are kind of the
basic things that I look at if a person
wants to tighten up their skin and lose
weight I'm going to look at all these
things I'm going to find out which one
can we Implement that they're not
already doing I'm going to look for ways
that I can prove things are doing but
make it better
and these are kind of a good flowchart
that you can use to tighten things up
and you'll see over the next months the
skin will start coming back and the
collagen will start coming back one last
thing and that has to do with digestion
if your stomach is not strong enough as
far as the acidity and the way you know
that it's not strong enough is you get
indigestion bloating acid reflex gird
that means you don't have enough acid
watch my videos on that um then you
can't break down the collagen or the
protein to be able to assimilate and
pull it into your skin that could be a
reason why you have loose skin too cuz
you're just not digesting it so if
that's a situation um you can take
something to acidify the stomach and
really pull in that collagen into the
cells to allow uh your skin nails uh
hair uh collagen come back and a a
really acidic stomach will allow you to
absorb the minerals too especially the
trace minerals and there's other videos
I have that show about what Trace
minerals do but trace minerals are
basically minerals needed in small
amounts that allow the protein to work
better in your body and that would be
one supplement that might be very
helpful if you have also hair loss and
brittle nails things like that so it's
not the big thing but it'll actually
kind of assist in that area Okay so go
ahead and try these things and uh
comment below and I will see you in the
next video
