hey guys welcome back we have another
great interview today with Steven from
Calgary Alberta
so welcome Steven hello hi good
so can you basically kind of give me a
little summary of your history of what
happened when you gained all this weight
and tell me a little bit about like the
before situation okay well I grew up on
a farm and basically I've been big my
whole life I've always had been
overweight but I worked until I was 35
on a farm a that dairy feedlot so I was
always you know do a lot of physical
work and I was always around 350 375 but
then we sold all of our stuff and I
moved to the city here and I got a you
know a sedimentary job just walking kind
of talking you know I'm a supervisor
right so what happened just slowly it
kind of came on because I wasn't doing
any physical work and then slowly and
slowly in you know I tried a few things
along the way but it just never stopped
and I always been told by doctors I got
one of the slowest metabolism I'm like
when I eat a little bit of food it stays
with me so I've always had an issue with
that but it wasn't pretty good shape but
just being sedimentary for I moved up to
2005 and it just slowly kept coming and
coming and before you know it you're so
big you're like well tomorrow I'm gonna
start something tomorrow I'm gonna do
some and then you don't realize that no
one said you're like whoa this is
getting out of control here so it just
basically crept on over the years and I
hear you what what at your peak what did
you end up weighing well I think I was
like probably around six hundred and
something around probably six ten but
then I did a little bit you know and
I've lost if you here know 1020 but I
could never really get on because I was
doing it kind of backwards so I would
like you know get like a hamburger rinse
all the fat off you know how rice you
know everything that was backwards or he
never really worked you know as we
talked about insulin is probably just
spiking up I thought I was doing it
right
but I never was so you probably never
even heard of the word keto at the time
no well the only reason I heard a keto
is that I watched like you have seen I
was watching Joe Rogan
and he was talking about it and I you
know the way he was talking about I was
like oh this is kind of interesting it's
kind of up my alley so I heard about it
probably a month before my birthday you
know it's beginning in September and I
started doing a little bit of research
on it and then I just decided on October
6 was my birthday two years ago I'm just
gonna start doing it and so that's what
I did but I just did a little bit of
research you know read Jamie Moore's
book you know found you I found a couple
other people Leon Stephanie she's a
little a little crazy for me that's too
hardcore for me but I basically just you
know got on and started at my own
research and reading a few books and on
October 6 the day I started I started
the keto and that day I hired actually a
personal trainer we have a table they
come into your house
so it's called Fitness on the go so I
started on the trainer five days a week
and I started in Quito that day and that
was two years ago now so and so so uh do
you remember that day what did you weigh
yourself you remember the exact dose 587
587 pounds yeah I know it was the
picture how tall are you 511 how does
that feel - on your joints I mean I
can't even imagine them as special but
that's them that's the funny part I was
a pretty mobile big guy like I didn't
have no joint problem the only problem
that I was really having that was
scaring me was I had a bit of water
attention to my lower legs so that was
in the other problem with sleeping like
I would sleep sitting up a lot of time
to call it the Buddha just sit on the
edge of my bed I could fall asleep
though I was pretty big I wasn't a tax
and those shirts I'm showing you so I
was in a tax I'm down to an extra-large
to maybe a 2x offensive shirt it is now
cuz right you right now I think you're
200 it was a a Jew 64 to 64 yeah why I
still I my goal was when I started this
I wanted to get down to 250 I missed it
by 14 pounds I'm getting to the lower
end here and it's getting a little
tougher than it was you know in the
beginning so Wow okay so did you find
that the weight came off pretty rapidly
in the beginning oh yeah I did like it
was really weird like when I first
started Aikido you know I just you know
increased the fast everything they said
and like
in the first probably two weeks I
probably lost 35 40 pounds like it 11
was water weight I know it was watery
then after that it was consistently
losing between 7 to 10 pounds a week Wow
Wow at the at that time did you also
include intermittent fasting
no I didn't starting to rain fasting
until May this year I started May 1st so
what it basically did and I started I
was doing three meals a day I would do
breakfast lunch and dinner and I we I'd
have a little bit of snack with us
hungry the beginning but wait was coming
off and then basically I got into about
8 months later I was kind of stolen a
little bit I was a little confused
because I was taking like MCT oil I was
adding avocado oil the food you know way
too much bad so I actually contacted
Tristan you probably know him and I got
a little you know I wanted a little
advice that wasn't in the books and
basically told me to get back to simple
cut out some of the fats but once I did
that and really dropped against right
it's basically start eating basic more
basic foods again and just got in not
not adding any fat just you know cooking
the hamburger
you know adding the kale and you know
that kind of stuff just simple quite and
then I started you know missing the
breakfast so I started you know going to
11 o'clock until you know 6 o'clock and
then I went two o'clock until 6 o'clock
and I did that until me first
Wow and then they come in stalled out
again a little bit so on May 1st I said
well I'm gonna do the 23 and one so
basically I don't eat till like 7:00
8:00 o'clock at night and I just have
one meal a day and I've been doing that
every day since May 1st and so tell me
about your hunger I don't have any
hunger I never really did that was the
funny thing and I've never felt better I
you know even a month into when I
started keto like even when I was 587 I
was sleeping
normal I I was never that hungry like it
really turned like some for me it was I
was never hungry before I did have
cravings they you know perchance a piece
or something like that it went away with
me really quick Wow
so makes it easier so when you were
losing like let's say seven pounds a
week how long did that last before I was
like six pounds and five pounds and four
pounds per week they started to soul
around 424 that's when I started to
introducing a little bit intermittent
fasting and I started cutting down a
little bit of meals before I would have
like a breakfast you know you know five
piece of bacon eggs and omelette and
then I would have like a Caesar salad
with some chicken for lunch because I
was kind of on the go and then at night
I would have you know say you know like
a hammer or whatever kind of like
regular meals and then that was going
good and I was working out every day too
and I would do you know I had a trainer
for an hour a day and I would only do
maybe 15 minutes cardio but I was doing
weights trying to get body movement get
some strength back and I was doing that
every day when I got down in the 400s I
started adding in cardio half an hour a
day and then just introducing more in
this same with the weights five days a
week so I was always working out but the
problem was gone for 24 I started to
stall out a little bit like I was
getting down to one or two pounds a week
and but I was always introducing too
much fat my problem was there I had way
keno setting avocado Altis like you know
say my hamburger my kale I was adding I
just have an MC tol every morning that
the shots you know so I just basically
started cutting all that out I just
don't wear I'm CTO no more adding any
oil I would just have the fact that was
in the hamburger you know with the kale
like I I kinda have a pretty simple
routine now but cuz I'm only doing one
meal a day but I just cut out all the
extra fat because everybody's like we
all kind of know you don't eat that I
try to have it on me so I need to stay
in there and I've never really had
elevated ketones like everyone always
talks about I've only had between point
six and one like that's where I kind of
like test my blood and then my blood
Sugar's always stayed around three
point-two
I've had a really low blood sugar the
whole time and I basically stay there
and never really goes up and I feel
really good now that that belong the way
night I test my you know i prick my
finger I don't do as much anymore
because I know how I feel
now um when you were in high school did
you have any weight issues oh yeah I was
big my whole life I grew up on a farm
right so I'm glad I worked every morning
before school every day after heere up
on a dairy feedlot I was strong like I
was big I I worked hard every day I
never he's most 350 375
did your privates ever wait
um little not really little bit not too
much
how about your brothers and sisters my
brother and sister are yes we got that
bad body type you know whatever the one
is that you know we store fat very well
did you as kids like eat a lot of sugar
no it was just all meat potatoes Oh like
we didn't have a lot of that kind of
stuff darkness yeah just like you know
the regular farm to do you know like
lots of meat monster Tainos yeah so so
so all of you were kind of big growing
up yeah and these still are baby I'm the
one that's the smallest and so and so so
I think I think you said in high school
you're like three hundred and something
pounds 350 375 Wow and just with citizen
Terry lifestyle you just like shut up
like 405 soon as they quit farming I we
I moved to the city here and I got in
said Mary job I just went slowly just
kept going on every year nothing and I
would kind of lose ten fifteen work out
hard within like you know get working
more and then you don't work out enough
like if I'm not doing a good bit of
stuff it just crept on and like it came
back fast Wow and that was the problem
yeah Wow and then when you hit when you
were actually in the 500s did you have
any other health issues like the doctors
say your cholesterol is high or anything
like that or diabetes yeah they said
like you know a little you know my blood
pressure behind my you know my class
drawl is how they put me on like this
dad and they put me on you know Robert
Brown like a small dose you know I went
to see a diabetes clinic a couple times
but every time I tested I was always
never quite a diabetic he's like you're
really really heavy but you never
because I never did really have sugar
I was never sugared I never had candy I
never really liked sugar before I was
come over pizza and chips the sandwich
kind of guy so I was never a huge ended
that but it was always kind of on the
verge of it but my biggest problem I was
having water retention legs my lower
legs and that was what scare me and I'm
retiring in a few years they came when
I'm 50 and the problem was I was like
you know I've done very well I've got
this problem with my you know water
tension my legs my sleeping well am I
going return fighters any to get
something in order but all the other
stuff we've tried in the past
seemed to work until you know I'm
basically so Joe Rogan talking about
ideas they Raven on and I didn't really
dog because I've tried Atkins in the
past but never work because they never
had a plan and then what you get into
Quito and you just stay with it the food
is so easy like it's so enjoyable like I
don't know like I would never even go
back to eat regular because there's so
much good stuff you can have right yeah
the other thing now is I'm doing the
intermittent fasting is to me even once
a day is probably the easiest thing I've
ever done I feel the best and I have
like so my meal is I'm pretty consistent
I need like I only eat at 7:00 at night
so I have like four pieces of Swiss
cheese with some cream cheese and some
bacon but that's my appetizer then I
have the regular size kale salad I eat a
kale sell and I have my own olive oil
and spices I put on and then I mix some
once a week I have organic the hamburger
and I do one pound of kale one pound of
spinach and I just put spices in and I
just basically comes out to be two and a
half cups and that's my meal I have five
days a week and then on the weekends all
how like eggs or bacon
you know I'll maybe switch it up a
little bit but five days a week I have
the same food you know I have like a
salad a hot meal and then like just a
little appetizer
Wow and that's all I eat and I work out
right now I'm doing 45 minutes of pretty
hard cardio and I'm doing our weights
and I'm getting lots of games like it's
strength
you know sighs and I don't even know
what the protein is but it's not that
much like people are saying oh he
appeals protein I don't have any extra
fat to it and a lot of times they call
travel I guess went on for the weekend
it was their Thanksgiving and I'll work
all that day I'll Drive home I'll just
forget T I won't even eat til the next
night I can go two days and I'm just
totally unbalanced like and I'm going to
worked out like I worked out the day
before and I worked out fasted and then
I just eat the next day and I'm fine I
don't ice guys say what I mean I can
feel it I'm a little bit hungry and I
would like something but yeah it goes
pretty easy now
Wow have you noticed like with your skin
loose skin oh I have an issue I might
apply surgery like I'm big okay there's
like probably 500 operations I got to do
the upside down tea first and then you
know the exciting you have skin I'm
gonna have a skin issue I do have a skin
mmm-hmm how about your cognitive
function are you noticing like any
difference with that like before versus
now oh yeah the brain lick you probably
started after a month I was a lot more
sharp before oh you know you're always
tired you can never sleep your brains
always race he's always thinking about a
million things now you go to bed
I remember my dreams like I just go to
bed and then I wake up on time like like
is this the way like after a month I
couldn't believe how better I was
sleeping that was the one thing I
noticed right away in the cognitive
you're not so foggy anymore
right and then what about your fluid now
do you still retain or is that better no
I got Danes in my legs and like I'm
super I got pretty Superman I was like
it's for a big guy still got the skinny
she's like you know my legs and that
they're right down there's nothing there
I only get my arms and all that like my
face I never had the problem in my neck
you should probably see in the picture I
had a pretty big you know I had no neck
no it's all coming back I just have it
run my midsection I was really big I was
made x rate so I was if you look at the
picture there in that door I took up two
of those doors and then I only have one
if you look at some pictures yeah I went
from an 8x
down to basics an extra-large why are
you so like to lose 40 more pounds I
would like to get you to 25 right now
it's getting a little slower I'm doing
half a pound a week do you know maybe
0.25 pounds and something cells do 1.5
just depends it's it's kind of bit of a
little bit of a slower but I know I'm
getting smaller and size because I'm
gaining more muscle and the clothes are
going down sorry just that the weight
side so I'm not really too concerned but
I would like to probably get down
another 25 to 40 I don't know if I can
get there with my body type you know
yeah I think you know even though it may
feel like wow it's just really slowing
down you could be at your maximum weight
loss which is because you're actually
retaining muscle you're growing muscle
you're losing weight it could come out
to about the same because here because
all we have to do is like measure weight
but so as long as you're shrinking
that's like a good indicator that it's
working big time working and in my
muscle
like my legs are getting you know way
stronger you can see the muscle
definition you know your arms everything
is getting you know shoulders chest it's
okay now but I do have the excess skin
which is you know a problem people are
as big as me and lose that what are the
other things that I've also done since
the beginning I also take like my
vitamin store though I'm doing the
internet fasting I always took them in
the morning and I've always been doing
like I do amazing grass the wheatgrass
and I do they're super grass and they
take my vitamins in the morning and I do
four shots of their organic lemon and
four shots apple cider vinegar I do that
on my empty stomach it's never raised my
blood sugar nothing so I don't eat til
7:00 8:00 at night but in the morning I
have my vitamins and my wheatgrass and
my super grass because we can't find
your stuff up in Canada your target
across the border the charges a lot of
money I know I know so I can only get
that something it's organic and I've
taken that since the beginning cuz you
know when you're doing this kind of dye
you're not getting them a lot of greens
like I do have my salad today but I do
take that extra and I take quite a
regiment of vitamins to just to you know
keep going on it to make sure everything
is there that I need and I've never had
an issue with anything you know so but
I've done that since day one and so I've
always doing you're out the cider
vinegar and I've always done the poor
shot so that I do that every morning I
don't do it three times a day so awesome
Wow and how was your sleep oh it's
perfect like as soon as I go to bed I'm
asleep in that wake up I'm gonna use
alarm clock like I need sleep money you
know eight nine hours whatever you know
when I go to bed I'm up at 7 the sleep
was probably been the biggest one you
know that was a huge problem before like
I was you know saying when you're not
paying of course and then the breathing
and but it might be this thing is I tell
people I've done in two years
but I've stayed steady on it for two
years I've never had an extra meal or
you know gone off and like oh it's been
there I've always tried to get better
and better better when you first start
it takes a couple months you know in
three meals a day to get your body over
because that was really big I probably
had insulin resistance like they said
but it took a while to get over and it's
just you slowly get at it but you got to
keep moving
like everyone's like really scared what
exercise but I've done it since day one
because you don't get stronger you
probably get a Pedro my buddy Mike the
secret is probably just moving
everything and it was hard getting I
could barely do two things you know and
then it just gets you know it's like
saving money day after day after day
after day and then what you try to do is
just try to get better at what you're
doing go down smaller do I really need
that extra you know a little bit of food
no you don't and you know you can still
gain muscle on it everyone's that Gloria
I have all this protein and all that I
don't and I've been doing this since May
first I do you know one meal a day and I
probably had the best gains and my
cardio is higher than it's ever been
like I'm going increasing on my cardio
like I think the bike and rower I'm
getting faster and I'm going more
yardage and stuff so I don't know about
like having to have all this protein the
game also like everybody says you can
gain quite a bit of muscle a good good
shake it just hasn't one meal a day
totally on the flip side I had a client
who is quite large you know and they
were supposedly doing in a minute
fasting but really what happened right
around five o'clock they would start the
carbs in the grains and the rice and the
sugar and they would graze all the way
until 12:00 midnight and then they
didn't eat for the next part of the day
but they gained so much weight and fluid
retention from the carb it's crazy
ya know I like that's one thing I only
have like I only probably eat like
probably 20 minutes because I start my
meal and they say 7 o'clock I have so I
do my meal so that I have my hot meal I
do five of them for the week I already
have my kale salad those square one and
then I already other so what I do is I
have my four piece of cheese with the
cream cheese and a little bit of bacon
bits on and then I have the salad and
then I have my hot meal at the end and
that's probably done in 20 minutes half
hour and that's all I hate Wow you know
and I do that every day and I you know
that's after I'm working out and after
I've known myself I do that later at
night because that time I'm feeling good
you know a couple hours I'm going to bed
and then I started gaming and it's
probably the best thing I go in on
holidays for two weeks posture and I was
kind of down to two meals a day I was
going to a full inclusive resort for two
weeks
13 pounds at that you know you know so
I've been losing weight even when I
travel I go you know forward
I travel away you know I just go to a
restaurant or a hamburger you know with
the avocado slice cheese bacon get the
Caesar salad no croutons or you just go
off bacon and eggs they get so easy to
eat out or if you're like can't find
that just go to a deli get some white
some of those they own the process
salami meats like you know but I've
never had an issue I have that so
there's so many meals you can get up
there get a few pieces of cheese and
you're you're fine to go like there's no
excuse that you can't you keep you don't
stay home to prepare it you can go buy a
salad and you don't get a limit of olive
oils for spices and throw it on it you
know he could have read in the container
so there's always a way to have keto no
matter where you are even at the airport
there is there's there's stuff you can
buy yeah you just have to be creative
huh you know in the airport of course I
go okay so I'll be doing a 12-hour
flight I'm gonna buy some nuts or
something and you know yeah I've never
gotten in snacking one thing that
probably it's been really good with me
I've never tried to snack I would just
have my meals now is it
I never even have anything in my house
like I don't how good nuts
I don't even smart that I actually ate
those nuts as a meal because that the
food and the plane was just all carbs so
yeah one thing I've done though that's
probably gonna make you crazy I do drink
guy cop and I've done it since the
beginning one of my secrets is when I'm
doing the intimate fasting I'll have a
couple like dr. peppers and night I try
to go with the aww because no caffeine
in it but I do drink that and I've never
had a blood sugar spike and I've never
had an issue I know you always say don't
do it I do that on my fast and I'm still
you know I was losing on the fast thing
I was doing like say sometimes ten
pounds we cleared first started from
when I was a little heavier now I'm get
down there in size but I don't know how
much I have left to lose like I'm still
losing but I don't really mind that you
know yeah yes if you're consistently
shrinking you're feeling better you know
sometimes the diet sodas won't affect
the weight necessarily but I have had
several patients that end up with blood
disorders and other issues so and
they've done it just for a long period
of time so like I drink the water too
and I'll make a big pot of tea you know
essence the TVM lemon - and I have that
in my
because go more natural but what I find
if I'm feeling a little bit hungry and
I'm anemic faster I think I'm hungry
I just go have something drink and then
I'm fine and long as I'm keeping myself
busy during the day it's what you're
sitting around sometimes is when you
think you're hungry but you're not they
just go do something you know and
everything you need the energy to work
out well I can work out it you know I'm
at the end of my FAFSA exam I usually
don't work out till 6 o'clock at night
cuz I haven't working during the day so
I'm doing my workout in near the end of
the fast and I'm still feeling fine and
I don't have anything you know I don't
feel too tired at the end of the day so
it's just being consistent I think it's
like save the money you have to do it
day after day I don't call new six days
a week
I do weights five days a week even when
I'm tired now if the weight unit I just
do it once I'm down I'm down I'm happy
yeah and then you have people that say
oh I can't afford to do the eating plan
well let's see you're only doing one
meal a day I think you can afford that
you're saving so much money
hey I'll tell you like my most expensive
thing is lately I buy the organic
hamburger but if you learned the money
just buy the regular hamburger which is
cheap and I lose two pounds for a week
so I get two pounds of hamburger I like
an candidates 500 grams for a bank
I'll buy the frozen chopped kale because
it's easier to get so much more because
I've bought real kale frozen but by the
time I've done there it cost me a
fortune it's way cheaper to buy the
frozen kale and I have frozen spinach I
mix that in with two pounds of hamburger
and I had a bunch of spices like Cajun
tex-mex
and I use hot sauce and I put some
shredded cheese in there and I just
divide how it works out to five meals at
two and a half cups and then the salads
up here three bucks a day for a kale
salad and the cheese and that you're
basically maybe 15 bucks at the end of
the week the bacons most expensive now
we'll think of it like how much protein
when you eat in that meal
well I have been how many ounces
probably four tablespoons of bacon bits
Hormel that's what I used I have four
piece of Swiss cheese a little bit of
cream cheese on there and then I have
basically I divide that two pounds of
hamburger to five meals so that's all
I'm having so I need to give two enough
cups of hamburger and kale and cheese
mix that's all anything it's probably
not a lot of proteins and yep you're
apparently doing good and you're
actually you have you had a lot of
reserved
use up so you're gonna have to create
that you know that vacuum there that's
awesome man Steve you've done incredible
yeah and I probably can stay was gonna
be faster I think it's probably the
easiest thing I've ever done I'll have
to buy extra food
I can make one meal I'm pretty simple
everyone's like oh I need to variety but
when you're only doing one meal a day
you're pretty hungry but I got hungry
but you dyslexic okay I need some tastes
with the bacon bits of the cheese that's
kind of like a little snack or one and
then you just salads because we have to
eat our salad every day the kale but
then I want something hot so then I have
my kind of mix talk that's my last one
that's the real good one and then after
that I'm actually kind of full you know
take a little bit of water and then I'm
done and then we start our day again and
I find it harder to have the two or
three meals a day because you're not
there trying to going hey I need to have
this mirror from here what do I do like
when I travel I just don't need I just
see when I get there
and you go to resort like ah this is
that resort you know two weeks you go to
the Japanese and say I just want shrimp
cooked and butter a lot broccoli give me
extra broccoli you just tell me what you
want you go to really get the eggs or if
you have a hamburger patty hamburger
patties they're everywhere
you know in now here in Canada I am W
has a lettuce wrap one just ask them is
no mayo because mustard no ketchups and
you can have a team burger you know in a
lettuce wrap here you know there's Q
there's no excuse
nowadays for what's out there and the
other one I always believed in don't
have so much fun my success really
wrapped up when I quit taking MCT oil
quit adding havoc Ottawa Ellen all these
fats you don't need it if you're like me
and you have it don't put it on just eat
regular food and do it that way and
don't go buy these good you know ketones
exhaustion Aidid like all that it
doesn't work he doesn't have to be high
like white ketones are not done in two
years we're never much over point eight
like on the blood I've never had high
ketones so let me just explain that for
people that are watching in the
beginning sometimes you may need some
fat to go from one meal to the next but
as soon as you're adapted you want to
have the food with it with its natural
fat you don't necessarily have to take
all these oils and tons of fat you don't
really don't need that because then you
want your body to burn its own fat hey
Steve you had an incredible incredible
success what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
do another one let's say in a few months
yeah because I we have to we have to do
it so you hit your goal but you're
consistently coming down and it's just
quite a miraculous amount of weight loss
that's incredible yeah so this is six
months I'd like to get to my goal in six
months but it is getting tougher like
all a bit like some weeks you know it's
like half a pound like I'm used to
losing pretty consistently you know so
but you know I'm not discouraged at all
but I know I'm coming down in size but
I'm getting in much like like clothing
sizes going down but like even a
five-pound on me I'll drop another
coating size like down the waist they
come down to like a 38 waist extra large
and a lot of shirts and I was 8 X 38
waist yeah I'm a 38 that's not bad
that's not a bad and I'm still 264 right
ya know it's kind of weird I really
follow 11:00 so you know and most people
like you know I'm into extra-large so
maybe I'll be able to hit 225 I like to
get down to there I'm never gonna be the
190 like I'm supposed to be I don't
think I could ever get to that Vlade
tiny thing yeah well I think I wouldn't
change too much right now cuz your honor
your honor
you know these do you take these the
Biggest Loser these really big guys
they'll lose very very unhealthily and
they gain it right back but I don't see
you gaining it back because you're doing
it correctly and what's been so easy
it's never been like a diet or sex right
this is really easy lifestyle like the
food from the hardest thing is do the
exercise every day you doing that but
the food to me is like this is like the
easiest thing I try to lose weight my
whole life and the food is so good on
here like you don't need the chip said I
can have I've two days and I'm eating
pizzas are in front of your chips stuff
I used to lately it just even bother me
I don't even think about having it that
would you know and I don't even want to
have some all those wait till I'm ready
to have something so what you get
adapted over that part there's so much
more honey you can have a heart of it
the cheeses in that you know I don't
think the deli meats and that we prepare
stuffs at sites like bacon and eggs
whose carries about that it's not that
hard
no hey Steve thank you so much for the
interview and let's touch base in a few
months and see if the I'll check in with
you to see how you're doing okay perfect
okay we'll see that while you're talking
to you thank you so much okay see ya
