hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about that 13 serious side-effects of
having low cholesterol not high
cholesterol but low cholesterol now
there's been a huge focus of the medic
profession putting attention on this
deadly dangerous high cholesterol but
there's no attention on low cholesterol
check this out these are the side
effects of low cholesterol number one
increase risk of getting cancer
number two anemia number three increase
risk of getting a stroke before adrenal
failure why because the adrenal hormones
need cholesterol the main hormones from
the adrenal especially cortisol is built
out of cholesterol so if you starve it
it doesn't have any food or building
blocks to build up those hormones number
five increase your chance of getting
infections because the immune system
needs cholesterol number six increasing
your susceptibility to getting viruses
again the immune system needs
cholesterol number seven increase death
rate from all causes and I'm not kidding
I'm gonna put a link down below and you
have to check this out number eight
chronic inflammation number nine chronic
liver disease and pretend depression
number eleven increased your risk from
respiratory disease number 12 a or deck
dissection you know what that is the
aorta the main blood vessel to go to the
heart actually develops a tear from low
cholesterol of course you're gonna bleed
to death if that happens number thirteen
low cholesterol can predispose the
critically ill to sepsis that's blood
poisoning and adrenal failure now
recently I stumbled on this data because
I was doing some research on certain
opinions that everyone agreed to you
know especially mainstream traditional
agreements and most of the medical
profession does agree that cholesterol
is bad and we need to reduce it okay so
anytime you get an opinion that everyone
knows or everyone agrees on on suspect
so you pull the string and then we look
at the opposite viewpoint
and here we have massive dangers of
having low cholesterol and the question
is what is considered low cholesterol
okay less than a hundred and sixty
incredible high cholesterol is anything
over two hundred but less than 160 when
I was in practice you know many people
had cholesterol way lower than 160 the
facts are that high cholesterol is not
dangerous
cholesterol itself is made by your body
but it's not the villain it's the
band-aid that heals the artery wall that
becomes damaged from the high sugar and
high insulin now I put a link down below
of a video that I did on an interesting
study that showed if you have low
cholesterol you have a one out of a
thousand chance of getting a heart
attack okay but if you have high
cholesterol it goes to two out of a
thousand now if you go from 1 to that's
a hundred percent increase so if I told
you you had a hundred percent increased
chance of getting heart attack that
probably freaked you out and you
probably take the medication right well
these are fractions they're not whole
numbers so going from one one thousand
two to one thousand is really only 0.1%
it's one tenth of one percent chance of
getting all actual heart attack that's
so insignificant but that's what a lot
of people are using as the scare tactics
for getting people and medication when
in reality they should use the word rate
not risk factors because there's no
legal definition of the word risk okay
again cholesterol is there to help build
hormones build cellular membranes that's
why when you lose that function you you
increase a chance of getting infection
and viruses and also the brain and
nervous system you need cholesterol your
immune system needs cholesterol the bile
that helps you extract fats either by
demands from the food you need
cholesterol from that so the truth is
that cholesterol is important and low
cholesterol is actually way more
dangerous than high cholesterol thanks
for watching
hey if you're interested in finding out
the underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quiz
