if you have allergies I have a really
good protocol for you especially if you
have something called seasonal allergic
rhinitis which basically means you have
pollen allergies every year this pollen
floats in the air it gets into your
sinuses and you have all sorts of sinus
mucus congestion sneezing fatigue etc
etc is there something natural that you
can do to get rid of these allergies and
the answer is yes but the first question
what is pollen pollen simply is produced
by a flower and it's involved in the
reproductive system in a plant pollen or
pollenization involves
a male molecule connecting with the
female molecule uh making things fertile
to then generate and create seeds and if
you have an allergy to pollen your body
is rejecting pollen and in that uh
rejection process you have this whole
series of immune reactions that involve
the generation of histamines which are
mucus producing they're fatigue poisons
and without getting too complex they're
basically trying to turn this pollen
into something that is less harmful so
we can use this concept in developing a
strategy that can be very effective and
so if your body is rejecting pollen the
solution or the strategy would be to
gradually expose the body to pollen
starting at a very small level and then
increasing this over time so then the
body will reject it less and less and
less to the point where you have no more
allergies pollen is spread through the
wind
or through B's and today we're going to
talk about the remedy using something
that bees have which is called B pollen
if you can find local bee pollen that
would be the best remedy because in B
pollen you have a combination of a lot
of different types of pollen and a lot
of different flowers in your area and by
consuming this pollen it goes into the
system and it crosses the immune barrier
in your intestines getting the stamp of
approval through immigration so that way
you're not bypassing that system like
you would if you had an injection which
you could have a major reaction but when
it goes through normal digestion you
don't actually have a flare-up but some
people may react to it if they're very
very allergic so this is why we're going
to recommend going very very slow at
first and then increasing the amount but
in bee pollen you have not just pollen
you have a lot of other things you have
friendly microbes you have at least 29
different types of bacteria you have
like 188 different types of fungi which
can actually help your immune system you
have all sorts of amino acids in bee
pollen you have vitamins and minerals
and hormones you even have essential
fatty acids and so bee pollen has some
really cool effects not just analogies
but as a powerful anti-inflammatory it's
good to help heal a wound and a more
concentrated or a stronger version of
bee pollen would be something called B
bread in which case you would need
lesser amounts because it's stronger so
if you're very very sensitive you would
want to start out with maybe two or
three small little grains of bee pollen
per day okay and then each day you
increase that over a period of a week or
even longer
until you build up to you know if you're
an adult between two to five teaspoons
per day if you're a child you're taking
between one and two teaspoons per day on
an empty stomach and you can take this
total amount and kind of divide it up
through the day but realize you might
not feel anything at first because you
have to start building up this tolerance
inside your immune system and so your
body's doing all sorts of things behind
the scene of developing antibodies and
strengthening your immune system to the
point where that allergy is less and
less and less and less now ideally if
you have this allergy it'd probably be
best
start this in the winter before the
spring so some people don't do that but
realize that that would be the best time
to do it and so you can do this cycle of
taking bee pollen you know two or three
times a year maybe you do it in the
winter to Spring and then maybe in the
summer to fall and you can also chew
these grains or you can grind them up to
work a little bit better or just soak
them in water and then drink them down
that way you extract all the pollen from
these little chunks that they're in bee
pollen is the number one remedy that I'm
going to recommend number two quercetin
in onions
are really good for allergies they're a
very potent and a histamine and an
anti-inflammatory so the more onions you
can consume
the better and then of course the last
remedy is called stinging nettle okay
not just the stinging nettle root but
the whole plant now you may even have
this in your backyard growing wild and
if you do I created a link down below of
a great video to show how to
consume it okay you don't want to
necessarily have it raw the best way to
do it is to either boil it or steam it
or saute it or dry it out before
consuming and so I have a video on that
but if you don't have it in your
backyard you can just buy some as a
supplement and start taking it stinging
nettle is really good for anything
inflammation
allergies and arthritis and one last
point about seasonal allergies a lot of
the reactions that occur with these
histamines involve your liver so if you
are experiencing allergies and you're
eating junk food or you're doing
something to slow down the liver
function like alcohol or anything that
can inhibit liver function you're going
to find that these remedies probably
won't work so on that note I think it
would be very important to understand
what would be the best thing to do to
support liver function and for that
information you need to watch this video
right here
