today we're going to talk about what
would happen if you chewed one clove
daily for just seven days recently I did
a deep dive into the research on clove
and it blew me away wait till you hear
what this spice can do for your body
everyone has cloves in their pantry and
all you have to do is chew it every
single day and I think most people know
it's a natural painkiller especially for
a toothache the natural chemical in
Clove is called eugenol and the
properties of this eugenol which is en
cloves can mimic the effects of
Lidocaine but cloves do it without any
side effects but it doesn't just work
for toothaches it works systemically on
a lot of other inflammatory conditions
arthritis swelling joint pain anything
itis because it's a very potent
anti-inflammatory in certain studies it
mimics the effects of Nets nonsteroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen
and without the side effects certain
properties en cloes have potent
antimicrobial effects even with
antibiotic resistant bacteria as well
but also with fungus viruses including
herpes simplex 1 and two candida and
even uncertain parasites like malaria it
mimics the effects of antibiotics
without disturbing the good bacteria
apparently clove oil breaks open
biofilms which is this calcium
protective layer around bacteria clove
can actually break that up so your
immune system can kill the bacteria and
another mechanism of why it works is
that eugenol literally shuts off the
energy source to a pathogen starving
that pathogen of energy so it can't
reproduce another interesting effect of
clove is what it can do for blood sugars
apparently can make insulin more
sensitive creating effects like
metformin but in a mild form clove has
cancer fighting properties as well
working similar to certain
chemotherapies the research on this I'll
put down below involves several studies
one our lab studies and cancer cells as
well as animal studies and no there's no
human studies done thus far the effects
are the inhibition of cancer cell growth
and that study was from 2017 Journal of
molecular oncology research other
effects of clove include detoxification
of the liver and then we get into
another interesting blood thinning
effect very similar to aspirin it can
help prevent clots that could end up
being either a heart attack or even a
stroke you cannot use any of these
claims when you're talking about cloves
and it's not because cloves don't work
or create a positive effect on your body
it's basically because medicine owns
disease legally if a natural remedy
improves a disease state it is
classified as a drug and if someone
prescribes a recommended that drug for
that disease condition they're
practicing medicine without a license if
you even take a bottle of any natural
remedy you'll notice that there's a
disclaimer this product is is not
intended to diagnose treat cure mitigate
which means lessen or prevent any
disease we have to put these claims on
all of our nutritional supplements that
it basically doesn't help you it doesn't
do anything unfortunately medicine has a
monopoly over disease and God forbid
that any natural remedy ever cures
anyone is when you start curing people
boy are you going to get in trouble
you're going to be called a quack you're
going to be practicing medicine without
a license I mean I just find this so
bizarre only drugs can cure or treat
disease my question is can a drug
actually heal you drugs manage symptoms
and that's really what it's all about
and my two cents on this is okay fine if
you want to take full responsibility for
diseases and healthare go ahead but make
sure you really get results and
unfortunately we know that drugs don't
to actually heal the body and our
medical system does not work it's super
expensive people are not getting
healthier I know so many people on at
least 6 to 10 drugs managing their
symptoms but they're not really getting
healthier and unfortunately when I was
in practice the scope that I was given
was very very very thin even if someone
wasn't getting results with medicine
what I've been doing is focusing on
health and that's something that
medicine doesn't focus on they don't
focus on diet they don't really talk
about nutritional deficiencies are not
trained in that making sure that all
your organs and your body is not
dependent on some other thing like a
drug I did digress on this topic let me
get back to cloves a simple home remedy
that can do a lot because I'm not
selling anything there is freedom of
speech for me just to tell you what's in
some of the research on certain natural
remedies and what makes this dialogue
legal is my disclaimers okay in the
description basically this video is not
intended to help you in any way other
than to educate you on the benefit of
cloves so on that note there's a couple
more things that cloves can do number
one it can help boost your mood number
two it can help get rid of gas and
bloating very quickly because it
increases certain enzymes in your
digestion clothes have a higher orac
which is an antioxidant scale than
blueberries cloves help decrease mucus
and it can also help you with breath if
you have bad breath couple different
ways to take cloves you can just chew on
a clove and then swallow it one a day
you can take clove oil and put it
directly on a joint that's inflamed and
you can even grind a clove and put it in
a smoothie all right thanks for watching
and I will see you in the next video
