[Music]
okay so this is another um I said I
wasn't going to make a lot of treats
after the
holiday but you did then the good doctor
decided to talk about mug cakes yeah
because they're fast they're simple
there's no flour there's no sugar well
right there's almond flour there's
coconut flour but you know those are
nuts and so um this one is um a brownie
and I love it because I take the same
amount of of mug cake recipe and I use
little tiny cupcake forms and I make
eight and then we have some munchies for
a couple of days but you know not big
Tupperware containers full yeah cuz
here's the problem when you actually do
um some treat or dessert after a meal um
some people go overboard and they have
just way too much so you could overdo it
but with these they're real real easy so
basically this one is a chocolate
chocolate brown brownie and let's see
what they tastes like here M cuz I put
little sugar-free chips in them this is
really good mhm you got to make this mhm
this is good was it easy super simple
okay check it out okay
[Music]
n
[Music]
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the Subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
