I want to give you some really good
information to hopefully end seizures
okay if you have them what is a seizure
it's an uncontrollable shaking motion of
either your whole body or one part of
your body
with different levels of unconsciousness
so some people you can go completely
unconscious other people you can go
partially unconscious
and a seizure is in a single episode of
that event and epilepsy is a condition
where you have multiple or ongoing
seizures now they're triggered by
various things fever head injury
infection in the brain choking alcohol
or drug withdrawal extreme low blood
sugar can trigger them certain drugs and
toxins can trigger them and by the way
as a side note uh since we're talking
about toxicity in relationship to
triggering a seizure B6 is an effective
remedy to help lower the toxicity and
then of course you have various types of
stresses or even high blood pressure
that can trigger a seizure event and
there's many theories in what causes a
seizure but typically it's a hyper
excitability of a nerve and if you look
up seizure and Wikipedia you'll have a
lot of great information all describing
what it is and the various medications
that you can use unfortunately with a
lot of side effects and then when you
get to this thing called the ketogenic
diet you'll see that there's low quality
evidence to show that the ketogenic diet
is effective
but you can use the ketogenic diet for a
very specific type of epilepsy which is
called drug resistant epilepsy so if the
drugs don't work then you can use the
ketogenic diet I found that very
interesting in fact it's a great
marketing strategy to position the
ketogenic diet as some side thing that
you might want to try if the drugs don't
work first and the truth is that there's
hardcore data that shows that the
ketogenic diet
is very effective at at least
eliminating seizures by a factor of 50
to 70 percent and it's used by many
doctors in the medical profession in
different hospitals but there's several
big differences uh with the ketogenic
diet used for like seizures for children
versus maybe the ketogenic diet that
you're on right now and the big
difference that I see is they are using
for children especially probably the
dirtiest keto diet that you can be on I
mean the ingredients are so unhealthy
and the definition of dirty Keto is
you're using any type of ingredients
that you can find regardless of quality
as long as the carbohydrates are low but
with this diet pertaining to epilepsy
you are using a slightly different ratio
you're using more fat to protein so it's
like four to one four times more fat
than you are protein and what that's
going to do it's going to get you into
deeper ketosis and the deeper in ketosis
you are the better the results for your
brain now this is talk about a ketone
okay because a ketone really is the
answer to seizures and many other brain
problems what is a ketone it's a
byproduct of fat okay some people call
it an alternative fuel source when it's
not an alternative fuel source it is the
main fuel source our bodies were
designed to run on glucose is an
alternative fuel source if you disagree
with me then how do you explain the fact
that our bodies were designed to store
and run on a lot more fat than glucose
if we were to run on glucose as the
primary fuel source we wouldn't be here
now a long time ago we didn't have all
you can eat buffets we didn't have all
these available snacks that we have now
we had to go hunt for our foods and
there were probably days that we didn't
eat and that's why our bodies were
originally designed to tap into our own
fat reserve and make ketones
we only have a very limited amount of
glucose in our bodies that it's stored
in our liver you probably have like a
day's worth that's it so from a survival
standpoint fat and ketones are really
the primary fuel source that our bodies
are designed to run on so we flip this
and now people have this idea that you
know sugar is normal and we can include
a lot of carbs because that's the
brain's primary fuel source it's just
led to all sorts of problems with blood
sugars pre-diabetes diabetes and even
type 3 diabetes which is Alzheimer's and
so the brain is heavily affected by
glucose if the brain has a choice
between a ketone and glucose it will
always pick the Ketone first as its fuel
source even if they're together in your
blood so the brain loves ketones all
right so let's talk about ketones in
relationship to this problem
ketones have some really cool properties
one is it has anti-convulsant properties
okay what's a convulsion it's a seizure
this sudden violent irregular Movement
by your body ketones stabilize the
excitability of your neurons and so if
your neurons are hyper excited and out
of control ketones can calm them down
ketones also modulate or control
neurotransmitters and ketones just do a
lot for the brain including the
hippocampus the main area of the brain
that's responsible for memories and
learning and so many people have a
problem with that when they're not on
the ketogenic diet as in dementia but
ketones have been found to increase the
hippocampus
mitochondrial biogenesis by 43 percent
and there's definitely an association
between mitochondrial energy and
epilepsy ketones protect the brain
protect the neurons against oxidative
stress ketones increase the amount of
ATP in the neurons to allow them to
function better way more than glucose so
the answer to seizures is to get on the
healthy version of the ketogenic diet so
I do want to mention some of the
ingredients that they use for children
on this ketogenic diet but first I just
want to mention all the side effects
that occur from this diet you have
number one hypoglycemia well the only
reason that you would have hypoglycemia
on this diet is that you are not really
in ketosis long enough for your body to
adapt to it maybe you're doing on the
weekends and then but not during the
weekday now there is one point about
this because when you no longer consume
the amount of glucose and sugar and you
don't other foods that are low in carb
your blood sugars will drop but you
won't feel bad but the fact that you're
not putting sugar into your body is
going to reflect in lower blood sugars
and it could be down down to the 60s
okay and sometimes even high 50s and you
can still feel fine but sometimes people
don't differentiate this and they think
oh my gosh that's dangerous you have
hypoglycemia yet you have no symptoms
and they they recommend that you have
orange juice or sugar okay every 20
minutes to get the blood sugar up well
that's just going to create more and
more of the problem so the way to solve
hypoglycemia is to really make sure your
body is adapted to ketones so you can
actually run on this fat Fuel and you're
not susceptible to the highs and lows of
the blood sugar now another side effect
that occurs with this type of diet is
acidosis okay so the person is just too
acid so that's going to lead to
potentially kidney stones as a side
effect vomiting as a side effect
nauseousness sleeplessness but there's a
really simple solution just get on the
healthy version of the ketogenic diet
where you're going to offset all the
acidity that's generated with the
ketones by having more of the alkaline
type non-starchy vegetables okay so we
will talk about that in a minute but I
just wanted to mention there's a very
simple solution but if you're on the the
dirty version of this ketogenic diet boy
you're gonna have a lot of side effects
and so there goes the compliance you're
not going to stick with it for a very
long time and also lemons or limes in
your water for the citrates
so that way you can really bring down
the risk factor for these kidney stones
not to mention drinking enough water
like two and a half liters of water
every day and you will definitely
prevent kidney stones now of course if
you're a small child you probably don't
need to drink that much now there's also
other side effects relating to nutrient
deficiencies and of course when someone
is in the hospital being prescribed the
ketogenic diet by a dietitian they're
not going to differentiate the synthetic
vitamins versus the natural vitamins or
food-based vitamins they're going to
give you synthetics and other things in
these vitamins that I don't think are
very healthy but there are several
vitamin groups that um you should always
consider when doing the ketogenic diet
okay number one the B vitamins
especially B1 number two the
electrolytes potassium magnesium calcium
sodium chloride as well as the other
minerals as well like trace minerals and
I also recommend omega-3 fatty acids
okay like in cod liver oil would be best
but you can do fish oils another side
effect is skin rashes but that's
probably because of the omega-3 fatty
acid deficiency that um
that's not handled but I'm going to
explain why they usually have those
rashes in a second so now let's get into
what is a typical diet for these
children on the dirty ketogenic plan so
they're recommending things like
sugar-free Jello sugar-free soda
mayonnaise which is just filled with soy
oil which is high in omega-6 which is
going to create a lot of skin problems
inflammation of the brain heavy whipping
cream so it's probably just regular
whipping cream from grain-fed cows which
definitely have higher amounts of
omega-6 and then they also allow like
saccharin which is an artificial
sweetener and things like that which you
know have problems there's also this
thing called a keto kale Shake powder
right and the first ingredient is
refined soy oil and it's in a powder and
then they have the casein which is milk
protein and lactose which is milk sugar
and then corn syrup salads which I'm not
sure why they add that they add some
whey protein powder and then they add
these two oils
fungus oils when they process these oils
they use chemical solvents which are
linked as a neurotoxin you see when
you're trying to feed the brain
nutrition you don't want to use
neurotoxins and the side effects from
these oils are diarrhea vomiting
bloating and dehydration so here's what
I recommend if this is for your child or
yourself and you have seizures you
definitely need to get on the ketogenic
diet how do you generate ketones well
you can do it through the diet by going
low carb but definitely do the healthy
version but you can also do intermittent
fasting let's say you just if it's a
child just do three meals with no snacks
make sure the meals are healthy enough
if you're an adult and you have seizures
boy you can generate a lot of ketones
and get into deep ketosis just by doing
one meal a day okay and doing fasting
very very powerful now you can also take
ketones as a supplement to increase
ketones because remember if given the
choice even if you're not on a pure
ketogenic diet if if there's ketones in
the blood the brain will extract the
ketones over the glucose so that's just
another little tip for those people that
need to increase the amount of ketones
for the brain you want to eat foods that
are high in fat a little bit lower in
protein okay because too much protein
can stimulate insulin and that'll knock
you out of ketosis so different sausages
are really fatty like more than the
protein you don't want to do lean
protein anything
another way to get more fat is to buy
Hamburger that's more fatty don't get
the lean hamburger if you're going to
eat things like chicken make sure the
Skin's on it don't do the lean chicken
breast cook with more butter put
grass-fed butter on your vegetables and
definitely you need to beef up no pun
intended non-starchy vegetables as much
as possible that will offset the
ketoacidosis the pH problem it'll give
you the minerals that you need it help
keep the liver clean of a lot of this
fat that's being mobilized through the
liver avocados are really fatty you can
also do fatty nuts the macadamia nut
pecans are really fatty eggs are really
good cod liver oil now for a child you
can get cod liver oil that virtually
does not taste like fish it has a lemon
flavor to it and that's when I have I
don't taste any fish I drink it goes
down easy I'll take two tablespoons a
day and I'm good to go and you can even
get your B vitamins from nutritional
yeast I like to add nutritional yeast
non-fortified to my salad with some
dressing on there that's like olive oil
and some balsamic vinaigrette and it
gives it a little bit of a Cheesy flavor
but that way you can get all your B
vitamins as well also you can add
exercise okay exercise will also
increase more ketones in your body so if
you add that now you're in deep ketosis
that's going to greatly help your
seizures I have a little bit more
information on a really good diet that
will be a little bit higher in fat and
less protein and I put that up right
here check it out
