hey guys Dr Burke here in this video I
want to talk about this concept of
losing inches but no weight loss okay
let's Dive Right into this uh the
majority of people when they start to
lose weight are retaining a tremendous
amount of fluid and that's why they can
lose you know three four five pounds in
a week consistently for several weeks
and then all of a sudden it plateus down
to nothing and in your mind if you don't
realize that's just water weight you're
going to be very upset when you stop
losing weight and you might even stop
what you're doing when in fact it was
successful because especially if you're
doing a ketogenic diet you're doing
intermittent
fasting that's like a diuretic it's
going to dump a lot of fluid that
shouldn't be there in the first place
okay the most you could possibly
lose of actual fat per week is two
pounds but that's for a really healthy
person the majority of people that I see
especially in the 40s or 50s if they're
lucky they can lose a half a pound a
week that is normal for them initially
so don't take it as a loss but that is a
normal thing and it's a good thing take
it as something it's working because if
you don't think it's working then you
stop then all of a sudden now you're
back to square one when it actually was
working because it takes time to build a
healthy metabolism so um especially if
you have a history of doing a lot of
diets so so we have this thing where you
lose a lot of water weight and then we
also go down to fat burning um I don't
even like to go by weight because when
you put someone on a ketogenic diet or
in a minute fasting or combination of
both you're going to spike growth
hormone that is the main fat burning
hormone growth hormone basically it
preserves and makes protein it helps you
build lean body mass so what'll happen
you're be you're burning some fat you're
converting some of it to energy but then
you're also holding on to your muscle
protein a lot better you're beginning
you're becoming less atrophied and that
protein is a lot heavier than fat so
what'll happen is like some people even
they'll lose they'll lose their size
they'll shrink but they're gaining a
little weight sometimes and they think
it's fat when it's really not so one of
the best indicators is your actual size
you have to go by like your
midsection size that would be the most
important and also your thighs and
things like that so if you're shrinking
it's working give it more time even if
you're losing an a of a pound a week or
whatever just ride the wave and it'll
start to work more and more and more but
the fact that you're not losing a lot of
weight just tells us that you probably
had a very low metabolism for years and
now you're just kind of you're finding
it out and you're like probably more
shocked so what you want to do is you
want to realize the level of effort it's
going to take is maybe a little bit more
than you expected okay so oh well that's
just what it is uh it's you know but
people protest this and they get really
upset they're like it's shouldn't be
that hard to lose weight well I
understand that but that's what you
that's what we have to work on but if
you do a ketogenic diet and you don't
lose weight okay just focus on the
inches lost because this is the most
important thing right now over time it
will get better and better whatever uh
if it's if you're losing inches and
you're eating the same all you have to
do is continue that okay and then all of
a sudden you'll start losing you'll
start losing some more weight as the
metabolism gets better all right right
thanks so much for watching
