have you ever experienced anxiety or
depression to the point where it's
really affecting your life well this
video can help you okay
now if you've been watching my videos
for a long time some of this will be a
repeat but I want to show you the
connection between hypoglycemia
camouflaged as anxiety and depression I
believe most mood disorders are really a
low blood sugar situation okay low blood
Sugar's can create many symptoms
depression anxiety bipolar which is a
symptom headaches fatigue dizziness
irritability crying spells suicidal
thoughts ADHD many many move other mood
disorders as well so I want to talk
about the connection between your mood
and your blood Sugar's it's huge the
brain normally is dependent on running
on glucose or sugar for its fuel okay I
can run another fuel source but it's
mainly dependent on glucose now anytime
you have hypoglycemia you also have a
condition called insulin resistance and
insulin resistance is basically this the
insulin being a key can't connect to the
cell anymore okay it's blocked and
because insulin controls the door to
allow glucose to go in the cell you
don't get any glucose in the cell which
causes a signal to the pancreas that
tells the papers to make more insulin
and all this excess insulin then can
drive sugars down to low and you end up
with a hypoglycemic situation or a low
blood sugar situation and that can
actually starve the brain of its fuel
that it needs okay and of course the
treatment for that medically is either
drugs for some of these psychiatric
so-called diseases which are really
symptoms or telling you to eat six meals
a day have a lot of snacks eat more
carbs okay to get your sugar up it's all
about getting your sugar up and
balancing these blood sugars now if you
have protein that will bring the sugar
up but it doesn't necessarily correct
this hypoglycemia reaction now I used to
have hypoglycemia really bad when I was
11 years old I
playing outside and feeling really dizzy
and coming in and eating sugar and
feeling better
this persisted for many years of course
all I consumed was sugar in fact
Halloween candy
I would have a whole bag of candy and
eat I'm not kidding
the whole thing in one sitting well that
actually caught up with me when I had in
my 20s and late 20s they're starting
having blood sugar problems so bad the
inside of my eyelids were just irritated
to feel like it was sand and my whole
head felt depressed irritable all the
time till one day I changed my diet and
all of a sudden it was like a an instant
I felt relief in my head and my mood
started coming up and I felt much better
so what you need to realize is that you
can run your your brain on a different
fuel which is much much better and
actually running your body on and your
brain on fat fuel ok and that's called
ketosis ketosis is the condition where
your body is burning your own fat okay
or dietary fat and ketones are the
byproducts of fat so all you really have
to do is change what you're eating for a
period of one to two maybe three weeks
to completely change these right here in
fact you'll be very very surprised how
good you're gonna feel when you do this
so number one you have to realize that
these are symptoms okay they're not
diseases number two you have to realize
that consuming frequent meals makes
things worse over time trying to keep
your Sugar's up will never get rid of
the problem you have to change the food
that you're eating now how do we do that
I have a little mini course down below
that anyone can take it's a free course
it's very quick that shows you the
basics of how to get your body into
healthy ketosis I mean it might take you
a half hour to watch all the videos okay
once you know how to do that you need to
apply the information and do this over a
period of one to two to three weeks your
body's gonna start switching from
glucose to ketones in that period of
time I show you how to do it very
gradually very healthily to the point
where all of a sudden
your cognitive function your mood starts
getting better and better and better and
then you're going to be convinced that
this is the way to go so go ahead and
get started and send me your success
stories hey thank you so much for
watching keep spreading the word and
share this video
