probably out of all the things to figure
out if you're on the right diet or not
it's bloating when we're dealing with
bloating we're dealing with the small
intestine this is a tube that's 22 ft
long and it has a very large surface
area if we open it up and stretch it out
the surface area is roughly about 2700
Square ft or about 250 square meters the
bottom line is you have a lot of surface
area for absorption of food because 90%
of all all your digestion and nutrition
happens in the small intestine if you
get inflammation if you get an infection
or you take a medication or you have
food allergies all of this can irritate
that lining and cut down the surface
area of that absorption of nutrients and
then you're left with nutritional
deficiencies vitamin D as well as bios
salts you're supposed to recycle these
bios salts so if you run in a bile now
we can't absorb fats one of the purposes
of vile is to get rid of excess
cholesterol there's a condition called
sibo small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth that's where you have a lot
of microbes that normally should be in
the large intestine but they're in the
wrong place when you eat food especially
fiber and things like that you start
getting tremendous amounts of bloating
because you're getting this fermentation
see fermentation is a different process
and that's supposed to be in the large
intestine and if it's in the small
intestin in boy you're going to get gas
in the wrong place and it's going to
extend and create a lot of bloating pain
and disc Comfort there are apparently
certain microbes that can help it but
generally speaking I wouldn't recommend
adding more probotics down there because
you already have microbes there on the
flip side let's say you don't have sibo
you just have some type of inflammation
or damage or scar tissue in that small
intestine why would that be how would
you end up with that well usually it
comes from eating processed foods early
on seed oils the synthetic starches the
synthetic sugars too so all that creates
inflammation it depletes you of
nutrients it feeds the pathogens and now
you have this inflammatory condition
realize the more inflammation you have
the less you can absorb in the small
intestine the solution is to do
carnivore for a couple months at least
to clean out the gut while you also do
intermittent fasting it probably be
beneficial if you took um ban Hy
chloride as an acidifier to actually
help strengthen the stomach if you're
constantly shoving food down this pipe
right you don't have a chance to let it
go through it it keeps the the bacteria
just growing so we have those two
conditions okay but we also have another
condition where you don't have SEO but
you have bloating and you might have
other issues too like constipation and
your stool might float okay which means
you're not digesting uh your fats and it
could be either your gallbladder your
pancreas or it could be some type of
dysfunction with your digestion so in
some cases it might be beneficial to cut
back on your fiber okay and then slowly
increase it because that way you're
feeding the microbes you'll have better
digestion and you have better stool I
consume a lot of fiber from Plants right
from salads and things like that I don't
get them from grain or brand because
it's too much of a refined product when
you have a salad you're eating the whole
thing there's a lot of benefits in that
salad beyond the fiber to the microbes
even the phytonutrients can help these
microbes to a certain degree but the way
to get more microbes is to slowly
increase the amount of like salads you
eat starting off with maybe a couple
cups to then gradually over some weeks
more and more and more and more where
you're doing like seven or more cups per
day but if you want to increase the
diversity of microbes which will make
things even better then you use
different types of plants you can also
do fasting to increase the diversity as
well vitamin B1 though is another really
uh important factor for constipation
because B1 is all about supporting the
nervous system another thing that can
help that is having enough magnesium uh
as well as potassium and even sodium so
you need these electrolytes so to
prevent cramping of the colon the
absolute best way to know if what you're
eating is the right diet is to see how
you blow
okay to see if there's any bloating or
not if the stools are coming out really
good there's no bloating no pain you're
feeling good then whatever diet you're
on don't change anything and I created
another really popular video that's a
little bit more in depth on bloting and
if you haven't seen that one I put it up
right here check it
out
