I'm gon to do a makeover of my studio
and I'm gonna show you behind the scenes
of
[Music]
everything I'm hesitating showing you
what this looks like so just don't laugh
okay all right this is my
makeshift crappy setup right here which
is totally embarrassing I know but um
you know I had a studio in my other
house but we moved to this farm and I
just never got around to it so I have
this shift this is my studio this is
where I do most of the film and I have
this digital oh yeah this is you
probably thought this was real right and
I'm still trying to figure out this is
bad come on let's
go okay voila and so I'll come in here
and I'll turn on my
lights okay my
camera but look at this pain can this is
ridiculous ridiculous I need an upgrade
and so I'm going to call Bill and see if
he can actually do do a little upgrade I
don't really need anything too fancy I
just need a wooden table because these
blocks need to go let's just get him on
the line and see what he says hey Bill
hey Dr I have a little situation okay
don't laugh this is what I have as a
desk block yeah and I got things propped
up a little bit uh as a makeshift never
really got around to it I'm assuming you
need a new desk I just need something
other than this plastic card table yeah
give me the Dimensions we'll take care
of it we'll talk soon okay cool anything
is an
upgrade shoot this in the
dumpster Tak these things out of
here so we have the big reveal today
today we're going to show you the new
studio we've been working on this all
week I'm really excited I hope you will
be too typically my routine I get up
between 4:00 and 4:30 in the morning and
uh start doing research and then
eventually shoot a video right around
12: sometimes 1 2 3 even 4:00 in the
afternoon and I don't have a big team of
people doing research I do all of it
it's a lot of work but you need a good
studio and so now I have it right here
thanks to Bill check this
[Applause]
[Music]
out
this is a tree that fell in my pond yeah
so we actually took it we milled it on
the Sawmill and then we kri it and then
we processed it which means we edged it
we planed it we sanded it and then we
put put a cot lacer on it'll darken as
time goes on but it just a different
contrast it's it's really really pretty
stuff I love Cherry it's my favorite
wood it's gorgeous so now this is the
ultimate desk I am so excited about
doing videos now in a slightly better
Studio than I had before which I'm
embarrassed to even show you so we have
this couple lights right here and
also we have this check this out it's
like looking down at Google Earth to the
Grand Canyon but we're not at the Grand
Canyon we're on my table so now I have
this whiteboard that I can sketch things
on if I'm educating people about I don't
know menopause I can talk about how all
the hormones go down except one called
cortisol that goes up that's why people
as they get older lose their muscles so
this can just allow a lot of different
um easy explanations without using the
big board right there but I'm just
loving this table how the heck did you
come up with this idea it really looks
like a flowing river I know it's lighted
underneath but how did you come up with
this I thought it would be cool to
actually almost have something look like
the Grand Canyon because you were
telling me how the camera was going to
drop down on it but we started thick
with the epoxy on that side and we kind
of tapered it out to almost zero over
here um which I thought was kind of cool
just something I I decided to do and put
it on this cool base and yeah it looks
amazing from the downshot I'm I'm really
impressed with it kind of cool no this
is like over the top cool yeah it looks
great so for those of you that have not
subscribed to his channel definitely
subscribe and check out the video on how
he built this I'm going to put that up
right here check it
out
