I think most people would agree that
sugar is not very good for you and sugar
is a type of carbohydrate but there's
other types of carbohydrate you have
fiber that's a carbohydrate when we
think about fiber we think about okay
that's something that's fairly good for
us right so we have good carbs and bad
carbs but what makes something good and
what makes something bad it has to do
with what it does to your blood sugar
sugar absorbs very quickly and it'll
raise your blood sugar and fiber doesn't
we're going to get into that a little
bit I'm excited to tell you that I have
a brand new product released it's my
magnesium powder and the reason why I
like magnesium powder is because I don't
like taking four to five capsules of
magnesium versus just one scoop of this
magnesium powder mix it in water slug it
down we just got this in last night I
tried it I slept like a baby and the
form of this is called magnesium
glycinate the glycinate part helps calm
you down and it will actually enhance
your sleep and this form is absorbed at
like 80% where other forms are absorbed
3 to 4% there's three things about
Magnesium number one most people are
deficient number two it's very difficult
to test if you're deficient and number
three magnesium is involved in thousands
of different things on the body that go
Way Beyond just decreasing stress
relaxation and better sleep and as a
onetime special offer you'll get 20% off
this product if you order it within the
next 5 days simply click on the product
icon in the left lower corner of this
video and the discount will
automatically be applied to your
purchase but more importantly it's
understanding what the Third third
carbohydrate is we have sugar we have
fiber and then we have what's left so
I'm going to give you a hint see if you
can figure it out we take a look at this
product right here this has a lot of
carbohydrates not a lot of fiber no
sugar at all then we have chips a lot of
carbohydrate not very much fiber in
basically no sugar here's one with high
carbohydrates little bit of fiber but no
sugar you ever see these right here a
lot of carbohydrate no sugar instant
potatoes a lot of carbohydrate no sugar
but here's the biggest hint corn starch
a lot of carbohydrate in fact it's all
carbohydrate zero sugar the carbohydrate
we're talking about is starch all of
these Foods right here are loaded with
starch not in a whole form it's not like
potatoes or actual corn we're dealing
with something very highly processed
when you Ultra process a starch okay
like corn for example this starch no
longer resembles the original food it
came from you could pretty much call
this a synthetic starch okay it's highly
manipulated what you need to know about
fiber and starch both being similar a
chain of glucose molecules is this the
bonds that connect these sugars together
are very very different in fiber they're
extremely strong and this is why you
can't break them down we as humans don't
have the enzyme to break down certain
fibers therefore it doesn't get absorbed
as sugar and what's really fascinating
about this is how certain starches a
affect your blood sugar the first thing
that's bad about starches I'm talking
about ultra fine starches is that a lot
of these have the potential to spike
your blood sugars more than sugar an
average American consumes over 50% of
their calories being Ultra processed
food calories we create this massive
Spike of blood sugar and we do it
repetitively day in and day out at first
our body can handle it to some degree
maybe we're younger and we can burn off
some of this energy but as we get older
we don't burn off the energy some of it
gets stored as stored sugar in our liver
that's called glycogen then it gets
converted over into fat there's going to
be a point where the fat cell itself is
filled up it had enough it cannot absorb
any more sugar it becomes dysfunctional
and another term for this is called
insulin resistance now the fat cell no
longer has the ability to absorb any
more fat so then what happens where does
this energy go it goes inside the organs
as liver fat as fat inside the pancreas
and it goes in between the organs too as
visceral fat you may have this yourself
if you look down right now your shoes
and you can't see them because your
belly's in the way then you have
visceral fat visceral fat means that
your liver also has fat in it there's no
way you can have belly fat and not have
any liver fat this goes on for a period
of time until the insulin resistance
gets so bad that now our insulin just
doesn't work anymore we can't remove the
sugar out of the blood we've now lost
the ability to control our sugars we get
what's called diabetes because of the
amount of carbohydrates they're
consuming and I'm not talking about the
carbohydrates from vegetables and things
like that even fruit talking about the
alter process refined carbohydrates
specifically starch people are so much
against sugar but they don't really know
this other hidden sugar in starch that's
creating even more damage than sugar and
now you're starting to get an idea of
what starch really is don't worry it
gets worse if you're going on the
ketogenic diet for example right the big
thing is to keep your carbohydrates
below 50 gram many times within the
ketogenic diet no one's really talking
about what type of carbohydrates you
should keep below 50 gram and I want to
mention another point about starches
starches are hidden sugars but they're
not classified as sugars in fact
sometimes certain foods are advertised
as sugar-free when in fact they're just
loaded with this hidden sugar the other
problem with these we'll call them
synthetic starches there's no protein
there's no fat and there's definitely no
fiber protein fat and fiber are the
things that help buffer this spike in
blood sugar and when we're consuming so
much of this right here we don't have
any buffer for a blood sugar and so what
I'm trying to tell you is that you're
depleting your body in a major way when
you consume that much starch you may or
may not know vitamin D is so so
important for so many things but vitamin
D would be depleted by consuming these
types of foods you're going to get a lot
of inflammation and the more
inflammation you have the less vitamin D
can actually work in your cells and
vitamin B1 is like the spark plug that
allows you to burn those carbohydrates
so now we can't make energy you're going
to get tired without B1 and you're going
to deplete zinc and the other thing that
these will'll call them synthetic
starches do is they tend to feed more of
the pathogenic bad microbes more than
the good bacteria you're good bacteria
want fiber they can live on sugar but
they prefer the fiber but your pathogens
love these starches they can just thrive
on them they basically ferment them more
than the good bacteria because a lot of
this food is broken down so fast and
absorbed very high up in your small
intestine it doesn't slowly break down
and end up in the large colon too much
because it's highly processed you end up
breeding or growing the unfriendly
microbes in the small intestine and this
is called sibo small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth 50% of the
population has that the breads the pasta
the cereal the crackers the biscuits the
waffles the pancakes contain synthetic
starches which are actually way worse
than sugar but they contain sometimes
whole grains and they're considered
heart healthy which is a totally bunch
of BS but now let's talk about something
even more interesting why are they
putting all of this corn starch the food
starch the modified corn starch what is
the purpose of this in our food
this is going to shock you the purpose
of the modified food corn starch in food
is to thicken things that's why they put
it in there just to thicken things
another reason is a carrier to be able
to kind of like mix flavorings and
sweeteners it's like a delivery system
when we get into
maltodextrin the purpose is basically a
filler you mean to tell me that they're
putting something very very dangerous
worse than sugar in our food just to be
a filler something that they can
actually make profit on that they can
then classify as sugar-free because it's
classified as a and I'm not kidding a
complex carbohydrate the last purpose of
multitran is an energy source put it in
certain type of protein powders or the
muscle mass powders where they're
literally one serving is over a th000
calories and 80% of that is maltodextrin
I mean this is like creating such trauma
such overwhelming shock to your
mitochondria and your cells so fast in
your body when you consume this I wanted
to gain weight at some point you know
and so I started doing those protein
powders and it was filled with
maltodextrin it didn't work for me all
it made me do is want to go to sleep
really quick I just felt mentally groggy
the next time you're at the grocery
store and you are tempted to buy these
or these which I used to love these or
even these right here realize that they
have a tremendous amount of ultra
processed starch that's actually worse
than real sugar now since we're on the
topic of maltodextrin if you haven't
seen this video you should probably
check it out I put it up right here
