so recently had a question am i getting
enough calories when I'm doing in a
minute fasting so let's talk about that
well the first point I want to bring up
is it's not really about the calories
per se it's about the nutrients in the
calories so we all want to focus on that
but it does take a certain amount of
calories it takes at least 900 calories
to get these nutrients okay now the
higher the amount of nutrients in the
foods the less you will need so if we
were to compare kale for example to
iceberg lettuce it's about ten times the
nutrition you would have to consume ten
times the amount of iceberg lettuce to
get the same nutrition from kale an egg
a pasture-raised organic egg versus a
chicken breast without skin hands-down
the egg just has so much more nutrition
and vitamins and nutrients but chicken
doesn't have a lot of nutrients other
than some protein hot dog versus wild
caught salmon right well caught salmon
has a lot of omega-3 hot dogs
last time I checked doesn't have a lot
of omega-3 a pecan is much healthier
than a peanut okay so then you have
protein powder which is extremely low
fat protein lets you have whey protein
powder we were to compare that to
grass-fed beef grass-fed beef has a lot
more nutrition now the next thing you
want to know is when you do in a minute
fasting and you put your body in a state
of etapa G which is the recycling of
proteins your body is taking old damaged
parts proteins and recycling them into
new raw material to build new tissue so
you need four amino acids go way down
your need for fatty acids are not near
what it would be like if you were doing
three or four meals a day because your
body is retaining these nutrients its
recycling them not only that but etapa G
will help the retention of nutrients
vitamins and minerals so those are da's
or those requirements are much less so I
would just say watch out for any
nutritional deficiencies that you might
run up against like let's say your hair
start falling out or you feel tired or
your your nails are brittle then we know
you need more nutrients let's
about one meal a day okay so people have
a lot of questions about this if you're
gonna do one meal a day do you have to
multiply the three to six ounces of
protein times three and have like 12 to
18 ounces of protein with that meal
that's going to be really hard to
consume that no you don't because you're
in a top of G and you're gonna conserve
protein you're going to conserve fatty
acids so eight ounces of protein seven
ounces of protein nine ounces of protein
is totally fine you're not going to need
as much you're also going to not need as
much fat because you're gonna retain
some of the fatty acids as well as far
as vegetables go I mean if you can
consume a very large ten cups of salad
that would be great but maybe you can
get away with seven cups especially if
you're not used to eating that those
amounts but the point is that when you
eat less your body will adapt to some
degree so you do not need the same
quantities some of the nutrients that
are hard to get when you consuming one
meal a day trace minerals B vitamins so
personally I take my wheatgrass juice
powder my nutritional yeast tablets and
my electrolyte powder just to make sure
that I'm getting all the nutrients and
prevent any nutritional deficiency and
it seems to work fine alright well
thanks for watching hey tell me what you
think about this video go ahead and
comment below and give me your feedback
