let's show you the seven ways to burn
more fat while you are sleeping there's
nothing worse than poor sleep to stop
you from burning fat I had this patient
who came in long ago who lifted over 3
million pounds in the gym over the
course of a year she was Hardcore
dedicated and she lost I think one or
two pounds very depressed the problem
that she had was she wasn't sleeping
that great I fixed her sleep with what
I'm going to show you now
and uh the first month she lost 16
pounds so let's start with number seven
work backwards then I'll eventually get
to the most important thing you need to
do out of all of these tips okay number
seven you want to let your appetite
dictate what fasting pattern that you
should be on and then because you don't
have an appetite uh it allows you to go
longer and you just really want to pay
attention be in tune with your appetite
so if you're not hungry just don't eat
all right number six
reduce the extra excess fat extra butter
and the MCT oil in the coffee or you're
adding more fat don't do that what we
want to do is we want to force our
bodies to burn our own body fat and not
the dietary fat I don't want you to go
lowfat but I don't want you to add
additional fat that is excess to the
normal fat that comes with your protein
your meat things like that number five
make sure your carbs aren't too high I
think an easy way to do it without
having to count carbs is just to eat
meat and vegetables most vegetables
especially salads they don't have a lot
of carbs they have a lot of fiber you're
not going to ever gain weight on salad
I'm sorry if anyone ever says that they
don't know what they're talking about
some people might have a thyroid issue
and they have a hard time converting T4
to T3 T3 is like the active form of the
thyroid hormone this happens in some
people especially when they go low carb
for a longer period of time what they
should do do to solve this is not to
start adding a lot of sugar and stuff
like that but just add more berries that
would be something that could
potentially help your sleep because it
helps the thyroid and if you're getting
bloating you're not on the right eating
plan start eliminating things the nuts
maybe you eliminate the cheese that type
of thing or dairy and some people that
have inflammation in their gut do very
well in the carnivore diet which is also
diet that eliminates a lot of potential
things that bloat you now let's go to
four overall sleep hygiene making sure
that you invest in a good mattress I'm
telling you I mean you spend onethird of
your life in bed might as well invest in
a good mattress the best way to get a
mattress is to go to a mattress store
and start testing things out because
some people do better on the softer some
people do better on the firmer make sure
the room is not too hot if you can crack
the window open and get more fresh air
that would be great if you have a dog in
your bed that keeps you up you're going
to have to put the dog somewhere else
because I mean just the the excess noise
and the movement in bed and
unfortunately if you're sleeping with
someone that snores it just throws
everything off growing up I slept in the
basement okay it was cool dark and boy
that was great cuz I could just bundle
up and go to sleep and it was the best
sleep environment nowadays is is lights
on we have the computer the LED lights
the blue lights it's very very bad for
sleep so you really want to start
dimming the lights early on the more
light you have especially blue light
that's going to interrupt the Melatonin
so that's going to prevent you from
going to sleep now we're at number three
these are sleep aids okay apple cider
vinegar through the day like maybe once
or twice or three times in some water
like a tablespoon that'll help your
blood sugar it will help you sleep so
that's one thing number two
collagen is a good supplement to take
onethird of it is glycine glycine is
usually deficient in most people glycine
is needed to sleep another remedy is NI
acetamide take a little bit maybe 100 to
150 milligrams at a time vitamin D is
also very important for sleep cycles
sometimes I'll take vitamin D right
before bed it really helps uh especially
jet leg and lastly sea salt all right
number two do a full workout where your
whole body gets not just tired but you
sweat okay so you want to push yourself
to the intensity that if you're doing
weights it's to a failure okay so we
don't want to just do a little exercise
maybe in the beginning but you want to
graduate to something more intense let's
say you're sprinting up a hill and you
hit a wall that would be good you know
do several of those because we want to
do enough exercise to deplete the energy
in your body and also stimulate growth
hormone growth hormone is activated by
the intensity of exercise so we want
that work out but not very frequently
those people who had the hardest time
losing weight were the most desperate
and serious about it and that alone that
mindset that emotion stresses people out
and it adds more cortisol so I highly
recommend you go about this in a relaxed
manner as much as possible and relaxed
and don't worry about it so much
self-induced stress can activate
cortisol don't expect things just to
bounce back right off the bat you have
to have what's called in medicine
patients this is why we put you in a
waiting room right and also when you're
starting out weight loss especially if
you're post-menopausal you don't just
have a weight loss problem you have also
a loss of muscle problem that's called
atrophy and in the process of healing
sleeping you're going to rebuild muscle
all right number one the most important
tip okay you want to go to bed between 9
and 9:30 okay and you want to sleep for
nine hours now before you think I'm
crazy let me tell you why think about
what's going to happen you're going to
get a lot more repair of proteins muscle
and your metabolism is a function of how
much lean muscle mass you have you think
you're like wasting the day away but
you're actually doing a lot of
productive work with your body it's part
of the healing phase so get that 9 hours
of sleep be in bed by 9 9:30 and if you
can't sleep that long maybe you take a
nap or you get up and you go back to
sleep but the point is that the more
sleep especially in the beginning the
better the more weight loss why because
you burn all the fat while you're
sleeping so might as well ride the way
so since we're on this topic of sleep I
think it's really important to know a
little bit more about this hormone
cortisol that can prevent you from going
to sleep and I have this wonderful
download on my website that you can
download all the things things that help
you reduce cortisol in one document so
click the link down below and go to the
document and download it and start to
study
it
