hi guys in this video I want to talk
about the relationship between low blood
sugars and your brain it's very
interesting that normally your brain
will run on either glucose or sugar or
ketones which are the byproduct of fat
burning but not amino acids or fatty
acids okay now when you induce low blood
sugar healthily naturally using
ketogenic diet or in a minute fasting
you're not going to have the problems
I'm going to talk about okay you're not
gonna have these symptoms it's actually
that's a you want your blood Sugar's a
little on the low side but to do it
naturally and gradually over a period of
time okay what I'm going to be talking
about in this little section is actual
hypoglycemia low blood sugar while
you're still eating carbs and you're not
fully adapted to the ketones okay so
you're still running on sugar but you
have low blood sugars so so here's what
happens well there's a couple things you
need to know the brain does not store
sugar as glycogen that means it doesn't
have a storage like the muscle or the
liver so it's dependent on the sugar in
your blood so if there's low blood sugar
this thing starves okay now when you
starve the brain of glucose you shut
down the oxygen to the brain so you
starve it a fuel and oxygen well guess
what's gonna happen you're going to get
a condition called anoxic irritability
which is basically starving the neurons
with oxygen which is very toxic and
irritating to the nerves so you actually
can kill the nerves you kill the brain
now if you have a chronic hypoglycemic
situation low blood sugars over a long
period of time you actually create
degeneration in the brain and all sorts
of neurological issues tremors and a
whole bunch of other issues okay so
again that's if you're doing it
unhealthily you do it naturally you're
not going to have those effects now
there is a protective mechanism that
happens when your blood sugars go low
and that's by the adrenal gland and some
other organs as well so you get this
kick in of the spike of adrenaline
when the blood Sugar's go to a low and
there's a whole bunch of symptoms that
can occur if that happens too quickly
but your adrenaline and cortisol are
trying to raise the sugar up there's
other hormones too but I'm not going to
get into it at this point so here if
your adrenals are stressed and you have
hypoglycemia and you're not changing
your diet you're gonna have all sorts of
issues because the adrenals will not be
able to counter this efficiently so you
end up have with low blood sugars that
don't seem to rebound at a nice
comfortable healthy level so it creates
a lot of strain on the nervous system
okay so the whole goal with this is to
correct the low blood sugar not by
adding more sugar into the diet that's
never going to work it's gonna always
make things worse and there's so many
people that are recommending this six
meals a day and eat candy and it's
that's the worst advice what you need to
do is what's behind the low blood sugar
or something called insulin resistance
there's a whole bunch of things you can
do to correct that so it doesn't become
a problem so eventually you can
normalize the resistance normalize the
blood sugar because insulin is now
healed and then the brain will do a lot
better cognitive functions mood issues
won't clear up so I'm gonna put a link
down below exactly how to do that it's
called the keto and intermittent fasting
eating plan alright thanks for watching
hey before you go definitely sign up for
my free keto course I put a link down
below it's on messenger in Facebook but
it will give you all the basics it's
very quick it's like three or four
videos and it's free check it out
