hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about excessive thinking your focus and
your adrenals alright I mean it's quite
amazing what's happening now with a lot
of people we're getting constant
stimulation going on with from the news
you know shocking us with this latest
story to the stress of family friends
work and then you have on the computer
you have all these different things
going on in social media you got people
texting you every five seconds calling
you and it's constantly interrupting
your focus 24/7 not to mention the cell
phones give off like an EMF it's
electromagnetic field that really does
affect your your brain cells in fact I
do not like talking the phone because of
that so I use an ear phone but I don't
like talking the phone I can feel it's
like doesn't feel very good and then
your computer does that too so you want
to keep the computer as far away from
you as possible and then you also have
the the light the LED light which is a
blue light off the computer screen
either on your mobile or your regular
computer which can really affect the
pituitary and your pineal gland and it
can affect sleeping and eyestrain so you
have a lot of things that can put the
adrenals in a state of a kind of a
flight or fight or a stress mode in
which you're solving problems 24/7 and
that could really affect your focus and
your concentration so here's what I
recommend you do go for a long walks
okay without this okay get out in nature
get out of your head also getting
involved with certain hobbies crafts art
music things that you can get your
attention off all this stimulation right
here but the bottom line is you just
need to stop thinking so much because it
definitely drains the adrenal at least
one hour a day so go ahead and try this
and give your adrenals a chance to reset
thanks for watching hi guys listen I
want to thank you so much for your
wonderful comments and I want to ask you
if you wouldn't mind giving me your
review on Google I put a link down below
I'd really appreciate it and thank you
in advance
