so today we're gonna talk about the
absolute worse sugar alcohol now the
first thing you can know is that sugar
alcohols
are not alcohol it has nothing to do
with alcohol so that's one thing
they're basically low-calorie sweeteners
that don't get totally absorbed there's
something called a glycemic index
which basically is things that you
consume that spike the blood sugar the
higher on the scale the worse the spike
in blood sugar the lower on the scale
the less the effect on blood sugars okay
so we want a zero effect if possible on
the glycemic index as being a good
sweetener a wreath rotol will give you a
zero effect okay so it has it does not
spike your blood sugars at all some
people have a lot of bloating sometimes
people don't like this because it's very
cold it gives a really cold sensation
but it's in using a lot of different
things okay
xylitol has 13 so that's pretty low
that's the one I like so it's not zero
it has a slight effect if you're having
just a small amount it's gonna be okay
but just make sure that any time you're
doing these it's a organic or non-gmo
product sorbitol is 9 that's pretty low
isomalt 9 lacked at all 6 and mannitol
is zero certain doctors use this for
glaucoma they will inject you to
actually help intracranial pressure as
well I don't actually recommend this one
even though it's zero but the worst one
is maltitol
there's a glycemic index of 52 I mean
table sugar is 62 or 63 so this is crazy
high so this is going to spike your
blood Sugar's big-time so maltitol is
the one that you want to avoid and also
there's a bunch of other ones that I
didn't list as well but I'm just kind of
giving the basic ones and of course I'm
assuming you already know to avoid the
artificial sweeteners like aspartame
which comes as equal or NutraSweet or
saccharine which is sweet and low or
sucralose which is Splenda so I'm
assuming you know you already know that
these are not very good they create
problems with your microbiome your
microbes you're friendly bacteria in
your gut they create fluid attention
they're linked to insulin resistance a
lot of other issues stevia is a really
good sweetener monk fruit is good inulin
is a fiber a lot of people are using
that sometimes you might get too bloated
if you have too much so it's always a
balance of trying to find a sweetener
that it's very similar to sugar that
doesn't have an aftertaste okay that
doesn't affect the blood sugars but then
doesn't give you the bloating the gas in
the diarrhea so different people react
differently with different sweeteners so
you just have to test it out and see
what works good for you all right well
thank you so much for watching
hey guys so there's a whole bunch of
people that really need this information
so press the share button and let's get
it way out there
