so welcome everyone we have a great uh
interview by David all the way from
Kenya Africa so welcome David thank you
very much Dr B Amazing Story can you
tell me a little bit about uh uh I saw
pictures of you when you were a kid you
were overweight your whole family I
think was
overweight
yeah well um I grew up knowing myself
I'm overweight so uh it's not like
something that um I I knew I was gaining
weight or anything but I was just big
ever since childhood so for me that's
all I know so I have a question um in
your uh School were other kids
overweight too or were you pretty much
uh uh one of the only ones that was
overweight I think I was pretty much the
only one
overweight okay because I think it's is
it rare to have a lot of overweight
people in your
country um there are so many people who
are overweight in my country currently
um the number is increasing uh we are
the next U American obesity uh problem
so so many people overweight in this
country yeah so so have the food has the
food changed in the last uh
years from the original food that
we we tend to
eat for for my personally my food has
changed but uh if you look at the common
meals that we have uh on our tables it's
about uh a lot of
cornflour U we call it ugali it's a
mixture of cornflour and water and uh a
lot of wheat
products and if you look at the portions
carbohydrates are maybe 70% you get uh
20 to
25%
uh proteins and 5%
U maybe fats and vegetables but we don't
eat a lot of uh proteins interesting now
um the type of the quality of corn and
wheat grown in your country has is it
GMO do they have the genetically
modified come in yet no no we don't have
any GMOs in the country yet okay um no
we don't have wow okay so here you
you're going along because I saw you
were actually on a TV show I think
right I think I saw a video of
you yes that's where my yes uh that's
where my weight loss Journey started so
tell me a little bit about how you came
across uh uh some things to help you
lose weight and was that successful
initially and then what did you do
eventually well um like you saw the TV
show was the beginning of my weight loss
journey and uh it was a bit atic it was
a three month uh program so we were
doing things hurriedly and uh we were
not uh being taught the right way it was
just uh competition just like America's
biggest loser so we were not uh being
taught the right things so I lost a lot
of weight about 34 kilos but I gained 14
of those almost immediately I stopped
working out and the weight just Creed
back in and then um I started uh using
Google and uh there was Dr bag talking
about keto uh that was in
2015 um I never uh I never started
immediately for one year I was
researching Kito
the hold of 2015 and I've listened to
all your
videos uh since then and uh I started
Kito in
2016 so from 2016 to date uh in total
I've lost 56
kilos um yes I was initially 168 kilos
so wow it's been quite a good journey so
how much do you weigh in pounds right
now
okay I don't know how to calculate in
pounds but I weigh 118 kilos okay I
weighed yesterday um actually I've added
2 kilos so I've been having a cold I
don't know how that boy your your even
your face looks so different that's
amazing you did really really good um
can you tell me thank you're welcome can
you tell me a little bit about what you
eat now and if you're doing intermittent
fasting or are you just doing
ketogenic no I'm doing intermittent
fasting uh my eating window is uh 6
hours so I start my meals at about 11:
and uh I would do uh Bulletproof
Coffee uh this is uh 1 tbsp butter MCT
oil and uh in about 2 to 3 hours I would
do I like doing four eggs I just want to
be like cment so I would do four eggs
and uh a French beans uh this are green
uh green beans and uh of course cooked
in
butter and about another 2 hours my last
meal would be uh uh roast goat
meat with uh with soup about uh 200 g
with soup and uh because I don't trust
the source of our vegetables so much I
opt for um a supplement uh spir Luna and
uh one called green power we get it from
South Africa so it's uh spirulina with
chloro chlorophyll or something what you
call it interesting interesting and
seelp yeah and seelp that's fascinating
are the soils are the I'm always curious
are the soils um volcanic from volcanoes
do they do you have good soil in
Kenya yes we do we do have good soils in
Kenya if you if you if you're farming or
you know your if you can trace your food
definitely we have very good soils we
have very good foods but uh uh even in
the news uh we've had uh people
complaining of you know uh fast rening
of say uh
avocados or they're using chemicals to
make them uh look fresh for longer okay
because um access to markets is a bit of
a challenge okay have you thought about
having your own
garden uh with a fast life in Nairobi
it's very difficult but I do grow some
Hobs oregano Thyme and the likes I saw a
picture of you uh with coffee or
something was that was that you with
coffee what were you doing with coffee
beans yes
I I I trade in coffee I uh I do exports
and I do roast coffee that's my main
line of business so yeah so you drink
your own coffee then oh yes I drink my
own roast K is it Kenya coffee yes
Kenyan coffee Arabica AA and is it do
you have places where it's organic there
or without chemicals I I do practice um
organic I do single origin and organic
um so I I from Farm to my cup I'm sure
it's 100% OIC wow that's that's
fascinating because uh I guess Kenya
coffee is it's pretty popular in the US
I mean it's always curious so you guys
have you know in Africa I noticed that
um the Jawbone the teeth are very very
uh are perfect um I think that has to do
with the soils I'm guessing because you
guys have a lot of trace minerals in
your soils um in America we have a lot
of cavities and we go to the dentist um
do people have um do you guys have a lot
of uh people that go to the dentist in
Kenya uh well the current generation I
can say we are really hitting the we are
seeing the dentist more you see the the
lifestyle that we're living currently um
is not as good as our
forefathers we are not more the organic
food if if you find a family uh having
maybe sweet potatoes or traditional
vegetables it's very very hard uh people
have pizza hey we have pizza heart we
have uh McDonald's so everybody is
heading to that direction and it's more
of a lifestyle so uh I see the trend is
increasingly becoming popular I mean
Domino's just opened the other day
and uh it's always full packed uh KFC
just opened the other day and the same
thing so it's it's it's going to be
crazy in a few
years yeah
diabetes oh yes uh the the case is
diabetes cases on the rise I I try talk
to doctors to know uh uh what's
happening to just consult and uh cases
of diabetes are really really on the
rise
wow and also cancer that's terrible um I
think you had a picture too of your
sister did she lose some weight too wow
my sister has lost about 60 kilos wow
that that photo she
was
120 and uh she started a bit earlier
than me uh in weight reduction she's our
last born uh born in
1991 so she started her weight loss
Journey uh way before me so currently
she ISS about uh
64 and she wants to lose another four
Killers wow that's awesome and are
people looking at you like wow what did
it's amazing do you get compliments or
people like people that knew you before
are they saying anything about you oh
yes uh I do get compliments and um to
many I also confus them they're like
they're not sure if it's me or not so um
yeah and feels good it feels good that's
fantastic well well done I was amazed
that you before and afters because the
some of the pictures that you showed me
were just like that's you that's
amazing so you did very
well
yeah well thank you so much for the
interview and I I just uh I hope that uh
it'll give a lot of people a chance to
uh give them hope that they can also do
it as
well well uh um one there is nothing
like genetics I I think I shared my
brother's
pictures um my brother my sister we are
all big we we we believe that um this is
the way we are so one there's nothing
like that you just have to understand
your
body uh take time there's no rush uh and
uh when you're deciding on a diet
because there loads and loads of
information on the uh on the internet um
stick to one I decided to stick to Dr B
and I'm happy uh with the results and uh
I really want to continue working with
you and uh see I hit my target of 98
kilos uh I need to lose another 20
absolutely and I think uh I think you
did have a couple questions right yes I
did yeah go ahead let's answer
this well um currently the way I I I I
diet and exercise I normally diet for 3
months strictly without hitting the gym
then I would do both for three months
the gym and dieting and uh I find it um
a bit odd because my trainers keep on
telling me know you can't just leave the
gym and go go away and come back after 3
months is that right is it is it a right
thing to do is it a good
cycle um okay so that's a really good
question let's talk about that
um if you
um I think a better cycle that you may
want to try is
um working out one or two times a
week because that gives you a chance to
break your body and get a full recovery
especially even at your age or even my
age
um like every day is probably way too
much every other day might be okay but
sometimes two times a week or for some
people especially if they're under
stress once a week and I'm talking like
if you do two once a week and it's a
hardcore workout and you let your body
fully recover the gains will be huge uh
I had one person they were doing uh four
times a week I switched them to one and
that's when they started seeing major
improvements so the key is the recovery
how well your recovery um but I think uh
probably every 3 months might be a
little too long as far as waiting um but
keep it consistent and then switch it up
like you have a different workout so
you're not you cuz what happens training
decreases um growth hormon so your body
adapts to one thing and then you stop
getting the improvements so you do have
to keep it uh altered and changed so
your body doesn't
adapt completely and then it's all of a
sudden it's used to this thing where you
you limit off your you maximize your
winds so you have to keep constantly
change
things oh beautiful uh because I do a
lot of uh heat and uh cross fet I love
cross W that's the ultimate workout if
you could do that that's
amazing thank you thank you uh my other
question was um Omid uh 1 m a day day
cuz uh sometimes I find myself uh I'm
just doing one meal a day and I'm I'm
not hungry at all so I don't know if
this is uh the adaptation or uh but the
one meal would be like 800 calories is
yeah um if you could um squeeze out
another 100 or two calories in there of
high quality food and try to figure out
what kind of greens that you can eat
because um there's quite a few of my uh
clients that do one meal a day and
they're super healthy um they're not
showing any signs of nutritional
deficiencies um it's a little bit more
difficult because of the nutrients that
you would have to get in that one meal
but your body adapts and you're
basically living off your own fat and uh
a lot of people do fine on one meal a
day so I think it's a a good thing
especially for those people who have
slow thyroids and then have a lot of
weight to lose
um I think you should go for it but I I
think you need to get a garden and just
try to find some type of uh vegetables
to stick in there and I think that would
just put the icing on the cake well may
I shouldn't talk about cake you
know hey there's almond cake so you're
right okay good all right uh another
thing is that I have a problem with my
hip um like I love doing the heat on a
Trad Mill say I would uh Sprint at 16 km
per hour for 30 seconds then jog at half
the speed for about a minute then walk
so when I'm done with the workout after
some time I start feeling the
inflammation on my hip is this um
something related to weight or am I
giving my hip a lot of work is it the
right hip or the left hip the left hip
left hip have you had any injury to the
hip or falling on your butt at one time
oh yes I have I had an injury back in
1998 that affected my knee and uh a beat
on my hip I just fell on my butt okay
yeah what happens um usually the hip
joint is from a an injury that you fall
on one side of the butt and you jam uh
the body and the hips start becoming out
of balance so the best thing to do is to
get an
X-ray and look at your hips the level of
the hips draw a line on the X-ray and
see what hip is
lowered okay if you have a lower hip on
one side you can put a little tiny heel
lift on that side to raise the hip up or
I don't know if you have chiropr proas
in Kenya maybe you do we do we do uh but
they can probably align that because
it's usually going to be an alignment
problem I did produce a video on hip
pain that you can do massage on the
opposite hip on the right hip so if it's
on the left you work on the right side
and I show I walk people through that if
you search that if you can't find it let
me know and I'll help you find it but
it's a how to fix hip pain you work on
the opposite side uh but it sounds to me
you also had a knee pain right yes yes
yeah I would do the knee technique that
I have online too that will help balance
you it's just I think for you it's going
to be a matter of keeping the Symmetry
there um because as soon as you push it
push it you might blow out on that weak
link um so you need to make your body
symmetrical if you find a really good um
CYO chiroprator that can muscle test and
check the range of motion on your hip
left and right and find out if there's
any restrictions in pushing your leg too
high or too low or back or forward or
out or internal external rotation you're
going to find some motion that you can't
go into and then you work on that to
make your left and right side balance
and then I think you won't have a
problem anymore
interesting I I'll look into that I'll
definitely beautiful um now does it
matter
in the kind of food like we are limited
to certain kinds of food locally uh our
bacon for instance we have uh only one
or two producers in the country so I saw
the labels that I see MSG I see
dextr so on keto these are some of the
Staples if I may say so would it be
right to stick to a certain group of
foods say eggs every day uh maybe meat
uh twice a week uh chicken twice a
week um and of course vegetables which I
don't trust so much and
um uh multivitamins uh to you know to
take care of the vegetable parts
yeah yeah I think uh yeah you're going
to just switch your protein to something
that is uh non-toxic doesn't have MSG
doesn't have hidden sugars and you just
have to see what's available I mean you
literally you could live on eggs eggs
are one of the most complete protein um
as far as the vitamins you take really
make sure and you might be already doing
this that they're not synthetic that
they're food-based um because you don't
want to take synthetic vitamins ever
unless you're doing a cleanse a
detox um and uh yeah so that's totally
fine too I think the the meats that you
have are going to be fine um but yeah it
is a challenge to try to find the
quality that you need in certain areas
of the world unfortunately I know I know
you can find the quality coffee but what
about the other Foods yeah but what
what's your thoughts on the the on the
Bulletproof Coffee uh because uh I just
did a video on it I I have no problem
with it most people can do fine with
that um and some people it can stimulate
insulin a little bit because they're
doing the fat which is fine but I think
it's a good transition for people and I
think some people uh feel really good on
it but some people need to uh avoid it
just because it might slow down their
weight loss a little bit so I just had
do do a little cream in the coffee and
out the bulletproof and then they start
losing weight more so I just have them
experiment on it and see if they can
what works for them but it really
depends on your
metabolism oh beautiful last question
Lecky G I heard your you were um live a
few hours ago and you're talking about
vitamin C and Lecky gut and collagen uh
it was a bit static so I I wanted to
know more about the Leaky guard how
would I know if I have a leaky guard do
you have a lot of food
allergies no zero do you have any
bloating or
constipation no I used to have
constipation but it's uh it's all going
I think you don't have Lecky gut oh okay
they just have a lot of pain and
bloating and constipation and uh
irritation in their colon and they also
have um problems with food allergies so
if you don't have that chances are you
don't you don't have to worry about it
all right all right and we would really
love to have your products here in Kenya
um especially the green jeice I mean
that I'm really looking forward to uh to
get it online so yeah I know that's one
thing um we'll have to look at um
because there's a we crass juice powder
that's really really good but yeah I
know I'm working on that so yeah because
um I think I mentioned it to you before
um I have quite a following uh
especially on
Facebook and uh people are looking up to
me I'm not uh I'm not a doctor I'm not a
nutritionist but all bodies are the same
I keep on telling them and um I'd love
to work with you and uh bring back the
experience uh back home you know
absolutely um question do you have is
Amazon go to Kenya do they we yes we use
uh there's uh a site we use to buy
things uh on Amazon it's called mall for
Africa so we can readily
buy okay maybe I'll check that out um
yeah that's awesome I think um we need
people like you that spread the word in
areas of the country that they're going
to start getting fatter and fatter like
the Americans so uh you can help people
so that's awesome thank you thank you
very much I I I look forward to working
with you on this awesome awesome well
thank you David I appreciate the
interview you've done really well thank
you so
much have a nice day all right
