I'm actually convinced that there's no
such thing as a true vitamin D toxicity
problem now what I'm not saying is that
a person if they take higher amounts of
vitamin D they won't get some symptoms
but the actual cause of those symptoms I
don't believe is coming from high doses
of vitamin D3 I think it's coming from a
deficiency of the
co-actors for vitamin D primarily from a
magnesium deficiency and a vitamin K2
deficiency and there's a couple others
as well now we know most people are
deficient in magnesium going into this
so if you're not taking enough magnesium
while you're taking vitamin D I think
you're going to start noticing some of
this symptoms that people call Vitamin D
toxicity which are irritability
insomnia
constipation fatigue muscle spasm or
cramps Cal
ification calcium that builds up and
arhythmia but they're also symptoms of
low magnesium as well as symptoms of low
vitamin K2 I mean if you just look at
the case studies or some of the studies
of vitamin DET toxicity you don't
normally see they're taking magnesium
with it they're not taking K2 with it
many times they're taking vitamin D2 not
D3 as well now you don't want to take
calcium when you're testing for vitamin
D toxicity because the symptom is hyper
calcemia which is too much calcium in
the blood why would you want to take
calcium doesn't make sense now I found
something interesting on Wikipedia I
want to share with you it said it is
possible that some of the symptoms of
vitamin D toxicity are actually due to
vitamin K depletion and they're talking
about vitamin K2 and yeah I think we
already knew that vitamin K2 is needed
to prevent the calcium from building up
in the soft tissues vitamin D helps
increase calcium absorption in the small
intestine by 20 times so now we have all
this calcium in the blood vitamin K2
comes in there and takes it from the
blood into the tissues
preventing buildup of soft tissue
calcium and also magnesium is one of the
best antidotes to prevent kidney stones
the toxicity symptoms from vitamin D I
believe are just lacking the co-actor
and the reason I'm even talking about
this is that it's very important to take
therapeutic doses of Vitamin D to deal
with certain conditions amount that's
recommended by the male clinic is like
600 IUS this is ridiculous when you're
out in the sun for about 30 minutes
maybe 40 minutes you're going to get at
least 20,000 IUS of vitamin D3 now why
would the rdas be only 600 I use and why
would someone be nervous or concerned by
taking a maintenance dosage of 10,000 I
use per day when you get 10,000 or
20,000 I use just from being out in the
sun there is also some data out there
people will say that well once you get a
certain amount of vitamin D from the sun
your body will just stop making vitamin
D I try to find that data I couldn't
find uh any evidence that being true but
I did find an interesting research
article on lifeguards in Israel and what
was interesting unique about these
lifeguards that there was a 20 times
increased risk of getting kidney stones
probably because they got a lot of
vitamin D and they didn't have enough K2
or magnesium now let's talk about
vitamin D as far as the therapeutic dose
for certain conditions especially
autoimmune conditions Dr comra from
Brazil has an amazing protocol call I
mean with thousands of success stoys and
he uses between 50,000 to 880,000 to
100,000 to up to 200,000 IUS of vitamin
D3 to put these autoimmune cases in
remission and what he does is he just
monitors the parathyroid gland right
because the parathyroid gland controls
calcium so if you're low in calcium the
parathyroid gland will kind of make up
the difference in ra up and start
pulling calcium from your bone so if
your parathyroid hormone is high that
means you're low in calcium or low in
vitamin D and if your parathyroid
hormone is low that means you have
enough calcium or you have enough
vitamin D and when you get into
autoimmune diseases you have this very
unique situation you may have normal
amounts of vitamin D in the blood but at
the receptor it's not really working for
a whole number of reasons what this
doctor does is give you more vitamin D
to penetrate through this resistance and
also realize when they do a blood test
for vitamin D they're not measuring
what's happening at receptor level there
is no agreed upon amount of vitamin D in
the blood as a certain thing that
everyone agrees on in the medical
profession in other words the normal
amounts of vitamin D in our blood are
still uncertain we don't really know
there's a very interesting book I just
read by Dr Harold Shey he's an
optomologist this is what he said
anything less than 150 nanograms per
milliliter will likely not work because
his Focus was on the eye and he would
use high doses of Vitamin D to get great
results which is just quite fascinating
now you might say well if it works so
great why doesn't everyone know about it
well because it works so great even if
you question vitamin D for various
remedies you get attacked I won't be
surprised if I get attacked for this
video by other doctors on this topic but
I'm trying to give you all the data to
think with it because I think the danger
is and the lack of the co-actors for
vitamin D more than the D itself vitamin
D is just really hard to get you take a
70-year-old and a 20-year-old and you
put them out in the sun for a period of
time
the 70-year-old will get
75% less vitamin D because their skin is
older so number one when you take
vitamin D also take magnesium also take
vitamin K2 also Boron is a co-actor for
vitamin D and magnesium zinc is also
another co-actor very important and
lastly vitamin A now that I talked about
the toxicity let's focus in on the
therapeutic benefits of vitamin D from
this video right here check it out
