so I had someone comment on a YouTube
video that they just couldn't sleep
without carbs and I'm gonna explain what
that means and what to do so if you've
had insulin resistance in the past and
you go on a ketogenic plan and you start
cutting back your carbs realize that if
that insulin resistance has been there
for a long time it's going to take a
long time to get it corrected it could
take months
could take up to a year to fully get
that stabilized and what happens with
insulin resistance is you have higher
amounts of insulin but when you keto you
have lower amounts of carb
so the ratio of insulin to carbs are
like this you're still gonna have high
insulin despite cutting the carbs out
because of that resistance problem
that's been there a long time and it
does take some time so that higher
months of insulin could actually push
the blood sugars down to low in the
middle of the night
now with low blood sugars you have
counter hormones that keep your blood
sugars from going down to low and the
two main ones are cortisol and
adrenaline and these are for the adrenal
and try to sleep when you have
adrenaline flowing through your
bloodstream or even cortisol if you look
at the cortisol circadian rhythm it's
the lowest at 2:00 a.m. in the morning
it's the highest at 8 o'clock in the
morning when you're supposed to wake up
and just realize that adrenaline is the
hormone that will wake you up so that's
usually behind the situation but what
can you do about it
well realize that with time this problem
is going to get better if you stick with
it but you can do things to improve it
you can take electrolytes like potassium
magnesium and calcium these are very
calming for the adrenal gland cortisol
and adrenaline it also realized when you
consume more vegetables like at least 7
cups you're going to be getting a lot of
potassium magnesium vitamin C things
like that
now apple cider vinegar before bed is
really good because this can help
stabilize not just blood sugars but it
has the ability to lower insulin and if
you have lowered insulin you're not
going to get this massive push into the
hypoglycemic range so apple cider
vinegar helps blood sugars at how
reduce insulin and improves insulin
resistance number four protein is a
stimulant so you want to adjust the
amount of protein that you consume as
your last meal because you may be
consuming too much which will stimulate
your nervous system and that alone can
keep you up at night we already
mentioned the vegetables b1 vital for
sleeping not just being on a ketogenic
diet and needing more be one in your
metabolism but b1 is one of key
nutrients that involve energy production
during the day but at night help you
prevent things like restless leg
syndrome it'll also help support your
pulse rate because if you're low in b1
your pulse rate tends to go higher and
higher and higher
try to sleep if your pulse rate is
really high it's not gonna happen
b1 is also good for anxiety it's also
good to prevent nightmares and it's
really good if you have that excessive
thinking 24/7 that kind of keeps you up
as well also limit the caffeine in the
coffee and the tea I recommend just one
small cup in the morning and the last
thing you may want to try is exogenous
ketones
those are ketones salts you can get
online or from the health of store and
if you took those before bed it will
feed your brain to ketones so your
brains not as dependent on the blood
sugar so you have less of this going on
and lastly vitamin D people always tend
to sleep better if they been up the Sun
during the day and if you're if it's in
the winter time basically this takes in
vitamin D and that will actually help
you sleep as well alright thanks for
watching and definitely check out more
of the comprehensive videos that I have
on the topic of sleep
