So today we're oh one second let me just
oh yeah oh yep mhm that's that's a spot
a little to the left good A little to
the right oh my gosh he's he's come in
handy today we're going to talk about
the 15 deeper causes of itching that you
probably have never heard about before
so the medical name for itching is
called pruritis okay and the remedy
typically is just to scratch the itch
right and it usually involves some
superficial nerve that is within your
skin that's being aggravated to some
level you can have Lys on your body
scabies which is a microorganism you
could have hookworms herpes an insect
bite like bed bugs you can even have a
yeast infection different places in your
body usually private parts or you can
have poison ivy now I am deadly allergic
to poison ivy and when I get it it
spreads and boy does it itch like crazy
and I have to resist the temptation to
scratch it I found that going into a hot
shower tends to be the only thing that
can relieve the itching for 3 hours but
I can definitely relate to poison ivy
then you have a tick bite right usually
tick bites initially kind of numb the
area and you don't know they're there I
think in the last year I had 20
different tick bites that I found on my
body because I live in the countryside
and some even had the bullseye and I
never got lime so that's good but
sometimes you have to kind of check
yourself because you don't know if these
ticks are on your body but sometimes
they do leave an itch and you can find
out where they are and you can also itch
from having diabetes Now why would a
diabetic start itching because they have
problems with circulation specifically
blood flow to nerve endings so like even
in the bottom of your feet you could
have what's called peripheral neuropathy
where the blood flow to the nerves are
not happening and so the nerves start
dying off and so the sensation could be
anywhere from an itching to a burning
pain to an actual severe pain you can
start losing circulation and this
circulation is necessary for the nerves
to function correctly there's another
condition called polycythemia where you
have too many red blood cells which can
create a lack of circulation in your
blood flow lowered oxygen into your
actual skin itself and that's what's
causing the itching and even a problem
with the parathyroid gland the
parathyroid gland
is four glands that are around your
thyroid and they control calcium and if
the thyroid is working too hard you
could start developing too much calcium
in the blood and then too much calcium
that deposits in the skin and even
create
calcification of your skin and that can
affect the nerve endings so there's been
um Associated relationship between
people that had severe itching and then
they have their parathyroids removed and
then itching goes away and then you have
a problem with the kidney called ureia
where you have this buildup of uh Ura in
the skin and that's creating all sorts
of irritation on the nerves because
someone has an advanced kidney disease
then you have the liver okay and this is
very common whether you have therosis of
the liver or hepatitis when the liver
which is supposed to make bile salts
can't make the bile salts anymore then
you start developing this thicken sludge
that comes down these little ducks into
the gallbladder called colestasis and
you're going to feel like a fullness
underneath your right rib cage and maybe
even pain that refers to your right
shoulder blade and then you have also a
condition where you have dry skin that
can create itching probably because the
gallbladder doesn't have enough bile to
be able to pull in vitamin A from the
foods or you're not consuming a lot of
vitamin A or it could be also a lack of
vitamin D which can increase
inflammation and so when I was in
practice there's a high correlation
between people that have itching and
people that have gallbladder issues or
liver issues one would be just
irritation on the gallbladder directly
number two it can decrease your omega3
fatty acids because Omega 6 and omega-3
compete the average person has like 20
times more Omega 6 to omega3 the remedy
is very simple you just need to change
your diet and there's a remedy called t
cup it's a type of bile salt that thins
the bile and it's been found to
significantly decrease itching in people
with like sorosis so I will put that
research down below as well now what's
interesting about uh the relief of
scratching in itch is that you're going
to
stimulate serotonin and dopamine as the
relief chemicals and there's even
professional back scratchers that you
can go get your back scratch and and pay
someone to do that which is pretty wild
because it's very relaxing but anyway I
wanted to increase your awareness on
what's behind parius especially if it's
on a chronic nature and give you a lot
more information so you could
potentially identify the real reason why
you might have itching now since I did
mention the gallbladder if you have not
seen my videos on the gallbladder I put
up a really good one right here you
should check it
out
