hey guys in this video we're gonna clear
up a common confusion about golf stones
okay and that is consuming fat does not
cause golf stones
okay now consuming nuts for example will
aggravate the gallbladder and cause pain
in the right shoulder blade and neck and
even headaches but it's not going to
cause golf stones let me explain why
gall stones are caused by at low amounts
of bile in the gallbladder by OB il II
which is kind of the detergent that
breaks down the grease breaks down fat
is the substance that actually prevents
the stone from manifesting okay so if
you don't have enough of it you're more
susceptible to getting a gallstone in
fact the remedy for a gallstone is
taking purified bile salts interesting
now the next question is what triggers
the release of bile saturated fats
eating more fat and I bet you to know
this low-fat diets can increase your
risk for getting a gallstone okay so you
need saturated fats to prevent gall
stones from happening now what's really
behind the gallstone is consuming all
the refined carbs and sugars that will
therefore increase insulin and that's
really what's behind it because gall
stones are cholesterol stones and what
increases cholesterol is insulin okay
now the other thing that can actually
cause gall stones is high levels of
estrogen so one of the side effects when
women take hormone replacement therapy
or estrogen replacement therapy is risk
of getting gall stones okay so if you
have gall stones one of the things you
want to do is go on a ketogenic diet in
a minute fasting for sure and also take
purified bile salts to help dissolve it
alright thanks for watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last Edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has 156 images 378 pages full
glossary I talked about keto in a minute
fasting the body types
detail I have a new stressed chapter I'm
going to show you exactly what to eat
any comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
