hey guys I wanted to create a little
video on the absolute worst advice for
diabetics okay here it is
consuming carbohydrates okay I mean the
American Diabetes Association recommends
that 60% of your diet should be of
carbohydrates the same thing goes with
the American obesity Society the same
thing with the food pyramid a list goes
on and on and on okay so when you're
trying to solve a problem with the
actual very thing that causes it you're
going to create a lot of issues so we
eat the carbs it creates the diabetes it
increases insulin but hey we got a
solution for that there's certain
medications that can help lower the
blood sugar right it sounds good but
then there's a side effect from that
which is hypoglycemia low blood sugar
okay so they're calling this a side
effect a dangerous side effect it's
going to lower the blood sugar isn't
that the purpose but of course then the
solution to this side effect is to
consume six meals a day and carry around
your little glucose tablets to eat sugar
which will then increase more insulin so
you see the problem then we have the
side effects from actual having diabetes
okay one is high blood pressure so then
we have a solution for that decrease the
salt in a diet did you realize that when
you have low salt in the diet that
actually can cause and trigger insulin
resistance and make it worse Wow and
then you put on a diuretic which one of
the side effects is insulin resistance
so then it feeds this problem so we have
this very complex web of trying to solve
this problem creating another problem
creating another solution which then
feeds this high cholesterol is another
side effect from having diabetes because
of the high insulin and high blood
sugars right well we have a solution for
that and it's called statins did you
know that one of the side effects the
big side effects from the statins is
insulin resistance creates more insulin
and then we get a low fat diet that is
the only thing that won't trigger
insulin and they're telling you not to
consume it low-fat protein
we'll have a greater impact on insulin
than fattier proteins and let's not
forget the healthy whole grains which by
the way is higher on the glycemic index
than actual sugar and that of course
will trigger more insulin and you can
see this entire cycle going around and
around I mean the logical thing is this
what is diabetes it's a disease of high
blood glucose okay so why would you want
to add more sugar to something that
already has high blood glucose it's
completely insane a perfect analogy
would be if you were to get marriage
advice from someone that had 10 divorces
in a row and was never able to keep a
successful marriage it's the same thing
so the track record from this
organization is just completely terrible
in fact on the website it says their
mission is to prevent and cure diabetes
well unfortunately they're doing the
opposite alright so thank you so much
for watching I put a link down below for
some more information about these
connections right here so you can
increase your awareness and prevent
these issues thanks for watching hey
thank you so much for watching keep
spreading the word and share this video
