okay so I'm wondering create a video on
the effects of high blood sugar and your
nerves
okay so there's three types of the
nerves that could be affected the motor
nerve which basically go to the muscle
so if there's damage to the motor nerve
you're gonna have weakness or a loss of
that muscle function it could be
complete atrophy or a loss of paralysis
basically number two then you have the
sensory nerve now if there's sensory
nerve damage you might have full control
of the motor muscle but you might not be
able to feel it so you can have numbness
or you could have a burning sensation or
pins and needles
if the blood sugars are high and you get
damaged with the sensory nerve you can
have a lot of leg pain especially at
night okay because the blood sugars tend
to affect the peripheral nerves first
that's the nerves in the fingertips in
the toes and the bottom of the feet so
you can have pain numbness weakness and
even cramping because the loss of
electrolytes which then can cause pain
and number three you can have a damage
to the autonomic nervous system okay now
what is that those are the nerves that
control different functions in the
glands or the organs okay so if you have
damage to those nerves you can become
impotent have urinary retention or
number three you can have damage to the
ocular muscles that would be the muscles
around the eye so maybe you have one eye
that's drooped down a little bit more
but blood sugar in general if it's high
will destroy the blood vessels that go
to the nerves so it starves the body of
oxygen as well and it can destroy the
actual nerves themselves or the sheath
around the nerve which is called myelin
okay
so as you can see there's a lot of
damage that can be created to the nerves
when you have high blood sugar okay so
what are you gonna do about it there's
two things number one you need to get on
a ketogenic diet you need to do in a
minute fasting those are the things that
are going to heal this dysfunctional
insulin and help it control this high
sugar number to be vitamins if you have
enough B vitamins in your body and by
the way high blood
will deplete your B vitamins b12 b1 b6
b5 so if you can actually correct this
you'll prevent the loss of B vitamins
and then if you take more B vitamins you
can actually protect the nerves because
they need those B vitamins to function
and work correctly and also you need B
vitamins to support the myelin and the
blood vessels all right so get your B
vitamins to nutritional yeast and I put
a link down below on what you can eat to
help support healthy blood sugars I'll
see you next video
hey before you go definitely sign up for
my free keto course I put a link down
below it's on messenger in Facebook but
it will give you all the basics it's
very quick it's like three or four
videos and it's free check it out
