did you realize that it's extremely
difficult to reverse a magnesium
deficiency but I'm going to tell you how
to do it in this video so my question is
how long does it take to solve a problem
that you're treating with the wrong
solution and the answer is you'll never
solve the problem if you use the wrong
solution most people don't realize how
common a magnesium deficiency is there's
been some reports that up to 88% of the
general public are low in magnes
magesium and what's even more shocking
than that is that it's really hard to
test for a magnesium deficiency there's
no gold standard you can do a questioner
and there's another test that you can
actually extract some tissue from the
inside of your mouth and then send it to
the lab but the problem with that test
and the reason I'm not recommending it
is because I can't get a hold of the lab
that does this very specific specialize
test so I'm not going to put that in the
link because they're not going to call
you back so in this little chart you can
see that 60% of all your magnesium is in
your bones
39% is in your soft tissues like your
muscles but only 1% of all the magnesium
in your body is in your blood so this is
why doing a blood test is not going to
give you a lot of information unless
you're very very very very very severe
because even if you're deficient in the
blood guess what's going to happen
you're going to borrow some of it from
the bone or the soft tissues and in the
bone and the soft tissues most of that
is not out outside the cell it's inside
your cells it's called intracellular
calcium and so one of the principles
that I use in health is I I use a
principle out of this book called the
technology of War by sunu now of course
this book is about fighting Wars but you
can apply it to anything and so senu
talks about cross referencing data to
see if a situation or a problem exists
where you can cross reference symptoms
that are related to a magnesium
deficiency you can also look at your
foods to see how much magnesium is
coming from your Foods or not if you
have inflammation in your gut if you're
diabetic if you have insulin resistance
if you consume a lot of sugar also if
you take a lot of vitamin D the
requirement for magnesium goes up so if
you're not taking magnesium with vitamin
D you can actually end up having lower
amounts of magnesium because your body
is using more of that magnesium for
vitamin D absorption and also if you're
on medications let's say you're on a PPI
an an acid or you're taking an
antibiotic or you're on a diuretic all
these factors when cross reference can
kind of indicate you might have a
magnesium deficiency but now let's cross
reference this with a potential
indicators or symptoms you might have if
you're low on magnesium tetany let's you
have a little twitch underneath your
left eye are your muscles relaxed or are
they tight do you have
insomnia do you have a lot of anxiety do
you have fatigue did you realize that
you need magnesium just to make ATP the
energy currency of your body also a
magnesium deficiency can create you know
things like NES stigmus which is like
when your eyes kind of go back and forth
like that and migraines and kidney
stones and especially something called
pathogenic calcification what is that
that is calcification that's calcium
buildup in places that you should have
it so I'm just going to run down the
list of foods that are fairly high in
magnesium compared to other Foods okay
and we're going to talk about the
quantity of 100 gr okay that's 3 and 1
half ounces so at the top of the list
you have calp 3 and half ounces of calp
is equivalent to 760 milligrams now I'd
like to see you eat 3 and half ounces of
calp it's probably not going to happen
okay what about almonds that would give
you about 490 mg nutritional yeast is
231 mg PE
142 mg leafy greens roughly about 100 mg
of magnesium dark chocolate is about 165
Mig pumpkin seeds are 265 mg of
magnesium but magnesium is also in meats
and fish but not as much as you might
think so 100 gram or 3 and half ounces
of meat or fish you're going to get
between 25 to 35 mg of magnesium and
even if we look at the requirements of
magnesium it's called the rdas that
usually is between 300 and
420 milligram per day on average but the
average person only consumes
25 milligrams of magnesium per day
people aren't getting enough from the
diet not to mention the foods nowadays
are grown in soil that has lower amounts
of minerals especially magnesium and
it's really two situations or actually
three situations number one how do we
get enough magnesium from the
do we have to supplement and three how
long does it take to really satisfy your
deficiency oh and by the way all the
information I'm talking about is in this
book right here called The Miraculous
cure for and prevention of all diseases
what doctors never learned I'll put this
link down below it's a really
fascinating book based on a lot of
different things related to magnesium
and vitamin D but all the data that I'm
sharing today is based in that book so
if you're deficient you're going to have
to not only beef up no pun intended your
magnesium foods but you're also going to
have to supplement as well and the type
of magnesium I would recommend is
magnesium glycinate which actually helps
you know stress sleeping Etc and the
amount of supplement I would recommend
would be about 800 milligrams every
single day so usually they come in like
400ish maybe 300 milligrams per tablet
take a couple of those every day but
here here's the thing how long is it
actually going to take to really fix a
true deficiency it could take up to a
year or more to fix a chronic magnesium
deficiency you have to realize that when
you take magnesium from Foods or a
supplement it doesn't just go in storage
a good majority of it will be washed out
through the kidneys but you might find
your symptoms go away within weeks or
months but I wouldn't stop there I would
increase the amount out over a longer
period of time then maybe after about a
year of taking supplements then maybe
then you just maintain it with your diet
but of course make sure that you
calculate how much magnesium is going
into the body and then make sure at
least it's like 400 milligrams per day
now I have a little more information on
the type of magnesium that might work
for you and for that information I put
that in this video right here check it
out
