hi guys had another question can studio
trigger insulin okay very good question
only if it has multi dextran in it or
dextran so read the labels do not
consume stevia if it has these two
sugars I mean multi dextran is like
double the glycemic index then actual
regular sugar so it's like that it's the
worst thing you could possibly consume
in fact I wouldn't consume any products
with multi dextra okay so stevia is 300
times sweeter than sugar but the problem
is there's limited human studies on
stevia however the animal studies show
improvements in blood sugars now my own
experience by consuming stevia I do a
lot of liquid stevia in carbonated water
I've never seen a problem with any type
of clients whether pre-diabetic or a
diabetic or just people trying to lose
weight so it is one of the best
sweeteners it's from an herb totally
natural I wouldn't worry about it so in
the last three decades working the tens
of thousands of clients I have never
seen any problem with stevia with
pre-diabetics diabetics or just people
trying to lose weight so I would highly
recommend it thanks for watching hi guys
hey listen I created a pretty amazing
evaluation quiz down below that actually
analyzes your symptoms to find the cause
the root cause of all of your symptoms
the most likely cause so take the quiz
now and we'll send you report
