so welcome everyone we have another
great interview from Jennifer from
Vancouver British Columbia hi Jennifer
hi dr. Berg good to see ya
so can you tell us a little bit about
your story I think you mentioned that
you've had a history of being overweight
right yes I've been overweight my whole
life pretty much and until I was 16 17
then I decided I need to do something
about it
so I just exercised and didn't eat junk
food at that time but I lost about 20
pounds but then after high school I
gained it all back
so around when I was 20 I had a personal
trainer who trained me for five days a
week two hours every day and that time I
was literally eating nothing like I
pretty much started myself so I lost a
lot of weight but then I told myself
that it's not the lifestyle I want so
then I kind of just dropped my personal
trainer and did my own thing and I was
eating healthy and exercising moderately
but then yeah I started to gain a little
bit of weight back but I was okay with
it like I was comfortable but until I
was 24 I went partying in Vegas for
three nights and that's when my body had
a really bad meltdown and then ever
since that I gained 20 pounds on to that
trip and then the pounds kept on packing
on packing on and then eventually I said
to myself I'm not gonna look at the
scale anymore so three years later I
decided to join the gym and then I was I
found that I gained 60 pounds so I was
in complete shock so you usually even
recognize that you you need to realize
you gained that much weight no I knew I
was gaining weight but I told myself I
knew I need to be healthy in order to
lose weight because I was already
watching your videos yeah Wow amazing I
think that's coming for a lot of people
that overweight you know you you look at
some people that are really overweight
and you wonder why would someone let
them get that far but
when I talk to them they don't even
realize they're that big sometimes I
remember one lady said I was walking
through the mall and I saw a shadow of
myself and I just freaked me out they
just didn't even look in the mirror so
that's interesting this the awareness
isn't quite there I think one therapy be
to look at yourself in the mirror every
day right that would be what that would
work yeah so so here you are you you
started watching the videos and then
that would happen at that point I came
across the first video which was the
four body types and I'll say oh there I
am and that's I were type because I
gained weight evenly everywhere like
first I gained it in my face like I can
tell I can't even hide it that's the
problem so I just kept on watching the
videos I tried to do what you said but
then I always had a sweet tooth so I had
two happy cert after every meal it was
just a part of me like every meal I was
looking forward to dessert and then I
think I got really depressed last
Christmas and I need to do something and
then every Christmas my friends would
buy me like boxes and boxes of
chocolates and I will eat them all and
New Year's Eve night I went home and
then I ate the last piece of chocolate
and I'm like this is the last piece of
chocolate I'm ever eating like tomorrow
is a new start and then for me if I'm
determined I drop everything cold turkey
and I started right away so that's how
it got started
Wow and so so what we read what wait
were you at your peak oh it was 231
pounds I remember and so then you
started and tell me what happened at
that point when you got really serious
first I just started to do the three
meals and then after not very long I'll
say I only need two meals and I started
to get really creative with the keto
recipes like for me I I'm not a person
to eat bland meal
so I like to be creative so I started to
mix and match and yeah I was really
happy to be eating bacon and eggs
because I didn't eat that before yeah
and they just did you start losing
weight at that point yes but I didn't
really weigh myself that much because
weight doesn't matter to me
as long as I'm feeling good and fitting
into my clothes so I think the first two
and a half three months I already lost
15 pounds Wow Wow that's pretty good and
then at that point did you also include
any exercise or just the eating um I try
to exercise but then I don't want like
my weight loss be based on exercising so
I just like I listen to you outside
rather have more arrests and exercise my
butt off at the gym so I would go for
walks and occasionally workout wow isn't
it funny how like some people will say
well I'm gonna eat what I want
I'll just exercise more when exercise
only contributes like 15 percent of your
total gains and they just end up not
really going anywhere so what so how
much did you eventually what's your what
was your best weight after you lost it
like my best weight now or I'm just
under 190 now I just made it like 40
pounds that's great that's awesome thank
you and so how was your how was your
other health like symptoms like you have
any issue with energy now do you feel
better
focus anything else that you're feeling
oh definitely I used to have like
headaches all the time and I would think
that oh I'm getting a cold or I'll just
sleep it off but then I watched one of
your videos about the gallbladder and I
realized ah that's why I've been having
headaches all my life but now I haven't
had a headache since January first I
guess Wow Wow
so are you how many meals are you doing
per day right now
two or sometimes even one and a half and
when's your first meal usually around
noon 12:00 or 1:00 o clock okay do you
still have those cravings like you did
before
oh no no cravings at all wow that's
that's a miracle right there cuz you
used to be highly addictive right yeah
Wow and then so what would you eat for
your first meal Oh usually I'll have
like a kale shake or salad and then I'll
have some cauliflower pizza which I
learn from you yeah that's my favorite
or I'll make myself a keto burger sounds
good I love it and then so you'll go
when's you're gonna be your next meal
after that either six or seven yeah so
I'll have like a six to eight hour
eating window good and then what would
you eat at that point um sometimes
usually a little bit lighter meal
because I don't really feel like eating
that late so maybe like another shake or
more salad and some protein and fret
right and are you finding that your
hunger is less oh definitely
well yes so you probably could just go
like yeah I can go longer if I wanted to
so you don't have that blood sugar dip
thing oh no no more like my stomach
doesn't even growl for me to eat anymore
have you found any better issues with
your memory or focus yes every day I
stay focused to be in good health in
shape it's constantly on my mind that's
awesome because one of the things that
the benefits of this is basically you
you can regrow your brain I mean it
literally your brain cells grow back so
that's good yeah a whole blood sugar
thing that leads into dementia and
diabetes and all sorts of things you
know there's another school of thought
out there and I don't even want to bring
this up but I'll bring it up anyway
which they're saying that you can eat as
much sugar as you want it doesn't cause
diabetes diabetes comes from eating
saturated fats
but if they watch these videos they
never comment on these videos talking to
someone like you because you can't argue
if your results your before-and-after
how you feel you're not making this so
and you're eating more saturated fats
you're just not eating a lot of sugar
mm-hmm
correct I mean yes you don't need to
sugar anymore do you Oh honestly
sometimes when I do try to cheat I want
to spit it back up because I feel the
sugar rush to my brain already so I'll
this is disgusting
hey I have that t-shirt as well I used
to consume so much sugar growing up we
would have we would do a party and have
these these cases of soda and I probably
would do ten sodas just down them pure
sugar meat cake unbelievable I'm like
now if I did that I would literally pass
out it's crazy
hey so is any how do you have any other
family members like any siblings hmm
well my brother lives in China right now
and yeah he got chubby like in China
party if you were if you grew up
overweight did your brothers and sisters
also grew up overweight or not no he was
just average okay okay well this is good
because it just shows you some people
like you know let's say that I've always
been overweight they need some hope and
someone like you is it's a great example
like you did it and you're losing weight
and you feel better and it's obvious now
looking back it was all that sugar yeah
but that's amazing it has anyone else
like friends or family members commented
just like looking at you going wow what
are you doing they don't really ask what
I'm doing but then like I'm a
hairdresser and every day I see a lot of
people and then when my clients walk in
the door they'll be running to me oh my
god you look good you look awesome
I know thank you so that probably comes
up a lot the conversation when you're
cutting hair right
yeah I thought ketosis and all these
other things
right that's that's pretty cool that is
awesome well I just want to say well
done thank you so much for sharing
because you know just it gets other
people ideas what to do and some people
really need the examples of what a
person is eating to know like what to
eat and also like to know that you can
get to a point where you're not craving
you're not hungry anymore
that type of thing that's like amazing
so one last question I'm guessing you
probably saw some other videos with the
keto bombs right yes those are like kind
of pleasure foods that are made from fat
no sugar you probably start out making
those do you
is that true like you start out making
this with your meals like keto bombs and
consuming those with your meals as your
oh yes okay just like very small portion
okay gee are you finding now that you're
kind of more into it that the need for
those goes goes down yeah it does but
the problem is I like to bake keto cake
cool hey there's no sugar why not right
yeah that's awesome well thank you so
much for your interview and I wanted to
say congratulations and then what we'll
do is we'll if you want in a few months
we'll do another one and see where
you're at then okay Oh sounds great yeah
so nice talking you Jennifer yeah thank
you dr. Burke pleasure meeting you
why should meet you too yes you let's
see yeah
