hi guys I had a quite a few questions
coming up about pork rinds
some people don't eat pork that's fine
some people do so I'm just gonna talk
about pork rinds it's really one of the
perfect foods if you're an Aikido plan
because and a zero carbs and nice
balance between fat and protein however
the quality is really important I'm
gonna recommend it I'll put a link down
below there's a company u.s. Wellness
meets has a high quality pork rind
product which has sea salt and they're
they're pigs are basically free-range
they eat all sorts of things in the wild
but they do feed a little bit of corn
and soy but it's non-gmo
now the problem is buying this set you
know the 7-eleven things like that you
don't know what you're getting and a lot
of times they put MSG in them so read
the label make sure it's a higher
quality but it's really good as a chip
alternative people that like that
crunchy I like to crush them up and put
them on my salad gives a great texture
and also I have a great recipe for a
fried chicken using this on the outside
of the chicken you're gonna actually
bake the chicken but it tastes identical
to fried chicken with certain spices
I'll put a link down below so if you
wanted a good alternative to a crunchy
type snack like a chip or something go
with the pork rinds alright thanks for
watching hey guys a lot of you already
have my book some of you don't but this
new edition called the new body type
guide is an upgrade from my last edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has a hundred and fifty six
images three hundred seventy eight pages
full glossary I talked about keto in a
minute fasting the body types in detail
I have a new stressed chapter I'm going
to show you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
