hey guys I wanted to create a video on
when a high-fat diet is dangerous okay
because you know here people saying oh
yeah you have to avoid fats gonna cause
heart attacks and strokes and saturated
fat is really dangerous and you hear
this all the time okay but the people
that are consuming these high saturated
fats that are having problems are always
consuming high carbohydrates with it I
will guarantee that but when you consume
them by itself it's not a problem so
consuming or combining high carbs with
fat or protein will spike insulin even
more than if you consume them separately
so you don't want to combine it but
there is no danger in consuming
saturated fats with low carbs there is
no danger in consuming healthy proteins
with low carbs it's the high carbs that
creates the issue can does that make
sense so the keto in a minute fasting
program is very beneficial for your
blood cholesterol levels your
triglyceride levels your heart I'll put
a link down below so you can get some
more information thanks for watching hey
guys a lot of you already have my book
some of you don't but this new edition
called the new body type guide is an
upgrade from my last edition called the
seven principles of fat burning it has a
hundred and fifty six images three
hundred seventy eight pages full
glossary I talk about Kido in a minute--
fasting the body types in detail I have
a new stressed chapter I'm going to show
you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
