I wanted to show you something real
quick why have the camera right there
what what's up happy birthday dr. bird
want to wish you happy birthday happy
birthday dr. bird happy birthday to dr.
Berg happy birthday dr. Berg happy
birthday happy birthday dr. Blair happy
happy birthday happy baby I want to take
a moment and personally thank you for
everything you do so honored and so
humbled to be helping you spread this
incredible message to all over the world
and I think that the information that
you're providing people is really
teaching people about living longer and
healthier and to come to spend on an s
about food it's really helped me get
re-engaged and live my health journey as
well you do nothing but give exchange in
abundance he has an insatiable appetite
to solve problems for people problems of
health to understand nutrition and and
not to blindly accept studies or advices
he he really needs to go the extra
distance I look up to you I admire you
anytime anybody knows that I work for
you they always either giving me their
success stories or they want me to help
them because they think I have the power
as well of all these different people
that have transformed their lives it's
all thanks to you and all your before
the videos how you help people is just
really amazing especially how you help
my mom your persona
to your audience they don't realize if
it's the same as your persona and right
your employees and they've always
treated us with respect I think that
you're an amazing boss I love working
for somebody that I actually respect I
love it I love everything that you do
I'm so proud to be part of this company
and I love working for you
I think the opera's opportunity that I'm
proud to be a part of your group after
like I'm working for rock star you've
been a great mentor and absolute
pleasure to work with I helped thousands
of others thank you dr. Berg for
everything that you do one of my
favorite products my mother uses the
blood sugar support I started eating
better taking better care of myself he
doesn't judge you he just gives you good
advice and he listened he is very giving
in his time as well as his knowledge the
knowledge I have obtained throughout the
last several years working with you is
something I will forever be grateful for
the strong sense of purpose you've
created for your employees and your
customers
and I feel very proud to be part of it
making this world a healthier place is
mainly coming to fruition
I believe that sharing all the
information about how the human body
methods works is actually empowering we
love you dr. Berg and Karen you guys are
just fantastic and I really feel really
blessed to help support you in your
organization in your mission and it
Karen because the woman helps to make
the man just it's incredible keep on
going oh happy birthday and cheers to 30
more years of successful stories and
everything else s to come as no someone
Bella once said education is the most
powerful weapon in which you can use to
change the world I do not think you can
change the poor world but you're very
close and you're changing the lives of
millions have to mention one last thing
I need you to help stand up for a second
join me in this little short dance video
[Music]
I said I see combined my birthday with
the 30 years of being in practice Wow
thank you so much guys I really really
appreciate that I'd hug you but the
virus thing so I'll just give you a
little elbow bump thank you so much I
really appreciate that
