hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about iodine and the relationship
to your IQ
okay so iodine deficiencies are really a
big problem on this planet right now I
want to read something to you
iodine deficiencies affect approximately
2 billion people world wide now that's a
lot of people what is there 7 billion
people on the planet and this is like 2
billion so a large percent of us are
deficient in iodine iodine is very
important in supporting the brain
function ok growth of a child regulating
estrogen supporting the thyroid function
and if you're deficient you can become
have a goiter where you have this bulge
in your neck as well and thyroid gland
so there is a condition called
intellectual disability which is mental
retardation where the IQ is less than 70
and the person has lower motor skills
slow learning a decrease in solving
problems difficulty adapting to a new
situation 50% of time this condition is
idiopathic it sounds pretty scientific
doesn't it I mean if I say you have a
idiopathic condition well this means
unknown cause they don't know what
causes it it's an iodine deficiency okay
if you are pregnant consume seek help ok
I highly recommend it
the last thing you want to do is become
deficient when you're carrying a baby ok
if you know people that are actually
going to have a child tell them about
this information make sure they get in a
good trace mineral make sure the iodine
is from a food based seek help and make
sure it's a quality seek help because a
lot of times the oceans are polluted and
you don't want to pull those toxins in
but iodine is also good for a regulating
estrogen fibrocystic breast cysts on the
ovaries it's good to support a low
thyroid and also a goiter in summary I
hope now you see the importance of the
trace mineral iodine
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called a new body type guide is
an upgrade from my last Edition called
the seven principles of fat burning it
has a hundred fifty six images three
hundred seventy eight pages full
glossary I talk about Kido in a minute
fasting the body types in detail I have
a new stressed chapter I'm going to show
you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
