so let's talk about the best oil to deep
fry your Foods in well you should
probably use something healthy like
vegetable oil right because you could
see these healthy vegetables here and
you can see this one is Clover Valley so
it's probably a beautiful Farm of
Rolling Hills and clover where they make
this vegetable oil and it's pure
vegetable oil it's actually considered
heart healthy on the label there's just
a little bit of saturated fat in here I
I think it's two grams there's no sugar
there's no trans fats and there's no
gluten and so this is pretty much the
best oil you should use to De fry your
food and I hope you know that I am
completely and utterly sarcastic today
we're going to talk about seed oils
right here uh and then I'm going to show
you what I think you should do regarding
the deep fried oils seed oils are called
polyunsaturated fatty acids poly meaning
many unsaturated mean a type of oil that
it's very very fragile and unstable now
the first thing you need to know is that
when they talk about vegetable oils
they're really talking about seed oils I
know they have pictures of vegetables
but this is not where they're getting
the oil from it comes from corn soy
canola things like that they're
considered one part of the alra process
food category which they use industrial
processing where they're heating adding
hexane which is a solvent that's in
gasoline and so they go through this
incredible refining process process
where you end up with this very refined
empty oil and one of the reasons they do
this is so it can sit on the shelf for a
long period of time we consume like 25
to
30% of our calories with this right here
yeah incredible you start reading the
ingredients and it's in almost
everything when you fry Foods in these
oils you're basically frying other alter
process ingredients in this alter
process ingredient for example let's say
you have a doughnut right which is pure
alra processed food and you're going to
deep fry it in the seed oil you're going
to heat a starch or sugar with a fat
that's going to create really sticky
proteins in our bodies it's called
glycation and that sticky protein is
going to Gunk everything up and make it
dysfunctional and let's say for example
we're going to deep fry some chicken
right we're not just going to De fry
chicken we have to coat the chicken with
an Al process ingredient maybe with a
starch right so now we're combining heat
with fat with protein that's again going
to create this sticky uh substance
that's going to kind of clog everything
up now when you go to a fast food
restaurant they don't just use this oil
once they use it like a hundred times
and they're going to keep reheating it
and reheating it and reheating it day
after day uh cooking your food and the
more they heat it the more toxic the
food is and a couple more things I want
to bring up about seed oils before I
move on but seed oils were never meant
to be consumed okay even like in
1865 when they kind of found a process
to develop these seed oils it wasn't
meant for human consumption okay these
polyunsaturated fatty acids are meant to
support our membranes of our cells now
the membranes around our cells also if
you look inside the cell you have all
these little things that do the work
each thing has a bag around it which is
a membrane and they allow things to
communicate back and forth but you also
have the mitochondria in here and the
mitochondria is really important because
nearly every disease relates to a
dysfunctional mitochondria and the seed
oils can actually get into the membranes
and replace the membranes and so if
you're replacing the membranes with this
material it's not good so I'm studying
uh a book on membranes right here basic
principle of membrane technology it's
fascinating because it goes into the
biochemistry of membranes and how
amazing they are and also in this book
right here the ancestral diet Revolution
how vegetable oils and processed foods
destroy our health and how to recover
here's a picture of a kid who's smoking
right well the oxidative stress that
occurs with smoking kind of poisons us
for about 6 months to a year after
quitting but when we consume the seed
oils right it's going to poison us for
about 3 years after just one serving in
cooking oil yeah there's some
fascinating data so these oils were
never meant for fuel like other fats and
the biggest damaging effect from these
seed oils is what they do to your
mitochondria and this is why seed oils
lead to insulin resistance of course
from there you have a fatty liver
obesity heart disease increase your risk
for cancer etc etc etc so anytime you
add heat to seed oils and by the way
they're already heated when you get them
you create more toxicity and they
actually give off a lot of byproducts
that creates a lot of it's called
oxidation you can look at oxidation like
rusting out something but the seed oils
are not being burned up as fuel in the
body so they kind of get lodged and
stored in the body and they just Gunk up
everything now let's look at the oils
that you could use if you wanted to deep
fry something so this graph represents
something called the peroxidation that's
that in the process of being oxidized
stage soybean is the highest right so it
creates a lot of problems and then we
have corn oil then we have sunflower oil
and then canola and then we have Olive
beef T and coconut so if you wanted to
deep fry something okay you have options
you have avocado oil you have coconut
oil you have palm oil you have olive oil
then you have teow okay and then you
have butter or ghee so you could
potentially use any one of those oils
now here's the problem you probably
shouldn't be deep frying any food at
high heat because no matter what oil
that you use high heat is going to
create problems avocado oil if you get
it really refined it's going to create
more damage if you get it like healthier
when is where actually the color of its
green and it's coal process you probably
should just put on your salad and not
use it with heat but avocado oil does
have a higher amounts of monounsaturated
which is going to oxidize less just like
olive oil which is highend monosaturated
fats you get a lot of the protective
factors as well same with coconut oil
and palm oil but those May smoke a lot
more when heating so maybe like a
moderate heat or maybe a stir fry or
even pan fried that would be a lot
better
and then you get to taow beef fat
because that's going to be much better
for you you can also use ghee which is a
little bit better than butter if you're
cooking it to higher heat but with
butter especially with like eggs and
things or stir frying
vegetables you're not going to heat it
to the point where it's so hot that
you're going to get smoking and I think
you're going to enjoy the flavor from
just using butter I think pan frying is
going to be much better if you can do an
air fryer that would be awesome because
you don't you don't have to use any oils
and then of course you have stir frying
that's a good one too now since I did
mention this deep fried chicken I know
you're probably hungry right now and
you're probably thinking about it so I
put that recipe up right here check it
out
