hey guys in this video we want to talk
about loud pounding pulse rate here you
are trying to sleep and you got this
this pulse rate that's so loud in your
ear it interferes with your ability to
rest and go to bed at night you should
never hear your pulse rate ever on the
pillow when you're sleeping and that
basically is a simple potassium
deficiency that's all it is and uh we
need a lot of potassium potassium seems
to be the physiological tranquilizer it
relaxes the heart and the pulse rate um
so the way you become deficient is by
having too much glucose or sugar okay so
that would be all the candies and
cookies and things like that not to
mention the other carbs refined carbs
Breads and pasta and cereal anything
that involves refined grains okay that
would be creating the same situation but
if you're consuming a food let's say a
cane sugar and it which naturally comes
with a lot of potassium like if you're
you're chewing on sugar cane you'll
never have this problem but white sugar
you will because it doesn't have any
potassium and it'll just suck out the
potassium um okay and then stress can
also deplete your potassium a lot of
stress uh even shock to the body I
remember um having an accident I fell
off my bike over the handlebars and
landed in the smt and cu the chain fell
off it was a defect in the bike and I
fell on my elbow crushed it had
tremendous amount of trauma in a very
short period of time my potassium levels
just went
right down to nothing I mean it was
crazy so uh that adrenaline that stress
can just drop your potassium levels then
insulin uh that can come from again from
consuming sugars or let's say you're
diabetic and you're taking insulin that
can deplete your potassium levels right
there uh so that's one other source and
that could be why your heart is pounding
and then um also uh diet let's say
you're just not consuming enough of the
foods with potassium you need about four
actually you need about 7 to 10 cups of
vegetable per day to get your potassium
like 4700 milligram if you have rheumato
arthritis or some other arthritic type
thing you might need up to 5 to 6,000
milligrams okay uh even if you go
through stressing a little bit more but
the foods that are highest in potassium
are beet tops avocados leafy greens okay
those are the the top and you just need
to start consuming those so um if you
have this situation go ahead and get
some potassium either from a supplement
or from food and let us know how that
affect your uh your pulse rate thanks
for
watching so press the Subscribe button
and this is misspelled so I can't spell
so I'm going to have to add that in here
okay take two press the Subscribe button
and I I can't even say this um
