today we're going to talk about what to
do if you were on oamic you lost the
weight and now you want to maintain the
weight there's some huge benefits with o
zenic but there's some huge problems too
that you need to be aware of so o zenic
is something called a gp1 Agonist now
what does that mean basically it mimics
a certain hormone in your small
intestine that does like three things it
increases insulin which is automatically
going to your blood sugar number two
it's going to tell your brain you are
totally full so your appetite goes away
and that's interesting because you know
if someone's trying to do a diet with an
appetite it's literally torturous so
without the appetite it makes things
totally easy so it has delayed gastric
emptying okay so food sits in there a
lot longer than it should and this is
why you know there's a lot of side
effects with your GI system you know my
whole philosophy has always been
get healthy then lose the weight versus
lose weight and get healthy a lot of
people will end up losing a lot of
muscle mass sometimes up to 50% of their
muscle mass while they're also losing
body fat so that really actually leaves
them with a ratio of fat to muscle being
not that good so let's first talk about
protein why do we need protein well we
need protein to keep our muscles strong
and also we need muscle to keep our
metabolism higher and so if you're
trying to lose weight let's say after
menopause and you already have lost a
lot of muscle let's say you have atrophy
a lot of women lose muscle after
menopause and then you do this drug
thing and you don't really have a lot of
extra muscle to spare you could see the
problem so what you don't need is you
don't need necessarily protein you need
amino acids okay that's the building
block of protein we want bioavailable
protein so this is why I always
recommend animal protein high quality
red meat eggs fish things like that an
average person needs about 08 at a very
minimum to like
1.5 grams of protein per kilogram of
lean body mass so let's just pretend uh
just to give you a rough number you had
185 pounds of lean body mass that means
that at a very bare minimum you need
about 67 grams of protein now here's
another confusion people have they'll
take like a steak and they'll weigh like
67 grams no no that's the weight of the
steak you got to realize like half that
steak or more is water and other things
so we're talking about the amino acids
the protein inside that steak you're
only going to get 77 to 115 grams of
protein that's like 1/4 of the total
weight of that meat I mean even like one
egg is like seven grams of protein if
you're on the drug you have to make sure
you eat enough protein and when you get
off the medication you have to make sure
you have enough protein to manage this
muscle so we have the type of protein we
have the amount of protein and then we
also have exercise exercise is the
greatest stimulus of muscle mass you
also uh need various hormones because if
you're going through menopause or you're
a guy who's going getting older like
you're 6 years old your testosterone
goes down for women their estrogen goes
down progesterone goes down all those
hormones help you maintain muscle mass a
really important um factor to maintain
that muscle mass as you get older is to
make sure you're of course exercising
getting enough uh quality protein but
also keeping your hormones in check and
the raw material to make all these
hormones is cholesterol so a lot of
times people they go oh I'm just going
to go lean protein right and omit the
cholesterol piece of it not the smartest
thing to do because then you're going to
cause more suffering of your hormones
testosterone especially and estrogen
because all of these hormones are made
from a precursor which is cholesterol
this is why the ketogenic diet is so
important especially if you're coming up
omic because we want to keep that
insulin low so we can burn more fat
between the meals and your appetite goes
away naturally so that's why we
recommend a low
carbohydrate and less frequent meals as
in intermittent fasting we have
cholesterol that turns into two other
precursors for hormones like pregnet
alone and
DHEA both of those can be taken to
supplements to help if you need them I'm
not going to focus on that in this video
but there are things that you can do to
beef up your hormones no pun intended
number one you have to be aware that OIC
tricks your body into thinking it's full
okay okay so then your appetite goes
down and you may not have enough of the
right foods and you might suffer from
that it also has side effects called
gastroparesis which is a slowing down of
your digestive system constipation
gallbladder problems thyroid tumors
thyroid cancer your Cravings will go
away but there's also potential after
you come off the drug of having certain
things be permanent it sounds like a
great wonderful miracle cure but it
comes with a huge pack AG if you're
coming off OIC and you want to maintain
the weight highly recommend you do the
ketogenic diet you do intermittent
fasting you do weight training to
actually keep your muscle strong so if
you're watching this video you're
probably at the point now where you need
the details of what to eat and for that
information check out this video right
here
