today we're going to talk about sugar I
do not think people are aware of how
much sugar they're putting in their
bodies and their family's bodies take a
look at right up here we have peanut
marshmallows remember those things as a
child
280 gram of sugar both of these combined
right here couldn't even fit them to one
cup and then we get apple juice apple
juice has
264 gam of su sugar I mean how many kids
at parties at the school they're
drinking the apple juice thinking it's
better than soda when in fact it seems
to be it has more sugar both of these
combin right here and then we got Coke
136 gam of sugar that Arizona 120 gram
right here you can get this at the
dollar store for a buck um which a lot
of this contains uh hurus corn syrup all
right now hurus corn syrup is a lot
cheaper than actual sugar that's why
they're using it now it's like 20 cents
a pound um an average person consumes
about
63 lbs of Hyer disc corn syrup every
single
year frosted oh no it's a Froot Loops I
I'd like to know how much fruit is in
Froot Loops I don't think any but they
have fiber and whole grains so this
Froot Loops has 96 g of sugar now the
other thing you need to make a note on
is that some of these refined grains
like flower products might not have a
lot of sugar but they have a lot of
grains which isn't listed in the sugar
content so when you evaluate the food at
the grocery store when you buy it always
look at the sugar amounts okay little
sugar on the nutrient facts it'll have
sugar grams that's the most important
thing to look at and you want that as
close to zero as possible and then you
want to realize that serving size per
cup and then it says how many serving uh
per container so you have to multiply
eight serving per container times the
number of sugars to get the true amount
so if you're just looking at the sugars
it's not 12 G for the whole box it's 12
* 8 which is 96
G okay then we have neutr grain neutr
grain um blueberry right it says made
with real fruit but but realize that
there's so much sugar in here 96 G
there's a little bit of blueberry
flavoring and puree that's pretty much
about it then we have orange drink
that's 91 grams of sugar you can get
this for a buck at the dollar store and
it has um a lot of high fruit corn syrup
and then we have chocolate fudge soda 80
gram and then check this out Similac
this is baby formula and uh what's
interesting is I try to find the sugar
grams you can't can't find it I don't
know why but if you look on the label
it'll have total carbohydrates but it
won't have total sugar so I'm just
taking the total carbohydrates assuming
that Sugar simply because it's made the
first ingredient is corn syrup and then
soy protein isolates so anytime it's the
first ingredient it's the most uh
material in the product okay so we have
baby formula and then we have um
Gatorade 58 grams of sugar dextrose they
use dextrose and sucrose those sugars
tend to deplete electrolytes so sugar
one of the effects is it depletes
potassium it depletes calcium and it
depletes B vitamins when you deplete
your potassium your relative sodium goes
up so you retain sodium and that's why
you can gain a pound of weight after
eating just a little bit of sugar
because of the fluid retention then we
get Vitamin Water 31 gram I
mean an average um Coca-Cola 8 oz uh
glass can of Coca-Cola has 38 G this
says 31 not much less and again these
this they should call it synthetic
Vitamin Water because it's all synthetic
vitamins check this out hidden sugar in
flavored yogurt 26 gram of sugar that's
really only 10 G well 12 gram less than
a Coke there's a lot of sugar in this
thing right here and then Activia 25 5 g
of sugar and then we have Ure we have 23
g of sugar with a lot of synthetic
vitamins so when you take sugar cane
itself you have tremendous amounts of
nutrition which will never produce tooth
decay because of all the the vitamins
and minerals in in the uh sugar cane so
when they separate it out into white
sugar the other part of sugar is
molasses okay and they have different
variant degrees of of how much of
molasses versus white sugar you have
brown sugar you have raw sugar and then
you have really dark molasses but
molasses is still high in sugar as well
but it has at least it has nutrition so
it's not going to form any negative
effects with uh tooth decay too when you
bake with molasses you're more satisfied
because of the fact that it has more
nutrition it's hard to eat a lot of it
it's easier to eat a lot of refined
sugar because there's no nutrients to
turn off the brain's hunger okay so when
you eat foods high in sugar suar you
tend to want to eat more and more and
more of it because there's no nutrition
so it depletes various things so um the
other thing I want to mention the effect
of sugar is the this thing called
insulin insulin regulates Sugar
by uh getting the sugar out of the blood
fast when you take this much sugar in in
one sitting for example you're going to
have massive Whiplash of certain organs
like your pancreas that flood that
insulin and and Spike it to drop the
sugar and what it's doing it's taking
the sugar putting it in storage as fat
triglycerides cholesterol okay that's
what it's doing so when the blood sugar
goes up and your insulin goes up to
counter it um you start to create
fatigue within the whole system and over
time it loses control and then you end
up with uh low blood sugar that's the
first step that's like a pre-diabetic
it's called hypoglycemia hypo meaning
low blood sugar gly cic means sugar so
we have the situation where we have low
blood sugar so here are the symptoms
craving sweets okay that's a
pre-diabetic State craving sweets all
the time then we have
irritability uh anxiety depression add
hyperactivity those are all signs of
pre-diabetes because it's
hypoglycemia and uh what happens is that
over time you start creating more and
more damage with the system and now the
insulin doesn't work so now things Stay
High in the sugar hyperglycemia that's
called diabetes why because you don't
have enough insulin to push it down so
the symptoms for high blood sugar would
be fatigue brain fog much like you would
feel after a Thanksgiving meal so you
have this lethargy this brain fog this
fatigue all right and that's diabetes
and that's why they take certain um uh
drugs metformin and even insulin to
start lowering the blood sugar the
problem with that is that once you're
diabetic um because the sugars aren't
regulated there's a lot of of side
effects with vision you go blind
eventually because it affects the nerves
in the eye the optic nerve it affects
the circulation in the outer fingertips
in the feet so you start getting pain in
your feet tingling it's called perip
neuropathy eventually losing circulation
eventually losing your toes to Gang
Green so has a lot of bad effects not
just weight gain and in the presence of
just a little bit of sugar because sugar
and Insulin I'm sorry because insulin is
a dominating hormone you can do a lot of
good things with your diet and all it
takes is a little bit of that bad thing
especially as you age to create huge uh
countering effects so in a little bit of
sugar will block a lot of good things
that you do so you can be exercising
eating good and sleeping and just a
little bit of sugar will bump you out of
fat burning for a long time depending on
your metabolism now when you're 18 you
can get away with it like myself cuz all
I ate growing up was sugar sugar sugar I
would live on these foods and that's why
I got unhealth because I burnt my body
out I lasted till I was 28 I met a
patient uh yesterday in fact uh and she
lasted till she was like 48 and she
she's been living un trigger whole life
and finally it caught up with her and
now she has diabetes and all these other
problems so that's what's motivating her
so I'm not saying you can't have all
these things but all I'm saying is I
want you to be aware of what's going to
occur and be willing to experience those
negative
effects be more cognitive when you eat
this thing versus being slightly asleep
when you're eating them and getting into
that social mode where you all of a
sudden you realize oh my gosh what did I
just do so I want you to become more
aware of what you do when you consume
this and realize it how much damage it
creates now there's a couple things that
you can do to get rid of Cravings number
one you can consume more pottassium I
just wrote a book and you could download
this free off my website called the kale
shake diet it's 12 Pages it's a free
book and um there's nothing in here to
buy you can download it off my website
you can also come in my office and just
get one free but it's very very simple
you should get your friends and family
just to do this one simple thing make a
kale Shake in the morning and that
starts to spike your potassium because
pottassium is the mineral that will help
reduce the Cravings to Sugar why because
it helps to uh prevent a low blood sugar
situation so so it's very important to
have a lot of potassium in the DI diet
so that that way you won't want as much
sugar and when you're burning when
you're actually um craving sugar you're
not burning fat so just realize that if
you're trying to lose weight and you're
still craving sugar then there's you're
not really burning fat you're just
burning up your sugar and then you eat
more sugar and it's a a NeverEnding
process true fat burning you have no
cravings for sugar that's just an FYI
now the the best sweetener that I I use
I like Xylitol don't give it to your dog
it's interesting as a side effect on
dogs but for you it tastes very um just
like sugar you can use it in uh your
baking and things like that I highly
recommend something like this and get
you know for your kids and things get
some recipes and do it that way and
another point I want to bring up it's so
funny how you have people that say well
Dr Berg I'm doing I went to Whole Foods
and I'm doing organic uh Foods um of
course come to find out those organic
treats are made with a Gava nectar
coconut syrup and brown rice syrup those
are it's still sugar it's still going to
create a similar effect so just because
it's organic doesn't mean it's okay to
consume another point is that through
33% of children are becoming diabetic
that's crazy we never had this when I
was growing up there's been this huge
Spike of more and more and more sugary
drinks it's the sugar that's the culprit
um so basically in closing what I want
to talk about is I want to show you some
interesting ads that you can you
probably saw growing up you know when
you were younger uh number one there's
this ad that says the importance of
sugar it says right here a timely matter
in families and meals nutritional
findings show that your need for
Nature's Own sweetener is as deep-seated
as human bodies need for energy it's
only 18 calories and here's another one
why so many Weight Watchers find sugar a
spoon full of
prevention what prompts Weight Watchers
to take sugar in their beverage in a
light dessert now and then well it may
look like cheating but they're really
making their diet easier to stick to
that's because sugar helps prevent you
from overeating it satisfies your
appetite much faster than other foods
with sugar in your diet you're happier
with smaller portions in everything you
try and that's hilarious because again
they don't realize that the insulin
effect is so dominating and so powerful
the whole calorie counting thing is a
joke how about this one for a better
start in life try Cola early earlier how
soon is soon not soon enough
laboratory tests I'd love to see these
laboratory tests over the past few years
has been proven that babies who start
drinking soda during the early formative
period have a much higher chance of
gaining acceptance and fitting in during
those awkward pre-teens and teen years
so do yourself a favor do your child a
favor start them on a strict regimen I
love that strict of soda and other
sugary carbonated beverages right now
for a lifetime of guaranteed
happiness guaranteed or how about this
one Pure Pleasure give some seven up in
your to your kids uh it's so wholesome
mix it with milk see this is this is the
problem the Apparently marketing
Works um
so here's the thing here's what I want
you to do spread this video to your
friends and family go through your
cupboards go through your refrigerator
start getting the sugar out of your
body it's it has major effects not just
on your body but your weight Your
vitality your energy so I hope this
video helped you to increase your
awareness spread the word and I'll see
you in the next video
