[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hey hello hi we are here with a fun
recipe cornbread corn without the corn
minus the
corn so it would just be bread yeah corn
like the corn corn mimicking bread Fae
faux corn bread now this is a a fun
recipe I was
skeptical um but if you've seen the hush
puy recipe it's actually possible to
make something that's really similar to
cornbread and corn meal types of of
breads wow what do you think if you guys
like cornbread you would love this do
you know what it needs butter butter I
that's before I said would you like me
to bring some butter well and you said
no this is this tastes just like
cornbread me taste it really
does it has the
spongy characteristic of cornbread it
really does it's such a nice consistency
and to be able to consume this without
worrying about your blood sugars it's
huge mhm if you made some chili that's
just
meat nothing better than cornbread with
Jos and cheese that's right boy M it's
awesome we
[Music]
n
[Music]
oh
