in this video I'm going to talk about
the question what's better being a
vegetarian or being a meat eater it
really depends on your body type because
there are people that do very well in
vegetables and there are people that
will do better on Meats so it really
depends on if you have an adrenal body
type and let's start with that the
adrenal body types are also more of the
diabetics too because they have a lot of
blood sugar problems they're going to
need more proteins so how do you know if
you have an adrenal body type you can
take the quiz on my website or you can
just uh read my book but it's the person
with the belly fat it's the person that
is tired stressed out um they have
problems craving salt but they're in a
bit of a breakdown state they're
breaking their muscles down a little too
fast and that's why as they get close to
menopause they start getting atrophy of
the muscles that is the flabbiness of
the muscle that's very difficult to tone
that thing so they'll be doing all these
workouts but they'll never get it tone
and that has to do with the hormone
cortisol so cortisol is a stress hormone
that breaks down your muscle so if
you're a vegetarian and your adrenal
type that does not mix too well you're
going to crash and burn you're going to
feel tired so you need that protein that
dense protein to be able to replace all
the breakdown of your own tissues but
I'm not talking a lot of protein just
you need some with each meal so it's
very difficult to be a vegetarian and
get the density of protein that you
would need to replace either in a
diabetic situation or an adrenal body
type however if you are a liver type and
you have a damaged
liver you don't want to be doing a lot
of heavy protein and you don't want to
do the acin diet because all that
protein will plug up the liver even more
so you'll be very good as a vegetarian
but a couple points about being a
vegetarian most vegetarians I know are
don't have enough vegetables they have a
lot of grain they should be called grain
atarian and they eat a lot of raw
chocolate and sugar and refined carbs
and then a lot of meat eaters will also
have a lot of Breads and things as well
and that's not good as so we need a
combination of Vegetables and protein
but if you're more of a liver type you
need more vegetable if you're more
adrenal you need more protein and that's
how I judge things okay as far as what
to eat um the other thing that you want
to realize if you're a vegetarian is
that you don't want to do um the soy soy
is a very dense protein but it's not
good for it's a
lowquality uh protein that can really
mess up your liver okay so my answer to
the question should you be a vegetarian
or mediator it really depends on your
body type and another way to figure this
out is to go ahead and become a
vegetarian for a week and see how you
feel or become a meater and see how you
feel I try to be a vegetarian I could
couldn't do it because my body type
wouldn't allow me to so I do have some
protein but not a lot I have a little
protein but I have a lot of vegetables
okay so I hope that answers that
question
