[Music]
you
[Music]
hey guys I have an exciting guest Zach
bitter is here zach is an endurance
athlete ultra endurance athlete a
hundred miles he runs an incredible
world and American record holder so
thanks for doing this
Zach and welcome to my little interview
here yeah thank you for having me on
absolutely does that's gonna be one of
our speakers guys at the summit so I'm
really excited to pick his brain and
find out how the heck that he runs a
hundred miles and and not only just
running on her mouths but taking the
record and also you actually in the this
is an America right but in the world
you've you've taken some records too
right yeah I have an American record for
a hundred miles and that's just the time
the time it takes to run hundred miles
and that's 11 hours 40 minutes and 55
seconds I also was able to kind of
double dip a bit with that sales of a
world record which is distance run in 12
hours so I've run 100 1.7 miles than the
12 hour time frame so ultra running
communities goofy enough where they have
distance races and timed event races and
all kinds of other things so it's a
that's kind of where I've been my niche
has been the last few years Wow so a
couple things I want to know like that's
this is like a set on average 7-minute
mile right yeah so that's like your
truck and you're not like jogging slow
really good pace and then how do you
know when you have to like do you just
go by thirst and hunger like how do you
know you have to eat or drink before you
kind of like I'm gonna pass out yeah you
know it's it's interesting I guess you
know that's definitely been something
that's changed for me like before I had
ever done a hundred mile race I done a
whole bunch of 50 mile races and one
thing I kind of noticed was that in
order to kind of feel decent or feel
like I wasn't gonna kind of crash and
burn I would have to take in tons and
tons of carbohydrates like to the tune
of 400 calories an hour and a lot of it
is pretty simple because you know you're
moving so it's hard to take in a complex
energy source set during the exercise
and that kind of catches up to your your
gut is still trying to process all that
and your body needs the energy
presumably but your gut has to also
handle it and well one thing I noticed
is like by the end of those races you
just kind of feel bloated and kind of
disgusting and it was like you know kind
of a question in the back of my mind I
was always like well how do how do you
do that for 50 more miles or you know
further yet and you know that wasn't the
only thing I noticed which kind of led
me to a different approach but um you
know what I do now I mean since I'm
following a high fat approach is I can
get away with a lot less fuel while I'm
running because I've essentially tapped
into a much larger fuel tank which is
body fat and the way I like to view that
is even at the leanest state like you
know an athlete's has got a much bigger
body fat reserve and they do glycogen
stores so if you can teach your body to
burn a high level of body fat you
minimize the amount of carbohydrates you
need and then you also bypass the
digestive system when you're you know
taking fuel right doctor body as opposed
to through eating food in the in the
event itself so what I found is just a
lot of trial and error and workouts and
races and things like that is that if I
am gonna race you know an ultra marathon
it's gonna be kind of a peak efforts
I'm usually aiming for about 100 to 200
calories an hour and then depending on
the weather will depend a little bit how
I kind of structure that so like if it's
hot enough or even kind of room
temperature which is actually considered
kind of warm for running I'll tie a lot
of those calories to the hydration and
I'll just drink to thirst and try to
make sure you know whoever's prune for
me is putting in the right amount of
fuel into that and usually I'll do that
with like a carbohydrate source and that
being similar to the reason I gave
before where the gleich my glycogen
stores or the small tank that's someone
I potentially need to reload in the
event itself I think that I can take
care of that afterwards if I get off the
lean from running a hundred mile race I
can just you know add a bunch of butter
to the steak after the race and catch
back up on that post
race and worry about you know that sort
of thing then
but yeah you get pretty intuitive I
think and one of the benefits of having
what I would consider a very clean
healthy biologically appropriate diet is
like my body is pretty good at telling
me when I'm hungry and when I'm thirsty
and I don't necessarily fight that so if
I do get hungry or something during
during the race or thirsty I trust that
it means I need something and then I
guess you also have to at some point use
the bathroom yeah the efficiency is part
of the variables that come into the
ultrarunning stuff and you know at my
back past in the event called desert
Soulstice track invitational where I
actually broke that hundred mile
American record I think I stopped twice
to use the bathroom for probably a total
of sixty to ninety seconds but other
than that I was moving the entire day so
some of it is just kind of playing a
balancing act and act and I think that's
where where it also kind of becomes
really important to be in tune with your
body because I want to hydrate enough to
not lose performance but I don't want to
hydrate to the degree where I'm stopping
every you know a couple miles to use the
bathroom or something like that so I
literally dialed in that day so that's
interesting now you're competing against
a lot of guys that are doing the
carbo-loading thing right mm-hmm yeah
doing carbs right and they're not doing
high fat they're doing probably well I
don't know what they're doing but
they're just doing a lot of
carbohydrates um are these guys stopping
very frequently urinating and like
because of fluids uh I don't know if
they're necessarily you know the people
are taking in fuel and all sorts of
stuff some people are taking in like gel
packs or like bars and things like that
so they're not necessarily tying their
nutrition to hydration and you know one
of the reasons I've like this approach
is because that is a huge logistic and
ultram running like you know even even
guys like myself and guys like Jeff
browning he's another kind of high fat
ultra marathon runner you know we're
still consuming calories during the
event
but that logistic is just way more
manageable and a lot smaller to kind of
to kind of work through during an event
than say like I was earlier when I was
taking in easily twice as much
more and then you know that's pretty
typical I think for a lot of the other
athletes that our high-carb is that kind
of three to four hundred calories an
hour type of a format so um yeah I mean
I think you just set yourself up for
more potential problems you know in the
hundred mile distance there's no
shortage of stories of people getting
sidelined at Mile 7080 and puking up
gels and sports drinks and all that sort
of stuff so you know it's a pretty wide
range of what people can tolerate some
were better at it than others and I I
suspect that the folks that stick around
on the carb wagon are the ones that just
happen to be able to tolerate it a
little more than others and some people
kind of come over to the high fat world
just because they've had those
experiences where they realize I need to
take in this much with my current diet
but I can't so um you know that usually
kind of is a good indicator that you
need to change something and there's
other variables to that kind of affect
that like heat plays a big role if it
gets hot out it becomes harder to digest
and you know your body's trying to use
blood volume for a variety different
purposes so it's kind of use it for
copious amounts of digestion as well as
taking away from some of the other
performance-based functions and you know
it's just a lot of kind of interesting
aspects to the sport that kind of you
know it's all running but it's just a
lot more variables when you're out there
all day long versus four no half an hour
or an hour or even two hours yeah I mean
when you train for a 100-mile race how
many miles do you run every day to train
or do you run every other day how do you
structure your training yeah you know
it's interesting I think in the
endurance world specifically I think a
lot of times you'll see someone like
Nayla race and you know people will look
at what do they do to build up and look
at those eight weeks kind of leading
into into the race and they'll put a lot
of stock and what they did in those
eight weeks when in reality you know
most guys and gals who are breaking
records or you know competing at a high
level you know they've got years and
years if not decades of running
experience that they've kind of been
building off of so you know I've
certainly kind of fit into that mold
where
been doing kind of a very high volume
training approach for quite some time
now and it does Evan flow throughout the
year as I'm kind of recovering from
events or recovering from big training
sessions and stuff like that but the way
I do it is I kind of periodized things
so like after an a race I'll kind of
shut it down I'll give myself like at
least two weeks if I need it to not do
anything structure usually my body comes
back around quite a bit quicker than
that and then I'll just kind of just do
some kind of light running and build up
start building up just kind of low
intensity stuff and I'll work up to
usually well over a hundred miles a week
then I'll start adding in some specific
stuff depending on what race I'm doing
next and what race I'm preparing for you
know a lot of times I'll try to keep the
workouts that are least specific to the
race pace kind of earlier in the
training so once I have that aerobic
base kind of established I'll be doing
maybe some shorter intervals earlier in
the training session some shorter speedy
stuff like that and then as I get closer
to the race itself I'll be going putting
a lot more efforts and energy into like
making sure I get in the long runs which
you know for me usually are in the
neighborhood of thirty sometimes 50
miles in length and then like longer
interval or tempo type sessions so you
know I've had a variety of different
kind of peak mileage weeks when I broke
the American record I had a three week
block where I think I had like 130 mile
150 mile and 170 mile week somewhere
right around there and then that kind of
led into my taper and that was what I
would call wonder maybe a more
aggressive high mileage training blocks
I've done other ones where it's a little
lower where I averaged closer to around
120 miles for maybe a little longer time
and just kind of put a little more stock
in consistency as opposed to one really
really big block but yeah you know it's
a when you when you back out and look at
the year as a whole I probably average
or at least I have historically averaged
a little over a hundred miles a week
when you add in all the rest days and
the big training days and stuff like
that so it's definitely time consuming
no matter how you kind of look at it
yeah and then the day before do you do
anything you're not training the day
before I'll do some light running
usually I'll definitely it's all
relative at at that point I think you
know like if you want a taper you know
I'll scale things back but I won't
necessarily completely shut it down
because I don't want it's a it's a fine
line but I don't wanna like teach my
body that like I haven't been doing
anything either I just want to give it
enough rest to be ready for the race
itself so a lot of times that means I'm
just about 2 or 3 weeks out kind of
cutting down volume and intensity
gradually throughout that time frame
until I get to the race itself so you
know I've done as much as an hour easy
run before the before a hundred mile
race but I have taken off completely too
a lot of times that last week it's a lot
of listening to my body I'm feeling
sharp already then you know I'd probably
be a little less some less aggressive
with like off days and still get some
lights to let some light running in and
kind of keep that that locomotion intact
and then as far as what you're eating
the day before are you are you having a
little more carbs or two just to build
up a little glycogen Reserve or you are
you just kind of going what do you feel
like cuz I mean it's like I don't know
yeah it's interesting I think I'm you
know the the carbo-loading phenomenon I
guess has I think gotten really goofy
over the last few years where it's
almost become I think more of a
celebration than it has an actual like
tactical thing where you know people
will go to these big pasta feeds and
stuff just as part of the event itself
and you know I've kind of tried to put
the carbo-load back into perspective to
what I think it was originally intended
to do so for me like carb planning for
an event actually starts probably about
seven days he's out six or seven days
out in the way I kind of structure it is
I'll spend the first four to five days
of that week going really low carb like
kind of clinical ketogenic or almost
zero carb type of approach and
Murli just trying to set myself up to be
like really heavy fat-burning in those
days and it makes a lot of sense because
like I said before that's when my
training is kind of ramping down so I
really don't have a whole lot of need
for carbohydrate from a training
standpoint at that point and it also
kind of I think that cycle will make my
my glycogen stores pretty sensitive to
anything I do take in the two days or so
before the race so then when I get if
it's like a Saturday race maybe Thursday
night
I'll start kind of sneaking some carbs
back in with dinner and then some carbs
during the meals the day before and
things like that and you know for me a
lot of that a lot of the ones that have
worked well for me are like sweet
potatoes fairies melons
raw honey and that that sort of type of
carbohydrate is usually what you'll find
kind of on my on my plate or in my tea
or whatever alongside some of the fats
and proteins that would be more typical
Wow laughing hey guys we're talking to
Zack bitter and he's going to be one of
the speakers at the summit and there's a
couple of things that you told me we're
not going to get into them but you're
right now you're experimenting
researching on your own body about the
proteins in relationship to quantities
of protein and ratios of carbs and you
and you're finding some interesting
things so you're gonna be sharing that
right you're gonna talk about protein
which is kind of like a new territory
because it's like there's not a lot of
people that do what you do in the area
of and eat what you eat so you could
just basically read a book you're kind
of creating this thing as you go and
you're experimenting on your body
because if it doesn't work you're gonna
find out that's simply because there's
no way you're gonna last you know that
long to do this so I think it's tough
it's like your body is kind of a great
tool to get feedback to see what was
working what's not and then you're also
going to be talking about electrolytes
and I think you also did you do that
interview with doctor Noakes yeah we
actually just released that one to
public it's episode 29 of the human
performance outliers podcast folks our
interest
did and we dove into electrolytes
hydration as well as nutrition on that
one so yeah it's an interesting
discussion central governor theory - I
suppose which I guess plays a role in
hydration and electrolytes perhaps oh
yeah
I mean like he's a guy that started the
whole carbo thing with the I think it's
called the GU right and he was like
promoting that until him I guess three
friends got diabetes and this is the
problem we this is not good and then I'm
not sure oh yeah he told me he was the
whole water thing like you he's you know
it was like hardly when he started out
they weren't even drinking any water and
then they started drinking a lot of
water people were dying and then he
wrote a book on it's called water logged
correct yeah yeah so because guys if you
don't if you've never heard about
there's a condition called hyponatremia
which is basically you're drinking too
much water and you're depleting your
sodium which you need for muscle
physiology and your heart and your brain
can swell and your heart can you can
basically get a heart attack so people
have died so there's a there's a
technology to electrolytes and fluids
and at the summit zach is gonna talk a
little bit about that so I'm excited
about that and I was gonna I won't take
too much of your time but I wanted to
find out like here you are you're gonna
run you may be like you're gonna run on
a flat surface on a track and you're
gonna go hundred miles how do you
confront doing this repetitive it seemed
like it'd be so boring for hour after
hour running the same thing over like
how do you mentally do that like I don't
know yeah you know it's a little
different and in in the United States I
think like with ultramarathon in the
trail scene has kind of been the one
that's picked up the most momentum in
terms of popularity and one of the
appealing reasons for that I think is
because your scenery is constantly
changing you're seeing some of the most
beautiful areas of the country and
you can kind of Bank some mental energy
on that that you're kind of experiencing
this this area but you hop on a 400
meter high school track you don't have
that luxury necessarily you're kind of
completely exposed and you're gonna say
this see the same thing over and over
all day long
so I think that approach certainly from
a mental side is is quite a bit
different where on one hand logistically
it's super easy so you can have peace of
mind knowing that you can get whatever
you want every 400 meters you there's
always people there the environments
never gonna throw you for a kerb for the
most part - some weird weather system
coming through so you kind of have a lot
of those things that you can you can
rely on being consistent but then you
know you have to be able to put up with
the monotony so for me it's always been
like you know doing a lot of kind of I
guess the best way to maybe describe is
zoning out and it's like it's more or
less just kind of getting a rhythm like
if you if I do the training right and I
kind and I have an idea where my fitness
is that which I have a fairly easy time
doing in the train is not necessarily
easy but the you know becoming in tune
with where I'm at is pretty easy because
I've just done it so many times now
where I can almost just kind of get in a
rhythm and I'm not necessarily fixating
too heavily on on pace I can kind of
just dial in an intensity or a perceived
effort and then just kind of more or
less daydream or try to picture myself
somewhere else other than the track it
does get a little more difficult near
the end because you know as you can
imagine 80 miles into a hundred mile run
you know your body's getting getting a
little worn down and you're getting a
little tired of being out there and your
mind starts to kind of convince your
body that it needs to stop or slow down
so it's a little more difficult to
really hit the splits intuitively and
then you kind of have to pay a little
more attention to kind of watching your
pace which for me tends to kind of slow
the clock down in my mind because then
I'm just you know looking at it more
often and that's where it kind of gets a
little more difficult you have to push
through some of the some of the mental
hurdles do you have tips like for me
what seems
probably would happen if I would have
all of a sudden my left knee will start
talking and like hurting and then my
shoulder will do you have like things
that kind of just turn on like on your
body until you just run into all this
and they'll go away just push through it
yeah to some degree you know it's it is
kind of interesting a lot of that I
think the physical whole this physical
toll it almost hits a plateau and then
it's just about being able to kind of
keep pushing through that kind of low
dull pain or that low doll-like
annoyance I guess is of a way to say it
you know I usually try to compare it to
you know the opposite whereas like
someone's racing like a three-kilometer
a 5 kilometer race you know they they're
their peace of mind is that it's over
relatively quick but the hard part is
it's kind of a sharp pain it's like it's
just it's really intense pain that you
don't want to last too long whereas with
a hundred miles it's like it's not
anything really drastic that you
wouldn't be able to handle for a few
minutes at a time but over the close for
hours and hours it kind of eats away at
you and it kind of way I describe it
depletes your mental energy and then you
you just develop less patience to be
able to tolerate it and I think that's
where you know the whole mental side of
the sport becomes that much more
important because a lot of it comes down
to you know how much are you willing to
kind of push through versus other days
where you're maybe not able to push
through as much Wow interesting
awesome well I'm excited to have you at
the event and so I hope you guys could
make it
it's going to be this October 13 14 so
I'll put some information down below so
thank you so much Zach
