today we're going to discuss the most
powerful group behind what you eat and
you might even think that they're like
the top brands that you see in the
grocery store but they're not the real
big players there are actually four
companies that control
90% of the grain trade and I'm talking
about products made from corn soy wheat
sugar rice you have to realize that
these Commodities make up like 68%
of the average person's calories at
least in the United States and this
group is composed of four companies
they're kind of Silent Giants because a
lot of people don't even know that they
exist they're the extremely powerful and
influential middleman between the
farmers who they heavily control as well
as the other brands that you know about
like Nestle and Kelloggs Etc and they
have huge influence over Commodities
well Commodities are like a stock market
for crops I mean I have a tiny bit of
experience with commodities I had no
business going into the commodity Market
there's still skidm marks on the
turnpike going right into
Philadelphia when my wife was driving
with all these kids in the back seat I
thought that was the best time to tell
her that honey I lost all of our savings
in the Commodities Market well she
slammed on the brakes and there is a
little island of land right next to this
major freeway that she pulled off of she
gets out of the car she walks up and
down this little piece of land let's
just say she was extremely upset and she
had to let out some steam and rightfully
so and the whole thing is very confusing
but these four companies uh have a huge
influence on what those prices are set
at and they get themselves into a really
good situation because $700 billion a
year are spent on subsidies for
Commodities like corn wheat soybean now
there was a really interesting study in
the American Journal of agricultural
economics if we're giving them $700
billion a year that should allow us to
buy this food for a lot cheaper for
every dollar of corn subsidy the
resulting decrease in corn prices only
led to a two cents reduction wait a
second that's not fair I just gave you a
dollar and I'm getting two cents back
let's say you want to go buy a doughnut
at the store and these Donuts are a
dollar okay
so you go to the store and what you
might not realize is that you already
spent $1.95 for that doughnut and you
didn't know it because it indirectly
came through your paying for your taxes
and you bought the raw materials to make
it and then you spend your dollar so the
total amount of money that you spent for
that donut is
$2.95 then of course when you eat the
doughnut you eventually have health
problems so you have to go to the doctor
and pay the doctor to fix your blood
sugars your high blood pressure your
high cholesterol dementia your heartburn
but thank goodness you have insurance
right but the point is that these
companies got themselves in a really
good situation because a lot of the raw
materials are paid for by you in advance
so the four companies ABC D the first
one is called Archer Daniels Midland and
then bungi and then Carill and then
Louie
dfus those are the four companies that
pretty much own the grain trade they're
the companies that Supply 68% of your
calories and what's really wild is the
junk food brands also own a lot of the
organic and natural Brands as well as
well as pet food and the vitamin and
supplement companies as well now what's
even more bizarre if we kind of just
lump together the three main ingredients
in 99% of all junk food we have starches
we have sugars we have seed oils right
and we know the sugars are there to
sweeten something and they're high
addictive and it will keep you craving
for more sweets the more you eat them
right the seed oils originated long ago
in the 1800s with cotton seed oil they
were trying to figure out what to do
with this waste and so they decided to
use it as a fuel and then they decided
Well let's just put it in the food
supply and that was the start of
repurposing a waste product from
something else and then we have starches
right what's the purpose of a starch the
purpose of a starch is to add bulk to
the product it's not even sweet even
though a starch is a chain of sugar I
mean it's one thing to add a filler for
a product to kind of bulk up so you can
sell it at a cheaper amount but it's
another thing to sell a filler that can
create more of a spike on the glycemic
index than actual cane sugar by a factor
of 185 so if we're comparing certain
sugars to starches like cane sugar on
the glycemic index it's 65 for sugar but
then for maltodextrin for example that
can go all the way up to
185 so think about what that's doing to
your health this so-called benign filler
is creating major problems and it's in
so many foods I started looking through
Ultra processed foods to see how much of
this starch was present and uh I got
numbers from anywhere between 35 to 60%
of the calories were these starches this
video is really about increasing the
awareness of who's really controlling
the food supply and so this entire
system of subsidizing certain crops
started during the Depression they
should have stopped it right there but
they kept going and now we have a A
system that really does not benefit you
because you're buying certain
ingredients at the expense of your own
health with other companies majorly
benefiting from your tax dollars so so
it might sound like there's nothing you
can do but there is something you can do
the market follows the demand okay that
means the market follows what you buy if
you keep buying these products the
system will stay in existence forever if
you stop buying these products you
basically decrease the demand and the
market will go in another Direction and
so what I'm really trying to uh
communicate is that you need to go on a
low carb ketogenic diet not just for
your own health but to influence this
system which I think is extremely
corrupted if you want to know exactly
where to start you can start by watching
this video right here check it out
