let's talk about the mind-blowing
benefits of a lemon I think most people
know that lemons are high in vitamin C
so if you buy uh lemon juice that's
bottled it's pasteurized so you're not
going to get a lot of vitamin C I'm
talking about fresh squeeze lemon juice
okay so you have vitamin C you also have
citrate which can help lower the risk of
getting kidney stones lemons are good
for the skin good for digestion but
today I'm going to talk about this other
group of nutrients and lemons called
flavonoids okay there are over 6,000
different flavonoids and no we're not
going to cover each one of them today
but we are going to cover one flavonoid
okay just one so the one I want to cover
is called Os citrin Os citrin is a
flavonoid in lemons and lemons have the
most OS citrates and these are the facts
removing fat from your liver helping you
balance out your lipids like cholesterol
in your liver reversal of diabetes on a
double blinded randomized study OC
citrin has similar effects to the main
antioxidant in green tea so it's a very
very powerful antioxidant Aeros citrin
also has a lot to do with protecting the
Integrity of your capillaries so how is
that going to relate to what problems
you might have well bleeding gums if
your gum tissue is like red or swollen
wow you need lemons it's not just the
vitamin C it's these flavonoids and that
can also give you a lot of benefits in
your circulation the peripheral
circulation the circulation that happens
in the extremities like on the bottom of
your feet or ankles or your hands are
discolored or you have um circulation
problems or maybe you have um spider
veins OC citrin can greatly help that
some of these other phytonutrients have
huge profound effect um against
hypoglycemia high blood glucose which is
diabetes so let's say you are a diabetic
or you have sugar or let's say you just
ate a bunch of sugar and you had a lemon
the phytonutrient the flavonoids in that
lemon are going to counteract all this
oxidative stress going on they're going
to also improve your HDL they're going
to decrease your LDL and your
triglycerides there's also some really
great data which I'm going to put all
this down below of decreasing your risk
to Chronic Venus insufficiency that's a
problem with your Venus system or the
veins these compounds are very potent
anti-inflammatories for things like
rheumatoid arthritis or any type of
arthritis these compounds decrease
something called glycation glycation is
The Binding of sugar to protein or sugar
to a fat making that protein unusable in
your body clogging things up and so the
flavonoids directly inhibit that
formation and because flavonoids
decrease inflammation you also get a
decrease of fibrosis as well as clotting
flavonoids also have a pretty uh potent
effect against insulin resistance which
the majority of the population has and
probably doesn't know it which includes
things like metabolic syndrome where you
have like blood pressure issues ETC
these flavonoids also have a profound
effect against something called diabetic
cardiomyopathy which is a problem not
just with the vascular system in the
heart but the actual heart muscle itself
so these flavonoids uh Target supporting
the endothelial layer the inside layer
of that artery where you have a lot of
damage that can occur and then you have
plaque that forms from there but also
the heart muscle itself there's also a
whole bunch of data on what it can do to
your brain uh it's very neuroprotective
the essential oil in the lemon which is
little bit different than these other
compounds are antimicrobial so what does
this mean it means you should be
consuming more lemons and I would
recommend taking the whole lemon peel in
all with a maybe a 12 oz glass of water
maybe do like a couple drops of stevia
or you can do electrolyte powder that's
already sweetened with stevia blend it
up and drink that in the morning
especially if you have blood sugar
problems you're diabetic or you're
pre-diabetic or you have insulin
resistance now of course I always like
to add a little apple cider vinegar with
it just to give it a nice little kick
but I just wanted to give you some extra
data on lemons which are uh way more
beneficial than I actually thought as
you may know it's becoming more and more
difficult to find my content so if you
want Dr Berg un filtered go to rumble I
put a link down below and I will see you
on the other
side
