today we're going to talk about the
number one top multivitamin mineral
product in the world okay now I'm not
going to tell you the brand name because
you can look this up online and find it
very easily but I just find this very
very interesting here we have the number
one top selling multivitamin mineral
they make just under $200 million a year
and it's all synthetic they use mostly
Elemental minerals okay those are
minerals that don't really absorb that
well they're very inexpensive and they
are definitely not plant
sources Elemental minerals are usually
in the soil the plant grabs them
converts them to a different type of
mineral that's easier to absorb in our
bodies so anytime you're using Elemental
minerals you're using minerals that are
more designed for plants than humans and
so if you're consuming an elemental
mineral the absorption of it is going to
be a lot less so you're not going to get
very much of it in your body now the
same thing goes with synthetics you're
not going to absorb the same amount um
synthetics are not the same form that
comes from nature all right let's start
with the first ingredient calcium
carbonate what you should know about the
first ingredient of most products it
usually encompasses the majority of that
product so if they have calcium
carbonate is the first ingredient it's
probably the majority uh of this product
and this is why when you lift up the
bottle of the supplement it feels feels
like a paper weight it's very very heavy
because calcium carbonate is a rock it
does not get absorbed in your body very
well and um I never recommend it all
right then we have magnesium oxide
that's an elemental mineral then we have
ascorbic acid which is a synthetic
vitamin C but it's really just one part
of the vitamin C complex and they make
it from uh sulfuric acid and cornstarch
yeah then you have DL Alpha deeral AET
tape this is a synthetic version of
vitamin E it's not the whole complex
it's just one part of the vitamin E
complex then you have cyano camine which
is the synthetic version of B12 then you
have damine mononitrate the synthetic
version of B1 then you have zinc oxide
which out of all the zinc uh forms is
the most inable form so it's not going
to absorb very well in your body
compared to all these other forms now
there are many other ingredients to this
product but I didn't want to overwhelm
you with more synthetics but on top of
these vitamins and minerals I had to add
these other ingredients corn starch
modified corn starch molto dextrin BHT
which is a preservative polyethylene
glycol titanium oxide now why in the
world would they add titanium oxide
titanium oxide is what they use in
varnishes paints Plastics rubber well
they mainly use it as a Whitener to take
out the colors of these ingredients so
then they can add the artificial
colorings in there that would be the Red
2 Lake red 40 yellow 6 Lake to make it a
certain color so it's standardize
because they know that what's important
to you is the color more than the
ingredient now the problem with titanium
oxide is that there are two major
organizations I a
RC that states that this is a possible
carcinogen and then you have another
organization the
efsa said that it's not safe in food
sources here you have a multivitamin
product that is the top selling product
but to me it's not even a true
multivitamin mineral it's some
artificial thing that's resembling a
multivitamin mineral so what does it
tell me it tells me that either
advertising works or people do not know
the difference between
authentic ingredients and synthetic and
artificial ingredients and I think it's
more of the latter simply because if
someone really understood the difference
even if there was great advertising
people wouldn't buy it now I am not
biased of my products that was sarcasm
but I want to show you something uh just
from this product right here keto energy
uh I want to show you where the uh
vitamin B2 comes from the B2 comes from
broccoli the B3 comes from tomato the
vitamin B5 comes from shitake mushroom
so it actually comes from food so the
problem with vitamin manufacturing
companies is that it's just expensive in
order to get vitamin B1 for example uh
from a food source you have to have like
300 milligram of a certain material to
make 1 milligram of a natural vitamin
okay that is the problem it's the cost
and synthetic vitamin and very few
people know this are
80% times less expensive than natural
vitamins now let me show you another one
right here cruciferous product okay all
right we have organic freeze dried
beetroot organic freeze-dried brussel
sprouts organic freeze-dried collar
green organic freeze-dried garlic and
the list goes on and on and on so the
first is the cost of the actual
vegetable okay cuz someone has to grow
it then you have the form of the
vegetable which has a certain cost
freeze dried that's more expensive than
um another type of form then you have
the cost of the quality organic which is
a lot more expensive than the
conventional so what you need to know is
that synthetic is not the same is from a
food source okay it's it's very
different in nature vitamins come in um
very different complexes they don't come
in individual fractions of vitamins
vitamins from nature have no chemical
residues and so in summary when you're
buying a vitamin always read the back of
the label read not only the data on the
supplement facts but the actual
ingredients too and if you can't
pronounce these words then you pretty
much know that they're
synthetic hey before you go if you're
benefiting from any of my content I
would love to hear about your success
story please share it in the link down
below
