hey guys I want to show you something
really cool this is a kind of a decaf
bulletproof coffee
okay without the coffee okay so we're
gonna use two Chino okay this is a no
caffeine it's an a coffee alternative
you can also there's different ones this
is a French Roast you just put it right
as the like almost like a coffee little
teabag thing that's pretty cool so take
a heaping tablespoon okay and then we're
going to actually take some boiling
water put about maybe a cup and a half
roughly okay and then what I like to do
is I like to add cinnamon okay about
half at Easter that's my exact
measurement and about 1/4 of a teaspoon
of cayenne pepper and give it a little
kick maybe a little less than that maybe
an eighth of a teaspoon okay so then
what I'm going to do is I'm going to mix
it up and then let it sit for three
minutes okay
so let's just wait three minutes
okay so it's three minutes we're going
to go ahead and press this
filter out all the grounds real nicely
okay good
now what we'll do so we put this on a
blender now I like to add this 100%
coconut oil 100% organic virgin
cold-pressed unrefined okay talk about
amazing so put that in there and of
course a teaspoon of Kerry gold
grass-fed butter you can't forget that
stick it in there
okay then we're gonna do is we're gonna
add a teaspoon of cocoa heaping teaspoon
of cocoa powder if you can find raw that
would be even better
okay good so now we're just going to
blend away
okay
amazing screaming delicious
decaffeinated alternative coffee
bulletproof on steroids check that out
Wow alright
amazing okay try to make it it's it
comes with a kick though with that
cayenne pepper if you don't like cayenne
pepper omit that but it's pretty tasty
and it's thick alright see you next time
hey guys I wanted to personally invite
you to a new Facebook group that I just
started called dr. Berg's keto and in a
minute fasting lab okay so I created
this so we can share our successful
actions what worked what didn't work
your results so I put a link down below
so go ahead and sign up and I'll see you
inside
