there's some fascinating information I
want to share with you regarding iodine
that goes Way Beyond the thyroid so it
is true that the Lion's Share of iodine
is stored inside your thyroid but
there's also iodine in the breast tissue
in the uterus in the ovaries
in the prostate and I'm going to tell
you why in the sperm in the stomach in
your lungs and especially in your brain
okay the front part of your brain that
involve cognition Focus memory
concentration and this is why if a
infant is deficient in iodine at Birth
they're going to have some problems with
their IQ they're going to have decreased
intellectual capacity and so iodine is
important and not just for your thyroid
for other things as well now the other
interesting thing about iodine is the
requirements for iodine the rdas it's
roughly in America it's about 150
micrograms not milligrams but micrograms
but what's interesting about that is if
you take a look at Japan they consume on
average per day between a thousand to
three thousand micrograms of iodine and
they don't have nearly the problem with
breast cancer with female reproductive
issues and many of the other iodine
deficiency problems that we have in the
U.S there just is no agreement in the
scientific community on how much iodine
we really need as far as a therapeutic
dose they do state that the upper limits
should be no more than a thousand
micrograms but that's kind of an
arbitrary number because people have
taken a lot more without any problems in
fact if you have way too much iodine and
create the same exact symptoms as a
deficiency in iodine now there's two
general types of iodine the type that
should be used topically in in the body
not internally like povidone iodine
that's great for fungal infections on
your toes or even a skin tag or a wart
but you shouldn't take that orally there
are other types of iodine that you can
take orally but I would recommend taking
it as a food base whether it comes from
actual food like shellfish or even
better yet seek help which is seaweed it
comes in a package from nature that has
all the other trace minerals and things
that are connected with it because
anytime you take one of anything in the
body you have to realize that you could
throw off other things as well
especially when we're getting into the
trace minerals but you're more protected
and you can tolerate it more if you take
it from a food source like sea kelp of
course the key about sea kelp is making
sure it's high quality it comes from a
an ocean that is very very pristine and
healthy without heavy metals because you
don't want contaminated
toxic heavy metals in your sea kelp now
there's some fascinating applications of
using iodine to help with various body
conditions and one of the big things
that iodine does is it helps to regulate
estrogen especially if there's too much
estrogen in the body as in estrogen
dominance so what does that mean it
means it can help you with heavy periods
periods that go on for too long it can
help with something called fibrocystic
breast in fact relating to that topic
one of the best ways to identify an
iodine deficiency is through just the
symptom of having breast tenderness most
of the time when a woman experiences
tenderness of the breast they're really
just experiencing an iodine deficiency
so you can use iodine on fibrocystic
breast ovarian cysts
endometriosis fibroids because you have
high levels of iodine in the ovary in
the breast tissue in the uterus also
iodine can be used for a prostate
enlargement why because as men get older
their testosterone goes down and the
relative ratios of estrogen goes up so
iodine is known to help prostatic
enlargement but iodine is also good for
other things like PCOS polycystic
ovarian syndrome it's good for cystic
acne it's good for TB upper respiratory
infections because you have iodine in
your lungs probably to act as an
antimicrobial because it's good as a
defense mechanism for your immune system
iodine is also good for something called
croup which is a kind of this wheezing
in the upper respiratory tract where you
get this high pitched sound when you're
breathing in usually you see this in
infants or even this excessive weird
cough which actually sounds like a dog
barking as well as asthma I already
mentioned toenail fungus it's a good
remedy for that because it's anti-viral
antibacterial oil
anti-fungal and anti-candida I've done a
video on how you can use iodine to help
remove an award as well as a skin tag
I'll put that link down below and let's
not forget in the importance of the
thyroid so having enough iodine can
actually help you to lose more weight it
can help you with brain fog it can help
you when you're excessively cold and
have dry hair and dry skin and even
constipation because it supports the
thyroid gland and even depression as
well but unless you consume food okay
that is either from the sea or from
vegetables that are grown on the
coastline chances are you're not going
to get a lot of iodine in your Foods
because if it's not in the soil it's not
going to be in the plant and so there's
always going to be a very very tiny
amount of iodine in the soil but in
certain areas of the country you could
have literally a hundred times less
iodine in those vegetables then
vegetables that are grown by the coast
close to the ocean there is a bit of
iodine in eggs dairy as well as iodized
salt and even sea salt but with sea salt
there's going to be just small small
amounts now another thing I want to
mention is that you can't actually have
an allergy to iodine okay so some people
have an allergy to shellfish for example
that has iodine you might need to get
your iodine from the straight iodine if
someone is deficient in iodine the body
is going to allocate or recruit iodine
and make sure you have enough for the
thyroid so it'll pull from different
tissues and that can keep you deficient
in certain parts of your body and
sufficient in other parts one of the
most accurate ways to measure iodine
because the problem is if you get a
urine sample or even a blood sample in
the morning you can have a false
positive because you have the lowest of
iodine in the morning so the best way to
assess iodine is a 24-hour urine iodine
test another simple test would be just
to basically take a little drop of
povidone iodine put it on your skin okay
maybe on the inside of your your arm or
your leg or your thigh and then just
cover an area like maybe an inch by an
inch and then see what happens within
one hour you can put maybe like a little
patch Robert or a Band-Aid and if it
disappears in one hour chances are you
are deficient in iodine you need more
because your body is sucking it up but
if it's still there after an hour
chances are you probably have enough now
of course that's a crude way of
measuring it but it's just one
indication and like I said before breast
tenderness is another uh classic symptom
of a deficiency of iodine a couple of
other ways that people are deficient is
consuming uh maybe excessive amounts of
raw cruciferous vegetables because
there's certain compounds in the
cruciferous vegetables that tend to bind
up that iodine also if you consume
millet
soy sweet potato
you can also have the same problem
people that are are vegan plant-based
have to be very careful because they're
usually eating plants that are deficient
in iodine and they don't consume
shellfish but on the other hand if they
have sea kelp they're going to be okay
if a woman is pregnant or lactating the
demand for iodine goes up so they should
make sure that they take a little bit
more other things compete for iodine
like fluoride and bromide if someone is
on a low salt diet because they have
high blood pressure because the doctor
told them to get off the salt they can
also be deficient in iodine just from
not having enough of the iodine in the
salt but of course that would have to be
either iodized salt or
sea salt there's some other chemicals
that commonly create problems for iodine
perchlorate that's like a chemical waste
product from fertilizers that they put
in the land and then the runoff goes
into the water supply and then it ends
up in your water so perchlorate blocks
iodine as well as nitrates
which is another waste product from
fertilizers so the absolute best way to
get your iodine is through a little sea
kelp you can take some on a regular
basis just take whatever is recommended
on the back of the label but also start
consuming more shellfish to make sure
you have enough as well now I created
another video that has gotten millions
of views and this relates to using
iodine to get rid of skin tags in warts
if you haven't seen that video check it
out I put it up right here
