hi guys Dr bur here I had a question
recently about aspirin okay now first of
all um check with your doctor I'm not
giving you any medical advice for this
I'm just giving you some education and
on some other viewpoints on aspirin some
people are taking as a preventative
measure for heart attacks and stroke uh
that don't have any problems with their
blood work or don't have any problems
they just want to prevent it other
people do have problems and they're
taking it um and some people um are
taking it for pain and inflammation
okay so the other the thing that you
need to know is
that one of the side effects from taking
aspirin is that it it creates damage on
the liver especially if you take a lot
of it and it also creates internal
bleeding it also creates kidney problems
it's right on the label you can just
read that uh over 6% of the group of
people take aspirin end up hospitalized
okay and 15,000 deaths a year in the us
alone from aspirin so it's not 100% safe
but people say well it's also uh not
safe to have be at risk for heart
attacks or stroke I understand that um
but I just want to give you some
alternatives to look at if you wanted an
alternative you can check with your
doctor to see if you guys can work out
the um but make sure you check with your
doctor to make sure that you both are in
coordination but cival oil is a very uh
great oil for the heart also to thin the
blood naturally um it has vitamin A it
has vitamin D it's good for the immune
system it's good for the cardiovascular
system if you wanted to get cod oil I
would search out a virgin cod liver oil
it's just higher quality it's a little
more expensive but it's definitely worth
it number two vitamin E make sure the
vitamin E you get is a complex a natural
complex not a synthetic like Alpha
tocoferol you want to get the whole
complex and make sure it's it's more of
a natural version vitamin E also is
great for the heart good for Angina uh
it's good for um supporting a healthy
heart cardiovascular system and of
course probably vitamin C2 to strengthen
the capillaries and the arteries to help
support um your vascular system so you
don't get a stroke vitamin E is very
important make sure it's a natural food
based vitamin C complex okay now the
other thing is if you're taking aspirin
for pain or inflammation there's some
other things that you may want to do to
go deeper coder oil is a great
anti-inflammatory that's one thing
number two stingy nettle root is one of
the best uh natural anti-inflammatories
that I know it's natural it's doesn't
have any side effects and it works
really good for anything like arthritis
and pain I like this one um also
intermittent fasting in keto if you're
watching my videos you know all about
this if you don't start watching the
intermittent fasting in keto combination
ketogenic diet because this will drop in
inflammation probably faster than
anything that I know um next thing if
you have gout uh inflammation from gout
or rheumatoid arthritis you need a lot
of potassium make sure the quantity of
vegetables are between 7 Cups and 10
cups a day in addition to that you might
want to get a pottassium supplement
maybe electrolyte powder to really
increase that to lower inflammation as
well all right thanks for watching hey
you probably already subscribed but if
you haven't press press this little
button down below and I will keep you
updated
