hey guys I wanted to talk about exercise
today and why you may want to add some
b1 to your workouts you want to spike
your energy now b1 thiamine is
intimately involved in the mitochondria
the energy factor of the cell
especially in cellular respiration which
is basically using oxygen in the
combustion of food to energy there's
five different enzymes that it's
involved with one is basically just
breaking down food breaking down the
carbon atoms in releasing the energy as
ATP which is like the energy currency of
the body as well as enzymes to help
clear out waste products from metabolism
like lactate and ammonium so that's
actually very important as well oh and
by the way the more carbs you consume
the more b1 you need if you're on keto
you definitely don't need as much but I
would recommend taking some because b1
is like an anti fatigue nutrient it can
give you endurance so if you're gonna
take me one I also recommend taking in
the complex a good source would be
nutritional yeast there are other
natural sources if you take too much
over a long period of time it might
create deficiencies of certain other B
vitamins so just take the whole complex
in a nutritional yeast maybe some
additional b1 about a half hour before
you workout you should feel your energy
going up and definitely have more
endurance thanks for watching hey so if
you haven't done so please press
subscribe now that way you can be aware
of all the new content that I'm putting
out on a regular basis
