hi guys I'm going to talk about the best
remedy for dandruff now what is dandruff
it's that scaly flaky itchy uh stuff on
your scalp okay little white specks it
could be inflamed it could be redened
but really it's a combination of uh a
nutritional deficiency with a bacterial
thing going on and a fungal thing going
on okay and if you look this up no one
really knows what it is exactly they
just find associations but the remedy
I'm going to talk about really works
okay so here's what you have to get you
have to get wild oregano oil all right
you can get it in a in a pearl form
where you take little pearls out and
there's liquid in there and you could
open one up because you need two to
three drops of that put in a spoon and
then take a teaspoon well put it in a
bigger spoon like a tablespoon and then
you need one teaspoon of flax seed oil
you mix that together okay so we have a
combination of oregano oil and flax seed
oil the flax seed oil provides essential
fatty acids that totally
heal this flaky skin thing okay so
you're putting it topically and the
oregano oil is one of the best
antibacterial antifungal that you could
possibly get all right and so you're
going to rub this after shower you're
going to rub it into the scalp and
you're going to leave it in there okay
and you just need to do this like for
like a week and you'll see it clears it
right up it's quite dramatic now I'm
going to recommend that you also handle
the inside of your body like your diet
um and also consume some oregano oil
Orly okay as well as flax seed oil okay
and then
also this condition could be a B2
deficiency a B6 deficiency a biotin
those are B vitamins but the best way to
handle that would be to get some
nutritional yeast so you can just take a
teaspoon a day or a tablespoon a day and
make sure you're getting your B vitamins
okay just to make sure that this stuff
doesn't come back and then you have
vitamin D and of course the sun would be
the best source of vitamin D but if it's
you want to get it from the Virgin Civ
oil okay it's a little more expensive
but it has amazing vitamin D vitamin A
okay which is great for the Skin So
vitamin D is also powerful to to
actually get rid of this as well and of
course zinc zinc is somewhat important
some some people have a zinc deficiency
and it will create the symptom but this
is not the most important thing the most
important thing is these up here and if
you want to put the icing on the cake go
ahead and add the zinc in there okay all
right go ahead and try this and put your
comments below thanks for watching he I
just wanted to take a moment to thank
you for your amazing amazing successes
that you guys are writing about and I
would love to have a complete success
story from you with a before picture and
an after picture as well if you have
that and I put a link down below so you
can fill it out if you don't have a
weight loss before and after just put an
image of yourself and your success I
would love to read it and I would love
love to share it with others because it
does give them hope that they could be
helped too thank you so much
