hey guys I wanted to create a quick
video on the absolute worst foods that
you can consume with the highest
glycemic index okay puff rice cakes a
hundred and thirty-two and these are
consumed as a diet food Wow
it's one way to get fat corn flakes I
think this is another diet food isn't it
it's like people are consuming corn
flakes lose weight
121 jelly beans 117 pancake mix okay Wow
potato bread 103 bagel 101 dates a
hundred taco shells 97 white rice 98
honeydew melon 93 all right so
unfortunately anything over 70 is high
so these are like off the charts so go
ahead and type in in the comment section
which one of these is your favorite or
you have consumed a lot growing up as a
child hey thank you so much for watching
keep spreading the word and share this
video
