hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about ammonia in the brain now what
does that mean uh well here's the thing
a lot of times when people get older uh
their liver becomes damaged and they
start building up um um ammonia because
the protein is not breaking down to Ura
and it's backing up into the blood and
it's going into the brain so here are
some of the symptoms uh severely
decrease cognitive function confusion
memory loss swelling in the brain and
that musty sweet breath that uh
sometimes you would smell walking
through a nursing home it's just uh it's
liver damage um now there's another
condition where it's a kind of a sweet
uh sulfur uh breath which is a little
different and that's basically kind of a
a symptom or a sign that they're dying
and it's also it can come from liver
damage U but the liver is on its way out
and uh it has a certain odor to it but
it's a little bit more soft sweet rather
than musty sweet so uh anyway um what
causes the liver to become damaged is
excessive protein so if you eating
massive quantities of protein you're
overloading the liver and it's it could
actually build up ammonia all right and
then of course alcohol drugs processed
food uh years of eating a lot of cooked
Foods going to the O can e Buffet will
do it um and high insulin okay from all
the sugar that people eat be becoming a
diabetic and medic medications will do
it as well so you're about as healthy as
your liver so you really got to save the
liver and take care of the liver uh so
here's one of the remedies uh for that
natural remedies would be L glutamine uh
that's really good for Recovery
balancing pH helping the kidney and
liver uh rid waste um in addition to all
the other things I talk about vegetables
healthy foods and things like that I'll
put the link down below but uh maybe
your grandparent or even your parent has
this some of these symptoms well get the
liver checked and uh start loading them
up with El glutamine and I think you can
help them all right thanks for
watching hi guys Hey listen I created a
pretty amazing evaluation quiz down
below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
