let's discuss how to remove a skin tag
or a wart overnight you're going to see
gradual Improvement every time you apply
this real simple technique and it's
really only two simple ingredients the
most important thing to teach you today
is not only how to get rid of it but how
to prevent it from coming back because a
wart or skin tag is the tip of the
iceberg first question is what is the
difference between a skin tag and a wart
with a wart you're dealing with a virus
called HPV this is why you don't want to
scratch it or try to cut it off because
then it can form into a cluster the skin
tag usually occurs in areas where
there's friction like in a certain fold
in your body we're going to use the same
remedy for a skin tag and a wart and I'm
going to explain why that's going to
work when we're dealing with a wart we
have to look at the triggers you have
stress that weakens the immune system
but with the skin tag we don't really
have the immune system involved let's
first talk about insulin insulin is
going to make things grow when someone's
insulin is too high they're more at risk
for these skin tags this is why there's
such a higher risk for skin tags with
diabetics people that are overweight and
women who have
PCOS how do we lower insulin the problem
with insulin with most people is that
the body is producing a lot more insulin
because they have what's called insulin
resistance insulin resistance is a
situation where the person had high
levels of insulin over a period of time
and the body is blocking that to a
certain degree as a way to comp
compensate the pancreas is going to make
a lot more insulin two big reasons why
people have too much insulin is they're
eating too many carbs or they're eating
too frequently what's interesting about
insulin resistance is that the body has
a more difficult time absorbing glucose
if there's resistance because that's one
of the purposes of insulin is to help
you pull in and receive glucose when
someone has insulin resistance they have
a much more difficult time absorbing
sugar or glucose into the cells because
that's one of the functions of insulin
to be able to help you absorb glucose
the brain cells don't get fuel and then
over time things get worse memory
problems concentration problems early
dementia a very simple solution to this
is just to give your body an alternative
fuel source stop giving the body fuel
that it can't really deal with or absorb
right now give the body
ketones fatty acids and protein this way
we can kill three birds with one stone
fix the insulin resistance what's
creating it is consuming too many carbs
the body will finally get fuel that it
needs to work correctly especially your
brain and the need for insulin goes down
so now there's no reason for insulin to
be high to grow things like a skin tag
or a wart so how do we do that very
simply lower your carbohydrates and eat
less frequently that's called
intermittent fasting those two things
would not just help you lose weight it's
going to help something like PC
it's going to help diabetes and
normalize insulin this way we're getting
to the actual root cause of this entire
problem in the first place before we get
into the remedy to get rid of the skin
tag and wart I need to explain one last
little point if you have a wart you have
a virus and there's something really
interesting about this virus what it
does to your immune system this virus
will come out of remission and create
warts if the immune system is
compromised we talked about stress we
talked about insulin we didn't talk
about vitamin D yes there are hundreds
of different types of human papiloma
viruses human papiloma virus 16 and 18
very
specifically cause your vitamin D
receptors to shut down maybe not 100%
but they downgrade the vitamin D
receptor the fact that you have the
virus or the wart already means that
you're probably low in vitamin D because
that's what the virus is doing it's
creating an environment where it can
Thrive these viruses are very
intelligent obviously they know that
vitamin D is the most important vitamin
to control the immune system so if they
can inhibit that to a certain degree and
create a deficiency in you the virus can
Thrive the immune system is compromised
it's not going to be as strong because
one of the purposes of the immune system
is to kill viruses it's interesting
because a lot more people get warts
during the winter months than in the
summer months I wonder why that is
vitamin D because there's not enough sun
vitamin D is a very potent antiviral
compound when someone has sufficient
vitamin D they can put these viruses in
remission for a very long time the
vitamin D will actually help reduce the
risk of certain types of cancer
especially those related to human
papiloma viruses just to make it really
simple I would highly recommend not
taking any less than 10,000 IUS of
vitamin D3 every single day especially
through the winter unless you live near
the equator where you're going to get a
lot of sun if you live in the north but
10 to maybe 20,000 I use per day would
be enough to put you in a good place we
talked about the root causes now let's
talk about how to get rid of skin tags
and warts very quickly you're going to
use two remedies one is a certain type
of iodine I recommend that you get a
very specific type from the drugstore
because it'll penetrate the skin much
deeper question is what is this I doing
to the skin tag well it's dissolving the
protein iodine is also very antiviral
antimicrobial so that's why it's good
for warts too iodine is a very powerful
dehydrator as well it's going to
dehydrate the wart or the skin tag and
if you have excess estrogen iodine is
one of the most potent Regulators of
estrogen this is why it's also good for
things like fibrocystic breasts or
ovarian cyst both conditions occur when
you have too much estrogen and you're
also going to use garlic you can simply
just take a clove and crush it and you
just need one little drop WS in garlic
that's so special there's a compound
called Allison this compound is super
powerful against viruses and because a
skin tag is similar to a Ward and a lot
of times they're misdiagnosed we don't
really know exactly which one is which
we're just going to add the garlic in
there because the garlic isn't
necessarily going to shrink the skin tag
it's going to mainly work on the wart
all you need to do is crush garlic take
one drop of garlic in a little dish with
one drop of this eyy then you're going
to take a little Q-Tip mix it together
really nicely apply it to the wart or
skin tag tissue and put a Band-Aid over
it and forget about it and you're simply
going to repeat this every day until
there's nothing left some people are
shocked to see even after 24 hours how
much is left both these remedies
together are are the most powerful thing
that I know of to shrink a skin tag or
wart but if you're not seeing rapid
change then I would recommend something
called salicylic acid which is the main
chemical in Aspirin you crush it add a
little water take your Q-tip apply it to
the wart put a Band-Aid on it and just
do that every single day other people
use tea tree oil and use outside of
vinegar or they might use Castro oil
maybe regano oil I highly recommend
using the garlic oil and the iodine as
the first attempt because that usually
creates the biggest impact and biggest
change now since we did mention
something like low carb diet if you want
to know more about that you can watch
this video right here check it out
