today we're going to talk about the
amazing immune benefits of garlic
especially during the winter now garlic
has been used for about I don't know
4,000 years and it's been used for
things like arthritis
diabetes colds malaria TB and the list
goes on and on and on and on Louis
pestera studied uh garlic in its
antibacterial properties the the ability
to kill pathogenic bacteria during the
second world war when the Russians ran
out of their antibiotics guess what they
used as their antibiotic garlic so
garlic was called Russian penicillin so
garlic has been thoroughly proven as a
therapy to prevent infection as one of
the big benefits is ranked at the top as
having potent anti-cancer effects and
this data was from the designer food
project where they were studying the
effects of cancer prevention from
vegetables now I want to share some
really interesting data from this book
called modern phy medicine okay and this
is a fascinating textbook using plant
compounds and chemicals in medicine so
I'm going to share with you uh the
chapter on garlic which is quite amazing
you know they should really teach this
in med school unfortunately when you go
through um medical school or Premed I
went through Premed I didn't go through
medical school I went through
chiropratic college which is not the
same as medical school but there's a
tremendous amount of data that you have
to learn and I guess the word learn is
probably not appropriate uh let's just
say you're being force-fed volumes of
data and you're expected to regurgitate
that and somehow pass the tests so
unfortunately it's set up not to
necessarily really really understand the
material because there's just not enough
time to absorb and play with the
information and and evaluate if it's
true or not instead you are flying by
the seat of your pants trying to
memorize and parot back this information
on the multiple choice questions and
then when you graduate you have a chance
to maybe reevaluate the information and
and really learn it apply it make sure
it's valuable make sure it's true and
then really spend the time and things
that you're interested in so you're not
rushing through things but I want to
show you some very valuable things that
you can apply from this to your life
right now to bulletproof yourself
against pathogens now most of the
studies that they were done were in
Petri dishes okay that's called in vitro
and so to be transparent they did not
study in human bodies however let me
explain what they found so one of the
first studies that they did is they took
this little petri dish and they filled
it with pathogenic eoli then they
sprinkled some garlic powder over the
eoli and they noticed that within 12
hours all of the eoli was completely
dead and then they compared this with
another pet tree dish uh with eoli and
then they put fresh grated garlic they
grated it right over this petri dish and
within 12 hours all the eoli was
completely dead in another experiment
they found that garlic killed Mera which
is a antibiotic resistant microb which
is very very deadly difficult to kill
and you see this in hospitals but garlic
was able to kill this microb very easily
and another study they found within
three hours garlic killed Anthrax and
you know how pathogenic or deadly
Anthrax is it creates some pretty
serious effects but garlic was able to
kill Anthrax they also found that garlic
has a potent effect against viruses
fungus and parasites and then they did
some interesting studies on just the
odor of garlic you know little particles
that come off garlic just from the smell
now what gives garlic the smell is a
sulfur compound called Allison and
Allison is one of the chemicals in
garlic that U does its magic for many
things not just infection for thinning
your blood to prevent a clot for
regulating your blood sugars for killing
cancer for lowering your blood pressure
but they found just having the odor of
garlic not even touching the bacteria
killed the bacteria so think about it
during the winter months if you consume
garlic and your breath has an odor of
garlic you're actually repelling
microbes you are killing microbes in the
air if you're breathing off these garlic
um particles and apparently garlic has
developed um this defense mechanism uh
for its own Survival over eons of time
just like many other herbs and
vegetables like the onion and
horseradish and many of the cruciferous
vegetables as well garlic has the
ability to bind with Organo phosphates
which are in pesticides and detoxify
them from your body Organo phosphates
really have a devastating effect on your
immune system they lower your immune
system they make you very susceptible to
getting sick and garlic can help
detoxify these chemicals to help protect
your immune system and as you probably
already know when you get exposed to a
virus the complications from that virus
usually occur in people who have a
compromised immune system whether they
have metabolic syndrome or they're going
through a lot of stress it's really the
strength of the immune system that gets
them through these infections and this
is a topic that is rarely emphasized or
focused on now one of the problems
you're going to run into is the quality
of garlic did you realize that 80% of
all the garlic in the world comes from
China and the problem with that is that
in China they use bleach on garlic and
they use other chemicals to make this
garlic look very very white without any
blemishes or brown spots they also
sometimes grow their garlic in sewage
and garlic is heavily sprayed with
additional chemicals so if you're going
to buy garlic make sure it's locally
grown make sure it comes from a really
good source another question that people
want to know is what about the fermented
black garlic does that have any
advantages and the answer is absolutely
yes there's more antioxidants there's
more nutrients in fermented garlic and
that would be black garlic or you can
ferment garlic in Honey for example now
the honey obviously is not keto friendly
but what I do is I take the garlic out
I'll rinse it it's already been
fermented and I'll eat one of these a
day during the winter and if you're not
familiar with this recipe I'll put the
link down below but it's a great way to
ferment garlic and allow the microbes to
break down certain uh chemicals that
make it very easy to digest and to
enhance the garlic with additional
nutrients and phytonutrients now another
point I want to bring up is what about
heated garlic what about powdered garlic
well apparently the real important
phytonutrients in garlic can survive
temperatures that are 100Â° C which is
212 Dees fenhe for at least 20 minutes
so these chemicals do survive a good
amount of heat all right so now that you
know about the power of garlic let's
talk about the power of using apple
cider vinegar check this out
