hey so I want to talk about the
nutrients involved in Hashimoto
Hashimoto is an autoimmune condition of
the thyroid your thyroids located right
in the base of the neck and you you
develop antibodies that's basically
attacking the thyroid keeping it
inflamed and usually that stems from
some type of a stress event could be
emotional stress or physical stress that
then lowers your immune system making
you susceptible to developing this
condition okay so there are four main
nutrients that I would recommend number
one selenium you know everyone's talking
about iodine and yes you need iodine
from seekel that's very very important
but selenium is just as important as
iodine it's a trace mineral and it helps
in the conversion of uh T4 to T3 it's
also involved in making what's called
glutathione which is U involved in the
immune system and
detoxification um so there's another
thing I'm not going to give you the long
name for it but it's NAC that converts
to glutathione it might not be even a
bad thing to get as a supplement NAC and
glutathione to actually reduce the
inflammation to improve the thyroid so
that's not a bad thing to add if you
really want a comprehensive thing but
it's quite a few things to look at but
selenium is very very important selenium
is also really uh vital in liver
function and also
detoxification um then we have vitamin D
vitamin D is usually always low in
Hashimoto and why because vitamin D is
essential to keep your immune system
working and without vitamin D it's
immune system just doesn't function and
then we have vitamin A which a lot of
people don't talk about vitamin A is
also important with the immune system
and it allows T3 to function vitamin A
is usually always low with Hashimoto but
I'm not talking about consuming a bunch
of carrots that would be the previtamin
a it has to be what's called retinol or
the active form of vit vitamin A so
these two vitamin d and vitamin A are
fat sble and you can probably get them
just from getting civer oil gets virgin
civer oil and that way they have a nice
balance so that would be really good to
take as well just to combine those um to
kill two birds with one stem s to speak
and then we have magnesium magnesium
also helps in the conversion of T4 to T3
and T4 is the inactive version and T3 is
the active version of the thyroid
hormone so these are the key nutrients
that I would recommend if you have this
condition but remember um you know there
could be a situation where you're not
converting because the gallbladder is
not working or your liver is
dysfunctional because it takes your
liver to convert T4 to T3 and good
healthy kidneys as well so that's just
something else that I always uh look at
if you're trying to get your thyroid to
work a little bit better also the last
point is estrogen when estrogen is very
very high in the body body if you're
estrogen dominant that could also
interfere with thyroid function all
right so thanks so much for watching and
leave your comments
below press the sub okay jeez let me do
that over again press the Subscribe
button press just press this button
right here subscribe okay that one right
there just do it right now hey if you're
enjoying my videos press the Subscribe
button below and I will keep you updated
on the future events thank you so much
