hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're gonna talk about ketosis acids and
stones okay so what do I mean by this
well when you do a ketogenic diet
ketones are more acid so you're going to
be releasing more acid through the body
and you're gonna be really seeing
something called nitrogen to the body a
little bit more than you would if you
weren't on a ketogenic diet but because
certain parts of the body certain parts
of the brain need a little bit of sugar
your body is going to be also making a
little bit of sugar from your dietary
protein and dietary fat so we can make
it some sugar it's called
gluconeogenesis okay
not that you need to know that but so
it's actually going through both of
these processes but you're still not
doing carbs you're not getting carbs
your body's making carbs from the
protein of fat and that just increases
more nitrogen okay now there's another
compound the body called urea that comes
out through the urine and that's the
needed is the main pathway to release
this nitrogen so it could build up into
higher levels of uric acid which can
turn to gout but with interesting is if
you're gonna do a high carb diet and
have high insulin you can also have high
uric acid and get gout with that as well
but here's the thing normally stones are
made from ox le'ts okay oxalate stones
ninety percent of the time and only ten
percent would be uric acid stones but in
this situation with the high levels of
nitrogen you can have up to 50% of the
time it could be uric acid stones not
oxalate stones so it's not coming from
ox let's it's coming from the uric acid
alright
so you didn't really need to know that
all you need to know is that if you're
on a ketogenic diet and you start to
have sensations of gout or high levels
of uric acid you want to do these things
right here to prevent it okay and you
probably already do in this video to
worry about keeping your potassium high
and I talked about this a lot in the
videos from vegetables okay making sure
your vegetables are large amounts of
vegetables so if you're doing the
ketogenic diet and you're not doing all
the vegetables that would not be a good
idea so you want to keep that high to
counteract some of this waste product
here and also
if you need if you find that you're not
doing enough vegetables add more
potassium citrate that's the electrolyte
that will counter this okay counter
Scout it's the remedy for gout so I want
to explain one thing if your urine is
too acid the uric acid crystals will not
dissolve in acidic urine has to be a
little bit more alkaline so taking the
potassium citrate which is alkaline will
help counter gout and help prevent these
stones from happening okay but you can
also get a potassium Fenton vegetables
lemon juice is important why well the
problem with lemon juice is that when
you buy it in a bottle its pasteurized
so they kill the vitamin C there's not a
lot of vitamin C in lemon juice just
lemons but what you're getting in lemon
juice is the citrate which counters
these right here so citrate that's why
you'd want to do that sea salt is very
important too why because sea salt will
counter the uric acid as well in fact in
a ketogenic diet you need like one
teaspoon of sea salt a day if you're on
a carb diet high carb diet you need
about 1/4 of a teaspoon of salt per day
okay also if you have a history of
kidney stones it's important to take
vitamin k2 because vitamin k2
deficiencies are one of the main sources
of kidney stones because of the buildup
of soft-tissue calcium so if you have a
history of kidney stones take the k2
just to make sure that that is not the
source of your stones okay thanks for
watching hey I just wanted to take a
moment to thank you personally there's
so many of you that have gotten this
book and the feedback that you're giving
me is mind-blowing thank you so much I
really appreciate it if you wouldn't
mind I have one quick favor to put your
unbiased review on Amazon I would really
appreciate it thank you so much
