how not sleeping is actually killing you
slowly out of all the things you can do
to create Health Sleep is near the top
of the list let's say you're not getting
at least 6 hours of sleep consistently
your risk of premature death increases
by 30% cancer risk increases by 40%
increased risk of Diabetes by 50%
increasing your risk of dementia
problems like Alzheimer's there's a huge
percentage of Alzheimer's patients that
just don't sleep and also just getting 1
hour or 4 hours of sleep will literally
shut down your immune system by
70% why do we really need sleep one of
the reasons is that sleep is the best
way to clean your brain there's a
certain effect that sleep does to your
brain it acts like a dishwasher it's
cleaning the brain of damaged proteins
in sleep you're actually cleaning those
proteins out of the brain but only if
you're actually getting real sleep when
you take a sleep medication it might
create some type of sedation but you're
not getting the quality of sleep the
other thing that's really important to
know is what alcohol does to your sleep
this is why when people drink alcohol
just a little bit they snore more they
have more sleep apnea they're tossing
and turning more one of the main
purposes of sleeping is cleaning out the
brain the second one is repairing and
restoration of the entire body including
your immune system and this is why when
we don't get enough sleep our immune
system just shuts down and then things
start happening in a negative way our
brain becomes more vulnerable to
infections let's first start with the
REM sleep REM sleep happens in several
stages more in the second half of sleep
the brain activity is very similar to
when you're awake kind of like you have
muscle paralysis but you can have very
vivid dreams that you remember this part
of the Sleep has a really unique
function of supporting certain parts of
the brain involved in creativity
memories problem solving activities this
is why a lot of discoveries are related
to this stage of sleeping because people
will get these great ideas from a dream
REM sleep is also involved in improving
more social interactions with people
more emotional stability a better mood
through the day and having more empathy
with people now let's get into the other
phase of sleep called the nonrem sleep
this is the deep sleep most of the
repair happens in this Delta wave sleep
there's a cleaning up of unnecessary
Connections in the brain in this phas
it's very similar to you working in the
garden with your tomato plants where
you're trimming them down because
they're just growing too much and you
need to trim them up so other things can
grow better the problem is with age the
Deep Delta wave sleep becomes diminished
to the point where you reach 60 years
old you have like 90% less of this
non-rem Delta wave sleep when you're 18
you don't have a problem with this so
you probably sleep like a rock and
everything is fine in this Delta wave
sleep you have fat biring you have cell
regeneration and repair going on and
this is where your body can fight
infection the most too there are certain
things that will just kill the Delta
wave sleep alcohol is at the top of the
list now let's get into what to do to
really optimize your sleep I've had
years of waking up feeling so tired I
couldn't even think mentally it was like
a helmet over my head and of course I
did everything wrong eating a lot of Ben
and& Jerry's and trying to induce a
deeper sleep it never really worked I
tried alcohol that didn't work it
actually made me worse never drive if
you have not slept over a 100,000
accidents occur every single year in the
United States because they're not
sleeping and they're drowsy through the
day and some of these are fatal car
accidents let's go through the list of
things that you can do to improve your
sleep avoiding alcohol instead use
Kombucha Tea it gives a similar effect
it'll make you feel calm it'll give you
the same texture as alcohol regular
aerobic exercise whether it's going to
be on the treadmill or going for long
walks you're going to reduce a lot of
stress in the winter time when it's
really cold and I don't go outside much
I don't sleep as well next thing is to
avoid eating too late at night and
definitely eating large meals at night
where you just go to bed where you're
stuffed that'll keep you up if you're
doing intermitted fasting take two of
those meals and have them more on the
early part of the day that way you will
sleep better eating late at night I
don't need all that energy right before
bed and especially if you're eating too
much protein that can keep you up I
remember growing up and we did a lot of
snacking and I used to work at a theater
and I was the person who made the
popcorn I would bring home garbage bag
full of popcorn on a regular basis and
we would all just eat mindless it's very
important to have your room be slightly
cooler I like to use a sheet not a
blanket when I sleep I like to crack the
window open also it has to be dark the
other thing about sleep is making sure
you don't do too much C bean tea coffee
and chocolate I just have one small cup
of coffee in the morning when I do more
than that it does affect my sleep
because it takes a period of time for
your liver to get rid of this caffeine
and if you have too much it can prevent
that Delta wave sleep too much blue
light from the cell phone or your
computer you can get these blue blockers
and wear them if you're watching TV try
to at least a couple hours before bed
Turn Off the Lights kind of keep it dim
so it's not so bright especially the
blue lights you don't want that if you
just filter the blue light you'll retain
more melatonin melatonin helps induce
the sleepiness getting enough Sun during
the day can definitely help you sleep at
night for various reasons of course the
vitamin D 50% of the sun is infrared and
infrared can increase melatonin in all
of your cells and also any other type of
orange or yellow flame whether a a
bonfire a fireplace candles you can get
more infrared the other thing is when
you go to bed let's say for example at
8:30 you're like really tired just go to
bed don't go to bed by the clock go to
bed when you're tired because if you
push through that tiredness and all of a
sudden you wake up now it's going to
take you longer to go to bed because
everything works on a wave and sometimes
these waves are 90 minute Cycles the
other thing is the movies that you watch
before bed if I'm watching anything
action it's going to take a long time to
go to bed I'm not tired I would watch
even a Hallmark movie because it just
literally puts me to sleep I know some
people in different social situations
around family and things and holidays
there's always going to be some snacks
involved you're going to have blood
sugar issues you probably would be
better off doing some type of berries or
fruit than popcorn starch things like
that even like when you do nuts before
bed you're going to feel a lot of
bloating around your gallbladder and
that can definitely keep you up as far
as nutrients go the three most important
magnesium vitamin D and zinc magnesium
is involved in the contraction and
relaxation of muscles your muscles will
be less tense magnesium is necessary for
producing energy you need energy to
actually to go to sleep some people are
too tired to go to sleep the type of
magnesium you want is magnesium
glycinate the time to take that would be
in the evenings it actually can help you
increase melatonin then we get to
vitamin D vitamin D is needed to
decrease inflammation in the body
especially in your lower back it also
helps you make melatonin vitamin D will
increase the duration of sleep what
about zinc zinc is involved in making
dopamine and melatonin and serotonin all
these key neurotransmitters and improve
your overall repair of the body but
there's one more thing that I'm going to
highly suggest that you do introduce a
probiotic in the form of something that
you can culture and make called el rudai
making it yourself with a yogurt maker
El rudai is absent in 96% of the
population and it is the microb that can
help increase your oxytocin and
serotonin this is why it's so important
in sleep if you're not consuming enough
salt you may find your sleep is going to
be off you need sodium to help you sleep
try to have a little more salt during
the day or even maybe in the later part
of the day take a four of a teaspoon of
salt mix in some water drink it down and
just see if you don't sleep better the
bottom line is if you want to live
longer but not just live longer live a
quality of life focus on sleep I just
gave you a road map on all the things
that you can do right now to fix your
sleep and if you wanted to see that
video related to building up that
microbe that can help you sleep Al rudai
you should watch it it's right here
