so I have another interview from Michael
it's Jordan right I guess people call
you Michael Jordan right almost it's
Michelle Jordan Michelle Jordan okay
that's a little different all right
great welcome so nice to meet you nice
to meet you too finally Dr B yeah so
you're in the uh you're living on an
island right now in curil the north of
South America that must be r to live on
that island I'm sure it's the weather is
just really you know like too cold for
you no so so nice it's sunny actually is
sunny it is hot isn't it is hot so um so
I just wanted to actually talk to you
about um your your past history and your
story of what happened to you and um
before you lost weight and uh can you
tell me a little bit about where you
were
at okay before I started the process um
I had a lot of problem with my waistline
I've been doing sports for a long time
and uh it's always been a rough part for
me to get off my
waistline so uh because of my parents my
mother was almost diabetes and my father
had a cancer problem at his throat I
started looking up some things about the
the problems or the cures natural cures
for this kind of uh um illness
and I
came to meet you Dr Burke on the YouTube
channel so I started following that and
I got to notice that okay uh my problem
was insulin
intolerance that's how I learned about
that and all about the type of bodies so
I jumped right into the process and I
got results like that wow how old are
you
I'm 41 right now okay so you had this uh
this belly problem and um you started
and then like what were you weighting at
initially what were you're weighing at
your worst weight or your highest weight
my highest weight was around uh 118
kilograms
okay right now I'm about
92.4 to be exact so how many how many
pounds is that
cost uh it's like 10
pounds
okay 10 pounds so you weren't wait 180
to
92 you mean 108 118 kilograms okay
good got it okay I had my math wrong so
you lost and then how is your stomach
like did your stomach started shrinking
initially yes um most of that mostly my
waist start started shrinking but I
always had always had the bloating
problem too so I was always trying this
kind of diets and um eating systems of
Fitness athletes and so and for somebody
has work family and all those kind of
things you can be eating five times a
day and seven times a day so it was
difficult for me I Tred that all kinds
of ways but when I found out about the
intermittent festing and the ketogenic
diet and the three days three times
eating and so it immediately it took me
away from the bloating P so wow that's
awesome do you did you what's a typical
diet on curo the island of curo what do
people
eat uh mostly people eat like uh our
culture Foods it's like more stewed food
and uh
um it's more rice and and and I don't
know how they call it corn it's like a
kind of corn thing and H rice potato uh
those kind of things so it's a lot of
carbs going around wow starch and then
now give me give me an example of what
you would eat
now right now I would eat like um for
example today I had uh chicken thighs
with uh combined with eggs three EG Ox I
have some avocado with that some um
broccoli and uh I use right now I only
use the pink Himalayan salt and uh
garlic powder on my food so I usually
throw some some kind of peanut butter on
there to to give some juicy sauce so
sounds great and then how many meals are
you doing now right now I'm on three
meals a day I have done in the previous
part I've have done the part of three
meals two meals and one
meal uh you advised that one time so I
tried it and it helped very well I have
people right now that I'm helping that
are doing the same thing so that's
working very good so uh I'm on three
meals right now so you're cycling
through right you're cycle through it
okay good so just for those people that
are watching um you can do this where
you're rotating you're doing three meals
and then two meals and one meal and then
start with three meals two meals and one
meal you could do a cycle I'll put a
link down below if you want I have a
video on that and that seems to make it
very easy to do because it's always
changing and you're not having this one
thing um is your are your Cravings lower
and are is your hunger
less um my Hunger is less definitely I
have to remember myself that I have to
eat at certain hours uh du to I I'm
trying to keep my muscle tissues and
build some muscle too along the way so I
have to remember myself to eat and not
sustain it but the the good thing is
always the the one meal day is on my
rest day so it it's good for the
calories than for because I'm resting
totally and then um is there access to a
lot of fresh fish on the
island yes you are on the island so you
can get fish all over I would be you can
get this very very I would basically
catch all my food I would be out there
every single day catching my
food okay if I if I were living there I
Mo yeah I mostly eat salmon okay but um
you can get all kinds of fish right here
because you can go to the to the beach
and the guys are fishing there so you
can get fresh fish from the sea at at
the same time wow I love it um I guess
one of the challenge or the problems is
that the fruit cuz on the island they
have the mangoes and the bananas um
which are all over the place right so
you have to resist that I have a mango
tree in my
garden a lot of mangoes falling right
now so uh I tell the people who come by
just take them take them away because I
can't eat them yeah I'm sorry I no
problem I love it I I I'm not missing it
because I feel better I feel healthier
my energy is up so so um I'm not really
missing it that's awesome and is your is
your stomach um where you wanted or do
you want to lose some more
weight okay um I'm in the process of
wanting to lose more weight in the sense
of um because I'm trying to come keep
the muscle and build some muscle right
now I'm not at the the like shredded
shape that so they so call it but in the
future in like a week or four I'll be
doing
uh another process the same process of
Keto and intermittent fasting but I'll
just lower my fat so I can get that
shreded look cool can I give you a tip
okay thank you to speed it up
um I would
rotate two
meals to one meal and not do three meals
just do two meals in one meal the reason
for that is that when you go intimate
fasting
longer your musle muscle is going to get
so much more lean because the muscle
density and the protection against the
wasting of the muscle gets better when
you fast longer so if you were to just
do one or one and a half meals or just
one and a half meals like just a small
meal and then a big one if you were to
do that you would spike your growth
hormone by about
2,000% which is going to make your
muscle very very lean um and if you had
exercise that's the ing on the cake I'm
sorry I shouldn't mention cake you know
what I mean but that'll really get you
lean to the point where I think that you
don't need to do the three mes and um
because when you start going low on fat
um it won't necessarily increase your
muscle or convert to fat but you don't
have to do a lot of fat but the point is
that just go by if you're not hungry
don't eat but try to go longer between
meals and I think you're going to you'll
get down to the point where you'll get a
really um lean body in your midsection I
have several people doing that now that
I mean they have a total six-pack AB but
they they're doing one meal a day and um
adding exercise and you would think them
they have muscle wasting but they're not
at all so it's just Contour
intuitive okay I would try that I would
definitely try that I would definitely
try that thank you for the eple cedar
vinegar thing too you know oh right for
your yeah
floing that would be so amazing that
helps a lot well that's awesome
so I want to thank you for this
interview and what we'll do is the next
time in I'm in curo I'm going to look
you up okay and you have to give me tour
give me a tour of the island show you
the island yes
yeah no problem you're most welcome
because I have to thank you for all the
good stuff you're sharing with us and uh
it's helping a lot of of people and one
thing I would love to thank you for is
your recipe on fat bom oh you like that
there's fat bombs e yeah I like that my
wife loves that she almost drives me
insane to make that fat bomb every day
so uh you know what I mean that's
awesome you're welcome I will keep
making those recipes okay okay thank you
for that you're welcome have a great
afternoon and I'll talk to you soon okay
thank you you to Dr bur thanks for
everything sure
