there are nine things I'm going to talk
about today about fascia that will
literally blow your mind now I went
through a lot of training on the body
anatomy physiology when we talked about
fascia it was this extra passive tissue
you know like bubble wrap that just
packs certain things fascia is the
Matrix or the material that surrounds
every muscle in the body like let me
just give you an example we take this
weight for example and I start lifting
it like this right for about I don't
know 20 times I'm gonna get tired right
I'm using a lot of energy when I'm doing
this now if we attach some fossil tissue
to the weight okay and do that I'm still
lifting the weight but I'm using a lot
less energy because I'm using the free
energy from the elastic band that gives
you a lot of transfer of energy running
jumping Etc is not just about
contraction and relaxation of muscles
it's about the loading of the tendons
and ligaments and fascia and then
releasing it fascia gives you your
posture I mean you ever see people when
they get older like some people
literally are looking straight down when
they're walking and that could have been
totally prevented if they understood how
to keep the fascia healthy and repair it
which I'm going to tell you at the end
of this video fascia also gives you your
body shape FASA also has similar
properties to liquid crystals in those
like digital TVs it has these repeating
patterns of similar type shapes that
have the ability to change and adapt to
the environment the little cells that
make fascia or collagen are called
fibroblasts and these little cells are
like little spiders that can migrate
they can move through your body and you
have millions of them all over the place
and they're basically laying down this
it's called Ground substance to allow
for lubrication and movement and the
next one is they are highly involved
with the immune system this is why our
fascia can be sore as in
fibromyalgia and planer fasciitis and
over time that injury becomes an
inhesion so this is why uh my fascial
release and other techniques massage and
trigger point therapy are all really
important especially if you had injuries
now when you stop moving the collagen is
going to get sticky it's going to get
stiff and the fascia is going to fuse
together and stiffen and when you start
moving that tissue it's not going to let
you move it's going to be very
restricted and maybe in your mind you
might think oh wow I have a tight muscle
no you don't you have tight fascia and
fascia is also connected from head to
toe and so knowing this really helped me
understand why certain techniques worked
when I was in practice for example when
people would come in and have injuries
on their tailbone I found the best
relief I can give them is by working on
the back of the neck the oxa put
releasing the oxa put seems to help
tailbone injuries now why would that
work because of fascia it's all
connected I'm basically taking this
fascia and making it longer so there's
more
space another example would be people
that had uh problems with their shoulder
they couldn't Elevate the shoulder I
would have them lay face down and if
they had a restriction on the left
shoulder I would work on the right calf
and achilles tendon and that always
seemed to open up the shoulder why is
that because the fascia on the right
lower part of your body is connected to
the left shoulder another example would
be people that had right shoulder pain
through here I would work on the gall
letter area now in the past I would talk
about the frenic nerve being involved
which is probably true but I think also
all the fascia that surround that frenic
nerve that go all the way up into the
third cervical vertebrae through here
with all the different fascia
attachments so as I loosened this part
up it freed up this part fascia is
extremely inated by little tiny nerves
that allows the body to know where it is
in space and this is why the fos is very
important for balance coordination and
it has this amazing ability to be able
to change its material properties it can
go from being very rigid to very elastic
if you sit all day and don't move at all
the environmental message is don't adapt
just get tight and hold the person in
that position so you see this in the
nursing homes a lot with people in this
one position like all day sitting they
body just grows like that it's in
communication with your environment
unless you get an injury in other words
when you start walking or moving now
things have changed because we had that
injury and now you're guarding a little
bit on one side of your body so the
secret to restoring fascia has to do
with adding Dynamic
motions from different directions so
it's not just the same motion over over
and over and over again I remember in my
30s the only exercise that I did I mean
it was just biking over and over and
over and over my soaz muscles which are
the hip flexors became so tight because
I was doing that same motion over and
over and over again I'm going to put the
videos that I'm personally doing down
below but there's many more that you can
find I want to give you the general
principles of what to do another thing
that I'm adding to this program is high
doses of of vitamin D3 I'm doing 50,000
IUS every single day if you're ever
going to do a similar thing with vitamin
D you want to make sure you take the
co-actors vitamin K2 and magnesium and
zinc and B6 and that way you can prevent
any problems that may come up from
taking high doses of vitamin D and if
you want more information about vitamin
D and the co-actors you should watch
this video right here
