hey guys in this video I want to talk
about black strap
molasses okay what is it this is the a
waste product from sugar cane now they
do make molasses from beet sugar which I
don't like because most of the Beats
nowadays in the US are GMO okay but the
point is that unsulfured blackstrap
molasses comes from typically comes from
sugar cane so here they take out this
refined
product which is pure white sugar okay
and brown sugar is just a little bit of
molasses okay but then they shoot at way
this waste product or they just sell it
as molasses molasses is where you have
all the nutrients specifically the
minerals certain be vitamins I mean it's
rich with potassium and zinc and silica
and the trace minerals massive amounts
um so it's really um I think a good
product in a small amount for kids or
people that are not trying to lose
weight and don't have a blood sugar
problem I know some people are like wow
can I start having this I'm like well
hold on just use it as needed as a tool
to solve a problem if you want like a
spike of minerals but again it will stop
weight loss because it does have some
carbohydrate a little bit of
carbohydrate in there not compared to
white sugar but it does have some sugar
in there because they haven't completely
taken it out um but here's the point I
uh I like the benefit of this in certain
situ tion with women that have anemia
specifically if they have like a fibroid
issue or heavy bleeding with their
Cycles this is probably one of the best
sources of iron okay so um that's one
indication and the other one is that for
kids that are hyper and they're like
running all over the place and they're
eating all this white sugar white sugar
depletes you of potassium and minerals
black strap molasses puts it right back
back in potassium is a physiological
tranquilizer it helps the nervous system
it helps the flight or fight system it
calms the nervous system down potassium
helps you store sugar in your liver as
glycogen and helps you go longer without
those dips in the blood sugar issue so
it's good for certain types of low blood
sugar issues but black mass black
unsulfured means that it doesn't have
the sulfur sulfur dioxide that they put
in there so it's a lot healthier if it's
unsed and again you know keep some in
your fridge use it if you have anemia
make some recipes uh for your kids or or
yourself occasionally if you're not
trying to lose weight but I think it's a
really good remedy a natural remedy
because it has so many minerals and
thanks so much for watching and before
you go click the link below and take my
quiz and find out the root cause of your
problem
