today we're going to talk about the
amazing health benefits of milk thistle
on your liver now the active vital
nutrient in milk thistle is called silly
Benin and this compound has some serious
credible research on positive outcomes
for insulin resistance fatty liver and
also decreasing liver enzymes and I'll
put the link below of the study but it's
a placebo controlled double blinded
phase 3 randomized clinical trial and is
definitely not an observational study
using a food questionnaire looking at
one variable there's some hardcore
research also what it can do for
hepatitis C because it has potent
antiviral properties milk thistle has
the ability to rid hydrogen peroxide
from the tissues it is being over
produced by the selves because there's
damage in the cells it has
anti-inflammatory properties milk
thistle is chemo protective in other
words if you're being exposed to
poisonous mushrooms for example or
alcohol or drugs or pesticides this can
help protect the liver it's also
anti-carcinogenic can help reduce the
risk of certain types of cancer very
powerful antioxidants it's a very strong
anti fibrotic in other words it can help
reduce fibrosis of the liver
that's cirrhosis it can also nullify
cytokines which is behind inflammatory
conditions of the liver it also supports
the gallbladder and can improve
gallbladder function especially the
production of bile so it's quite an
amazing herb and it's been around for a
very very long time now I don't have a
specific brand that I'm gonna recommend
however if you're gonna get milk thistle
I would recommend getting the
freeze-dried it's just going to be more
potent and have all the nutrition self
contained alright thanks for watching
so if you want more knowledge on how to
create a healthy body subscribe now and
get daily notifications
