hey Dr Burke here in this short video
we're going to talk about
GMO or sometimes you call it genetically
modified but genetically modified
organisms are a time bomb waiting to
happen and I'm going to do a little
short summary I'm going to do a series
of videos on this because you really
need to know the background of what's
happening right now um what they'll do
is they'll take a piece of a gene from
one species like a fish like and then
they'll insert it with a little viral
thing into another species like a soy
plant to alter the mechanic of what that
plant can do so it lasts longer in the
Shelf it's brighter color it might even
have more of a certain nutrient but the
company the main company that does this
called mans Santo um has another purpose
of why they do this and it's basically
to uh create a Roundup Ready plant and
Roundup Ready means that it's resistant
to Roundup Ready which is an herbicide
which is a is a weat killer so basically
they'll they'll genetically modify a soy
being plant to make it resistant against
weed killers or herbicides okay so of
course they could spray more herbicide
on it that's the purpose make more money
but of course they'll say it creates
more yields but it really doesn't create
more yields you know for world hunger so
it's very very corrupt um so right now
um 80 to 90% of all the soy in the
grocery store is genetically modified
but they don't label it so you don't
know if you're getting it but of course
we know you are getting it because it's
not lab labeled because most of it is
soy so you don't even I mean you don't
even necessarily have to label it you
just know you're getting it it's hard to
avoid it but there's several things that
are mostly genetically modified soy corn
canola cotton seed and salmon unless
it's organic
so what happens is that if a soybean is
Round Up ready or resistant to a
pesticide you could spray these
pesticides or herbicides
on the plant and the weeds will die but
the plant won't die so it creates a lot
of problems because you're getting all
this this chemical in your body and the
liver can't detoxify it and the
interesting thing about this is that
95% of the GMO sold in United States is
fed to animals so it's an animal feeds
so it's coming to the animals chicken
turkey beef and that's where it's going
into your bodies um but the good thing
is the FDA said it's safe right well
here's the problem there studies that
they say it's safe are only done for
three months that's 90 days do you
really think that a study would uh be
safe if it's only done for three months
the independent studies show that um 18
months it will increase chance for
breast cancer 70% in females so we know
it's a big problem so the problem is
it's delayed so it may not show up in 3
months but later on it's going to show
up the same thing happened with DDT and
another uh chemical called Dees DIY
testerol they Ed in the 50s and they
took it off the market after 30 years of
finding that it it goes in The Offspring
in the third generation so again this is
a time bomb just wait it's going to be
you're going to see huge spikes and
breast cancer coming up so so one thing
is that the studies weren't done long
enough to determine the safety we know
that um there is a lot of problems
already but they're just not admitting
it simply because there's a lot of
corruption involved Michael Taylor the
attorney for Monsanto now works for the
FDA that and is overseeing the GMO so
there's a lot of conflict of interest so
I'm not going to get into all the
details of that but I wanted you to be
aware of you're being exposed to GMO and
number two I want to give you some
solutions you want to do right now uh
number one when you buy eggs or chicken
uh make sure
like I wouldn't worry about free range
the definition of free range means
nothing so don't buy food or or eggs
that are free range buy organic you're
going to have to buy organic it costs a
little bit more but at least we know
that uh if it's organic it's most likely
not GMO okay there might be some
corruption going on there I don't know
but you need to start doing organic
especially the chicken that you eat and
especially the eggs that you eat okay
and also the cheese and you can go to
Trader Joe's and get organic cheese and
it's not as expensive as other places
but you're going to have to do organic
number one okay number
two you want to start consuming
cruciferous Foods on a daily basis to
start to get your liver to dismantle
some of this herbicide that's stuck in
your liver um so you want to start doing
that because again it's a time bomb it's
going to probably take 15 10 to 15 to 20
years before it shows up in our bodies
but if you can start now like don't wait
until you get it do something now as a
preventative action and that's why I
recommend the kale shakes every day to
start to put in your liver to start
cleaning this out and then have your
family eat you know cruciferous or a
kale or kale shakes um
because that way at least you can
minimize the damage in your liver in
your body because cruciferous does
dismantle chemicals because what happens
is that these chemicals uh mimic
estrogen which then causes cancer all
right so that's the tip of the day just
go ahead and do those two things and I
will uh expect to see some more videos
on GMO because I really want you to be
aware of this and then spread the word
