hi guys in this video we're going to
talk about the absolute worst position
for
sleeping and you guessed it stomach so I
want you to do an experiment right now I
want you to turn your head to the right
as far as you can okay now hold it there
for eight
hours it's going to be a long
video okay so what's going to happen is
you can't sleep with your face straight
with your neck straight because you have
to breathe so you're going to turn your
head it's the kink in the neck you're
going to wake up with a neck problem
you're going to lose the curve in your
neck eventually okay so the best
position for sleep is on your right side
why now this is there's exceptions to
the rule some people can sleep on the
left sleep left side but so many people
have liver problems fatty liver that the
liver becomes heavier okay and your
liver is on the right side it's the size
of a football it's huge and it's heavy
the heart is to the left side it's right
next to the liver so if you're going to
sleep on your left side you got this
football three lb weight that's
compressing the heart and try to sleep
with your heart compressed it's going to
put more stress in the heart less oxygen
that type of thing if you sleep on the
right side like I do the heart sits on
the liver nicely and it can breathe
better and you'll just you'll get a
better sleep because of oxygen make sure
you have a pillow propping up your head
and a pillow between the knees so that's
the best way to sleep you can sleep on
your back uh personally I like the side
okay thanks for watching hey I just
wanted to take a moment to thank you for
your amazing amazing successes that you
guys are writing about and I would love
to have a complete success story from
you with a before picture and an after
picture as well if you have that and I
put a link down below so you can fill it
out if you don't have a weight loss
before and after just put an image of
yourself and your success I would love
to read it and I would love to share it
with others because it does give them
hope that they could be helped too thank
you so much
