hey guys I have a question for you what
is worse than high fructose corn syrup
and causing weight gain okay that's a
hard one because high-fructose corn
syrup is like at the top of the list can
you imagine anything worse than that soy
oil Wow
that's interesting there's a study I'm
gonna put down below and grant it it was
done in mice but I believe it's probably
going to also create a same effect on
humans because soy oil is GMO most of it
is GMO genetically modified and that
means it has glyphosate that's an
herbicide a weed killer okay a lot of
the animal feeds contain this in their
soy brains also in the corn grain unless
you do organic that's why it's important
to get organic meats okay not commercial
but soy oil will cause more insulin
resistance in more weight gain than high
fructose corn syrup that's incredible it
also causes a fatty liver so start
reading the labels and avoid it because
I was at a restaurant last weekend it
was 4:00 it was a late brunch so we're
at this restaurant and I had them make
an omelet it's kind of like a buffet
style but there you can make omelets um
I want an omelet so I get my materials
and everything she puts it she's gonna
put the egg in there but first she's
gonna put some oil in there I says what
oil are you using she pulled up the jug
soy okay I said no don't use that and
then she pulls this cans she's gonna
spray something like hold on what's in
that can
soy it's in everything okay start to
read labels and you will be shocked how
many foods that you have like in
dressings it's in condiments it's in
mayonnaise it's everywhere okay all
right I didn't mean to depress you I'm
sorry about that but I just wanted to
increase your awareness but thanks for
watching hey thank you so much for
watching keep spreading the word and
share this video
