hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about the soaz the P
being silent it's a very large muscle
that connects the upper torso with the
bottom part of the legs okay so it
allows you to stay connected if you
didn't have that muscle you'd probably
be separated but it allows you to flex
your your knees up or your legs up so
it's it's a flexion it brings you
forward like this like if you were to do
sit-ups and come all the way up this is
the main muscle that allows you to do
that okay so it connects to these
vertebrae here and it goes through the
pelvis to the inside of your femor or
your upper leg so it brings the leg up
and it stabilizes the pelvis so many
people have a a problem with this muscle
either it's too tight or it's too weak
or it could be tight on this side and
loose on this side so I'm going to show
you exactly how to test it and what to
do to stretch it so you can get these
symmetrical
I think it shows up as a big problem for
people because they sit all day long or
some people do a lot of sit-ups but you
don't reverse the flow and do extensions
with your back so if you do too many
sit-ups you're going to mess this up and
if you sit too much you're going to mess
it up and your posture is going to be
kind of like this all the time so let's
demonstrate how to test this muscle okay
so the first thing we're going to test
is we're going to test if the soos is
tight on this side or this side and all
we're going to do is you need someone to
do this so if you're laying down you
need someone to measure keep this leg
straight and raise it as high as you can
all right good put it down good now do
the same thing with the other side okay
good now you can see that this leg went
up a lot higher and I always ask the
person did you feel um that this went
higher yes okay that was a yes so what
happens is that
um this side over here is restricted
it's TI tight so we have a tight seaz on
this side okay so what we're going to do
is we're going to stretch out we're
going to have him lay his back and
stretch this out but this side's good
this side's not good so we want to
balance this this is going to create an
imbalance with his pelvis and cause hip
pain or back pain which also he does
have hip pain that's probably why so
let's go ahead and have you flip over so
I'm going to have you move close to this
side a little bit more
good so now what we're going to do is
we're going to keep this leg straight
okay and we're going to just we're going
to stretch it down like
this okay so this is actually pulling
this thing down do you feel any stretch
right here yeah now keep this leg
straight and see if you can't yeah right
there do you feel more of a stretch
right there yes yeah so what's happening
we're actually without falling off he's
stretching this muscle because it's
connected right here and then you'll
bring it up a little bit and then we'll
just stretch it and we want to stretch
this all the way down like that that's
just one way you can do it many
different ways okay so let me show you
another way scoot back you can take a
foam roller and we can put this roller
kind of up right
here yeah and we can keep this knee up
and bring this thing down do you feel
the stretch right there mhm so this is a
good way to stretch it but we're just
stretching this and I would actually
stretch this for about 2 minutes what's
going to happen it's going to balance
out the soas okay so you would if you
had a problem with the other so you
would just do the opposite so we're
trying to just stretch the one that is
tight very very simple no complications
okay so now we're going to take this
down now the next thing we're going to
do is we're going to check the strength
of the soos okay so the soos brings the
knee up here so it brings it up right so
there's a couple ways we can do this
what I like to do is I like to bend this
and hold this down resist me I'm going
to press down okay I'm going to check
the strength there that's strong so this
side's okay Bend this one right here
resist I did resist okay his right soaz
is weak okay so if this side's weak then
what's going to happen is that it's
going to throw off the whole balance so
um so again let me just kind of
summarize this this we're checking the
soos we're going to press down and
compare this side because remember the
soos brings the knee up
right and then we're going to check this
side there's nothing there just you can
relax okay yeah so we have a weak soas
now how do we make it stronger now we
could stretch it but that doesn't work
what we have to do is we have to
stimulate the other soas okay so this is
weak we're going to stimulate the as on
the good side now it attaches deep into
the hip but we're not going to press
into his hip we're going to press down
in the abdomen on this
side okay so we're kind of working on
the soft tissue that attaches to the
soos on this vertebrae so we're going to
come right into here and it's going to
be a little
tender it is
tender so a two-step process we're going
to stimulate the the strong muscle it's
on the opposite side of the weak
one right through in here that's a good
one right
there okay stimulate just a little bit
and now we're going to recheck the
muscle you resist it see this strong
actually Amed so it instantly got
stronger so now the other thing you
could do is lay on your stomach this leg
right here this soas is weaker it was
weaker okay so when he when he lifted it
so what we can do as a step
two is we could
stimulate the opposite muscle on the
same side okay so we can do the other
soas or the opposite muscle that does
the opposite action on the same side so
if this soos was weak we'd work on the
muscle that
extends this because the so has flexes
so extensors are all the glutes so we
can press on the glute muscle right
through in here and this will be a
tender too and we stimulate the glute
right
there it's going to make his so as
strong on the oppos on this same side
though
okay good so now let's just go ahead and
re evaluate keep this straight and raise
it for me good see how high that came up
now the other one beautiful now raise
this one goes up pretty high good now
the other
one okay good now do you feel any
restrictions left and right no no feels
there was a slight increase on this side
but this was a lot better so it's
something that we would would repeat
over and over and over but that's just
an example of fixing the flexibility
issues and then fixing the strength
issues okay so go ahead and apply this
and put your comments below
