hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the seven foods you must
never ever eat okay number one orange
juice and this might shock you but
here's what happens they pasteurize
orange juice which is they cook it they
destroy anything in it and you don't get
a lot of vitamin C it's just sugar water
and you're just going to spike this the
blood sugars and it's going to come down
there's not a lot of nutrition after
they cook it because heating kills all
the enzymes and all the nutrition not
all of it but a lot of it okay so um
it's kind of like drinking sugar water
number two soy protein isolates make
sure you read the ingredients on things
because a lot of um weight loss food and
food uh like protein shakes um I won't
mention any names but a lot of
vegetarian patties are made with these
soy protein isolates this is really not
a natural food for a human it's it's not
fermented it doesn't do well on our
bodies and uh it actually Ates the liver
so I would avoid that high fructose corn
syrup that's a given and that's in a lot
of sodas and drinks and it's even like
uh salad dressing they put it in there
so it's like a it's like a filler now
number four commercial Meats with
nitrates So when you buy like bacon or
sausage or Meats make sure it's nitrate
free because you don't you don't know
what you're getting these are uh there's
studies that show that it's linked to
cancer so you don't want to go down that
road you want to do grass-fed paleo
hormone free number five commercial milk
so if you're going to do milk make sure
it's organic or hormone free at least
because there's a little hormone called
RBST which uh has some negative effects
on the body so I would avoid this and
then also number six TV dinners now I
used to live on pot pies and TV dinners
and
uh very low quality food because you
actually have you have the the protein
the starch and dessert dirt all at one
when you combine the protein with the
starch with the sugar you are going to
massively Spike the insulin same thing
with the pot pies where you have the the
crust and the meat chunks and all the
different starch in there with the with
the um I guess you have the gravy in
there not good um okay last one is fruit
that comes from third W country So when
you buy berries or fruit and it says
it's from Mexico or Chile different
countries there's a chance that they
might use DDT because in America it's
illegal to spray with DDT it was banned
I think in 1972 but we're allowed to
sell it to third world
countries so what's happening we're
bringing it back and we're getting
consumed and there's studies that show
that even children are being exposed to
dut well it's coming from this right
here I'll put a link down below all
right so all right put your comments
below thanks for watching hey guys thank
you so much for watching please click
the subscribe button and I will see you
in the next video
