one of the worst things that a person
could do is self- diagnose or get the
wrong diagnosis like you might say I'm
too lazy or a friend says oh you're just
too lazy that's not true people are not
naturally lazy people in fact it's not
that you have low willpower or your
procrastinator let's take a look a
little deeper of really why people think
that they have low willpower or they're
lazy number one they don't see results
well any one that doesn't see results is
going to give up that's a normal thing
that occurs so that's the underling
reason these are this no results is a
symptom of something else you're not
getting results because the problem is a
metabolism problem not a weight problem
so we want to
differentiate what the problem is
because if you think you have a weight
problem and it could be a metabolism
problem because the fat burning hormones
are not working because the body type is
is dominant like let's say for example
you have an adrenal body type you will
hold weight in the midsection if it's a
liver you'll hold weight in the
midsection too but it'll be more like a
pot belly right through here if it's an
ovarian problem you'll hold weight in
the saddle bags down here yet if it's a
thyroid you'll gain weight all over not
at anyone location so again instead of
just focusing on losing weight go deeper
and see maybe it's because your
metabolism messed up because your
hormones are off this is the underlying
cause number two cravings it's
impossible to do a long-term eating plan
a healthy eating plan when you're
craving anything so when you're craving
all that means is that your body is not
burning fat it's burning more carbs or
sugar and I recommend that we get to the
root of this and reduce the Cravings so
you can actually tab in the fat because
when you're burning fat you're not
craving anything and that's how you know
you're burning fat who wants to be
running on sugar all the time that's
what happens is as soon as you eat the
sugar it drops down you're going to want
sugar
and you're in this cycle so the real
problem is not that you're not lazy you
just crave the wrong things because your
blood sugars are messed up because the
underlying cause is you don't have
enough potassium in your body to
regulate the sugars so that's why I
recommend the kale shake or at least
seven cups of vegetables per day and
watch the Cravings go down to zero it
takes like three days try that third
thing you maybe say I'm not motivated to
exercise right and you think you're lazy
that's not true most people are just too
exhausted to be able to exercise they're
not healthy enough to exercise they're
too tired and I never recommend
exercising if you're too tired other
people will say oh yeah you need
exercise to get energy yeah just to
spike your adrenaline and then your next
day you're going to feel like crap so we
want to get energy to be able to
exercise and feel like you want to
exercise and the way we do that if we
get to the root of it we have to fix
your sleeping problem we have to start
getting longer sleep more sleep and
tweak that right there that's the
underlying cause Okay the fourth most
common real reason why people think
they're lazy or they've been
misdiagnosed is that there stress
eaters stress um one way to relas stress
is through different foods chemicals and
foods like when you eat a refined
carbohydrate or sugar all it's doing
it's manipulating certain hormones that
are releasing stress and when you're
tired hungry or stress you're going to
be more reactive you're not going to
think about tomorrow you're going to
want it right now and not really even
think about it why because you're trying
to solve a problem so stress eaters are
really burnt out they usually have
adrenal burnout and that is keeping the
tolerance for stress low and they're
constantly looking for ways to reduce
stress so rather
than focus on the carbs go more fatty
foods like have more egg eggs egg yolk
have more cheese butter even some bacon
that's not a problem those things will
not increase the carb I mean the uh that
won't increase fat that'll actually
satisfy you more and that's a good
substitute for the carb um there's also
substitute uh foods that you can consume
like with Xylitol or Stevia or other
alternative sugars but stress eaters are
basically burned out and they have to
increase their ability or capacity for
their adrenals to work so their stress
goes down so these are some underlying
root causes symptoms versus causes and
just so you know you're not lazy that's
the wrong diagnosis you're just tired
you're a stress eater or your metabolism
is slow or your blood sugar is off
that's the real underlying cause
