all right so someone had a question can
I do Kido and intermittent fasting if
I'm a diabetic on metformin and insulin
at the same time okay now I don't know
if this person is a type 1 or type 2
chances are you're a type 2 going into a
type 1 eventually but here's the
difference type 1 is a problem with the
pancreas not producing insulin okay type
2 is more of a problem with the receptor
end not receiving insulin and the
feedback goes back and causes the
pancreas to produce more insulin to
compensate so it's a compensatory
adaptation type thing okay so you have
higher amounts of insulin but both of
these situations type 1 and type 2 have
high blood sugars okay so metformin
makes the receptor more receptive to
insulin and insulin just gives you what
the pancreas is not providing the body
but the problem is Bureau type 1 they're
giving you insulin your instance is
going to be high now because you're
going to be taking insulin to control
this out-of-control blood sugar so in
both of these conditions you have high
sugar and high insulin okay at the same
time now it's more dangerous to have a
high insulin than it is to have high
sugar there's more problems sustained
high levels of insulin destroys the the
retina the kidney the arteries the brain
now of course high sugar will do it too
but high insulin creates even more
destruction so the goal is to take the
least amount of insulin possible right
makes sense so if you're a type 1 maybe
your cells are completely destroyed of
any chance of recovery but we still want
you to take the least amount of insulin
possible so it would make sense to avoid
the triggers of insulin okay
unfortunately the American Diabetes
Association does not recommend what I'm
gonna recommend but there needs to be
more focus on the diet and the frequency
of eating because reducing your
carbohydrates and doing an amount
are the two things they're gonna allow
the person to take the least amount of
insulin okay and it's also gonna help
improve insulin resistance which will
take the stress off the liver and the
cells so this is that's the long answer
but the short answer is yes you can do
keto in um and fasting if you're a
diabetic on metformin and insulin and
hopefully you can work with your doctor
to have them wean you off some of these
or the at least the amounts so you can
have the least amount of side effects
thanks for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press the button
below and I will keep you in the know
hey that runs
