hey Dr Burg here we're going to talk
about what's really behind liver spots
okay um they're also called Aging spots
or solar
lentigo it's not really the liver now if
the liver is bad or dysfunctional yes it
can create all sorts of problems with
the skin but if you have actual liver
spots um it's coming from a vitamin C
deficiency okay vitamin C protects the
skin from the Sun okay it's called photo
damage or damage from the Sun or light
so vitamin C protects the skin from the
Sun the skin is um collagen the
epidermis is all collagen and vitamin C
is highly involved in the formation of
collagen and if you look at some of the
natural creams out there they have
serums for the skin to get rid of Aging
spots what are they they're vitamin C
based they they work from the external
though you really got to work on the
inside out like consume the foods high
in vitamin C not necessarily just put on
the surface of skin cuz it's going to
come back the next time you go in the
Sun so as you age and you have the
accumulation of sun and you actually
have a vitamin C deficiency the
combination of that gives you these
little brown spots so why why are you
vitamin C deficient as time goes on it's
either two reasons number one you're
you're not consuming enough vitamin C
and I'm not talking about taking vitamin
C as a supplement most vitamin C
supplements are synthetic they're made
from ascorbic acid and they're made
artificially from cornstarch and
sulfuric acid so especially if it's over
like 100 milligrams we know it's
synthetic okay it's artificial it's not
going to fix it vitamin C in nature is a
complex of a whole bunch of different
parts um and so you want to get it from
the food or a concentrated food so
vegetables collig greens cabbage bell
pepper chili pepper parsley all those
are very high in vitamin C large salads
high in vitamin C pasteurization
when they cook uh vegetables if you heat
them you destroy the vitamin C so like
orange juice for example has like not a
lot of vitamin C because it's
pasteurized so so that's one thing all
right now number two the probably the
more likely reason why you're deficient
vitamin C is not necessarily that you're
not getting enough vitamin C it's
because of a condition called insulin
resistance this is in a lot of other
videos I have um but insulin resistance
is a condition where your cells are
blocking insulin because of too too many
carbs okay and then what happens or too
many frequent meals what happens it
sends a signal back to the pancreas and
it tells the body to make more insulin
so insulin resistance is a state where
you're producing a large quantity of
insulin which then depletes vitamin C
okay in the presence of too much insulin
you're not going to be able to absorb or
use vitamin C in the quantities you want
so you go out in the sun you get this AG
ing spots liver spots of course not the
liver and that's what's causing it so if
you want to correct it don't use the
external serums fix it from within and
correct the insulin resistance and
consume enough vitamin C I'll put some
links down below how to do that but
that's really what's behind liver spots
thanks for
watching hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
