this topic is a little bit controversial
it might potentially upset certain
people because they had this certain
thought that the mother inside the apple
cider vinegar really was the same thing
as the sediment at the bottom of the
container so let's discuss this topic
when you start out with apples and you
go to alcohol you need a certain type of
yeast this is the first step of
fermentation there's also a second step
of fermentation where you go from
alcohol to vinegar when we're talking
about appet of vinegar we're talking
about acetic acid as the type of vinegar
and that uses a very specific type of
bacteria and when we talk about this
thing called the mother okay um we're
really talking about a combination of
two things friendly bacteria and number
two very specific enzymes like cellulase
hemicellulase and pectinase and there's
as well the true mother is really
bacteria and enzymes now I have a
question for you can you see an enzyme
when's the last time you actually saw an
enzyme they're invisible what about a
bacteria can you actually see bacteria
chances are no so the True Mother
bacteria and enzymes cannot be seen when
you see the sediment at the bottom of
the container what you're looking at is
kind of something left over from this
fermentation process and so the only
thing you can really tell about this
sediment is it's completely unfiltered
it does not mean that there's enzymes or
probiotics in that sediment when you
heat appleid of vinegar pasteurize it
you kill the bacteria and the enzymes
when you use high pressure you can also
kill bacteria and enzymes so you could
potentially have a product with that
sediment on the bottom of the container
and have no true mother just particles
of these apples or the some of the fiber
that was left now in the United States
there's over 50 different organic apple
cider vinegar Brands which are supplied
by three main companies now one of the
most popular brands brag was started by
Patricia brag who unfortunately passed
away this year 2023 at the age of 94 but
she sold her company in 2020 when she
retired to a private equity firm now
what many people don't know about brags
is that they were a marketing company
they never supplied or produced their
own product in fact from the Year 2006
to 2021 most of their upset of vegar was
from another company called fairchilds
which by the way is the only brand that
produces and sells their product all
these other brands are like private
labeling from three companies but fair
childes no longer supplies brag now I
don't get any Financial kickbacks from
fairchilds when I see a product that's
high quality I like to promote it and
the challenge with a truly high quality
organic raw apple cider vinegar is that
it's much more difficult in creating
wine actually because you can't make it
with hybd yeast cultures you can't use
uh nitrogens you can't use phosphates
you can't use sulfur dioxide and you
can't use pasteurization like wine is
pasteurized from my research uh
fairchild's is is the best on the market
and the thing about fairchilds is that
they don't dilute it it's undiluted
unfiltered it's raw it's organic the
acidity level is like 6.3 which is 25%
stronger than brag because unfortunately
brags now adds water to the product and
dilutes it anyway I wanted to clear up
this confusion on what this actual True
Mother really is and it's not just
sediment it's something that's invisible
and to really know that a product has
this mother in it you you really have to
know um the source and the manufacturing
process of the company now because of
the censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other side now if
you have not seen my very popular
popular video on the benefits of Alid
vinegar I put it up right here check it
out
