so I have a question for you did our
ancestors carry around these water
bottles sipping on them all day long the
answer is no yet we tend to have this
idea that we need to be sipping water
all day long there's a lot of push to
drink often and stay hydrated I mean
everywhere you go just you know like a
restaurant for example what's the first
thing they ask you would you like some
water at social events everyone's
drinking something constantly we're told
that we need to drink eight glasses
water a day at least because our body is
mostly made of water and no I'm not
telling you not to drink water we need
water and I'm not against water I just
want to share some unique information
that I think is going to help you the
first thing relates to a very
interesting research paper that I just
stumbled on that has to do with um
thirst and what thirst actually does for
us it actually triggers a hormone called
oxytocin that's considered the Trust In
Love hormone in fact oxytocin is a very
powerful stress reducing hormone it
actually has the ability to lower
cortisol which is very interesting but
the sensation of thirst actually
increases oxytocin and if you never get
thirsty because you're drinking all day
you're not going to be able to trigger
that oxytocin as much as if you waited
until your body gave you signals of
thirst I mean when you just think about
our ancestors um they didn't drink as
frequent they might have drank a good
amount of water right until they're
satisfied but they drank intermittently
and just as uh you probably know the
importance of eating
intermittently what about drinking water
intermittently I mean let's just talk a
little bit more about this oxytocin for
a second oxytocin is what people with
addictions are seeking speaking when
they're addicted to certain things
whether it's drugs or alcohol they're
trying to get more
oxytocin oxytocin gives you very good
feelings it helps reduce stress maybe
you've heard about the oxytocin related
to a mother and an infant when they're
bonding that will increase oxytocin also
when you bond with your pets you can
increase
oxytocin uh they found donating and
helping others can increase oxytocin
social interaction but also there's some
other things that can increase this
oxytocin which is I think a really
important hormone to evaluate and just
to understand so I already told you
thirst can do it but also heat and even
sweating increases oxytocin as well so
apparently being
overhydrated is not going to really help
you with oxytocin so what I'm talking
about is not reducing the quantity of
water at all I'm not talking about that
I'm talking about decreasing the
frequency of drinking water I mean it's
just amazing how we drink water on this
automatic type mechanism at a social
activity uh we drink uh certain
beverages for flavor but we don't really
drink for solving this thirst uh
situation you may want to just try this
out you get up in the morning ask
yourself am I really thirsty before you
eat your first meal maybe it's at
lunchtime are you really thirsty do you
need to drink something because realize
drinking a lot of water before a meal
could dilute the hydrochloric acid that
could affect your digestion but again
I'm not against that if you're thirsty
but if you're not
thirsty I'm rarely thirsty until the
late afternoon maybe even going at like
4 or 5:00 so lately I've been doing an
experiment with myself just to not drink
in the first part of the day and just
see what happens but realize you may
find that your stress goes down a bit if
you don't drink as often you should try
it out and see now the other thing I
want to mention about this is that when
you drink a lot of water okay um you are
diluting your sodium okay and I've
talked about this in other videos
there's a condition called
hyponatremia uh which you have low
sodium and one reason for that is you're
drinking a lot of water and that can
flesh out the electrolytes making you
feel tired weak fatigued
you see one of the things that you need
to know about sodium is if you're sodium
deficient because you drink a lot of
water that can stress out the
sympathetic nervous system it can
actually Elevate adrenaline and decrease
your parasympathetics which is
interesting SO waiting before you get
thirsty to drink water and also having
enough sodium can actually help your
stress realize that the more the
adrenals are activated the more sodium
you're going to need and when your
adrenals are exhausted you start to lose
aldosterone that's another hormone that
helps you retain salt and so you're
going to need more salt of course we
don't want you to get the salt from the
chips and the salty snacks just add more
sea salt to your meal and also realize
that it's the salt that helps hydrate
you not just the water you need a
combination of both with too much water
and not enough salt that equals
dehydration and I'm talking about the
intracellular
dehydration so salt is so important also
when you're low in salt you can actually
be at risk for insulin resistance leg
cramps and even abdominal pain so I
would not just pay attention to thirst
as a sensation but also to your Cravings
to Salt don't ignore those and if you're
concerned about having too much salt
because of your blood pressure just
increase your potassium but I will say
I'm not against drinking water okay just
don't drink it so uh frequent okay when
you drink it you might want to just
consider waiting until you're thirsty
and then getting most of your water when
you're thirsty I mean we do lose water
just from breathing you lose between 10
to 20 milliliters of water every hour
not exercising or anything just at rest
when you're breathing for an hour you're
losing some water that's between 240 and
480 milliliters which is between A4 or a
half of a liter of fluid just by
breathing now when you add exercise to
that you increase that by about 4X
depending on how much exercise you do
but you do lose water when you're
breathing when you're sweating when
you're urinating when you have diarrhea
when you have vomiting but there's one
more additional thing that you probably
have never considered or realized when
the humidity is low not high but low as
in in the winter time that low humidity
will draw out fluid from our body the
air extracts water from our body which
is interesting you would think that the
high humidity will force you to lose
water but no it's the low humidity in
the winter so just because it's cold out
don't think that you don't need water
the other point I want to bring up about
drinking a lot of water is that uh the
plastic containers on average in one
year a person consumes 16,000
microplastic particles from drinking
water in these plastic containers every
time you twist the plastic cap on that
plastic bottle you release like 500
microplastic particles and as the
temperature goes up and goes down that
degrades the plastic as well and in one
study I found
93% of all uh plastic bottles that were
tested contained microplastics not all
of them but the great majority now
because of the sensor Ing and the
suppressing of the algorithms on YouTube
it's becoming more difficult to find my
content and there's a lot of content
that I cannot put on YouTube
unfortunately so to make sure you have
full access of all my information go to
drberg.com And subscribe to my
newsletter by clicking the link Down
Below in the description I will see you
on the other
side
