hey guys in this video I want to share
with you a situation that occurs with
type one diabetes and type two mainly
type one where the person is needing
requiring more and more insulin the
blood sugars keep going up despite
changing your diet what do you do in the
situation um if you're type two
chronically over a period of time a lot
of times doctors will start giving you
insulin to control this situation
because over time the cells that make
insulin called the beta cells they start
wearing out okay and type one is where
they don't work at all so you don't have
any more insulin so therefore you need
injections but I'm talking about the
situation where you the demand for
insulin is greater and greater and
greater because you wake up and the
sugar is really really high okay or it's
all over the place what can you do well
here's what's happening there's actually
two hormones that are made from the beta
cells one is insulin the other one is
amalin okay I don't know if you've ever
heard of this amaline is a um similar to
insulin in that it regulates hunger it
slows digestion and also uh brings down
blood sugar and it also suppresses other
hormones too I don't want to get into
that but it's very very essential in um
keeping the blood sugars consistent and
lower okay so um there is um a situation
when you can you can just ask the doctor
um that you see for it's called an
amaline um you can't actually inject it
so you can get an analog which is kind
of like a a hormone that mimics it and
it's called simolin okay and you can ask
your doctor for this and if you were to
take this along with your insulin you
would find that the need for insulin
would go way way down okay so I just
wanted to cover the situation because a
lot of doctors don't even know about
this but uh you have them do research
and add this one little piece to the
puzzle in addition to all the other
things that I'm recommending now I'm not
recommending taking this unless you
still have a situation after everything
I taught you with insulin it's just too
high and you can't bring it down uh
you're going to have to maybe take an
analog or a um emlin mimicker okay and
you can get it it's actually by
injection you can get it from your
doctor it's a prescription and that way
it'll decrease the need for insulin
it'll bring that thing down so you won't
have to have as much insulin and you
actually have more of a steady blood
sugar all right thanks for
watching I will see you in the next
videos what what am I going to do
subscribe to the press button and oh
yeah send you additional information
press it forget it forget it I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
