did you realize that the side effects
from vitamin D are actually not coming
from vitamin D some people when they
started taking vitamin D have side
effects they might get a headache
then Sam Nia their restless muscle
cramps palpitations anxiety and even
constipation but all you have to realize
is those symptoms are not really coming
from the vitamin D those symptoms are a
magnesium deficiency magnesium is needed
for vitamin D to get absorbed so
magnesium lowers the side effects from
taking vitamin D even though they're not
side effects from vitamin D there are a
magnesium deficiency and if you are
deficient in magnesium and by the way
most people have a subclinical magnesium
deficiency which means that they have
some magnesium but not the full amount
required to do all the things I'm
supposed to do for example a cofactor
for 300 enzymes which means basically
it's a helper mineral involved in
protein synthesis making protein and
muscles and enzymes and things like that
it helps regulate blood sugars it's
involved in producing energy it's
involved in making glutathione which is
I'm one of the most important
antioxidants for the liver so if you
have a subclinical magnesium deficiency
some of these functions are not gonna
work that's called magnesium resistance
but the only side effect from vitamin D
by taking very large amounts I'm talking
over a hundred thousand milligrams and
you're not taking any vitamin k2 could
be hypercalcemia symptoms but this is
very very rare and the only problem with
this is kidney stones but if you're
drinking enough water at least two and a
half liters a day the chances of you
getting that are close to zero the
chances of you developing a kidney stone
are very very very small but I'm talking
about the situation where someone starts
taking 10,000 20,000 30,000 even 40
and I use a vitamin D and they
experience these right here all that
means is they need a little bit of
magnesium the best foods to get
magnesium leafy greens enough of them
not a one small cup but at least like
seven cups per day also pumpkin seeds
have magnesium nuts have magnesium
there's a lot of other foods that have
magnesium but if you're really concerned
just take some magnesium with vitamin D
and watch these symptoms disappear and
realize it's not coming from the vitamin
D just taking vitamin D exaggerated s'
this subclinical magnesium deficiency
and it makes it more severe now there's
also reasons why vitamin D won't work
I've done a lot of videos on that if the
gall bladder has a problem if there's
not enough bile to help you absorb
vitamin D and then if there's liver
damage kidney damage you're not taking
any vitamin k2 because k2 works with
vitamin d3
let's see you at a gastric bypass that
could create any problem GI issues you
have inflammation your gut or let's say
you drink a lot of alcohol those are all
reasons why you're not going to be able
to absorb vitamin D but in this video
I'm mainly focusing on the symptoms that
could come when you take vitamin D just
add a little magnesium and you're going
to be good to go
alright guys thanks for watching and
definitely check out these videos I have
in vitamin D they're quite interesting
