hey guys so I recently had a question
from someone who was on Humera and they
wanted to know if there's any type of
alternative okay well first of all I
want to tell you if you're taking this
medication I'm not telling you to come
off your medication check with your
doctor this video is just to give you
some background information for you and
your doctor to do research in some
possible alternatives the thing you need
to know about Humira is it is a
blockbuster prescription drug okay and
blockbuster meaning it's over 1 billion
dollars in fact last year the sales were
over 16 billion dollars and if I'm not
mistaken it's it's the top-selling drug
what it does is it lowers inflammation
so it's an anti-inflammatory okay so
there's a lot of people out there that
have inflammation whether it's arthritis
bursitis tendinitis all the itis a--'s
or autoimmune and this drug targets
inflammation one of the big problems I
see in America is that we are on way too
many prescription drugs 70% of the
population is on at least one drug in
the US with over four billion
prescriptions written in the US every
single year that's 13 medications for
every man woman and child I think that's
a little excessive what do you think
with over thirty percent of the
prescriptions never even filled because
it's expensive okay and it's hard to
afford those medications so what I'm
going to recommend is a different
solution
to actually fix the underlying reason
why you have inflammation and I'm not
going to recommend going to the health
of store and taking a pill tumeric or
some type of omega-3 fatty acid to try
to get rid of inflammation because I've
been in practice for thirty years those
things do not work unless you fix the
person's eating their general eating
plan
okay glucose is highly inflammatory it's
a potent trigger for inflammation okay
then cludes all types of sugar vegetable
oils that you would get in the store soy
corn canola omega-6 are also
inflammatory and then we get to insulin
okay is anti-inflammatory but high
levels of insulin in
blood are inflammatory okay so it can go
either way so what happens is that when
you consume too much glucose or sugar or
carbs okay what happens is you're gonna
start increasing insulin and then the
insulin is going to develop into a
condition called insulin resistance so
it's not going to work anymore so that
means on the inside of the cell we're
gonna have low amounts of insulin
so remember insulin is anti-inflammatory
so if you don't have enough you're going
to get the opposite effect yet in the
blood because of the feedback mechanisms
you're gonna start developing higher and
higher amounts of insulin to try to
connect and create the effect because
insulin is trying to lower this glucose
in the blood so we have a situation that
we have insulin resistance and that is
creating more and more inflammation okay
and if you just do research on insulin
resistance you're gonna find a ton of
data on the connection between this and
your inflammatory condition okay if you
can actually lower insulin resistance
you can lower inflammation greatly okay
when you want to do it through eating
okay we want to change your eating a
better practice for 30 years in every
single inflammatory case that came in my
office because I dealt with pain
inflammation all day long the diet was
just a filled with carbohydrates okay
and they were eating too frequently
they're usually hypoglycemic eating very
frequently to have all these snacks or
they were pre-diabetic or they were just
doing a lot a lot of carbs okay tons of
carbs and what they didn't know is the
relationship between carbohydrates and
inflammation so as soon as they got that
knowledge and went on a low-carb eating
plan information just kind of went away
so but you want to combine two things to
drop inflammation you want to go to a
low carb and we call that healthy
ketosis and you also wanted to
intermittent fasting because that is
even more powerful to reduce
inflammation than just doing healthy
keto now if you've never heard about
keto I put a link down below of exactly
how to do it so I recommend check with
your doctor get on this eating plan and
experience no more pain no more
inflammation you have to test this up
for yourself to see that it will work
for you thanks for watching
so I want to know about what you think
about this video so please comment below
and tell me what you think
