today we're going to talk about exactly
what foods you should be eating to help
regrow your hair and this is not about
taking another supplement this is
talking about your Foods there's
something I stumbled on recently that's
actually very interesting I want to
share with you is from this uh paper
that I I read that had something in it
that just jumped out at me that I've
never heard before and then I did a deep
dive into this one single amino acid and
I found some amazing things okay so I'm
going to share that with you today so I
think most people know that hair is made
out of protein and you would think if
you just eatting a protein you know your
hair would come back but that doesn't
always work in this published uh paper
it went through various deficiencies
that were found on certain percentage
people with hair loss and then I get to
this one amino acid that was deficient
in over 90% of people with alopecia and
this amino acid is called h
and no I would not recommend going out
and just getting it and taking it
because I think it's really important to
understand why you might be deficient if
at all it's not an abundant amino acid
but histadine is a precursor to
histamine okay which is involved in
immune reactions allergies inflammation
healing things like that if you're
deficient in histadine you could be uh
anemic because the need for that amino
acid to build red blood cells it's great
for your skin if you have eczema or any
type of dermatitis if you take too much
of it you can get premature ejaculation
so that's one interesting function it's
going to be directly involved in making
the Keratin protein of your hair to make
your hair strong and more
hydrated as well as regulating the
copper and zinc okay that the hair needs
as well and if someone is also taking
medications or drinking alcohol uh that
amino acid can be a lot lower if a
person doesn't have the right stomach
acids they're not going to be able to
break down and extract that amino acids
from the food that they're eating you're
going to have indigestion gas bloating
any of those the solution is to start
taking something called Bane
hydrochloride which is an acidifier now
here's the interesting part about this
whole discussion in order for you to use
histadine there are certain co-actors B6
which is pretty easy to get uh the right
copper and zinc ratios which is not as
easy to get and folate folate is
normally in dark leafy green vegetables
but if you're carnivore like and you
don't eat vegetables where are you
getting your fate well just so happens
that the most fate is in liver but let's
say that you're not on Carnivore and
you're just eating regular foods but you
don't consume a lot of dark leafy green
vegetables that could be another reason
why you're deficient also if you're
taking a supplement with folic acid
which is not the natural source of this
vitamin B9 that can potentially even
inhibit this conversion into the active
form because you're going to use up a
lot of the enzyme that is needed to make
this conversion and as a side note there
is a chemo drug called methyl trexate
and the way this drug works is simply by
blocking folate
you see folate increases the synthesis
or the reproduction of your cells and if
you block that using this
antifolate drug you can stop the the
growth of something the problem is you
don't want to completely stop the growth
of all yourselves the healthy ones too
because you have a lot of side effects
so they have to give you a certain
folate to counter some of the side
effects if you're deficient and folate
your um damage to your DNA goes way up
in fact it could be comparable to
radiation damage to your DNA so this is
why folet is so important in protecting
the DNA in the
mitochondria and also to help prevent
against cancer as well because cancer is
damaged uh mitochondria so it's
important to have this folate work okay
or have a sufficient amount so you can
have this histadine work so then you can
counter any potential hair loss let's
say for example you go on a prolonged
fast and you start losing your hair it
probably means that you're not ready for
it or it's not good for your body
because when you keto adapt and you
actually start burning fat you should
feel wonderful and if it doesn't um I
wouldn't push it because some bodies
don't do well on prolong fasting so
let's get right to the foods the three
foods number one is organ Meats
specifically liver or if you don't like
it I would take it in a supplement
here's the thing about liver potentially
you can consume too much liver but if
you're consuming like maybe 2 oz or 3 o
you're not going to have a problem but
if you're consuming a lot every single
day that could be a problem and just as
an interesting side note some people
have this idea that if I consume organ
Meats like uh liver I'm going to be
getting a lot of saturated fat actually
no um organ meats are very low in fats
number two you want to do more animal um
protein beef you can do fish and stuff
like that but you want to make sure you
have enough of that raw material number
three shellfish for your zinc and copper
ratios but shellfish also has selenium
and has all the trace minerals I'm
talking about shrimp scallops crab
Lobster so as I went through this video
you might have had certain light bulbs
go off on why you potentially could be
deficient in some of the factors now if
you have not not seen this video on
folate you should probably watch this
one next because if you have this
problem then you need to know about that
and I put that video up right here check
it out
