now today we're going to talk about how
anxiety and worry can affect your cells
i do want to mention though
stress is good for us to adapt to it and
to become better i'm mainly talking
about chronic stress because the key
factor is duration
how much chronic stress does someone go
through
without recovery if you're recovering
along the way stress is essential okay
you can't live without stress but i'm
not talking about that i'm talking about
chronic worry anxiety
over
weeks and weeks and weeks and what that
does
to your cells now let's start with your
immune cells what's fascinating is that
when someone experiences
worry anxiety and stress their immune
cells become paralyzed okay
very specifically the t cells the t
cells are responsible for a lot of
things including killing cancer cells
including
viruses and so if that army that
protects you becomes paralyzed that can
leave you susceptible to having a lot of
problems
this is why stress always tends to come
right before someone gets an infection
someone ends up with a sore throat or
they get sick so if you're trying to
think of what would improve your immune
system it's the absence of stress okay
now let's think of a panic attack right
what happens is you kind of stop
breathing you sometimes even forget
about breathing and that can greatly
affect your physiology if you don't get
oxygen but in a panic attack you
basically lose control it's the feeling
of losing control and some a reactive
mechanism kicks in there okay
dictated by
a certain part of the brain called the
amygdala which is all about
how the body responds in a state of fear
as well as adrenals which is also
relating to stress and involving the
flight or fight mechanisms and so you
have hormones in different parts of your
body that are reacting when you're under
a stress state that are going to prepare
the body for stress but typically what
happens overall in
a chronic worry or anxiety state is your
cells stop moving everything kind of
slows down even the mitochondria slow
down and stop doing their function and
they actually start creating this thing
called apoptosis which is dying it's
like a cellular suicide but typically
what we have in this state is we have
the cells just stop moving even the
frontal lobe of your brain
stops firing so you have a lack of
it's called executive function which is
decision making
planning
organizing that shuts down i mean think
about the last time you were under a lot
of stress or panic you're not in this
creative
planning trying to solve problems of
your life you basically are getting
problems and not being able to solve
them
and so there's a lot of indecision
that's connected with the state of worry
and anxiety and stress
i mean even when people are um
i don't know in sports and they're
playing a tennis match right and there's
a lot of pressure on someone let's say
they're in a tennis game right to win
this
last match
and then they choke right because
somehow this pressure was too
overwhelming and they lost some of that
executive function that athletic
performance you can get brain freeze you
can also have writer's block right i
mean try to write a book when you're
under stress your creativity your
imagination
is crucial
for
writing playing sports
solving problems running a business
and doing your profession and so stress
worry and anxiety tend to knock the wind
out of someone where they lose their
cognitive
power
and their mental capacity becomes
crippled so they may lose their appetite
they don't sleep well they're not
recovering and the body can start going
downhill so how do we solve this well
there are certain parts of your body
that are voluntary and certain parts
that are involuntary okay and that means
that there's certain parts of your body
that are under your control and certain
ones that are not under your control the
ones that are under your control have to
do with muscles okay now you might say
your breathing okay is under your
control well your lungs by themselves
don't do anything they're passive it's
the diaphragm that moves the lungs and
the diaphragm is a muscle so the muscles
are something that you can control and
so when you're in a panic attack and
you're not breathing and the body's in
the stress state you want to start to
put motion back into the body and
breathing is probably the first thing
you need to do there's a fascinating
video that i did on breathing and just a
simple breathing technique to pull
yourself out of a panic attack to pull
yourself out of a stress state
simply by regulating your breathing and
so as you hyperventilate now we have an
imbalance with oxygen and carbon dioxide
and now that oxygen cannot go into the
tissues and it feels like you just can't
breathe so it can create a lot of issues
so anytime you're stuck in this
worry anxiety stress mode there's a lot
of things you can do food wise nutrition
wise but also there's some things you
can do just by getting your body into
motion okay
start to get outside and exercise in
nature start speeding up your body okay
because you're countering this slowing
down motion and that alone will pull you
out of the stress state number three
start controlling your breathing as well
as your skeletal muscles the two types
of exercise programs that i highly
recommend
would be one yoga exercises okay and i'm
not even talking about getting into the
philosophy of yoga but the yoga
exercises are great for stress because
you
yourself are controlling your body and
your breathing
in a controlled way the other system
that i really like is pilates that's
another program where you're controlling
your emotions in a certain way and that
is very powerful to pull yourself out of
a stress day but it's all about putting
yourself in control of your body because
in a state of worry and anxiety
basically you're out of control the
other thing i'm going to mention with
the frontal cortex
they don't really know exactly what that
part of the brain does exactly they have
some ideas but it does have something to
do with executive function planning
organizing
getting things done
those things
so
the more that you can get an action and
get things done
the better it's going to pull you out of
that worry stress mode so on that note i
think the next video for you to watch
would be this one on the breathing
technique i mentioned right here
you
