wow
so many people wash their face with
commercial bar soap without even
thinking twice and they wonder why they
have to use lotions and creams and they
wonder why their skin's so dry
and they have to use things to counter
this dermatitis or little areas of red
patches so i want to just increase your
awareness on what's actually in
commercial soap so you can just get an
alternative so let's talk about the
ingredients first
so number one you have this chemical
called sodium lauryl sulfate now
sometimes you'll use ammonium lauryl
sulfate too and this is the lathering
agent it's in your shampoos it's in your
cleansers it's in your body washes it's
a thing that makes that lathering effect
and recently i released my own
shampoo and conditioner and some people
are wondering
why doesn't it lather like my regular
shampoo well that's because we omitted
this one ingredient it's a synthetic
chemical that can irritate your skin it
can create inflammation
and you can dry out your skin and
sometimes this chemical is contaminated
with other chemicals that are
carcinogenic so definitely start reading
the back of the ingredients now i'm
mainly talking about the face i mean you
could use it for the rest of the body i
mean that's not a big issue but i
wouldn't put it on your face
the number two ingredient to watch out
for
is parabens so and definitely look at
other names because sometimes they'll
put
methylparaben or propyl parabens but
anything with parabens you want to avoid
it's a preservative it's an
antibacterial but it can lead to an
estrogenic effect and there's certain
studies that even shows that it affects
the fertility
in animal studies so anything you put on
the skin actually absorbs inside your
body your skin is like a sponge so just
remember that your skin is really the
primary barrier for your immune system
so there's a lot of
friendly bacteria in the skin that you
don't want to kill so anything that's an
antibacterial watch out for because it's
also going to kill off your good
bacteria
very similar to an antibiotic and then
what happens is you get this overgrowth
of
other microbes that you don't want like
yeast candida
uh things like that all right number
three ingredient to watch out for is
formaldehyde it's a great to embalm a
body
but not to embalm your face it can
increase your risk of getting cancer it
can really dry out your skin and the
next one is the synthetic fragrances
okay i mean some of these soaps are just
so
so strong and so irritating
but they're petroleum-based
they're petrochemicals there's solvents
that they use to make these fragrances
so you really want a soap that's either
fragrance free
or that only uses essential oils all
right next one is something called
triclosan okay
triclosan is a very powerful
antibacterial chemical but the problem
is like i just said can kill off the
good bacteria and increase the risk of e
coli and and even mrsa so
avoid things with this chemical the
other thing they quite commonly use in
soaps is
coal tar dyes okay they're coloring
agents and the way they make these is
with chemicals petroleum type products
and there's all sorts of negative
effects especially drying out your skin
i mean i remember growing up having bad
acne and here i was using a bar of cell
commercial soap scrubbing my face
thinking that would help it always just
worsened my skin it aggravated my acne
and
it never got rid of it so the solution
is to spend a little bit more on
something that's more natural something
that is either homemade or handcrafted
something that does not have sodium
lauryl sulfate something that's
fragrance free doesn't have the
synthetic dyes
yet something that's made of a healthy
fat that uses essential oils and doesn't
have chemicals now i think a really
appropriate next video for you to watch
which would be this one on how to
diagnose the inside of your body
just by looking at the face check it out
i put it up right here
