hey guys it's me in this video we want
to share the secrets of how to lose that
last 10 pounds Okay now what's
interesting it's very unnatural to lose
weight in general the body doesn't like
losing weight it goes against its own
purpose of trying to survive so anything
that is losing is something that's very
unnatural but there are things that you
can do strategically to really dig deep
into losing the that last resistant
stubborn weight okay so number one zero
sugars now you as you may already know
that anything high in the glycemic index
anything high in sugar increases insulin
and Insulin blocks fat burning you will
not be able to lose weight in the
presence of insulin and that includes
all the hidden sugars like the breads
the pasta the Cal the crackers the
biscuits the waffles pancakes muffins
juice alcohol and fruit okay we need to
actually bring all those out of the diet
because we don't want any excess insulin
okay all right number two intense
exercise the intensity of exercise is
what can trigger the most powerful fat
burning hormone called growth hormone
and here's the Catch 22 with intense
exercise exercise will help you lose
weight if you recover from it all the
benefit of exercise occurs in the
recovery so yes we need to do a full
body high-intensity workout but that
will only work if you you don't
overtrain it only works if you recover
from that workout okay in the sleep so
if you're working out and you're sore
the next day or you're tired the next
day then give it some more time but the
combination of high-intensity full body
compound resistant exercise with
recovery will increase some massive
growth hormone changes which then will
burn fat okay number three 8 plus hours
of sleep now why because most of the fat
burning and most most the benefit of
exercise occurs when you're sleeping if
you're only getting 6 hours or even
seven hours of sleep that can greatly
reduce your chances of losing weight and
the key is has to be quality it has to
be long enough and it's totally okay if
you take a nap during the day but we
need that eight plus hours of sleep
every
night number four two meals per day now
here's the thing we don't want you to be
hungry we don't want you to cut calories
that doesn't work it creates St a but
there's a thing called intermittent
fasting that will greatly improve your
fat burning specifically growth hormone
is triggered by intermittent fasting and
what that means is that we're eating a
couple meals not three meals a day and
we're going to add fat at the meal to be
able to go longer so it's not about
reducing the calories from fat it's
about going longer because what happens
when you have more than two meals a day
every time you eat you trigger insulin
so we're trying to keep insulin very
very low and two meals a day is a
perfect combination now when should you
have those two meals a day uh number one
if you're not hungry in the morning do
not eat breakfast wait till lunch okay
if you're hungry in the morning have
that breakfast but then go all the way
until 5 6 and have dinner okay and that
would be the perfect combination or the
frequency of
eating number five no snacking between
meals why because every time you eat no
matter what you eat you trigger insulin
and Insulin blocks fat burning so we
don't want to snack if you want to
actually have like some nuts or some
cheese have it at the meal not in
between the meal because if you keep
spiking insulin you're never going to be
able to lose weight and a lot of people
have this thing called insulin
resistance which is basically like a
pre-diabetic situation which keeps their
insulin four to five times higher than
average person so no snacking in two
meals a day will actually correct
insulin resistance okay and you'll go
longer and longer and you add more fat
if your if you're hungry so you can go
longer without eating but we don't want
to snack even if it's something healthy
all right so that's actually number five
number six protein 3 to 6 ounces per
meal now why because if you have too
much protein you can increase insulin
anything more than 35 grams spikes
insulin so we want smaller amounts of
protein we can have them twice a day but
we don't want to have a large amounts of
protein okay that's another tip number
seven 7 to 10 cups of vegetables now
this is interesting because unless you
do those vegetables you won't get the
minerals spe specifically potassium you
need about 4700 milligrams of pottassium
every single day and that that's the
quantity of vegetables that you're
supposed to consume to get that
potassium or you're not going to get it
without the potassium you can't curb
Cravings you can't metabolize protein as
well you can't build your stomach acids
it's the most important mineral that you
need especially for losing weight um and
many people don't have the quantity now
we just want to make sure you can have
two big salads you can blend it but
here's the key if you're consuming a
type of vegetable that you're not used
to like even kale or any of the
cruciferous vegetables and you start
bloating or you get
constipated change up the vegetable
because we can't have you loaded a lot
of the microbes in your gut eat uh fiber
and if you overwhelm the ve uh the
microbes with too much fiber at one time
they're not used to it and you're
constipated you're bloated you're not
going to lose weight okay so make sure
you're eating vegetables that you can
digest and that you don't have any type
of digestive problem okay so those are
the seven secrets to lose that 10 last
10 lbs and this will work if you follow
them a lot of times people will focus on
one more than the other but whatever
ever you're missing plug it in and write
your success stories below hey thanks
for watching I want to send you a gift
in exchange for a little survey the
survey is very short and I just want
your opinion on a question so click the
link below fill it to survey and check
your inbox
