I was actually shocked to learn about
these forever chemicals I did a deep
dive in this topic and I want to give
you a summary of it another name for
these are past chemicals and the reason
they call them forever chemicals is they
stay in the environment for thousands of
years they basically slowly poison us
97% of Americans were tested positive
for these pasos chemicals they're in our
fat cells they've been found also in
breast milk and especially drinking
water these chemicals are definitely
linked to cancer hormone problems
especially the thyroids liver damage
reproductive damage however despite how
depressing this topic is I have a really
good solution these past chemicals are
all over the place you're exposed to
these chemicals using Teflon cookware
food packaging firefighters are exposed
to it from the foam that they spray it's
in a lot of canning Goods unfortunately
it's all over the place these chemicals
were first introduced into our
environment in the early 50s or even
late 40s and of course you would think
there'd be some safety testing going on
to allow these chemicals in our
environment by either the EPA or the FDA
but it's not until recently that some of
these governmental agencies are are
doing anything about it but my first
question was why were some of these
chemicals considered generally
recognized as safe well now I know that
that's a loophole that a lot of
manufacturer companies use to push their
chemicals into the environment by doing
their own safety studies and then
considering it safe I mean even the
testing methods that the FDA use right
now it's like they only identify for six
compounds yet there's over 600 different
compounds of course the EPA the
Environmental Protection Agency only
tests for a fraction of the chemicals
compared to all of the chemicals that
are out there I mean it wasn't even till
the
2020 that the FDA began to phase out
voluntary agreement with manufacturing
companies to stop using these posos
chemicals in food packaging but they
have yet to enforce these bans but of
course they're going to go after the
farmers with their raw milk apparently
that's more dangerous than these forever
chemicals so the two strategies that I'm
going to recommend is to limit the
exposure to these chemicals and so the
greatest exposure right now is from your
water supply so I want to talk a little
bit about that the second strategy which
I think is a really good strategy would
be to build up your own body's tolerance
for these chemicals but first let's just
talk about this water thing there's been
some great research by the environmental
working group ewg on forever chemicals
and what they did is they evaluated
25 posos chemicals to see at what
percentage these water filters were
getting rid of these posos forever
chemicals and they tested quite a few
but there's only three filters that
actually work by removing 100% of these
chemicals and those are the three that
I'm going to recommend so the first one
is called the travel berky gravity this
one cost around $327 so it's a bit
expensive the next one is is called
clearly filtered this is the second most
expensive which is $90 and the third one
is called zero water at roughly about
$19 now before you invest in anything
let's just take a look at this for a
second because I want you to know how
long these water filters last let's take
a look at the zero water filter for 19
bucks the filters only last for 20
gallons you'd have to buy like 37
filters for the whole year so it's going
to cost you
$646 for the entire year now let's talk
about the next one clearly filtered okay
it's $90 those filters last for 100
gallons you're looking at buying about
seven filters for the year at a cost of
$436 a little bit cheaper than the Zero
Water Filter now let's look at the most
expensive filter the travel berky
gravity filter which initially cost like
$327 well guess how many gallons it
filters
6,000 it's going to last more than 8
years if you do the math you're only
going to spend like $40
per year most of these chemicals come
through your water supply it might be a
good idea to invest in something to
minimize your exposure because they
bioaccumulate these chemicals build up
in the body but they don't come out very
easily there's still ways to eliminate
some of these toxins from the body and
that's what I want to talk about right
now sweating or going into a sauna you
will be able to get rid of some of these
chemicals through the sweating another
interesting way to get rid of the
chemicals is through a process process
called autophagy now autophagy is a
condition that you put your body into
when you do intermittent fasting and
prolonged fasting where the body recycle
old damaged things as well as get rid of
pathogens it can also help get rid of
chemicals and also strengthen your body
because there's a lot of positive great
things that fasting will do to your
cells another thing is infrared helps to
detoxify your body as well so you can
get a lot of infrared being exposed to
the sun in the morning and then before
the sun sets there's infrared saunas
there's infrared devices you can use but
infrared is one way to detoxify some of
these chemicals also
spirulina and chlorella they're like
this algae that has properties to
detoxify chemicals and now let's talk
about strengthening your body your
biochemistry you naturally have all
these amazing things in your body that
help you get rid of poisons they're
called detoxification enzymes and so
strengthening your body's ability to
detoxify is going to be very very
important and so anything that has
sulfur in it is going to help you and
that would be like eggs for example
garlic and especially onion but these
sulfur-based compounds will greatly help
you detoxify and you also have the
cruciferous vegetables cabbage broccoli
brussels sprouts not only are high and
sulfur but they have many other
antioxidants that can help the
detoxification process and of course the
amino acid that's going to be really
important in in strengthening your
glutathione is glutamine well take a
while guess what has the most glutamine
red meat the thing that they tell you to
start avoiding glycine is also important
and you can get that in collagen which
happens to be also in red meat if you're
consuming nose to tail you're eating
bone broth or beef collagen so one of
the meals that I normally eat a lot of
which happens to be a really good detox
meal would be I have some steak or some
burger patty and the cruciferous that I
like the most is C cabbage and to take
it one step further we could ferment the
Cabbage why would we want to do that
because probiotics also help eliminate
these forever chemicals but only if that
sourkraut is raw because when you
pasteurize it you kill all the microbes
now if we have the difference between
green cabbage and red cabbage do the red
cabbage because then we have some added
antioxidants we can start to avoid the
exposure to these chemicals but it's
really really hard to be in an
environment that's toxic free why not
beef up these biochemical Pathways and
there's some really key nutrients to do
that and I'm going to list them right
now selenium iodine copper the trace
minerals are really really important
where do these trace minerals come from
you can get them from Seafood shellfish
and you guessed it grass-fed red meat
because these forever chemicals do
affect the thyroid you really want to
make sure you have enough iodine and
selenium selenium you can get from
Brazil nuts and you can also get it from
shellfish and oysters I just gave you a
series of things you should start right
now but I wanted to put this on your
radar just because unfortunately you're
being slowly poisoned now you know what
to do about it thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next video
