hey guys I wanted to do a quick video on
stretch marks I have another older video
this is an updated video okay so what is
a stretch mark it's a situation whereby
the tissue is overextended the collagen
fibers are stretched too far leaving a
gap and then the body fills in with scar
tissue there could be inflammation going
on it usually happens after pregnancy
okay so what do you do what you're gonna
do is you're going to take coffee
grounds okay make sure it's organic two
tablespoons heaping tablespoons and mix
that with one tablespoon of olive oil
make sure it's extra virgin mix it all
together and then you apply it to the
stretch marks okay you're going to rub
it gently on the skin for about five
minutes okay till it's slightly red then
you're going to leave it on the skin for
about 20 minutes then wipe it off then
take your shower okay
there's certain things in the coffee
grounds certain things in the olive oil
that will actually help restore the skin
and the damaged scarring because it's
really like scar tissue so the reason
why it works is because coffee grounds
have something called coral genic acid
which is really good for restoring scar
tissue on the skin and it also has
something called a Ravenel collectin
which is a compound that helps build
back the elasticity of the skin okay so
and then you have olive oil which has
vitamin E and a lot of final nutrients
now the other thing that you should do
beyond keto healthy keto and in a minute
fasting is make sure you have egg yolks
in your diet and kale shakes okay
both kale and egg yolks are loaded with
vitamin A and vitamin A is essential to
restore the skin so go ahead and try
this and put your comments below hey I
appreciate your attention and if you're
enjoying these videos go ahead and
subscribe and I will definitely keep you
updated on future events live events and
webinars that we're going to do very
soon
