so here we have this natural herb called
wormwood or it's called artemisinin okay
now it's been used for well over 2 000
years as part of Chinese medicine been
very very effective with a lot of
different things antimicrobial
especially anti-malaria but then they
found a way to synthesize it and to make
it synthetically and then all of a
sudden the effectiveness of this natural
herb went way down as far as using the
natural version they'll say that it's
not very bioavailable
expensive it doesn't work as good as the
drug which it may not work as good as a
drug but it's been used for over 2 000
years so it's stood the test of time and
today I want to talk about how amazing
this plant is and if you're going to
grow your own natural Pharmacy this is
definitely one to put on the list to
grow but right now the synthetic version
is the most effective treatment for
malaria apparently it can actually stop
the different stages of this malarial
parasite but wormwood is very effective
for worms it's good for viruses
antiviral
bacteria and there's some interesting
research which I'll put down below on
what it can do for covet and is a pretty
potent anti-lime you know this little
parasitic spiral kite that you can get
from a tick bite but today I'm going to
talk a little bit more about its um
potent Effectiveness or cancer and I
don't know why but a lot of these um
remedies for worms and parasites and
even viruses also tend to parallel for
cancer and wormwood is at the top of the
list because it does some really
interesting things in relationship to
cancer the first thing that I want to
talk about is in its ability to
selectively
pause
something called apoptosis to the cancer
cells now first of all the word
selectively that means that it targets
the cancer cells
not your own cells so that's pretty cool
and now what is this apoptosis mean that
means that the cell emits suicide okay
it kills itself and so wormwood has the
ability to cause the cancer cell to
commit suicide because normally it
doesn't do that it lives forever it has
a limited lifespan but wormwood could
actually cause apoptosis in cancer cells
both in the lab in a little petri dish
as well as in animal studies I was
studying different mechanisms of how it
actually can deal with cancer and and I
want to talk about it because it's quite
interesting one mechanism has to do with
iron
it'll take a little bit of your own Iron
from your red blood cell
and cause that iron to oxidize turning
it into a free radical and directing it
to the cancer cell itself now this is
another mechanism of how it can kill a
parasite or a worm is through this iron
oxidation effect when iron tends to go
into that oxidation form it's very toxic
to the cells especially cancer cells now
the other thing that it can do
and before I get into that I want to
just explain one thing about cancer
cells come from normal cells okay so a
normal cell can switch over to a cancer
cell
when there's damage to the mitochondria
there's this protein complex called
h-i-f okay and without getting too
technical
it's this Factor
that involves hypoxia hypoxia is a lack
of oxygen so apparently it's this factor
or this protein complex
that triggers this switch from a normal
cell
to cancer cell so anything that can
inhibit this switching I think be
important right when dealing with cancer
especially if you have cancer and you
want to avoid more of the normal cells
converting over to cancer so it just so
happens that the phytonutrients in
wormwood okay have the ability to
inhibit this protein complex and it's
also interesting that hypoxia is
involved which explains a lot because
inflammation for example is one trigger
because when you have inflammation you
have less oxygen but apparently there's
other things that can trigger cancer
that go beyond just hypoxia but cool
thing is that wormwood has the ability
to inhibit this compound also wormwood
has another mechanism of inhibiting the
normal cells
from producing this increase in blood
vessels to the tumor so one thing that
cancer does is it um recruits lead
Supply from your normal cells and it
causes your normal cells to produce
blood vessels into the tumor so this is
just one little trick that these cancer
cells do well wormwood is
anti-angiogenic so it can help diminish
that mechanism now wormwood is also
highly anti-inflammatory so just by
addressing inflammation you can stop the
spread of cancer as well as the
formation cancer too especially since
there's this link between inflammation
and cancer and some people are using
wormwood for autoimmune because
autoimmune is an inflammatory problem
and the last thing involving cancer that
wormwood can help a person with it has
an anti-minastatic effect which
basically means it inhibits the growth
of cancer which is pretty cool but
anyway I just wanted to share some of
the interesting effects of this plant
that anyone can actually grow in their
Garden or their greenhouse and the
amazing properties it might have in
potentially helping you now since we're
on the topic of natural remedies if you
haven't seen my video on garlic that's
pretty cool I put it up right here check
it out
