I'm going to show you exactly what to do
to no longer have cold feet or cold
hands typically what do people mostly do
they wear maybe triple socks they put
their feet next to a heater every
morning they might use compression
stockings they maybe try to hydrate
their body or maybe they actually put
cayenne pepper in their socks but the
problem is it might not last this
problem keeps coming back
and so when you research this topic
kind of boils down to well maybe you
have a thyroid problem maybe you have
peripheral artery disease or circulation
or maybe Raynaud's phenomena where you
have this circulatory problem where your
extremities like your fingers or even
your toes are blue because the body is
not able to pump blood flow very
effectively or maybe it's related to a
nerve problem neuropathy because you're
a diabetic you might have what's called
peripheral neuropathy but what if you
have none of these problems in your
freaking feet are freezing all the time
and your fingers are cold what do you do
today I'm going to give you a good
solution and as a side note if you do
have raynon's phenomena usually that's
an autonomic nervous system problem and
responds to B1 I would recommend taking
the fat soluble version benphotamine
which can also by the way help you if
you have peripheral neuropathy but
that's just a side note there's a really
amazing simple and expensive treatment
to warm up your feet in hands it
involves exercising
the arteries okay the arteries have a
muscle it's a smooth muscle and those
muscles contract and relax and that
contraction is called vasoconstriction
and the relaxation is called
vasodilation so what I'm going to
recommend is you exercise that system
once or twice a day only spending maybe
a minute and a half to two minutes each
day and this treatment actually
increases the mitochondria in your blood
vessels it'll increase oxygen
circulation and it'll really greatly
help the autonomic nervous system so
this is what you do you get a bucket
maybe a five gallon bucket
and fill about
one third of it with ice
and the rest with water
okay then you're going to stick your
feet in it and your hands in it if your
hands are cold and you're going to wait
for about one to two minutes when your
feet and hands start to change and
become slightly warmer now what's
happening is you're creating a hermetic
effect you're adding a mild stress which
might seem like a major stress and
what's going to happen is your body is
going to start to adapt
and the temperature of your feet are
going to start to warm up over time over
maybe three to four or five days after
doing this on a daily basis or even
twice a day and sometimes it might take
a couple weeks but this cold therapy you
would think that it just creates a
vasoconstriction and gets rid of the
blood flow but you're actually creating
a lot of communication into your feet in
your hands also pushing out a lot of
lactic acid in waste products and you're
going to actually be probably very
surprised how this works now some of you
are going there's no way in heck I'm
going to do this but all I'm saying is
you just might want to try it try it for
three days and I think you're going to
be quite shocked how this is going to
help you it's probably the only thing
that you haven't tried before but it's
going to work now when I was in practice
a lot of the therapies and treatments
that I did
were totally opposite of what mainstream
does I mean I had techniques like even
for pain
like whether you have pain in your foot
or your knee or a part of your body
people would come in they would fly in
from around the world for this chronic
pain syndrome problem that no one was
able to fix and what would I do so if
they had a problem on the left side of
their body
you know what I would do I would work on
the opposite side I would work on the
good side and the results I got were
unbelievable if you haven't seen any of
my videos on pain relief you can do a
search on that but when I was in
practice boy these techniques were just
highly effective and people got results
within a very short period of time
whereas traditionally and also the way I
was taught is you do therapy on where
you hurt well the same thing applies to
a lot of other things in healthcare and
especially if you have cold feet I mean
the last thing that you would even
imagine to do would be to add more cold
to cold feet the same thing with
exercise right there's all sorts of high
level athletes and Olympic athletes that
train in low oxygen or high altitudes
where there's thin air to add a stress
to get their body to adapt to become
stronger and more fit I mean I'll give
you another example I had one lady
she was an opera singer okay and she
flew in from somewhere in the United
States it wasn't close by
she heard from a friend who told her
from another friend that I got good
results with laryngitis or and harseness
of the throat she had this huge event
that she had to sing and not being able
to perform
was a major major problem because he was
scheduled and like within a week so she
flew out to see me and she had this
scratchy throat right through here right
this scratchy worseness throat and what
did I do
I did work on the opposite side in the
back part of her neck and I had videos
of how to do this and I pretty much did
this like through the day like every two
hours through like one or two days
by the end of the first day it was
probably 50 percent better by the end of
the second day it was close to 80 to 90
percent better so all I'm saying is you
should just try this technique to see if
it works and then comment down below
and then I'll go ahead and read the
comments I think you're going to find
that it's very effective now since we're
on the topic of circulation
if you do have peripheral neuropathy and
you haven't watched this video it might
be a good idea I put that video up right
here
