okay so at another question what is
better rice milk or almond milk on a
ketogenic diet let's talk about that
well the four most common types of milks
that people drink rice milk almond milk
coconut milk and discount oh okay so
rice milk has 23 grams of carbs now I'm
talking about unsweetened okay all of
these are unsweetened of course if
they're sweet and you know I don't want
to evaluate them because they're gonna
have way too much sugar but look how
many sugar grams 10 grams of sugar in
one cup that's way too much almond milk
has just one gram of carb and 0 grams of
sugar which basically means less than
one gram equals zero coconut milk has
less than one gram of carb and less than
one gram of sugar cow's milk has 12
grams of carbs and 12 grams of sugar
there's no fiber there to buffer that so
these are the two that are okay but just
realize also they put things in there
like gar gum and different thick
thickener so if you're have an allergy
to those things you know avoid them for
the most part they're fine but these are
the ones that are camp Edo because of
the low amounts of carbs and sugar
alright thanks for watching so I hope
you're coming to the keto Health Summit
coming up in October so I want to
quickly comment on what we're gonna do
that's different from other conventions
okay the problem with these other
conventions is they give you information
over a load okay it's so much data that
you're basically swimming in a sea of
information we're going to do things
very differently we're only gonna cover
the most important things that make a
huge difference now there are three very
powerful strategies that we're going to
be talking about at the summit that you
will not find and any of my youtube
videos number one is on memory I'm going
to be showing you something very cool to
dramatically increase your memory in
concentration that's going to blow you
away and number two I'm going to show
you how to increase your stress
tolerance so you are completely calm all
the time
all right and number three and most
importantly if you have a slow
metabolism
if you've died it for a long time and
everything is kind of just really slow
I'm going to show you how to get
complete control over your metabolism so
you can literally turn up the dial as
high as you want and control as much
weight as you want to lose and these
three things are just a tiny bit of what
you're going to learn in the summit so
click the link below get signed up and I
will see you in October
