hey Dr bur here in this video we're
going to talk about cramps charlie
horses if you have these here are the
causes there's four main causes the
number one cause of cramps in the
especially when you're sleeping at night
is medication the side effects of high
blood pressure medication also high
cholesterol medication and also uh
prazone so that will majorly affect um
the contraction relaxation of your
muscles especially at night so that's
number one number two too much calcium
calcium causes the contraction of
muscles now that usually comes because
your stomach is off if you have a lot of
acid reflex or digestive problems that
means you don't have enough acid and the
calcium doesn't get mobilized and so
that's you're going to end up having too
much calcium stuck in the joints and all
that um another cause would be taking um
like too many calcium supplements that
are calcium carbon that's like rocks
you're going to plug up things let's say
you want to prevent osteoporosis you're
going to get a lot of cramps because
you're taking too much calcium so
calcium you know it could be you're
taking too much vitamin D without the V
the uh the other fats like vitamin K2
and also the omega-3 fatty acids but too
much calcium because calcium always
works with other minerals and it could
be too um you don't have the Magnesium
to to transport and to relate the
calcium so you always want to take these
minerals together especially calcium
magnesium so too much calcium will cause
it and then and the reason I'm bringing
that up is because if you have a cramp
and you just take straight calcium it
might make it worse number three two
little magnesium magnesium is the
relaxation mineral of the muscle and
that's the one that you really want to
take if you have cramps so that'll just
knock it out like that you could also
take calcium magnesium that would be
good especially if it's in a$1 one ratio
cuz that's what we need and the fourth
cause is too little potassium and
because potassium also is involved in
muscle contraction and that would come
from not eating enough vegetables or a
lot of stress that can deplete the
potassium I don't know if you knew this
but our bodies need about 4700
milligrams of pottassium every single
day yeah that's like s to 10 cups of
vegetables every single day like no
one's getting that so no Wonder their
deficient potassium and also if you add
on stress that will deete deplete
potassium and if you also add in the
fact that Sugar de plates potassium no
wonder the people have a lot of cramps
magnesium comes from the leafy green so
again if you have those vegetables
you're going to actually kill two birds
with one stone but I'm not saying never
have calcium like you should have some
good cheese from um maybe European
cheese or grass-fed cheese or some Dairy
like kefir or maybe yogurt that would be
a good source of calcium versus just
taking pills all the time but you just
want to look at these as a potential uh
cause of your cramps the other thing is
um if you're if you take apple cider
vinegar you'll make the body a little
more acidic and you'll really mobilize
this calcium into the tissues so the
appleid of Vin is vinegar is really good
for cramps because it acidifies and it
transports a lot of these minerals and
it also helps your stomach absorb the
minerals
and then lastly if you're deficient in
vitamin
B1 due to stress or too many refined
carbohydrates or sugar you're going to
have not necessarily uh cramps in your
calves you're going to have tenderness
in your calves so if they're tender when
you press on them you need B1 and that
would be a nutritional yeast so you can
consume that and that just goes
completely right away so go ahead and
follow this information and I will see
you in the next video
