hey guys I have unique simple sleeping
tip for you okay this is a no-brainer
and if you have problems sleeping this
can greatly help you and it's about
increasing your air quality and oxygen
in your bedroom okay by putting a couple
plants in there NASA did a study on air
quality and I'll put a link down below
if you want to check it out and this is
mainly about improving the quality of
air by filtering out things like benzene
and certain chemicals in the air so we
breathe in oxygen and exhale co2 and a
plant does the reverse they breathe in
co2 and exhale the oxygen so it's a
great exchange there are three plants
that I'm going to recommend one is
Devils ivy okay number two snake plant
number three peace lily
okay any of these will work and you want
to have a decent size plant if you have
someone else in the room your spouse or
whatever you can add a couple plants in
there and you will find that the quality
of sleeping is much better alright
thanks for watching hey thank you so
much for watching keep spreading the
word and share this video
