I want to show you something you see
this book right here this is an
Endocrinology book on page 84 we have
this body type right here and you could
see this round face I used to have this
I mean my face was round it was swollen
I had puffiness underneath my eyes I had
no idea it was not normal until I got
rid of it and then I'm like oh my gosh
that wasn't normal so today I'm going to
show you exactly what this is and how to
get rid of it pretty simply but this
particular picture is in the chapter on
a condition called Cushing syndrome and
one of the symptoms is moon phas now
Cushing syndrome is basically high
levels of cortisol and cortisol is a
stress hormone now with cortisol you
have your body's production of cortisol
and if it's too high over a long period
of time that could be the problem or
you're taking a medication that's a
synthetic version of cortisol it's
called prazone and in fact if you've
ever seen a picture of Jerry Lewis when
he took prazone his face just swoll up
like that and what's also interesting is
I had prazone every single year for
probably 10 years straight starting my
20s and my 30s from getting this darn
poison ivy every year so whether that
contributed to it or something else I'm
not exactly 100% sure but I do want to
share what I know on this topic now
what's interesting about cortisol is
cortisol has the power to redistribute
where the fat goes in the body starts
going around the face and in this part
right here called the midsection so
belly fat sometimes over time if you
start getting that buffalo hump on the
back there and also red cheeks thinner
legs weak muscles in the legs especially
the thigh muscle you start losing the
glutamic Maximus the butt muscle right
here other things that happen is your
cholesterol and your lipids start going
higher you start losing pottassium and
retaining sodium so there goes your
blood pressure is going to go straight
up what's also interesting is your
vitamin D level goes down the immune
system usually suffers and they've even
tested cortisol levels and when people
get emotionally upset the cortisol goes
straight up in vertical so if someone is
always or chronically emotionally upset
they're going to have high levels of
cortisol this next part is very
interesting because the cortisol itself
is not causing the face to to look like
a moon face okay it's indirectly doing
it that hormone starts to break down
your own proteins starting with your
thigh muscles and your butt muscle and
it turns that into glucose or sugar and
that's coming from the protein and so
your body is making new sugar not out of
the dietary sugar I mean this does not
just happen in women it happens in men
to you can see the adrenal glands are
basically flooding the midsection with
cortisol and then that turns into sugar
and then fat so insulin is a fat storing
hormone in the presence of just a little
bit too much insulin you're not going to
be able to lose fat and you go to the
doctor and they might say well you just
need to lose weight right lose weight go
on a diet but stress can activate
insulin people have high levels of
insulin they get something called
metabolic syndrome what is that that is
a combination of high cholesterol
hypertension and high blood glucose all
of that comes from too much insulin ere
exercising now I had this lady come in
my office once and I had her do a little
exercise and her pulse rate went up to
150 okay and then had her come back the
next day the pulse rate was still at 150
I was like what the heck she her Rec
recover y was terrible and that was a
situation because typically in a healthy
body you'll raise the pulse rate and it
comes down so if someone like that with
poor recovery would continue to exercise
every day it would just create a
tremendous amount of stress and cortisol
in the body but also lack of sleep will
raise your cortisol think about this
when you don't sleep you're hungry your
appetite goes up but boy when you get a
good night's rest oh my gosh you're not
hungry as much Cravings go away you're
doing great and then you have something
like surgery and Trauma and being in
pain can also increase cortisol not to
mention alcohol and even certain
medications all right so those are the
triggers but now what about insulin what
increases insulin carbohydrates this is
a really big confusion with
carbohydrates because when you do keto
okay ketogenic diet this is basically
you're getting your body to burn fat
they will tell you to reduce your carbs
below 50 g there's a lot of confusion
with what a carb is a carb makes up
several things one is fiber fiber is a
carbohydrate sugar is a carbohydrate but
if we take something like this right
this is a poptart okay and we look at
the the total carbs we have 78 carbs and
then we have 42 sugars okay so a sugar
is a carb and if we deduct the fiber and
the sugar from the carb it leaves us
with 34 additional G of something what
is that something a lot of people don't
know what that is well that something is
starch usually when you're talking about
junk food you're talking about something
like this starch corn starch this is why
it's so important to read the
ingredients okay not just this other
thing right here but the ingredients to
see what you're eating but there's some
other things that can increase insulin
that you need to know about frequent
eating if you're snacking a lot you're
raising insulin but what if it's not
carbohydrates doesn't matter if you're
eating you're going to raise insulin to
a certain degree and so the frequency of
eating is a killer seed oils soy corn
canola cotton seed safflower sunflower
seed those can actually really mess up
your insulin as well these next few are
very interesting nutrient deficiencies
like a B1 deficiency magnesium
deficiency and a vitamin D deficiency
can all indirectly start elevating
insulin because those are the key
nutrients that allow insulin to work and
when you're deficient you have more
problems with that hormone and of course
the last one is medications especially
by taking insulin they used to do what's
called insulin shock therapy wow insulin
shock therapy what is that they would
inject people with tremendous amounts of
insulin put them in a coma wake them up
a few weeks later as their therapy for
mental illness and they would wake up
fat incredible they used to do that okay
so what do we do to to get the face back
to normal okay because it's not that
your bones are round like that your face
has layers of fat on it so the first
thing to do is to start eating less
frequently by cutting out the snacks
between the meals that alone will be
huge okay and then what you need to do
is do intermittent fasting which is
you're going to start reducing the
number of meals I would recommend
starting out with two meals a day and
when you wake up in the morning try to
go as long as you can before you eat the
first meal okay and then maybe it's like
11:00 or even 12 have your first meal
and then have your dinner now you're at
two meals a day that's going to be huge
because you're going to allow your body
to fast and when you're fasting you're
forcing your body to reduce insulin and
use your own fat as fuel because what we
want to do is we want to force our body
to use up the fat around our face which
will come off first before the belly so
it's not going to take long to reshape
the face if you ever look at a diabetic
that's just filled with sugar in their
blood
they're just water logged especially in
their lower legs so when you do this
you're going to lose a lot of water
weight initially probably 11 lbs of
water weight in the first week or two
and then your weight loss is going to be
down and you're going to think oh my
gosh I'm not losing weight anymore no no
you have to get rid of the water first
and then you'll start burning more fat
which is a lot less you can't burn 11
pounds of fat per week the most it's
going to be two pounds but for most
people it might be one pound a week so
that's intermittent fasting and then
number two you want to start changing
the diet you want to start cutting down
the carbs very specifically sugar and
starches if you want a little card
cutout that you can put in your wallet
to show you what to avoid I'll put the
link down below okay you just print it
out cut it out put it in your wallet and
now you can see what you should avoid
number three increase your protein your
body needs a certain amount of protein
to really fix all these issues plant
Source protein powders and all that
stuff it doesn't really work you need
like a high quality meat protein and the
highest quality meat that you could
possibly eat is grass-fed it could be
beef it could be lamb could be goat but
grass-fed is what you want to do number
four stress okay long walks every day
your exercise program should be not too
frequent if you're doing higher
intensity I would do also things like
physical work because you're taking your
mind off something versus walking at a
treadmill reading your cell phone I
really think the cell phone stresses
people out more than anything so you got
have to take part of the day and just
put it to the side go for your walk
without any cell phone anything because
these cell phones give off EMF waves
electromagnetic fields and that can raas
cortisol and then the last thing and
this is really important is try to get
some extra sleep even if you wake up in
the middle of the night go back to bed
and try to sleep in a little bit that'll
be so so important I used to really push
it and think I can get away with it I'd
get up at four now I sleep in more so
I'm trying to get like eight hours of
sleep I should have done that a long
time ago I highly recommend it I know
people have to get a lot of stuff done
but the sleep will allow you to focus
and it keeps you a lot healthier so
lastly click the link down below to get
that little card so you can cut it out
and keep it in your wallet and it'll
make things really easy
