I'm going to talk about the number one
vitamin D danger that you must know
about there are so many different lies
about vitamin D that you're told on a
regular basis I'm going to sort all that
out on one hand they'll tell you keep
your vitamin D not over 4,000 iuse to
keep everything safe but on the other
hand if you need a therapeutic dosage to
correct a major illness you're going to
have to use amounts much much higher
than that but the problem with that is
the medical institutions will tell you
those s are toxic they're dangerous
vitamin D is the most important vitamin
why because it's involved with
2500 different genes no other nutrient
that is in our food is involved with
even close to that many different things
the other thing to know is there's no
agreed upon blood level of vitamin D
it's all over the place some doctors say
that you'll be fine with 20 to 30 nanog
per milliliter yet other doctors will
say you can go up to 150 nanograms per
milliliter the interesting thing about
the blood level of vitamin D is that
it's not very well correlated with the
vitamin D inside your cells most medical
journals do not like to publish anything
positive about vitamin D why it competes
with big Pharma because you can get
vitamin D for free from the Sun so don't
expect a lot of vitamin D research in
the future especially using higher
amounts their goal is to make vitamin D
very very dangerous and toxic at low
amounts it's also virtually impossible
to get your vitamin D levels from your
food it's just it's not in our diet so
to start this presentation let's give
you a little foundation on my whiteboard
check this out looks complex it's really
simple up here you have the vitamin D
starting Source okay you have the sun
food or supplements okay and most
doctors know the pathway to turn this
type of vitamin D through the liver
through the kidney into the cell to
control bone okay the skeletal system
but what most doctors don't know is
there's two different systems for
vitamin D one system is all about
calcium and Bone and that is all the
non-calcium functions of vitamin D
especially the immune system the
prostate other glands the skin the gut
the brain the muscles this other system
of vitamin D that controls all this
other stuff is sep separate from this
system right here in other words it
doesn't have to go through the liver and
the kidney and all that and just to make
this really simple Let's Pretend This is
vitamin D coming into the body goes to
the liver it attaches to a protein now
why would it attach to a protein so it
can actually stay in the blood for a
longer period of time because the
halflife of this right here is 24 hours
so to increase the halflife to 3 to four
weeks you need to connect it to a
protein okay so it can be stored in the
blood and then when you need need it it
goes through the kidney and it detaches
so this vitamin D can go into the cell
and eventually into the bone but with
this other system right here what you
need to know is that the blood vitamin D
that's attached to that protein is not
going to be going into this system only
a tiny bit of the vitamin D in your
blood is going to go into this system if
you have damage to the liver if you're
pregnant if you're on birth control
pills hormonal placement therapy if you
have cancer or virus
the more that this protein is stuck
really hard to that vitamin D and it
takes a lot more of it to release and
this is why you only get just tiny
amounts from the blood into all these
other sources so then the big question
is where is the vitamin D coming from
it's coming from either vitamin D in
your food or the supplements or the sun
most of the research done in vitamin D
is done on this system and so everything
revolves around these low numbers 600 to
800 IUS as well as the blood levels of
vitamin D being between 25 and 30 nanog
per milliliter that might be sufficient
for the bones but not for this system
right here now on top of everything you
have other things that can block the Sun
and other supplements air pollution
sunscreens and it's interesting how a
lot of health problems started to
increase right after that very very
stupid recommendation the more gut
inflammation you have the less you're
going to be able to absorb vitamin D if
you have a magnesium deficiency which
most people do you're not going to get
this right through in here and the
majority of people have some type of
genetic problem that prevents them from
absorbing vitamin D also depending on
your latitude how close do you live to
the equator versus living further up in
Northern America where you're going to
get less Sun Also your altitude matters
if you live in Colorado you'll get more
vitamin D because you're very high
altitudes in the mountains versus
somewhere at sea level you're going to
get less vitamin D also depending on the
season in the winter you don't get
virtually any Vitamin D from the Sun
obesity can also disperse your vitamin D
the older you are the less vitamin D
you're going to absorb if you have
insulin resistance that's a pre-diabetic
situation if you don't have enough
cholesterol let's say for example you're
on a Statin drug which blocks
cholesterol did you know that you need
cholesterol to make vitamin D3 also if
you don't have a gallbladder you need
the bile to help you extract this fat
cble nutrient vitamin D3 so if someone
is fairly healthy and they don't have
any of these problems they would need
between 6,000 and 10,000 iuse vitamin D3
to maintain this system right here just
to maintain it all right now let's go
back to where I left off from so now you
know there's two different systems of
vitamin D one for the bone one for
everything else the other really
important point I want to emphasize is
when you take vitamin D it should be
daily okay not weekly because the lon
chair of vitamin D that feeds this other
non-calcium system comes from the diet
sun or supplements that you would have
to get exposed to from the Sun or take
supplements every single day and the
more problems you have the more vitamin
D you need to take to create this
therapeutic dosage one really important
thing to know is that a therapeutic
dosage Which is higher amounts does not
mean it's a toxic dosage there's some
fascinating information by an
opthamologist out of Germany who wrote a
book on high doses of vitamin D and
glucoma he has found amazing results by
giving his patients high doses of
vitamin D3 and getting results with gcom
and many other different eye
abnormalities he said to create a
therapeutic range you have to get the
blood levels between 60 and 80 nanograms
per milliliter and what you're going to
get is a remodeling of the eye you have
to realize that your immune system
already has the ability to kill cancer
and viruses if it has enough vitamin D
these viruses and cancer even create an
environment where vitamin D doesn't work
too well they can even make that Protein
that's involved with binding to vitamin
D extremely tight so how do we counter
this well the only way is to increase
your vitamin D3 especially for
autoimmune issues for cancer for
infections but on the flip side You've
Been Told that vitamin D is toxic in
certain amounts vitamin D3 toxicity is
extremely rare and you would have to
take hundreds of milligrams of vitamin
D3 for months to create this hyper
calcemia personally from looking at this
information I think that the real
problem from toxicity of vitamin D3
comes when you don't take the co-actors
vitamin K2 and zinc also indirectly
affects calcium I mean if you think
about it magnesium also greatly reduces
the chance of getting kidney stones
which usually comes with hypocalcemia
what you'd have to do is you'd have to
drink more water to keep it diluted and
keep it from being saturated also
magnesium greatly decreases the
saturation of calcium stones and if
someone's going to take a maintenance
dosage of 10,000 I use that would be
equivalent to being out in the sun for
20 minutes 20,000 is being out the Sun
for 40 minutes another interesting point
that Bruce Hollis talked about is called
the vital study this was a bogus study
that cost the taxpayers $30
million and this research based on what
Bruce Hollis told me was done to
invalidate vitamin D not support it it's
obvious that big Pharma was probably
involved with this study indirectly
because the odds of the medical industry
doing more research in vitamin D are
greatly diminished after that study so
with this knowledge I think that you
don't have to worry about the toxicity
effects and if you haven't seen this
video on vitamin D I think you're really
going to enjoy it check it out
