hey guys Dr Burg here I want to answer
the question why does menopause trigger
High Androgen levels a lot of women
going into menopause or postmenopause
end up having these high levels of
Androgen so I want to talk about that uh
here are the symptoms of high Androgen
levels Mal pattern baldness okay up here
alopecia which is patches of hair that
come out at different places polycystic
ovarian syndrome it's acne facial hair
and hair loss deep voice too
infertility deep voice oily
skin skin
inflammation increased sex drive okay so
these are some of the symptoms in a
female body so what causes well it's not
that menopause will
trigger um high enens but really what
happens is this your your insulin levels
go up that's really what causes
polycystic ovarian syndrome the insulin
levels go up and then you start
converting all this this male hormone
which is Androgen and this can come from
um a couple reasons one maybe you're
eating a lot of sugar but maybe you're
not maybe it's during Menopause the
ovaries uh stop working and then the
adrenal gland backs up the ovaries so
the adrenal gland is the backup to the
ovary and what happens um when you get
this sudden Spike of cortisol which is a
stress hormone at menopause because the
adrenals are overacting to try to make
up the the hormone loss it can then
convert into
insulin okay so that's really the
mechanis mechanism with that so then
High cortisol directly because High
cortisol coming from stress will cause
high levels of antigen okay now um also
this thing here I want to talk about
decrease sex hormone binding globula
what the heck does that mean it's this
shbg okay this basically is a protein in
the liver that helps buffer and regulate
androgens it keeps enery in trck it
keeps enery low okay so this protein is
supposed to keep enery low but when you
have a problem with the liver you
decrease
shb and now antigen goes up because it
can't regulate it anymore so that
protein that keeps it in check doesn't
do its job so then we get a spike of
Androgen
okay but this is the most interesting
thing during Menopause the body stops
releasing estrogen faster than it stops
releasing androgens okay so in a female
body you have this testosterone and
estrogen level always kind of balanced
and and your ovaries make these two
hormones and so do your adrenals so
during menopause when the ovaries go in
retirement we get the this huge spike a
huge drop of estrogen but the drop in
Androgen is not quite great as great as
estrogen so we have this relative High
ratio of high Androgen to low estrogen
ratio so it makes it so it appears that
you have more um Androgen so it's not
necessarily that it triggers it just
basically you end up with high because
the estrogen goes way way too far okay
so I just want to kind of explain why
you might be having these symptoms
and I put some links Down Below on what
you need to do you know you need to
correct your insulin your adrenals your
liver those are the most important
things okay thanks for
watching hey guys thank you so much for
watching please click the Subscribe
button and I will see you in the next
video
