so normalizing your blood sugars is only
a very small part of the solution I want
to show you I got a new book it's called
insulin resistance insulin action and
it's disturbances and disease amazing
amazing book kind of thick but it has
every single reference on insulin
resistance okay
and I want to just bring up one
interesting point he talks about insulin
being a disposal hormone for excess
carbohydrates okay and here's the
problem
sometimes the goal of medicine when you
have diabetes is to basically just lower
your blood glucose level that's the main
focus right you take your medication
whether it's metformin glucophage or
insulin and then just normalize blood
glucose just get it out of the blood
okay but here's the big question where
is this glucose going is it just
disappearing no it's being disposed of
in other places your liver your pancreas
are on the heart around the organs as
visceral fat in the fat cell itself it's
being crammed in other parts of the body
until that expands and gets bigger so it
really is camouflaging the problem so
the next time you're with your doctor
discuss the point of is our goal just to
normalize blood glucose or do we want to
normalize body glucose and the only way
to do that is to stop eating glucose and
sugar and starches I don't know of
another way so anyway I just wanted to
bring up this one point if something's
just so obvious to me I don't know why
it's so hard to understand by other
people but the point is that medication
only patches things up it makes it look
good on the lab values but it doesn't
give you an overall body solution thanks
for watching hey guys so there's a whole
bunch of people that really need this
information so press the share button
and let's get it way out there
