so I I got this question how do you
prevent your skin from sagging as you
lose weight I've had people not want to
lose weight because they thought their
skin is going to sack think about this
your skin is an organ it's one of the
largest organs in the body and as you
get healthy that skin heals that
collagen heals up so the only way you're
going to get sagging skin when you lose
weight is if you lose weight
unhealthily like a gastric bypass or a
major starvation diet like HCG or
something like that which you doing 500
calories so as long as you're losing
weight healthily the skin will adapt to
the weight loss because we almost want
to have you lose weight kind of
gradually over time but have the skin
come in there and get toned that way and
if you have sagging belly I created a
video on my blog where you can sit-ups
in Reverse so most people do sit-ups
where they're coming this way which
basically just contracts and makes the
skin looser but you want to do reverse
situps you're going to go back and
stretch backwards and tighten the skin
so in other words do the program
healthfully and the skin will not be
sagging and it'll be more gradual and uh
if you had stretch marks I have a video
on how to get rid of that on my blog so
check it out but that's pretty much the
answer to that one
