you know growing up i had flat feet and
so i would go to the doctor and then
they would make these arch supports that
basically are a mold of your flat foot
and then you walk on them right and
these arch supports were supposed to
correct my arches well all they did is
make me dependent on the arches which i
eventually got rid of when i was 19
years old because i felt so much better
when i didn't wear my corrective arches
now
if your eyes are bad you go see the eye
doctor and you get corrective lenses
right that basically never correct your
eyes or if you have sleep apnea you can
go get this machine and you can actually
put this mask on and it'll give you a
constant air supply so you can sleep
better right is that going to correct
anything no it's a way of coping with
the situation or if you have high blood
pressure you can go to the doctor and
they have a medication for that does
that ever correct anything no it manages
the symptoms right and that's pretty
much what
healthcare is nowadays it's not
correcting anything it's managing your
symptoms and that's why i do all these
videos to help you understand
things to do to correct the problem so
you're not dependent on something
and that leads us to today's topic the
benefits of walking barefoot in your
foot you have 26 bones you have 33
joints in 19 different muscles it's a
very highly complex part of your body
that allows you to
move
and it supports your entire body weight
so if you weigh 200 250 or 300 or 350
pounds it's a lot of weight on these
little feet now a very big problem
is these darn shoes that you have to
wear okay
here's the problem with shoes they're
very very unnatural they compress your
toes i mean some people actually buy
shoes that are pointed so they're trying
to put these toes into this space that
just doesn't fit the toes naturally the
toes should be wider okay so when you're
constantly compressing these toes then
that creates a lot of problems with your
gait with your balance with your muscles
and your calves and your feet and that
translates up to the knees so wearing
shoes actually increases the risk of
getting knee pain
and a low back pain just because of the
altered dynamics of your foot
first of all we're raising the foot
above the ground so we're losing
communication with the ground making
things very unstable and so the bottom
of your foot is really communicating
with the ground through a via right
through like a like a sponge cushion
and if you wear a high heel that's even
worse
you know i bought some dress shoes that
were 300
when i was in practice and they were the
most uncomfortable shoe that i ever wore
but i didn't want to get rid of them
because they cost so much but i remember
coming home at the end of the day my
feet were killing me they were so
uncomfortable so since you spend the
majority of the day in shoes it's very
important to get shoes that are very
comfortable the shoes that i'm going to
recommend are those shoes that fit in
the category of the barefoot footwear so
i bought a series of shoes that are
closer to the ground that provide more
space
for my toes they're wider okay and
they're much more comfortable and they
force the foot to work harder but that's
a very good thing because it creates
more stability so wearing the wrong type
of shoes in general caused the reduction
of range of motion they increase the
temperature of your feet you basically
cook your feet in this small space
uh they create knee adduction that means
the knees tend to go inward and that can
throw off the dynamics of the knee
increasing the risk of knee pain i
already mentioned the low back pain your
achilles tendon becomes more stiff
that's that tendon in the back part of
the lower ankle and that's going to
affect your ability to
move and play sports it's going to
reduce your circulation
and it can even shorten the calf length
okay and create atrophy
of your muscles in your calf
if you wear high heels there's one study
done that shows that
if your heel is greater than five
centimeters and you wear this high heel
for over two years
there's significant reduction in your
size of your calf muscles and the
strength of your calf muscles so the
longer you wear these type of shoes
you lose the strength of your foundation
which can affect the rest of the body
because as you know the ankle bones
connected to the knee bone which
connected to the hip bone etc etc all
right now there's two things i'm going
to recommend first of all start looking
for a shoe that has less of a heel
that's closer to the ground and that
provides more space on your toes so you
can have more stability okay that's
number one number two start walking
barefoot on the grass and the sand this
is a very therapeutic exercise that at
first your feet are going to get tired
but then the feet are going to get
stronger and you're going to find that
there's much less stress
on your joints so let's go right into
the benefits of walking barefoot number
one
your toes finally have a chance to
spread out okay just from that alone
that can prevent these toes that become
malaligned and create all sorts of
issues with your gait number two more
communication with the ground is better
and so the mechanical receptors the
receptors in the bottom of your foot if
they're in direct communication with the
grass or the sand or whatever surface
that information is going to be picked
up and sent through the body to your
brain and you're going to be way more
stable you're going to actually be very
surprised on how the rest of your body
is going to feel once your foundation
is really connected to the ground so
you'll find a decreased load on your
joints more range of motion and more
stability and balance now if you have
not watched my video on plantar
fasciitis that would be a really good
next video to watch check it out it's
right here
you
