hey guys I'm back in this video we're
going to talk about the benefits of
grass-fed butter now I know you've been
taught that butter has saturated fats so
it's going to clog your arteries and
you're going to die of a heart attack
but now even they are saying it's okay
to consume and there is no relationship
between consuming more butter and
getting heart disease okay so let's just
talk about the benefits of butter
especially for the heart in the
cardiovascular system there's over 400
different fatty acids now if you know
anything about anom physiology there's
essential fatty acids we need fatty
acids to surround the cell to support
the brain support the nervous system um
to support hormones so these are very
very necessary so when you go on a
low-fat diet you cut out a lot of that
raw material number two fat cble
vitamins okay especially vitamin K2
vitamin K2 is amazing it has the ability
to take calcium out of the wrong place
in your body like if it's in the joints
or it's in the heart it's on the
arteries in fact um the soft tissue
calcium there's certain tests to measure
soft tissue calcium in the heart in the
arteries that is a better indicator of
your cholesterol levels for indicating
risk of heart disease so we need this
vitamin to keep the calcium out of the
soft tissues okay very important and
guess what this is in the fat fatty
foods the exact things that people told
you to avoid to support the heart now
everything is reversed vitamin A which
is really important also in calcium
metabolism supporting the kidney the
eyes the immune system the skin um it's
a really essential uh vitamin this is
retinol so this is the active form of
vitamin A as compared to vegetables
which are the pre vitamin A that has to
turn into retina which a lot of times it
only like it's like a 4% of actual pre
vitamin A that turns into actual active
vitamin A then we have something called
CLA conjugated lenol IC acid in
grass-fed butter there's five times more
than grain fed uh cows that make the
butter so this is incredible for
supporting the cardiovascular system and
decreasing your risk of heart disease
it's also good for your metabolism as
well omega-3 it has more omega-3
grass-fed has more than the grain fed
okay so another really good
anti-inflammatory something good for the
heart and um also MCTS medium chain
triglycerides that provides the body uh
for a better type of fuel easier fats to
digest on your gallbladder and your
liver and also this can help support fat
burning as well to to stimulate ketosis
so overall grass-fed butter is something
you don't have to be worried about I
suggest you start consuming it I like
the carry gold that's easy to find but
there's a lot of different other other
different types of butter that you can
get just make sure it's grass-fed all
right put your comments below
