hey guys I had another question related
to cheese someone wanted to know what
type of cheese should I get should it's
a natural organic it's just so funny
though when you see the word natural
like it means nothing okay and even
organic that means without pesticides
but then you have grass-fed which is
even better but then there's one step
further a hundred percent grass-fed and
this is what you want to shoot for
because you're going to get the maximum
fat soluble vitamins omega-3 fatty acids
you're going to get vitamin A D E and
definitely k2 this is a real important
vitamin especially for the
transportation of calcium into the bones
and out of the soft tissues you'll also
get other really good fatty acids CLA
which is great for the immune system
inflammation and even weight loss DHA
EPA it's good for the brain it's good
for the hormones ala so there's all
these great essential fatty acids that
will help you for your brain for the
nervous system available calcium so I
don't recommend taking calcium
supplements unless you have osteoporosis
but I like to get my calcium from cheese
not only because I'm from Wisconsin but
because cheese is a great source of bile
available calcium so make sure you never
go low-fat cheese do the whole milk
cheese and it would be an ideal seeing
if it could be organic and 100%
grass-fed as well but usually if it's
100% grass-fed it's organic great
sources of protein good sources of B
vitamins including b12 so some people
get constipated they consume too much
cheese so I would say three to four
ounces per meal that would be great
hey you know what I just want to say
thank you for watching these videos you
made it this far I appreciate your
attention and your precious time
