hey guys Dr Burg here in this video
we're going to talk about chia seeds
amazing nutrients check this out it has
essential fatty acids very similar to
flax seeds and essential fatty acids are
the component that helps build your cell
the membrane of the cell the little tiny
things inside the cell they're called
organel that that run the cell uh it has
more omega-3 than salmon it has five
times as much calcium five times more
calcium than milk uh high fiber
vitamin B2 B1 B3 it's niin it has Boron
which actually helps calcium make bone
solid uh it also has a certain type of
fat called the polyunsaturated fatty
acids which which basically ionizes
calcium so it allows calcium to go into
the tissues deeper and we'll talk about
what that will do in a second and then
it has high protein in one little tiny
ounce it has 4.9 G that's a lot of
protein so it's a really good
source of nutrients now you can also
make this in a like a pudding a chi chia
seed pudding I'll put a recipe below but
I think the biggest benefit of chia is
the essential fatty acid so what I want
to do is I want to talk about all the
things that are affected when you have
enough essential fatty acids and also
when you're deficient okay so it affects
your energy levels so um endurance if
you're actually working out hardcore
workout person and you consume chia seed
you'll Spike the essential fatty acids
and you recover faster why because
essential fatty acids allow the
transportation of oxygen through the
system they allow the oxygen Exchange in
your lungs they push the oxygen into the
hemoglobin into the into the blood and
basically help you recover
faster uh help you stabilize blood
sugars uh the essential fatty acids help
postmenopausal so for estrogen issues
and also if you're deficient in
essential fatty acids your Skin's going
to be flaky peely rough you know you see
people with like these flakes of skin
coming out of their like their ear or
their nose or their their head that's
basically an essential fatty acid
deficiency so you can consume these or
flax oil to get these to make your skin
real smooth uh strong nails if you're
deficient in this fatty acid you're
going to get rided nails so we got Hair
Skin Nails I've talked about this in
other videos with B vitamin deficiencies
but the essential fatty acids work with
the B vitamins work with the trace
minerals all to make hair skin and nail
real really nice uh if you're deficient
in this fatty acid you can get Charlie
Horses why because we talked about uh
the ionization of calcium calcium drives
into deep into the tissues and if you're
deficient in that you can get cramping
uh sunburn why because you need calcium
to protect uh from excess Sun you can
literally take G seeds to enhance your
essential fatty acids to minimize
sunburns and also if you actually are
sunburn to recover from that consuming
essential fatty acids from this ref flx
seed can actually help you recover
faster also it will help uh put herpes
which is a virus back in remission and
also improves hypothyroid because these
essential fatty acids potentiate iodine
okay in the thyroid so they they really
help from a lot of different angles all
right so go ahead and check out the
recipes down below and I'll talk to you
soon press it forget it forget it I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
