hey it's me again in this video we're
going to talk about something called
GLA gamma linolic acid now in some
recent videos that I've done on fats
I've talked about the difference between
omega-3 and Omega 6 fatty acids omega-6
being more inflammatory like the soy the
corn the canola the cotton seed oil that
you want to avoid which is in most
dressings that you would buy I mean look
at the first ingredient it's it's hard
to find a dressing without soy or corn
oil or even uh canola I would avoid it
plus it's GMO so I wanted to
differentiate this fat from the other
ones because this one even though it's
Omega 6 it's anti-inflammatory in fact
it's a very powerful anti-inflammatory
fatty acid it's in Borge oil black
Curren seed oil evening primrose oil
hemp oil but borage has the most GLA so
that's probably the one I would
recommend going with so it's really
beneficial for the skin eczema iasis
flaky skin various inflammatory
conditions like rheumato arthritis
osteoarthritis and inflammation in your
arteries one of the big problems in
cardiovascular disease is the
inflammation well GLA is
anti-inflammatory so it' be really good
for the heart and it's good for asthma
and the last thing it's really
beneficial for is the endocrine system
specifically female hormones menopausal
so if you're menopausal have these other
issues definitely get some GLA and I
also recommend combining this with your
Healthy omega-3 fatty acids which is the
Virgin cod oil egg yolks of course chia
seed is very high in omega-3 so if we
combine the healthy omega-3 with the
healthy Omega 6 you're going to be in
good shape just to remind you omega-3
would be like fish oils nuts like
walnuts egg yolks chia seed all real
good the fish oils specifically my
favorite which is Virgin Civ oil will
also give you another health fat called
DHA which is really good for the brain
and the retina all right well thank you
so much for watching you I just wanted
to take a moment out to thank you for
your amazing feedback that you guys are
giving me it's just mind-blowing the
success is the wins I created a link
down below so you can actually type out
your full success story and if you have
a before and after with weight loss that
would be awesome and if you don't have a
success with weight but other things
just put an image of yourself and your
personal success story
and I would love to read it and also
share it with others so I want to just
thank you in advance for doing that but
there's a link down below fill it out
and I can't wait to read it
