hi guys welcome back we're going to talk
about mercury in fish okay there is a
word that's called biomagnification
where this large fish will consume a
smaller fish which then consumed a
smaller fish and each time they consume
these fish they get an accelerated
concentration of mercury okay so
basically I'm not talking about the
nutrient levels the omega-3 levels I'm
not even going to talk about farm-raised
versus wild-caught I think you should
always consume while caught but the
point I want to talk about is specific
to this one heavy metal called mercury
okay so these fish have the highest
amounts of mercury bluefish grouper
mackerel orange roughy shark swordfish
and tuna big eye and ahi okay
the next highest would be halibut perch
sea bass tuna albacore and the elephant
then we have moderate amount of mercury
bass cod mahi-mahi perched snapper
monkfish tuna canned light and skipjack
and lobster then we have the types of
seafood and fish that have the lowest
amount of mercury anchovies
catfish clam crab crawfish flounder how
to carrying Oster sardines scallop squid
trout and tilapia but of course you want
to make sure that you consume while
caught but what I'm put down below is
the little thing you can keep in your
wallet with this data on here so if
you've got a restaurant you can just
quickly scan it or in your grocery store
you can scan it and just focus on the
the fish that has the least amount of
mercury okay so I put a link down below
the other thing you want to do is you
want to consume let's say for example if
you're consuming halibut for example you
don't want to consume very much of it so
per month maybe once a month maybe twice
a month
or if you're consuming snapper okay so
do like once a week okay so don't do it
very very frequent let's talk about how
to detoxify mercury on the body so of
course getting out the malcom fillings
would be a good idea but you get a lot
of mercury from the fish even way more
than you would get from your own
amalgams but the point is you can
detoxify mercury by consuming cilantro
which is a natural key later which
basically means something that goes in
and binds and pulls out of the body
cilantro
zinc lipoic acid and selenium are real
good things to consume to help detoxify
mercury alright thanks for watching hey
if you haven't already subscribed press
this little button down below okay
thanks
