so there's a lot of confusion and
controversy over this topic of sun
exposure and melanomas on one hand
there's a push to have everyone avoid
the Sun on the flipside of that 69% of
the population has vitamin D
insufficiency so what do you do you're
caught between a rock and a hard place
well I put a very interesting study down
below that you should read and this is a
summary of it they're talking about the
difference between moderate sun exposure
versus getting a sunburn non-burning sun
exposure is associated with a decreased
risk of melanomas okay whereas people in
the category of getting a sunburn which
is associated with doubling the risk of
melanomas okay
so as long as you don't get a sunburn
you're gonna be good outdoor workers
have lower incidence of melanomas versus
indoor workers and it says ciao hurry
in 2014 performed a meta-analysis of
data from 73 cohort studies with 849
thousand participants and 22 randomized
control trials with 31,000 participants
so there's a lot of people involved in
this study the study found an inverse
association of circulating vitamin D
with risk of death due to cardiovascular
diseases cancer and other causes so
check out the study I put the link down
below but realize that the radiation
that you get from the Sun that
potentially could cause damage in your
DNA and alter the DNA sequences can also
be at the same time protected from
vitamin D because vitamin D has a
protective function as well among many
other functions anyway I put some
additional interesting videos in vitamin
D on this page right here go ahead and
check them out
