hey guys have another video from another
question on what is homocysteine and I
always like to make these extremely
simple not get into the organic
chemistry of it but basically this is a
type of protein that converts into
another protein okay but you need
certain B vitamins to make the
conversion and when you don't have these
B vitamins this can build up or back up
in the system so when you have high
levels of homocysteine it can create
problems increase your risk of getting
heart attacks stroke plaquing clots so
this is all cardiovascular and the way
that you would get high levels of
homocysteine would be by not consuming
enough foods with folic acid and b6 like
vegetables okay so if you were to
consume kale and spinach and broccoli
and cauliflower all those cruciferous
are really high in folic acid and that's
what I would recommend to consume to
lower this if it's high but if you're
following my program doing healthy
ketosis with a lot of vegetables you
shouldn't even have to worry about this
alright I'll see you later so I want to
know what you're interested in as far as
a future video click the link down below
and share some ideas I want to hear
