out of all the healthy things that you
could possibly eat the egg is probably
at the top of the list today I want to
share seven things that I would
guarantee most people do not know about
eggs and as I go through these items
comment Down Below on which one is most
surprising to you number one
65.9% of all chickens in United States
are in cages they're not even outside
the cage even inside the Barn they live
their whole life in a cage that's
65.9% it's terrible now out of all the
egg and chicken production only
5.8% are organic that's less than 6% and
unfortunately they have something called
industrial organic which is still in
very large barns uh these pork chickens
don't have uh hardly any uh fresh air
they don't get the chance to go outside
and if they do go outside it's on some
cement they don't even get to touch
grass so just because something is
organic doesn't necessarily mean it's
the uh ideal scene you want organic and
pasture raist you really want to know
the history of that farm in fact there's
a really good website I'll put the link
down below it's called Cornucopia they
have a rating system for eggs so you can
actually find out which Farms are the
best the next point is this the egg yolk
is the second best source
of vitamin A and I'm talking about the
active form of vitamin A called retinol
so the best source is liver and that
also includes cver oil vitamin A is like
the anti-d dry eye remedy vitamin A
helps you differentiate in the dim light
or the dark so as you're driving and
it's dark out you're able to
differentiate and see things clearly if
you're deficient in retinol everything's
going to be very very uh blurry retinol
is also the anti-infection uh nutrient
especially for the outer part of your
skin and the inner part of your skin
that includes the inner part of the
mouth the esophagus the lungs as well as
the entire digestive system vitamin A is
intimately involved in the immune system
that Lins those surfaces vitamin A is
important in the conversion of the
inactive T4 thyroid hormone to the
active T3 thyroid hormone vitamin A can
help decrease the risk of melanoma
that's skin cancer decrease wrinkles and
that probably has mostly to do with all
the incredibly concentrated fat soluble
nutrients in egg yolks all right next
point the egg yolk is the highest source
of choline of any food that you can eat
what is good about choline choline helps
prevent a fatty liver choline supplies
the brain to help make the
neurotransmitter acetylcholine choline
helps support something called the
parasympathetic nervous system which is
resp responsible for rest and digest now
you probably think the egg white has the
most concentrated protein compared to
the egg yolk that's not actually true if
you look at the protein per a 100 grams
of that protein and we compare the egg
white to the egg yolk the egg white has
11 grams of protein per 100 grams and
the egg yolk has 17 g of protein per 100
gram now the cat2 about this is that
there's obviously more white than there
is Yol so you're going to have a little
more protein but that yoke is super
concentrated with actually more protein
per volume all right next point you may
have known this but I just want to put
it out there the yolk contains the
majority of nutrients okay except for
two and I'm talking about vitamins and
minerals the egg white does have a
little bit more B2 and B3 but if if we
look at all the other minerals all the
other vitamins it's in the egg yolk and
it's funny because sometimes people will
you know cook up egg whites and throw
out the egg yolk I mean that's like
you're throwing out the nutrition well
that relates to the next point about
this they might throw away the egg yolk
because they don't want the cholesterol
well there is no research that indicates
that eating eggs are going to negatively
affect your cholesterol in any way shape
or form so now I want you to comment
down Below on the item that surprised
you the most now because of the
censoring and the suppressing of the
algorithms on YouTube it's becoming more
difficult to find my content and there's
a lot of content that I cannot put on
YouTube unfortunately so to make sure
you have full access of all my
information go to drberg.com And
subscribe to my newsletter by clicking
the link Down Below in the description I
will see you on the other
side
