hello Dr bur here I had another question
related to Bulletproof Coffee this keeps
coming up so I'm just going to do a
little video on this to give you my
opinion on this so what what's a
bulletproof coffee it's coffee with
added butter or coconut oil and it's
Blended uh and then you drink that in
the morning as a like a meal replacement
and the fat allows you to go a long
period of time I'm I think it's actually
a good thing to start out with this
because the fat really allows you to go
the whole morning without being hungry
for most people and it's a it's a great
first step um so I think you should do
this um you don't have to but it's not a
bad idea because the other option is
just to have a meal and then push your
meal an hour later an hour later an hour
later as you get used to this to the
point where all of a sudden you're just
having two meals and that's the ideal
scen is to have like like two meals for
most people they can do very well on
that because of the principle every time
you eat you spike insulin now it is true
that this uh Bulletproof Coffee will
trigger insulin a little bit okay it
does even though fats don't trigger um
insulin it's neutral but the fact that
it triggers the stomach the stomach
releases hormones that then trigger
insulin okay that's what it is it's not
the actual material so it's it's more of
a stomach action now I I suggest you
start out with this as one option you
you don't have to but it's not a bad
idea
and then what I recommend is when you
become keto adapted when things get more
comfortable and you're allow and you can
go longer periods of time without being
hungry and youd have no more cravings
for sweets and you have a lot of energy
you're not getting tired after you eat
you're not needing for sweets after you
eat keto adapt it then you may want to
replace the butter I mean in the butter
and the coconut oil with maybe half and
half or cream okay A little cream just
because that would
um lower insulin even more and that way
it's not like you're even having any
insulin Spike you can go right from here
to here without any instant Spike at all
so as you transition you might want to
NY this um and the reason for that is
some people find that this could kind of
prevent them from maximizing their
weight loss okay it's just because of
the the extra fat there because what we
want to do is get you keto adapted to
the point where you're basically burning
your own fat okay that's the goal so
you're going to find when you eat a meal
you're can you're going to need a lot
less fat dietary fat you're going to
find that that's too much fat and you're
not going to need as much after the meal
because or you're going to feel a little
nauseous so you really want to adjust
that and you're going to find you need
less and less cuz you're burning your
own fat between the meals and it's a
great situation because you you slim
down but you it's a much better feel
source
um if you're trying to gain weight maybe
you want to keep it in but the only
point is that this potentially could
slow you down a little bit okay that's
my opinion and I'm sticking to it thanks
for watching hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
