hi guys in this video I want to share
with you some information on vitamin B6
okay now vitamin B6 is kind of like a
co- enzyme it's a helper vitamin
involved in so many different body
chemical reactions it's kind of like the
the Catalyst the thing that allows
everything to work it's like the glue
that connects things together um but you
have the inactive version okay and then
the active version which is called pyod
doxal 5 phosphate it's PLP okay and um
if you're going to take a supplement I
think I would recommend this active form
because it's stronger and it's uh it's
pretty effective for a lot of different
things so let's just kind of go through
uh the symptoms that you would have uh
if you were going to take this one is
carpal tunnel syndrome okay also fluid
retention okay pins and needles sleep
problems neuropathy that's nerve damage
trigger
finger
fatigue dermatitis
um cracks in the corners of your mouth
right here sleepiness to the point where
you need so much sleep and you can't
seem to recover okay I mean you can't
seem to wake up basically you're just
like sleeping and you're just not waking
up okay you might have a child like that
that just won't get out of bed give them
some B6 okay heart attacks uh mainly due
because B6 deficiency will increase uh
something called homosysteine which I'm
going to put a link down there below but
it's an it's a risk factor for heart
attacks and heart problems okay all
right so the function is a catalyst for
over 100 enzymes mainly in protein
reactions helps you make the blood makes
Gaba which is a neurotransmitter that
helps with uh your mood relaxation and
stress and pleasure it makes helps you
bring your mood up uh glycogen breakdown
it breaks down sugar so it's involved in
blood sugars uh it's involved in
metabolism in general and also in the
making of neurotransmitters and that
would be like serotonin and it's those
are all protein based um what would
cause a deficiency which is interesting
because this isn't a lot of foods it's
very easy to get this vitamin but it's
really not that you're not getting it
from your diet it's that either maybe
you're drinking you know alcohol that
could be depleting it uh or you're
diabetic or have blood sugar problems
because insulin can lower that as well
uh insulin
resistance liver damage or dysfunction
gallbladder problems uh ear uh bowel
issues leaky gut any type of IBS any
type of bowel problem let's say you had
gastric bypass rheumatoid arthritis
birth control pills
antibiotics or steroids which is adrenal
hormones uh like cortisone or predisone
that will deplete this and you may find
that you know you start developing these
symptoms and all you have to do is take
some of this and you'll start feeling
better immediately okay so I just wanted
to mention it and thanks for watching
so press the Subscribe button and this
is misspelled so I can't spell so I'm
going to have to add that in here okay
take two press the Subscribe button and
I I can't even say this um hey if you're
enjoying my videos press the Subscribe
button below and I will keep you updated
on the future events thank you so much
