now this video might get me banned or in
trouble and I think you're going to
question everything that you thought you
knew about modern medicine I'm going to
share just the highlights from this book
right here which I'll put a link down
below there's a lot more details on this
topic but I'm going to cover the
highlights typically the RDA for vitamin
D are about 600 iuse they stand for
international units it's an arbitrary
number which basically a group of people
in a committee voted on it and I really
believe it was originally designed to
scare people from taking too much of
certain things but at the end of this
video I'm going to share with you who
really started this whole thing and it
will all make sense and if we just take
a look at 600 IUS international units
how many milligrams is that that's just
a little bit more than oneth of one
milligram that's a very small amount for
the last 100 years vitamin D has been a
very controversial topic
because I believe it helps so many
people in so many ways we use sunbathing
called heliotherapy back in the early
1900s this is before vaccines and this
was before antibiotics and they would
heal up their TB and their asthma
osteoporosis tooth decay psoriasis mood
issues diabetes heart disease and even
cancer and then what happened we're told
to stay out of the sun here take your
sunblock vitamin D could be toxic what
you need to know is 600 IUS is basically
standing out in the sun in the summer
1.8 minutes less than 2 minutes 10,000 I
use is standing out in the Summer sun
for about 30 minutes but in the last 100
years this number 600 I us has been
pushed on people that's what you need
and because of some vitamin D toxicity
issues the government commissioned the
University of Illinois Chicago to do a
study on the toxicity of vitamin D the
previous reports of vitamin D toxicity
was related to improper production
techniques so it really wasn't about the
vitamin D itself it was in the
manufacturing of vitamin D now this
study that they did went on for n years
involved hundreds of doctors 773
patients 63 dogs take a while guess what
type of dosage they use for vitamin D
200,000 to 1 million IUS well guess what
they did not find any toxicity now what
you have to realize is that vitamin D3
is very special in that it's an immune
modulator The Institute of Health is
kind of a governing body and they're the
ones who recommend 600 IUS of vitamin D3
here's the problem with those numbers
and their evaluation there was two other
organizations who re-evaluated their
data and found that they made some
mistakes what with 600 IUS should have
been
8,8 95 I use let's take a look at one of
the major vitamin D researchers and he
invited me to talk I got up and
presented this data to you know these
are the top vitamin D researchers in the
world all assembled there it was vicious
the attacks of how Vitamin D doesn't do
this how could you say this I said I'm
just presenting the data that we have
assembled you're walking on guys careers
that have spent their whole career doing
this stuff they never conceived that
this could be true you know you don't
know what you're doing well the
government wasted a whole lot of money
here for you to conduct these worthless
studies the same type of thing happened
to uh the professor who discovered
folates was chastised and not believ for
for decades that how could a nutrient
have this kind of an effect of course he
turned out to be true but it was the
same sort of attacks take a look at
these interesting graphs zero is is read
in the center of these graphs uh by the
equator where you have the most sun and
the most vitamin D so Ms breast cancer
coloral cancer and diabetes lowest risk
at the Equator so this just gives an
interesting correlation between latitude
and certain diseases now I want to share
some additional things in 1900 to
1910 a lot of people got rickets it was
common back then 1918 to
1920 they use Sun therap thy in cod oil
for rickets 1922 they discovered vitamin
D 1946 the number 400 I use was
recommended to prevent rickets 1950 to
1970 despite the increase awareness that
vitamin D goes beyond just bone health
they kept the numbers for vitamin D at
400 IUS 1980 there were more benefits
for vitamin D for your immune system for
other chronic diseases but they kept the
same 400 I use for vitamin D3 then in
1997 The Institute of medicine updated
the rdas they wanted to introduce
something new called the adequate intake
because they said the rdas weren't very
scientific so take a while to guess what
they recommended at this point 200 IUS
for adults 400 IUS if you're 51 to 70
and 600 IUS for over 70 finally in 2010
they went uh up to 600 IUS for adults
under 70 and 800 if you're over 70 now
this whole time the recommending 400 I
use there are three
medications that were used on a regular
basis and take a while guess what they
were vitamin D at 50,000 IUS so you can
take it if it's prescribed through
medication but everyone else you know
take 400 because of the toxicity of
anything more I mean think about in the
80s this huge campaign to stay out of
the sun take Sun block the sun will kill
you you're going to get skin cancer
melanoma which is the number one skin
cancer it develops in areas where you're
not exposed to Sun personally my
viewpoint on melanomas it's really a
vitamin D deficiency vitamin D is needed
in
2700 different genes there are so many
barriers for absorbing vitamin D3 you
have the difficulty getting vitamin D in
food you have this thing called vitamin
D resistance which a lot of people have
genetically where the vitamin D receptor
won't receive the vitamin D the darker
the skin the less absorption of vitamin
D you get the older the skin the less
vitamin D you create the more you weigh
the less vitamin D you're going to
absorb because vitamin D gets diluted
into the fat cells but it's very obvious
to me that big Pharma modern medicine
want you to take extremely low doses of
Vitamin D if any vitamin D at all so
this is just scratching the surface if
you want the complete data on this
history check out this book right here
I'll put a link down Below in the
description
