there is a hidden reason why people are
aging a lot faster than they should be
and this is really important and
unfortunately a lot of people are not
concerned about aging until they start
to age at any age you need to know this
if we have too much iron we do not live
as long and it's related to iron
deficiency anemia if most of us are
deficient in iron and we get it in the
diet obviously that should improve it to
some degree right on the flip side we're
accumulating more and more iron there's
an incredible paper by professor Bruce
Ames I'm going to put it down below
which talks about some research that he
did in identifying old tissue versus
younger tissue as it relates to iron
well we have all sorts of amazing
systems in the body to protect us
against iron iron rusts out our organs
if you took something called hydrogen
peroxide you probably have it in your
medicine chest you take hydrogen
peroxide and put it in an open wound and
you see it bubbling up and it kills
bacteria just think about adding
hydrogen oxide to iron it's going to be
severely reactive that creates a lot of
damage within your cells the DNA of the
cells the membrane the mitochondria I'm
not drinking hydrogen peroxide so how
would that be a problem your body makes
hydrogen peroxide not to mention our
immune system uses hydrogen peroxide to
kill microbes but if that system breaks
down all hell breaks loose I think what
happens with these anemic kids they have
something called dysfunctional iron
where iron is locked up to the point
where it's not available to the red
blood cell so they become anemic yet at
the same time they might have too much
here we are adding all this iron to the
food supply and we're wondering why it
doesn't work it may be even making
things worse too much iron will really
put you at risk for Alzheimer's
Parkinson's cancer heart disease because
iron can create a lot of oxidative
stress too much oxidation without having
the buffer which is the antioxidant
networks you can get antioxidants from
food and supplements but your body makes
antioxidants in fact that's way more
important than the antioxidants from the
food a lot of people also have chronic
infection they get inflammation and then
on top of everything the fact that we
are getting older and we're aging means
that we're going to naturally accumulate
more iron 70% of all your iron is stored
in protein in your blood that helps you
carry oxygen the hemoglobin storage you
can pretty much look at that as a a very
large bowl okay that stores iron and
then you have fertin which is like a
teacup like 10% and fertin is supposed
to be inside your tissue where it can
protect you against this free Iron and
control when it's released when you see
high levels of fertin in the blood
recycling your red blood cells every 120
days and it's creating new red blood
cells and so you have this incredibly
efficient recycling system it's
recycling iron and you have all these
different mechanisms and proteins and
involved in transporting iron protecting
iron because iron can be very reactive
and the other problem is your body
doesn't want to have too much free Iron
because certain pathogens microbes can
eat iron infections love the iron and
they will steal iron for their fuel our
bodies don't want that so we tend to
hold this iron and keep it in a safe
place and what can happen because of
this dysfunctional iron is your poor red
blood cells can't get the iron yet we
have way too much iron in the tissue and
unfortunately iron increases the growth
of cancer and then there's also a lot of
people that when they donate blood man
do they feel better well that would be a
perfect indication that you have too
much iron if you don't fix the
underlying cause you just gave a
temporary solution what is the
underlying cause there's some
fascinating information that talks about
copper copper is a very very important
Trace mineral if you have too much iron
and N enough copper this is a big
problem but before you start taking
copper I recommend you start to limit
the amount of iron you're exposed to I
would never take any supplement with
iron at all this is in the flower
products it's in the grain products it's
in a lot of refined carbohydrates what
foods are high in Copper shellfish organ
Meats like beef liver if you don't eat
those Foods sunflower seeds do have a
good amount of copper even dark
chocolate has some copper just make sure
you don't get the chocolate with a lot
of sugar how do we make sure our bodies
are producing enough antioxidants to
counter some some of this oxidative
stress to illustrate this I want to
explain a personal thing that happened
to me recently there's a very in-depth
test that you can do on your body it's
called a metabolomic test I was doing
this test like very frequently like once
every two weeks and what was really
interesting about this it kept showing
high levels of oxidative stress I'm like
that's weird upon looking at this deeper
I realized what it was I was exercising
like crazy and exercise produces a
tremendous amount of oxid of stress as
well as hydrogen peroxide what I
personally needed to do to counter that
is to build up my antioxidant reserve
and to do that I needed more glutamine
which is an amino acid you can get the
most glutamine from red meat and then I
R tested myself and it was much much
better the point was there's all sorts
of things that can increase the need for
more antioxidant help alcohol smoking
pollution junk Foods when we think about
antioxidants I always thinking about
like vitamin C and vitamin E which are
really important and you should
definitely get those in your diet but
with your own antioxidant networks
protein is probably the most important
thing this is why it's so important to
consume enough protein as you get older
and this is one reason why I don't
encourage people to be vegans because
it's very difficult to get the quality
protein I have a really good friend who
is a foot surgeon and she told me every
time she does surgery she notices the
muscles just are not pink they're not
red they're kind of gray and that's
probably anemia the problem with vegans
is they have to take an iron supplement
and they're not getting this heem iron
and heem iron only comes from animal
products like meat and I'm not saying
not to be a vegan or vegetarian I'm just
saying it's difficult there are other
things that help build up your
antioxidants too now I already mentioned
copper but zinc and manganese these are
trace minerals that can come from
shellfish Seafood things like that
magnesium and selenium which is another
Trace mineral what are some other things
you can do to get this iron out of your
tissues that go beyond avoiding iron and
building up your internal antioxidant
networks one is coratin one of the best
sources of coratin is onions curcumin
from turmeric is a good one too
increasing your melatonin can be very
very therapeutic I have a whole video on
this I'll put the link down below one of
the best sources of melatonin is
infrared over 50% of the Rays of the sun
is infrared infrared increases melatonin
and melatonin can help you regulate iron
also anything with tannins like black
tea would be great but the most powerful
key later for iron is called lacto ferin
you can get it when you consume raw milk
or raw milk cheese because it's in Dairy
that can help you decrease iron in your
cells you can also get it as a
supplement as well the next time you get
your blood test make sure they include
fertin you want that number as low to
zero as possible I hope I put this on
your radar enough for you to really do
these action steps that I mentioned so
thanks for watching and I will see you
in the next video
