hey guys we wanted to do a video to
explain what happens when we go to a
grocery store yeah this might happen to
you too
some of the comments they make some of
the condos at the checkout line that
they make and you know to help you along
with this is you're in Quito now and um
you know you'll hear a acceptable
response that might you know have them
confused or completely leave you alone
or where you can just tell the truth
it goes a little like this they'll say
what's the occasion mm-hmm like like for
example with all the eggs and bacon and
cheese right yeah
lot so what would you say that's I would
say easter is coming early okay so that
that would be a good response okay good
or they'll say having company yeah we
have a big party coming up so we like to
serve them eggs in kale bacon right or
they'll say well you guys like kale
don't you I'm like well you know there's
an excess now of kale we're trying to
balance out the economy so we just
ordered a tons at the market and then I
say we just eat it
that's what you really think I do I just
what would you say if they said oh you
guys really like cheese don't you we say
we're from Wisconsin yeah I mean like
they don't say wow you really like
cheese that they're looking they're like
moving things along and they'll go WOW
what's with all the cheese Wisconsin
we got a chaser a cheese head or today
What did he say he said what's the
occasion what are you gonna do with all
that bacon I'm like we have 18 kids okay
so we have to feed these poor kids and
I'm just eat it okay good all right we
just wanted to create a video I want you
to go ahead and type down below what you
say or if you get a comment or a strange
look someone at the crochet right store
it could be the the checker person or
the person behind you or anything like
any any comments it's funny yeah it is
okay bye see ya
