hey guys Dr Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about what to focus
on if you're not losing weight okay you
want to focus on these five items right
here and the first thing you need to
realize is that weight is always a
secondary problem it's not a primary
problem it's caused by something so when
people say well I can't lose weight I
have to dig down and find out what
they're eating what they're doing Etc um
for that other thing that's causing the
weight um it's not always just calories
um but number one you want to focus on
removing the hidden carbohydrates why
because out of all the things that help
people lose weight reducing insulin is
the most significant and if we could
reduce insulin uh you're going to lose
weight one of the things is the hidden
carbohydrates and that would be like MSG
I would say if you get all the carbs out
and you're not eating sugar but you're
actually going out to dinner a lot
that's probably the problem right there
there are so many hidden factors in
restaurant Foods they put MSG in the
sauces they have sugar to make it taste
good unfortunately that's what you're
dealing with um but you also have the um
like juice and the fruits hidden
carbohydrates it's going to stop you
number two no snacking between meals so
eating in general trigger triggers
insulin so if you could go longer
without eating and you're and you're
satisfied by adding more fat to that
meal um that's going to really help you
but if you have to eat very frequently
we know your blood sugars are messed up
so you have to heal that by doing um
more intermittent fasting which you
would actually have a really good
healthy big meal to go longer so you can
actually not eat and drop insulin that's
going to help you so that's one thing um
a lot of my clients do two meals a day
and they have to build up to it but
you'll be surprised how good you feel if
you do that okay three make sure your
energy is high this is what you need to
focus on um if you're trying to lose
weight and you're fatigued your
metabolism is going to be tired your
mitochondria the energy factors are
going to be exhausted it's not the best
way to lose weight so you know either
add more sleep or correct the sleep I'll
put a link Down Below on how to do that
but we need to actually get your energy
very very high if you really want to
lose weight um adjust your fats if
you're doing a ketogenic diet and like
one guy he goes yeah I'm doing a ketogen
ketogenic diet I'm eating a lot of fat
well he's making these keto bombs which
are huge fat cookies and he's eating a
ton of them well the fat that he's
burning is those that fat not his own
fat so you want to adjust the fat you
want to actually lower the amount of
fats to the point where you can go long
without eating but not too much okay so
you don't want to go crazy with too much
butter or coconut oil that could stop
you right there so something just to put
your attention on number five strengthen
the other problems the other weaknesses
that you have related to your health
because remember weight is a secondary
problem so look at you have is your
menstrual cycle a problem okay I'll put
a link down for everything but you want
to handle the menal cycle you want to
correct that that would help you lose
weight because it's going to drop
estrogen how about pain inflammation get
to the source of that I have videos on
that too so you want to get rid of the
inflammation uh any me any condition
that is requiring
medication it's camouflaging the
situation medication is a big problem
with u a barrier to losing weight so if
you can get to the root of it and not
need the medication that's going to help
you too so I'll put some videos down
there for that uh enhancing your sleep
we talked about that enhancing your
improving your sleep um your stress
decreasing your stress um so that's
always a factor and then digestion
really big a barrier for people if
you're constipated heartburn it
interferes with your weight loss
defitely so I would take the attention
off weight completely focus on these
things right here and it's going to take
things to the next level thanks for
watching
