so today I went to the drugstore to look
for an ant acid I wanted to see if they
had a a special remedy in that section
and the remedy is zinc carnosine and I
could not find it anywhere in fact I
couldn't even find it under the vitamin
section which is shocking because zinc
carnosine is the cure for ulcers that's
probably because it's pretty cheap I
mean I think it's probably less than $10
a bottle so today I'm going to talk
about the mechanism of why zinc
carnosine fixes an ulcer and I have a
lot of experience with this because in
college I had
severe uh heartburn and ulcers and I
didn't know what to do and I was
suffering so what I did is I just took
massive amounts of Tums which is chalk 3
hours later started to hurt again and
this cycle happened over and over and
over taking tons of antibiotics or ant
acids doesn't really heal the problem so
the main treatment for an ulcer is an
antibiotic why because fairly recently
they discovered that the cause of ulcers
is a bacteria called H pylori but they
also use an H2 inhibitor H standing for
histamine which I'm going to explain a
little bit but I think most of the
medical profession initially thought
that an uler was really just too much
acid right well now we know it's a
breakdown of the mucus layer around part
of your stomach or the small intestine
and now you have this open wound and it
can be infected let's break down this
zinc carnosine so when you take this
zinc carnosine it's a pretty stable
compound that doesn't really break down
too easily so it kind of stays in the
stomach and it kind of coats the area
but it eventually breaks down into zinc
and carnosine carnosine then breaks down
into elh it's the amino acid that turns
into histamine now this is very
confusing for a lot of people because
when you think of histamines you think
of anahist amine a medication that you
use for allergies or mucus histamine
actually is released in the cells of the
stomach that make hydrochloric acid and
histamine helps regulate that
hydrochloric acid it actually helps
increase that hydrochloric acid so when
you take an H2 blocker you're basically
blocking the production of histamine and
you're lowering the amount of acid
production in the stomach now let me
just switch gears to this hpylori
hpylori is in probably 80% of the
population and it's pretty harmless it
doesn't really do anything until the
environment in your stomach changes then
it starts to penetrate and create a hole
in your stomach what it does is it
releases this enzyme to help increase
more production of ammonia and so what
this microbe is doing it's changing the
pH of your stomach making it less acid
and so it can survive right this is a
survival mechanism so make mental note
of that because when you lose the
stomach acid you're more susceptible to
having H pylor infections now I wonder
if that's one reason why H pylori comes
out of remission and creates damage in
the first place but the significance of
this is that zinc blocks the enzyme that
hpylori is putting out there it stops
the production of ammonia so your
stomach could be more acid so the
combination of zinc stopping this
ammonia production and this increase of
histamine increasing more acid is
automatically going to cause that microb
to go back in remission and stop
creating a hole in your stomach zinc is
also antibacterial and and zinc also
increases the production of that mucus
in your stomach that protective layer
now I did mention that carnosine breaks
down into two additional things okay one
being histadine which is the precursor
for histamine but another one is called
beta alanine what does beta alanine do
well it increases something called o
which is an antioxidant so it's going to
help reduce inflammation and it also
supports the intestinal barrier so you
can imagine this ELC carnosine is like
the perfect remedy to do a lot of things
to help heal an Al syrup and decrease
gastritis as well now there's a couple
other interesting things about ELC
carnosine from a genetic standpoint
there is a certain type of genetic
defect via polymorphism which can put
the person at risk for getting an ulcer
so if someone has an ulcer
autism or RS or any ticks I would also
recommend zinc carnosine now how much
zinc carnosine uh should you take well I
would recommend taking about 150
milligrams per day broken up into two
times a day so you take 75 milligrams in
the morning 75 milligrams in the evening
and that should be enough you'd want to
take that for about 1 to 3 months
however it doesn't work as fast as the
medication so what you might want to do
is to use baking soda okay to kind of
decrease the pain and there's some other
things you can do as well you can take
liquid chlorophyll on an empty stomach
chlorophyll is a great healer and it can
definitely help not just with an ulcer
but also if there's irritation in your
esophagus it'll just kind of go down and
heal any type of lesions that you might
have once you correct the saucer now the
question is how do we prevent this
problem from ever coming back well for
that that you need a little knowledge on
the stomach and stomach acid and I have
this video for that information
