you know a lot of people want to know
what foods uh should you be focused on
to burn the most fat or to lose the most
weight so instead of getting into the
details of a diet I wanted to just focus
in on the foods and the key foods that
have the least effect on insulin okay
because insulin is a hormone that even
in tiny mounts will block your ability
to lose weight insulin is the hormone
that converts the carbs that you eat
into actual fat so it is the fat making
hormone and so if we compile the list of
all the foods that have the least effect
on insulin you're can have the best list
to help you lose the most weight now the
only thing I want to bring up with this
list is uh quantity of protein if you're
doing high levels of protein that can
potentially slow you down because that
can then stimulate insulin but if you're
having a moderate amount of protein on
this plan you're going to do quite well
in fact if you keep your protein around
around 7 grams maybe eight grams per
meal uh you're going to be doing very
very well and of course if you really
want to be successful you really only
want to do two meals per day or even one
meal a day all right let's start with
the proteins okay so we have all these
proteins have less than one gram or zero
grams of carbohydrates okay so eggs beef
lamb chicken pork ve duck hot dog
sausage deli meat organ Meats dried meat
needs and pork rinds which is a collagen
but also realize that you have to read
the ingredients because some of these
foods like even deli meats um sausage
hot dogs can have hidden sugars like
dextrose uh even high fructose corn
syrup and even the dried meats can have
like beet sugar so you want to avoid
Meats with sugar all right so that's the
protein list and of course tea coffee
and water have no carbohydrates so you
don't have to worry about that and then
you have apple cider vinegar okay zero
carbohydrates seasonings mustard great
thing to put on your meat no carbs or
less than even a half a gram of carb and
then we have monk fruit Stevia and arrol
all have zero carbohydrates uh lemon
lime um very very small amount of carbs
it's less than one which is
insignificant now there are two other
things that I want to talk about in
relationship to insulin okay pure fat
has no effect on insulin now if
something is combined with a carb it's
going to have more of effect on insulin
but if you have a pure fat it's going to
have no effect on insulin so butter ghee
taow lard coconut oil olive oil MCT oil
whole cream all are pretty much pure
fats so those are not going to have an
effect on your insulin despite having a
lot of calories and so these fats will
turn into energy now of course there's
always a limitation of matter if you
consume an ungodly amount of this U yeah
potentially it can turn into fat for
sure but if at the same time you're not
consuming any carbohydrates and you're
doing a high fat diet that fat is going
to turn into energy and that is because
you primed the pump you converted your
body over into ketosis so now it's no
longer running on glucose so when you
feed it fat it turns that into ketones
if you still had carbohydrates with fat
you wouldn't have this conversion and
you wouldn't be able to burn that fat
too effectively in fact a lot of that
fat will be stored as fat I want to
mention one thing about this because um
sometimes you'll see in certain studies
it'll say a mice study showed that mice
consuming a high fat diet um caused um
increased weaking it caused uh diabetes
insulin resistance and then you actually
read the study for yourself and you find
out the high fat diet that these mice
were on were not just a high-fat diet
notice they did not mention ketogenic
diet notice they didn't mention a low
carb diet they just mentioned a high-fat
diet and these high-fat diets that they
feed mice are also High carbohydrate
diet the carbohydrates that they put in
this high fat diet are roughly about
36% carbohydrates so it's a high carb
high-fat diet so that right there
invalidates the whole study all right
mayonnaise now obviously it doesn't have
any carbs but a lot of times it has soy
oil or canola oil or cotton seed oil you
want to avoid those oils because they're
highly inflammatory now avocados do have
a good amount of fat they have a good
amount of fiber they have some
carbohydrate but they're a really good
uh fat vegetable and a also a good fat
oil that you can use use in your cooking
but avocados will not cause you to gain
weight MCT oil is a pure fat will not
trigger insulin in fact it converts to
ketones very very efficiently all right
let's move to the next section of this
list there is one carbohydrate that has
zero effect on insulin okay that is
fiber so when we take the total carb and
we minus the fiber we get our net carbs
and that's what we're looking at when
we're calculating this plan we want
something to be very very low net carb
so this next list are all
carbohydrates that have very low amounts
of carbs and a good amount of fiber so
when we deduct that we come out with a
very very small amount of carbohydrates
so olives less than one gram of
carbohydrate insignificant spinach 1.4
Gams net carb now this is all just one
cup as we go down the list okay one cup
of mushroom that's one gr net carb
Sprouts one cup one gram net carb celery
that's one this is one stalk not a cup
it's less than one gram it's 0.9 grams
uh net carb cucumber one cup 2.5 grams
arugula one cup 36 grams net carb that's
like oneir of a cup arugula is a great
vegetable it's cruciferous and it's very
very low on carb it'll help you lose
weight lettuce one
cup6 gram net carb okay this is why I
recommend you know seven to 10 cups of
vegetables because the carbs are so low
you don't have to count the carbs as
your any calculation of of your Keto
Plan and very high in fiber with a lot
of pottassium Bach Choy one cup 2.4
grams net carb very small amount Water
Crest one cup3 grams net carb out of all
the Leafy grains I think Water Crest are
the least amount of net carbs okay
asparagus one cup 2.3 gam net carb one
large pickle .5 gam net carb it's like a
half a gram insignificant zucchini one
cup 2.3 grams net carb cauliflower one
cup 3.1 grams of nut carb now if you're
on the ketogenic plan you're allowed you
know up to 50 grams of carbs okay per
day so we're talking about one or two
maybe potentially three grams of carb
it's insignificant all right let's talk
about Cheese 1 o of guda cheese less
than one gram of net carb blue cheese7
grams net carb cream cheese .1 gram net
carb insignificant parmesan
cheese7 grams net carb and Bree cheese7
gram of net carb insignificant all right
here's some other ideas you can do a
cheese wrap and you can put make your uh
your like your sandwiches with your meat
and your lettuce and just wrap it with
cheese and these cheese wraps that you
can get at the store now it's like one
gram of net carb so insignificant then
you have kjack noodles one bag is one
gam you can cook with this as your pasta
noodle it's not too bad but there's
insignificant amount of carbohydrates
compared to Pasta which is off the
charts all right then we have slim rice
which is a looks like rice and it's from
the conj plant and you can put some
vegetables in it you should definitely
try that when it's pretty cool another
thing I want to mention with the bread
there's so many people that just cannot
give up bread and so there's a great
recipe it's simple it's called Cloud
bread zero carbohydrate okay you just
mix eggs cream cheese and cream of
tartar I'll put the recipe down below it
makes bread I mean it looks like bread
it tastes like bread you can put stuff
in it it's quite amazing and then we
have noox Jello-O okay uh great for kids
you can maybe put some Stevia that has
different flavors they have lemon and
raspberry and strawberry different
flavors you can check that out but that
has zero grams of carbohydrate so this
is your list if you wanted to lose
weight and you wanted to keep it really
simple just type out this list and
you're going to lose a ton of weight but
sooner or later you're going to want the
details of exactly how to do healthy
keto in intive fasting and for that
check out my playlist right here
