hey guys in this video I'm going to talk
about the difference between nutritional
yeast and brewers yeast I had a couple
questions um typically they're both very
similar they both are loaded with the B
vitamins natural amino acids I mean they
have that's a great source of protein uh
trace minerals selenium chromium great
for the pancreas good for blood sugars
uh both come from the same family of
yeast but different strains and by the
way the yeast is inactive it's not
active they can't reproduce um um now
the difference between taste be
nutritional be more of a Nutty or cheesy
flavor and Bruise juice is very bitter
unless you get it debittered I think
that's a word um now which one do I
consume typically I will do the
nutritional yeast unless you want to
make some cookies okay there's a type of
cookie called lactation cookie not that
you would use it to increase lactation
but you might but it's also just good
generally for your overall health so um
I'm going to be making a recipe very
soon you'll see that uh on demonstrating
those cookies so you can make those out
of brewers yeast and they're um heard
they're quite good um so the thing about
Brew it's usually a byproduct of making
beer but typically if you buy it off
Amazon or the he store uh it's not a
byproduct it's a direct product that's
more of a nutritional product um some
people have some digestive issues more
with Brew yeast it's very few but that
can happen happen so it's up to you you
can go either way um but make sure if
you do either form of yeast you get non
GMO because nowadays they make this off
of beet sugar which is GMO so we want it
non GMO we also do not want it enriched
with synthetic B vitamins so get the one
that's non-enriched and if it says it
has B12 we know it's synthetic because
these yeasts do not make vitamin B12
unfortunately so um it's not going to be
a good source to B12 but overall it's a
pretty good nutritional use one good
indication that you need it uh is that
you're lacking B vitamins that you're
having these vivid dreams or you're
having a lot of nervous stress but
definitely the dreams are a um very um
good indicator that you need more B
vitamins so I would take like a teaspoon
thanks for watching you I just wanted to
take a moment out to thank you for your
amazing feedback that you guys are
giving me it's just mind-blowing the
success is the wins I created a link
down below so you can actually type out
your full success story and if you have
a before and after with weight loss that
would be awesome and if you don't have a
success with weight but other things
just put an image of yourself and your
personal success story and I would love
to read it and also share it with others
so I want to just thank you in advance
for doing that but there's a link down
below fill it out and I can't wait to
read it
