did you realize that raw milk and cheese
cause
840 times more illness than pasteurized
milk and cheese I mean this is like
really scary if it was true it was being
advertised by a media company I mean why
would a media company pay for an ad to
scare people against raw milk so today
we're going to talk about is raw milk
and raw cheese really that much more
dangerous than pasteurized milk or
cheese you know they say that raw milk
is the number one cause of pathogens in
Dairy and I question that like is it
really the raw milk that's causing the
problem or is it the contaminated milk I
mean just because something is
pasteurized does not automatically make
it safe and of course they're going to
talk about oh there's like high amounts
of ecoli and raw milk well first of all
eoli is not only in raw milk it's also
in pasteurized milk in fact in your body
right now you have eoli eoli is part of
the friendly bacteria that we have in
our gut in fact ecoli helps us digest
but there's a point where ecoli can
become pathogenic in the right
environment but it's not necessarily
just because something is raw so it's my
opinion that the problems that come
along with raw milk really have to do
with Farms that are not clean and this
is why it's so important to really know
where you're getting your milk and this
goes for cheese as well I mean if you
take raw cheese versus pasteurized
cheese there's a big big difference
first of all the way they test to make
sure that something is Thoroughly
pasteurized is they measure how much
activity that this certain enzyme has so
if this enzyme is inactive then it's
pasteurized and so when they pasteurize
and get rid of the enzyme the question
is do you really get the benefits of
building bone making calcium and
phosphorus very bioavailable and then we
get another enzyme that gets destroyed
when you pasteurize the milk and that is
called lactase lactase is an enzyme to
help break down milk sugar lactose but
when I do raw milk and especially raw
milk cheese that has that enzyme in it
lactase I don't have any digestive
problems at all so only the raw dairy
has that enzyme to help break down milk
sugar there's been some research done to
show that children that consume raw milk
versus pasteurized milk have lower in in
of asthma allergies decreased incidence
of ear infections and eczema and even
less respiratory infection you're going
to get a lot of support for the immune
system there are a lot of different
immune factors that get destroyed with
the pasteurization then you get the
other benefit of raw milk and raw milk
cheese with
probiotics so what are probiotics those
are friendly bacteria when you consume
things like cheese or kefir you're
getting not only only a good probiotic
but a probiotic that can actually recede
your gut I mean I think people think
about yogurt and kefir as a probiotic
but they don't think about raw cheese as
a probiotic as well however in America
if a cheese is fermented over 60 days it
can be considered raw so recently I was
in Bethesda uh shopping at this Boutique
uh specialty store and I was trying to
find some European cheeses and I found a
bunch of them and some American cheeses
that said that they're raw so they were
fermented over 60 days and I went home
and I was consuming these cheeses and I
found one that was really delicious and
it was actually from America called
Meadow Creek Dairy
cheese I got the package after consuming
all the cheese and I said I got to find
out where to get more of this right I
found out it's about 40 minutes away
from my farm in Southern Virginia and
then after studying their website I
realized why I was so good and
apparently they bread Not only was it
raw but the farm is super clean French
cows with certain American cows and they
they just spend the time to do it right
there are a lot of different options
with cheeses but this one's a good one
I'll put the link down below I like the
Mountaineer hard cheese from that
company now there's probably not a
difference in nutrients between raw
cheese and pasteurized cheese but the
bioavalability of calcium phosphorus
magnesium and other minerals are
probably a lot better from raw cheese
just because it's raw and it has more
enzymes and of course I always want to
get the raw cheese that's from grass-fed
cows and that way I'll have the right
Omega 6 omega3 ratios and also there's
another uh great compound called CLA
which helps you lose weight it's good
for energy it's anti-inflammatory so in
summary do I think raw milk is safe
absolutely if it is purchased from a
farm that is clean so you need to study
up on the farm that you buy your raw
milk from or raw milk cheese and then
make your own decisions
