hi guys Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about vitamin E in
coronary heart disease okay now there
are studies out there that will show
that vitamin E causes coronary heart
disease and there's studies that show
that it actually will cure coronary
heart disease well what they failed to
tell you is the unless you read the fine
print is that the ones that show that
vitamin E causes heart disease are
always using a synthetic vitamin E
they're not using a natural vitamini
it's always synthetic so that's a big
factor because apparently synthetics
don't work for heart disease okay
doesn't prevent any heart disease
situations might be good for other
things but not definitely not the heart
so vitamin E in nature always comes in a
complex with many different parts this
is the vitamin E complex yes it has the
tocopherols which are the antioxidant
Porsche Parts which is the alpha beta
Delta gamma but it also has um another
uh Factor called uh xanthine selenium a
mineral uh
liposol F2 F1 E2 E3 fractions all these
different component parts it doesn't
come as one thing so when you take that
one version you're only getting a very p
a small portion of the vitamin E complex
the the key that I want to talk about
the most important thing I want to talk
about is this um getting a natural
version you want to get the version if
you actually buy it from this store
something that says toot triols okay
toot triols are the natural version that
you want to get and if you get the ones
that have the Alpha and the beta the
gamma and the delta in one complex
you're getting a a better version
because these are fat sble these are
vitamin E in general is a fat sble
vitamin which means it penetrates the
cell wall and that's what it will do it
penetrates the plaque in the arteries
and it helps dissolve the plaque it also
decreases
platelets from forming that form the
clot in the first place it also will
help you prevent the oxidation of
cholesterol so vitamin E is very
important in preventing the clot
formation which also could lead to
Strokes all right the other point I want
to make about vitamin E is that yes it's
true it comes from grains whole grains
but as soon as they grind the Grain and
make it into flour it oxidizes from
oxygen and it gets destroyed pretty
quick so when you buy bre even whole
wheat from the store you're buying bread
from flour that can been sitting in the
shelfer for 6 months to a year so
normally you probably are not going to
have time to grind your grain and make
the bread even though it's even high in
sugar the whole thing but you if you
were to take whole grain and grind it
and make your bread you would get some
vitamin E but there's much better uh
ways to get your vitamin E so here's a
question how do I get my vitamin E what
foods do I eat that's a really good
question I'm glad you asked number one
wheat germ but the problem with wheat
germ is it's either roasted or if it's
raw wheat germ it's rancid because it's
sitting on the shell for a long time so
that's probably not the best idea you
can get it from Palm Oil you can get it
from nuts or you can get it from this
right here
lettuce so just so happens that lettuce
has a lot of vitamin E and this is
another reason why you need to eat large
salads right I mean I will I will do a
huge salad and uh I'll probably do half
of this in one salad okay in summary the
next time you get a vitamin E uh make
sure it's a natural version make sure
it's in the complex and really start
eating your salads all right thanks for
watching
