what are the best foods for kidney
disease well they're somewhat different
than the foods that you would eat to
prevent a kidney problem if you were
trying to prevent kidney disease you
would consume the Foods on my program
which is the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting
because that provides not just low carb
but high quality foods since the cause
of most kidney problems stem from
diabetes insulin resistance high sugar
high carb diets but that being said we
want to talk about what do you eat if
you have a kidney problem there are
various stages of kidney problems you
have stage one two three four and five
five being end stage which means you're
usually on the list for dialysis and
it's irreversible so I'm going to kind
of split this up into kind of the make
break point of when you would start
eating what I'm going to suggest okay
and that would be stage 3A through stage
five so if you're between a three and
five then we're going to talk about what
foods you should eat and the kidney has
a bunch of tiny little filters called
nephrons and they're basically there to
filter the blood so when they can't
filter anymore because they're damaged
you start getting waste that backs up
into the blood and you also have
problems with these very specific
nutrients
phosphorus becomes too high
potassium becomes too high sodium
becomes too high and then protein in
general so that's one way to diagnose uh
kidney problems is having protein in the
urine so let's first take a look at
protein okay you need to lower your
protein a little bit okay but of course
keep the quality there as well which
I'll talk about so how much protein
would you really need a normal amount of
protein let's say for myself I weigh
about
185 pounds I would need to apply this
one formula and this is kind of really a
rough estimate like 0.8 grams of protein
per kilogram and what that really comes
out to is about 65 grams of protein per
day that's kind of what I need right now
but if the kidney becomes a problem you
can't handle that much protein so you
have to lower it to about 45 grams of
protein per day I would go from like
nine ounces of beef per day to about six
ounces of beef per day if it was eggs
okay it's a little bit different protein
ratio shown there I would go from nine
eggs a day to six eggs a day if it was
seafood or fish I would go from nine
ounces of fish or seafood to six ounces
of seafood or fish now less per day okay
so you just reduce your protein you
don't want to reduce it too low you just
want to have it just right and you want
to make sure the quality is there the
best protein as far as quality goes is
the egg
then the fish or seafood and then beef
but you have to make sure it's grass-fed
grass finished and the eggs
pasture-raised organic and then the fish
well caught now as far as sodium goes
you don't want to bring your sodium down
too far because you need sodium for
various reasons but you want to bring it
down to roughly about
23 100 milligrams of sodium per day so
in other words don't use a lot of salt
on your foods and of course you're not
going to be eating processed foods or
junk food so you're not going to get
that hidden sodium but you want to have
just a little bit but not excessive
amounts and then with potassium okay
let's talk about potassium what foods
are high in potassium that you would
have to avoid beet greens avoid those
avoid spinach kale avocados are very
high in potassium but you would want to
have foods low in potassium if we take a
look at the vegetable family we would be
consuming like cabbage cauliflower rad
radish cucumber onion regular lettuce
bell pepper and of course protein in
general doesn't have a lot of potassium
so you could do like tuna and cod and
eggs especially turkey and even some
organic chicken now let's talk about
phosphorus okay how do you lower the
phosphorus well you definitely want to
avoid anything with a lot of phosphorus
like phosphoric acid as in sodas sodas
are the worse for kidney disease because
you're going to really jack up your
phosphoric acid not to mention the sugar
but also meat in general is higher in
phosphorus and so is milk in dark
chocolate but most vegetables are low in
phosphorus berries are low in phosphorus
poultry is lower in phosphorus if you
look at the meats and certain seafood
and even eggs are low on phosphorus even
though they have phosphorus there's some
conflicting data on potassium in other
words there's an equal risk of dying
from too much potassium or too little
potassium and again always work with
your doctor to make sure that they
monitor these key nutrients to make sure
they're not out of range
that being said a lot of the
recommendations as far as food for
end-stage kidney problems include grains
which I totally disagree with there's no
benefit of having grains when you have a
kidney problem instead focus on the
foods that I recommend as well as adding
a natural source of the B vitamins
natural vitamin C vitamin D3 as well as
omega-3 fatty acids probably from cod
liver oil that would be the best so
these recommendations are for those
people that have kidney damage already
like I said before if you want to
prevent kidney problems you can have
more of these nutrients and for that I
recommend this video right here check it
out
