hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about perfecting your sleep and
energy okay so normally an average
person will go through four 90minut
sleep cycles through waves from a
superficial sleep to a deep sleep okay
four times through the night uh the
ideal time to go to bed that aligns with
your hormones would be right around
10:45 to even up to 11:00 at night okay
that's the optimum time to go to sleep
um just to catch that first wave if you
miss this first wave sometimes you have
to wait a period of time before you
catch it so you're tired you ever notice
like when you're really tired at night
and then all of a sudden you stay up and
all of a sudden now you're awake because
you miss the wave okay so there's little
onoff switches in your brain the back
part of the brain stem that cause you to
go to sleep and then wake up they're
little hormonally controlled onoff
switches that work with a little clock
inside your your brain as well you have
a little clock it's called the super
chmatic nuclei not that you need to know
that but basically it's a little clock
that is regulated by light and dark so
if you're in your office all day long
and you don't really get outside that
can throw off your sleep cycles now as
far as um what happens in the REM sleep
REM sleep is not the deep sleep it's a
superficial sleep that you're almost the
wavelength is almost similar to when
you're awake but you actually having
vivid dreams that you remember okay the
real rejuvenating sleep is when you hit
the Delta okay down here so this is what
I want to talk about how do you achieve
your full capacity of Delta wave sleep
that's how you generate energy you don't
want to stimulate yourself during the
day you want to get the Sleep which will
naturally recharge you just like a
battery so you can have energy during
the day so the Delta wave sleep gives
you the most restorative repair
regeneration
growth immune system repair of any of
the sleep cycles and also increases a
hormone called growth hormone growth
hormone in a child helps them grow in
adult it's more of an anti-aging because
there's a certain point where you stop
growing it's an anti-aging hormone it's
involved in weight loss repairing muscle
after exercise so all the benefit of
your exercise occurs through growth
hormone in the Delta wave sleep okay so
if you're not sleeping then you should
use that as an indicator to know that
you shouldn't be exercising too hard
because you're going to overtrain and
you're not going to repair and you kind
of break things down in fact when you
have insomnia and you don't sleep very
good you can put a lot of stress on your
heart okay on the days you don't sleep
you should do
walking um and not push it because you
can actually increase your chance of
getting a heart attack um so the thing I
want to talk about is that you SE have
several scenarios here you have a
situation where you can't get to
sleep or you wake up at 2: in the middle
of the night and you can't get back to
sleep and you're fully awake and you're
just like your mind's going you're
probably more awake here than you are in
the morning or the best sleep is an hour
before the alarm clock goes off or you
wake up exhausted or you're up with your
bladder all night long okay so each one
of those situations are a little bit
different number one can't get to sleep
is a
simple uh mineral deficiency either
deficiency of calcium magnesium or
potassium okay all three of those will
keep you up at night and you just can't
wind down those minerals are the uh
calming minerals
all right uh wake up at two that's more
of a higher adrenal cortisol so your
your adrenals are kind of jacked up in
it and uh the the cortisol is on a
circadian rhythm and it's altered to the
point where it just kicks in there and
it's almost like it kind of like
activates uh cortisol in Adrenaline and
wakes you up okay and so you're just
awake ready to go so if that's the case
you need to support the adrenal glands
now if your bladder is making you wake
up every hour then and and basically
what is normal is not getting up at all
okay some people say well I don't have a
bladder problem well I get up three
times a night well that's not normal you
you should be able to go through the
whole night that this right here is an
insulin problem it's insulin resistance
I'll put a link down below because every
time that I have people improve their
insulin uh dysfunction this symptom goes
away if you ever notice a diabetic
they're peeing excessively right well
there's definitely a connection between
blood sugars and urination and fluid
right so that should help you with that
if you're waking up
exhausted then there's several other
things that we need to do which I'm
going to get into right now number one
um I've noticed that when I consume the
right amount of vegetables which gets
the minerals gets all the other nut
nutrients that I need I sleep much much
better than when I don't consume enough
vegetables so you need to have between
seven and 10 cups just a couple salads
it's not hard to do if you're bloating
from your vegetables that's not going to
work either so you're going to have to
find some vegetables that you can
consume comfortably without
bloating uh number
two do not consume excessive protein
large amounts of protein especially late
at night or for dinner you go for dinner
you have this huge steak not a good idea
because protein is a stimulant and that
will wake you up prevent sleeping so you
want 3 to 6 ounces okay and I would at
that dinner I would have your salad
first and then your protein versus the
protein first and then a side salad it's
just you'll find that you won't eat as
much protein if you have your salad
first or your vegetables first too much
caffeine okay do one small cup in the
morning that's what I recommend you
start getting more and it does affect
your sleep quality and even tea will uh
do that as well so and even chocolate
with it's not caffeine it's another
stimulant that will also keep you up if
you have too much of that uh small
amounts okay of course sugar-free
snacking at night let's say you have
dinner and then between dinner let's say
at 6:00 till 11: you are snacking
Popcorn Chips peanuts you just keep
eating putting things in your mouth well
that's going to really raise insulin
it's going to keep you from sleeping as
well because you're going to feel
bloated so what you want to do for
dinner is have enough
fat and vegetable because this gives you
the potassium to be satisfied so you're
not so hungry at night okay if you're
new to my videos I'll put some links
down below but most of you already know
that um okay number five riding sugar
because that raises insulin and Insulin
will definitely keep you up at night as
well diabetics do not sleep well uh also
insulin will deplete
potassium okay insulin will deplete the
potassium and then what will happen when
potassium is low the heart rate goes
higher so try to go to sleep with your
heart rate elevated like in at 90 or
even 100 you're not going to sleep so if
you can hear your pulse rate in your ear
on your pillow at night boom boom that
means you need more potassium it could
be because you're not having enough
vegetables or your insulin is too high
okay and that comes from insulin
resistance
and then um so we want to keep the pulse
rate low
um it's it's really surprising that some
people have a pulse rate of like 110
normal is 72 but ideally you want it
even lower especially if you want to try
to
sleep um
overtraining here you are you want to
lose weight and you start working out
you do the boot camps and that alone can
keep you from sleeping over train and
getting your pulse rate too high that's
why I like interval training where
you're doing a you're getting your pulse
rate up for a short period of time and
you're letting it rest for a longer
period of time when you do CrossFit
which is actually not good for the
average person your recovery times are
so short that it's going to affect your
sleeping because an average person
doesn't recover that fast so you spike
your pul rate you start resting the pul
rate comes down a little bit and you
start working on it again so you never
allow your body to come fully all the
way down and reset to the bottom level
so it's a problem walking um Regular
walking on the days that you don't do
the high-intensity thing go up for a
long walk get space that is the absolute
best thing for sleep just getting out
there in nature and just getting your
space versus sitting in office 24/7 okay
so and then lastly um I use uh my sleep
aid which has there's two versions one
is a um vegetarian which without the
glandular adrenal glandular support and
the other one is the regular one with
glandular support so you have your
choice on that one but it doesn't have
Mel tonin it has some really awesome
combinations of uh certain herbs and
nutrients to really put you in a nice
wonderful sleep to support the adrenal I
take one before I go to bed uh it really
helps so you might want to try that
anyway thank you so much for watching
put your comments
below hey you probably already
subscribed but if you haven't press this
little button down below and I will keep
you updated
