hi guys in this video we want to talk
about ADHD attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder and nutritional
deficiencies okay if you're interested
in alternatives and nutrition so just
watch this this is important here the
symptoms inattention hyperactive
forgetfulness temper tantrum sleep
disorder aggressive behavior okay if
your child has this or you have this
here's what it is it's a it's mainly a B
vitamin deficiency and low vitamin D
okay if you're a deficient in b12 you're
gonna have a lot of problems with
neurotransmitters that would be
serotonin for your mood for sleep
dopamine for your emotions adrenalin for
the ability and an inability to sit
there comfortably for a period of time
so you're you're gonna feel anxious all
the time so here are the deficiencies
you can get fatigued depressed
memory problems like try to try to study
in school when you have a b12 deficiency
it's almost impossible vitamin b6
deficiency this controls concentration
it calms the nervous system down and if
you're deficient you're going to be
hyper and you're gonna like fly off the
handle very easily so then we have a
vitamin b1 vitamin b1 mainly controls
blood sugars but if you're deficient
you're gonna have a lot of stress built
up you're gonna feel very restless
you're not gonna be able to feel
comfortable and your minds gonna race no
wonder if these kids are having a hard
time irritable sleep distracted easily
and you're not gonna be able to learn
okay vitamin b3 affects the cognitive
function that's forgetfulness memory
issues and depression and then we have
vitamin D if that's low you're gonna get
depressed you have memory problems and
even like rage that's something that's
one of the symptoms so these other
nutrients that really affect your
cognitive function and yes you can get
these nutrients in fish and eggs and
made in cheese and but here's the big
issue it's not necessarily just that
you're not getting it from the diet
these kids are eating things that are
depleting these nutrients so take a well
guess what food
will deplete these nutrients you have
any ideas I'll tell you it's refined
carbohydrates it's refined grains in the
form of breads pasta cereal crackers
biscuits waffles pancakes muffins things
like that and actual sugar high fructose
corn syrup so if we combine sugar with
refined carbohydrates that makes up a
lot of the diet for some of these kids
so you're gonna just these are gonna be
sucked out like a vacuum cleaner and
then you're wondering why they're acting
up it's basically the food that's going
in their mouth so not to mention even
the blood sugar swings if the blood
sugar goes up they're gonna get tired if
it goes down they're gonna be very edgy
and irritable and they're not gonna be
able to be sane they're gonna like just
go shopping go grocery shopping when
your child is hungry and tired that's
what you're going to experience so what
are you gonna do okay I'm gonna put a
link down and what these kids should eat
okay and unfortunately you may have
started them out too late as far as
getting them used to eating healthy and
now it's like you have to change this
thing and they might kick and scream but
honestly you're gonna have to make some
changes to get the B vitamins in their
body nutritional yeast is what you need
to get okay and you'd get it in a powder
form and you would have to mix it with
something put in peanut butter you know
you may have to put some unsweetened
chocolate in there just to to drown the
taste out but we got to get the B
vitamins back in their body but I'll put
a video down below of some ideas of
foods that you can eat you're gonna have
to like make healthy recipes I already
have that solved so you can make
different desserts for your kids so that
way they can feel like they're getting
something sweet but it's there's no
sugar in it okay but you're gonna have
to make the change and you'll start
seeing these kids their attention will
be better and better and concentration
will be better and but the the
psychiatrist is not looking at the
nutritional aspects of this at all and
it's you can switch flip things
overnight if you can just change the
diet so I put some links down below
you're going to have to start studying
up on what to feed these kids and what
to avoid and start to
Clemente this and just bite the bullet
it's gonna help alright thanks for
watching press this it okay Jesus let me
do that over here press the subscribe
button press just press this button
right here subscribe okay that one right
there just do it right now hey if you're
enjoying my videos press the subscribe
button below and I will keep you updated
on the future events thank you so much
