hi guys I'm back again in this video
we're gonna discuss this subject of
ketosis in in a minute fasting and if
you should eat when you're not hungry
because the problem is your hunger is
gonna go away so if you actually are
eating two meals a day or even one meal
a day and you're not hungry
do you eat or do you not eat okay now
let's just answer that in a second
before I answer that I'm gonna talk to
the person who doesn't even know about
ketosis it doesn't know about
intermittent fasting and let's just you
know do you eat when you're not hungry
like for breakfast when you wake up do
you automatically go for breakfast when
you're not even hungry do you eat a
snack when you're not hungry at night
when you're not hungry do you still eat
just because the food is there that's
the question well let's talk about that
first before I go into intermittent
fasting and ketosis so our bodies are
just not designed to eat at the
frequency that we're eating wheat way
way too much food it's not even about
that calories it's about the frequency
of eating simply because every time you
eat you spike insulin okay so we have
this massive massive situation where
your spike in insulin all day long
social events you have other events
holidays Halloween kids you know kids
are constantly eating around you at
night in those food around on your table
and the refrigerator your house is
stocked with all this food it's like
everywhere you go vacations weekend's
holidays you know friends social things
so you just constantly expose to food
okay now one of the best habits that you
could implement for yourself would be
only eat when you are hungry and never
eat when you are not hungry
if you implemented that habit you'd be
extremely healthy because it's false
information that breakfast is the most
important meal it's not true I mean all
night long you're not eating you're
fasting why would you need to breakfast
if you're not hungry your body is
burning fat the food that it's eating is
actually on your own body or you need
for us three squares right three square
meals a day why whoever came up with
that
or you need to keep up your blood-sugar
constantly and eating keep bringing it
up it's not true or you need to eat to
stimulate your metabolism or by the time
you're hungry is too late these are all
false pieces of information that people
are spreading out there and we're
accepting it probably generated by the
food manufacturing companies okay so
that's one thing now let's shift gears
let's see you're already doing ketosis
and you're already doing in a minute
fasting and you're not hungry anymore do
you eat well the point about that is
that we need to get our nutrients okay
from the food so here's what I recommend
I recommend that you do this in a nice
structured gradual way right you start
with three meals a day okay so if you
start with that no snacks you're gonna
find that your hunger is gonna go down
especially if you're eating what I'm
recommending you know good amount of
vegetables protein and good amount of
fat and no sugar okay now what's gonna
happen your hungers gonna go down so you
keep pushing the breakfast forward and
forward and forward until you completely
drop out the breakfast and this can
happen very fast okay it could happen in
a week okay now you're down to two meals
a day and you're doing it comfortably
and consistently okay and then now
you're not even hungry in the morning
you're not hungry for this lunch ideally
you should not be eating that lunch if
you're not hungry
why because your body is burning fat
okay so if you do eat now you're gonna
be hungry the problem you're gonna
probably run into especially if you are
doing this too suddenly and you're
having adapted fully is let's say you're
not hungry for lunch so you don't eat
right and you go to work or something
like that or you're you're off summer
where you're not around food and then
you start getting really hungry about
another three o'clock okay that there's
no food available that's the problem so
if you have an availability where you
can bring your food and just eat when
you're hungry that would be the ideal
situation so again the principle is eat
when you're hungry now a lot of people
that are doing this end up doing one
meal because of the situation because
it's just not hungry for the other meal
and that's totally fine but going past
one meal a day maybe eating every other
I probably wouldn't recommend that
unless you need to lose a lot of weight
and you're just not hungry
because you have certain dietary
requirements with nutrients that you
need and so I think you should probably
stick with at least one Smit one meal a
day and make sure it's very very healthy
and probably enhance that as well but
the point is that if you're not hungry
don't add another meal in there all
right I just wanted to emphasize that
point and this can go for if you're on
ketosis cinnamon fasting or if you're
not on it and you don't know anything
about it alright thanks for watching so
Karen and I are going to create some
more recipes but we wanted to know what
recipes are you interested in ok click
the link and let us know
