hey guys Dr bur here in this video we're
going to talk about the advantages of
juicing versus blending when do use
juicing versus blending okay okay
juicing is really good in chronic Health
States like you have this chronic
sickness recovering from chemo or you
have this disease you're trying to
recover from that's very very good
because you you can concentrate a lot of
vegetables in a very small amount and
drink it it's easy to go down the
problem is that it's hard to green
juices without fruit and when you add
the fruit um like apples and pears and
all these other things you're going to
spike the sugar even if you do carrot
juice that's a lot of sugar and then we
Spike the insulin so that's a problem um
but I do recommend it in situations
where you're you have a chronic health
problem okay what's much better for the
majority of the population is blending
because you use the whole vegetable okay
and so you can um
take vegetables and blend them with
maybe a little bit of berry and you get
all the fiber that buffers the insulin
response okay because fiber slows down
the spike of
insulin fiber feeds your microbes you
have all this Flora you have like a 100
trillion microbes in your gut no
actually I think it's a thousand
trillion microbes you have 100 trillion
cells and a thousand trillion microbes
growing inside and outside and in the
gut they live on on fiber so rather than
give them brand fiber give them
vegetable fiber um so that's going to
actually really help feed them so it's
better for the general population so um
what I like to do is I like to
take kale okay my favorite and this has
a lot of vitamin A as phytonutrients
it's good for the liver it's um it has I
like the dark green this is organic get
it from Trader Joe's I freeze this so it
lasts forever okay keep in the freezer
it's already clean cut convenient all
right then I like and I freeze little
sections of parsley parsley is very
bitter I mean it's interesting that both
of these are garnishes that no one eats
on the plate right we want to take this
parsley combine it with the the Beet to
make a a very powerful uh bitter shake
with lots of vitamin A and lot of phon
nutrients good for the eyes good for the
liver good for burning fat good for fat
on the liver
um and I'm not trying to lose weight um
I'm going to recommend myself I use the
berries organic berries um you can put
like a cup of this now it it may in some
people slow them their weight loss down
if they have a really really slow
metabolism but for the most population
the majority of the population you can
do a little bit of berry okay like a cup
just to offset the bitterness so um I do
that and I also put lemon juice I like
the Italian volano why because this is
grown on the volcanic ash in soils in
Italy and it's this lemon juice is
amazing I put like 2 ounces of lemon
juice in that shake okay why because
lemon juice will prevent kidney stones
and um you don't have to put in the
shake I I like the taste of it and uh it
gives it a nice little lemony Citrus and
also it prevents any Stones okay I will
also add my weak Rass juice powder one
teaspoon because that's like an extra
boost of actually a juice powder with
some interesting properties yes it has
vitamins and minerals and chlorophyll
but one thing about weat grass juice is
that it has a unique Factor that's has
to do with a growth factor it doesn't
make you grow but it's it's mainly for
your skin um it's a good healer and
right now there's some studies I'll put
some links down below that they use this
on
burn patients because it burns the skin
it heals the skin so it has a healing
factor for the epidermis the skin also
internally the skin like you have uh
irritable bowel syndrome ulcers in your
stomach it's really good for that um
even in some cases of leprosy with
ulcers on the skin or a diabetic ERS on
the feet uh this is a good healer an
overall healer um for collagen making
you healthy so this is one of the
reasons I stick that in there a teaspoon
blend it all up and it makes two of
these okay these jars so I'll drink one
of these in one sitting I use a straw
big straw I drink it down I'll take the
other one put in the fridge and I'll
drink that maybe later in the evening
okay I'll do this so I do the kale
shakes not every single day I might do
them twice or three times a week the
other days I'll use just salad or
vegetable okay so that's how I get my
greens if I'm doing the shake I don't do
a salad but the shake is convenient I
drink it I feel great my liver feels
good if I miss that I don't feel as
bright it's also very hydrating and it
seems to increase the oxygen levels of
my body I can just breathe better when I
drink that I think the parsley in there
is like a real key element so go ahead
and do that and put your comments below
hope you enjoy this video and I'll see
you in the next one hey guys thank you
so much for watching please click the
Subscribe button and I will see you in
the next video
