hi I'm back in this video we're going to
talk about a substance called dim men
and estrogen now it a question about dim
which basically is a compound that helps
the metabolism of estrogen it helps to
balance estrogen and mainly people think
of women having estrogen or are estrogen
dominance so that's why they take it but
it's also good for men in certain
situations now there are two pathways
that deal with estrogen in the liver
okay to make it really simple and non
complex one increases estrogen the other
decreases estrogen okay so dim helps you
decrease the bad estrogen in the liver
so it's very very important for that now
here's a challenge as a male body ages
it starts to accumulate more estrogen
they become estrogen dominant they get
breast tissue lowered testosterone
because testosterone estrogen kind of
work as a teeter totter prostate
enlargement urination issues they lose
body hair so there's all these things
that can happen higher voice so another
question is where does this estrogen
come from now it could come from the
environment it could come from the food
that you're eating but it also could
come from your own body because your fat
cells make estrogen so the fatter you
are the more estrogen you're gonna make
so it's really important to get on the
ketosis get on the intamin of fasting to
lose the weight to help balance this
estrogen situation because if you lower
estrogen your testosterone will go up
naturally but typically what happens
there's an enzyme that's converting this
testosterone to estrogen as well in your
body and dim blocks that enzyme so it
helps to balance this these two hormones
so basically dim will support healthy
estrogen levels as well as healthy
testosterone levels I put a link down
below for some more information and
thanks for watching hey if you haven't
already subscribed press the button
below and I will keep you in the know
hey that runs
