so in this video we're gonna talk about
why eating causes hunger or the need to
eat more okay you just started in a
minute fasting okay you're doing keto
and you're not really hungry in the
morning but you eat anyway okay now
you're really hungry and about an hour
later or an hour and a half later why
because eating stimulates insulin and
then you're gonna end up a lot sooner
with low blood sugars and guess what
you're gonna be hungry right about here
or for example at dinner you decide a
snack at night okay or graze at night
yesterday you didn't eat everything was
cool today you're gonna snack in the
morning you wake up and you are hungry
why is that because it's low blood sugar
because you ate too late okay so just
realize that eating triggers insulin
insulin lowers blood sugar lower blood
sugar equals cravings okay or hunger so
what do you do you want to maintain in a
minute fasting consistently over all a
longer period of time so you can
actually tap into fat and go a lot
longer and so many people even know
they're not hungry eat for some reason
and then almost so now they're hungry so
the point is that the more you can
actually do in a minute fasting the less
hungry you'll be because you're running
on your own fat and you're not going to
be susceptible to the low blood sugars
anymore as long as you stay consistent
to it alright thanks for watching
hey guys a lot of you already have my
book some of you don't but this new
edition called the new body type guide
is an upgrade from my last edition
called the seven principles of fat
burning it has 156 images 378 pages full
glossary I talk about keyed out in a
minute fasting the body types in detail
I have a new stressed chapter I'm going
to show you exactly what to eat any
comprehensive FAQ I put a link down
below check it out
