today we're going to discuss the seven
worst diets number one here we go the
junk food ingredient version of the
Atkins diet and they also have these
little shakes right here okay I mean
let's just take a look at the
ingredients of the Atkin shakes the
first one is milk protein concentrate
soy protein isolates then of course we
get the vegetable oil canola soybean oil
artificial flavoring and let's see if
there's anything different in the Atkins
bars first ingredient soy protein
isolate and then we get polydextrose
then it's sweetened with something
called sucralose that's 600 times more
sweet than sugar so at one time the
Atkins di was pretty good I think it
became very corrupted unfortunately
number two Jenny Craig now Jenny Craig
you also have these pre-made meals they
have something called the anytime bar
and the first ingredient is you guessed
it soy protein isolate second ingredient
is the concentrated milk protein that a
lot of people are allergic to and that's
H processed from China it has 8 g of
sugar per serving it has rice flour and
then you can actually also buy a bag of
popcorn right only 140 calories 16 G of
carbs and then you have of course the
Asian style chicken which uh is loaded
with potato flour corn starch modified
food starch and maltodextrin with 11
gram of sugar you can also consume a
barbecue chips it's only 120 calories 18
grams of sugar I have a question why are
they putting alra process food
ingredients in diet foods let's move on
to the next one Weight Watchers now
Weight Watchers is not doing too well
financially right now this is why
they're trying other things like adding
in weight loss medication because their
diet is not working it's all based on
portion control their new brand called
smart one you can get a chicken pasta
dish if you look at the ingredients
wheat flour wheat gluten
then we have maltodextrin then we have
soy protein isolates soybean oil because
what's being identified is the same
ingredients in junk food okay AKA alter
process ingredients all right next one
on list number four neutri system okay
claims to be diabetic friendly so it
must be good let's see what the
ingredients are well we got milk protein
concentrate corn syrup sugar
polydextrose that keeps coming up
maltodextrin on the glycemic index table
sugar is about 65 multo drian can go up
to 185 it's like way the heck up there
then we have wheat flour sugar cornflour
corn syrup modifi corn starch let's go
to number five maybe this one will be a
little bit better Ideal Protein okay now
in practice uh I had a lot of people
come in after doing Ideal Protein which
it's not ideal I'll tell you right now
wheat protein isolates these are just
different names for starch okay starch
and what's a starch a starch is
basically a chain of sugars okay and
they behave just like sugars so anytime
I'm mentioning molto extran modified
food starch any of these flowers just
think sugars because that's what they
really are they also have another one
called fluffy vanilla crisp okay you can
do this on Ideal Protein the same
ingredients over and over and over
number six is optifast this is the
medically supervised uh diet program you
go to a obesity doctor and he'll put you
on
optifast it's science-based so we know
it's must be legitimate uh nutritionally
complete excellent source of protein
meal replacements you just do five
servings a day and you'll just lose a
lot of weight they have three main types
of food you got the shakes you have the
bars and you have the soups so the
chocolate shake you guessed it contains
maltodextrin is the first ingredient and
then it has the milk protein and then
the soy protein isolate and then the
seed oil canola oil so anytime you have
like a lot of carbs and maybe lower
sugars and no fiber what you're going to
be left with is starches okay just think
about starches as sugar because in this
area right here it's it's basically
sugar and then we get to the last one
which is Medifast okay Medifast went out
of business if I'm not mistaken or at
least they had a lawsuit but this is is
a scientifically designed program you do
six servings a day so you have the one
called the essential chocolate mint
Cookie Crisp bar sounds pretty delicious
take a while guess what the ingredients
are soy protein isets sugar polydextrose
solal corn fiber brown rice syrup milk
protein isolates which is that caseine
again and rice starch this totally goes
against this concept that I put out
which which is it's not lose weight to
get healthy it's get healthy to lose
weight if you use these ingredients to
lose weight you are literally setting
yourself up to destroy your metabolism
they're going to stimulate cravings for
the wrong things they're highly
addictive and these ingredients are at
the bottom of the barrel they're not
even considered food they don't really
improve energy or life or any type of
Health at all but they are the prime
number one contributors to diabetes
obesity and they're in the these diet
shakes soups bars and prepackaged Foods
these are also the same ingredients that
they use for institutional foods like
the foods in prisons the foods in
nursing homes the foods in hospitals
these are cheap ingredients long shelf
life super profitable now if you notice
I didn't talk about the vegan diet or
vegetarians or keto or carnivore because
people can lose weight on these other
diets especially if they're using Whole
Foods but anytime we do do a diet with
alra processed food calories whether
they're meshed
into this so-called Keto
Plan or they're meshed into the vegan
fake Meats you're going to have problems
losing weight and you're going to have
problems with your health to keep this
really really simple if you're
interested in losing weight you really
need to read the ingredients because
you're going to find that some of these
keto products just because they say
they're keto are not really keto like
this one right here this is Duncan
hindes okay it says ketofriendly two net
carbs okay it might be keto but it's not
healthy keto because if you look at the
ingredients guess what it has modified
tapioca starch resistant dextrin which
we really don't know the long-term
studies of consuming that ingredient
would do for a microbiome but other than
that there's some good stuff in here but
they had to ruin it with those few
ingredients
