hi guys it's me I want to answer this
question that keeps coming up over and
over and over some of you already know
about it some of you don't so I stopped
losing weight on a low-calorie diet okay
so people are maybe in the 40s or 50s
they started this low-calorie diet and
it's just not working anymore so here's
the data on that the first time you do
it it probably will work in your 20s
okay
then over time every time you do it more
and more the less it works to the point
where it just doesn't work at all
anymore and I'm talking about Weight
Watchers I'm talking about cutting your
calories I'm talking about HCG diet
which is 500 calories okay why is it the
more time you do it the less it works
it's because dieting slows your
metabolism okay why because it's a form
of starvation it's really about the
nutrient deprivation so when you cut
down the nutrients your body compensates
if you don't have enough fuel to run the
body it will compensate by slowing down
the metabolism that's it's basically
learning how to do it so here you are
when you're 40 or 50 trying to do a
low-calorie diet when someone might say
well it's just your the metabolism as
low well actually it's because the diet
created in the first place why would you
want to do a low-calorie diet now you
know it's gonna just make things worse
okay so what is the missing piece what
do you need to know to reverse this
let's talk about that here's what you
need to know number one not all calories
are the same okay
carbs protein fat you can't treat those
the same by lowering in general calories
because they each one of them are
involved in hormonal interactions very
differently so different types of
calories respond to hormones differently
okay so you really have three
macronutrients C of carbs protein and
fat right so now I'm gonna use this book
right here
Guyton physiology on page 927 and let's
just see what it says right here first
thing I'm gonna talk about is all
aspects of fat metabolism are greatly
enhanced now aren't we trying to
metabolize fat yeah all aspects of fat
metabolism
greatly enhanced in the absence of
insulin okay so insulin is the hormone
we need to bring down okay analysis is
up here insulin inhibits the action of
the hormone sensitive lipase well
insulin inhibits this enzyme that's
supposed to dissolve fat so again we
want an inhibited Celyn and then it says
right here therefore when insulin is not
available to promote glucose entry in
the fat cell so basically one of the
functions of insulin is to help you
absorb fuel glucose fuel in the cell
when it's not available to do that fat
storage is almost totally blocked so
you're not gonna block
you're not going to store fat anymore if
you actually lower insulin
you're gonna enhance the metabolism of
fat so really what we want to do is we
want to get this insulin thing down that
will restore the metabolism that will
destroy restore your setpoint so you can
actually go lower and lower and lower
and not be stuck at a certain weight so
let's take a look at the three things
carbs protein and fat okay
carbohydrates that's the thing that
increases insulin so we want to in low
carbohydrate diet protein
well protein also is triggered by can
trigger insulin as well if it's too much
so a moderate amount of protein to be
fine so you can have three to six ounces
per meal and that would be fine but
don't do massive amounts of protein
that's going to increase insulin and by
the way the lower the fat in the protein
like a protein powder the more the
insulin spike whey protein being the
highest so we want fat with the protein
you don't want to go low fat anything
and so that's kind of probably conflicts
with what you've been doing what you've
been taught and maybe you heard of the
glycemic index this the index of all the
carbohydrates that can activate your
blood sugars right well there's also an
insulin index I read about in my book
that shows you all the non carbohydrate
things that can increase fat so fat has
the least effect on insulin
okay so fat is not the thing you want to
worry about and the other factor to
trigger insulin is
frequency of eating if you're eating
five or six small meals a day every time
you eat you spike insulin so we want to
have less frequent meals it's called
intermittent fasting that make sure you
don't reduce your nutrients in your
calories so again a lot of you have
already heard this a million times but
this is for the person has not heard
this it's very important so you want to
lower this and you can start to lose
weight and restore your metabolism
thanks for watching hi guys hey listen I
created a pretty amazing evaluation quiz
down below that actually analyzes your
symptoms to find the cause the root
cause of all of your symptoms the most
likely cause so take the quiz now and
we'll send you a report
