I want to talk about an amazing natural
remedy for clotting
it's called NATO kinase this is an
enzyme that comes from NATO NATO is a
fermented soybean but NATO is a really
good source of vitamin k2 which is also
good to pull calcium buildup out of the
arteries so if you have this buildup in
your arteries from fibrous tissue and
it's stopping circulation going to your
brain or your legs and your legs are
falling asleep or you have poor
circulation this could help you also
there's some positive effects for
endometriosis because there's fibrous
tissue in that condition and pulmonary
embolism and also to potentially help
with cirrhosis so many people take it as
an alternative to aspirin to lower the
chance of getting a stroke because it
will rid clots and even thin the blood
it's interesting that this one enzyme
has so many cool effects for the heart
and also the brain its neural protective
but for the heart it's anti traum
botting so it prevents the formation of
clotting it's anti hypertensive so it's
good for high blood pressure it's anti
coagulation so it helps thin the blood
so the blood is not so sticky and thick
and lastly it's anti atherosclerosis so
basically it'll keep your arteries clean
now if you're on coumadin or aspirin or
some medication check with your doctor
before taking this and lastly check out
the links down below of the research
done on this enzyme and also watch this
other video I have on the screen related
to vitamin k2 another very potent
nutrient to keep your arteries clean
