hey guys in this hi you didn't let me
say hi okay go ahead I have to have a
chance to say hi to the
people here's the problem with dressings
[Music]
dressings hey guys we're back in this
video we're going to make something
really cool what are we making we're
going to make some dressing today yeah
and the problem is the dressing that you
buy it's filled with soy GMO soy in corn
oil and sugar and MSG so why not just
make your own it's really simple and
it's inexpensive and it's super healthy
right okay so what which one to making
now this is really simple balsamic
vinegret and I make it right in a jar so
that you can shake it up and put it
right in the fridge it's like four
ingredients it's super simple and even
the super simple even the as are all my
PES but even the
organic uh dressings things that are
advertised as this free and that free
read the ingredients there is always
sugar in it there's always soy in it so
let's just see what this tastes like and
you don't need the sugar if you like
something sweet take one of these
recipes put a drop of stevia in
it how is it I ate a lot of salad this
arugula I love it really really good
aruga is my favorite yeah I could live
on a rugula I probably should live on a
rugula for a little while anyway arugula
is a cruciferous vegetable mhm very
bitter good for the liver save the liver
so let's just show them how to make it
okay here we go
[Music]
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the Subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
