let's talk about the dark side of the
fast food industry there are all sorts
of dirty little secrets that you need to
know about an average American consumes
between two and three of those fast food
meals every single week which comes out
to like 150 to 200 meals per year
totaling between $1,500 to $2,000 a year
now if we compare that to other
countries especially France we spend
three times as much and fast food than
they do and you might have this idea
that's like it's really cheap food but
you're not going to walk out of a fast
food restaurant without at least paying
$10 per person which is pretty
surprising when sometimes you go in
there and you're choosing food from the
dollar menu or the value meals the
perception is you save a lot but
actually you're going to pay a lot a
good portion of the ingredients in this
food which is subsidized by the
government AKA your tax dollars pay for
a lot of these ingredients especially
all these grains that actually feed the
animals and they actually are put into
products which you end up buying at this
fast food restaurant and then you
actually pay for your health problems
that you're going to have to solve
created by this type of food they're so
convenient I mean it's open 24 hours a
day in fact when you drive up to one of
these facilities you don't even have to
get out of the car but not only that you
don't even have to drive to these places
you can order it from your home and have
it delivered the speed at which they
make this food is mind-blowing and uh
you can actually personalize the food
you can tell them how you want it cooked
you can take certain ingredients off of
it you can add certain things on there
however there are so many tricks and
things that they do to get you to um eat
more of this stuff I mean even the
colors yellow and red AKA McDonald's the
color yellow stimulates impulsivity it
also will increase serotonin and
happiness because apparently it it kind
of gives you this perception of there's
some really cool flavors involved and
then the color red stimulates the speed
of eating so you're going to actually
want to eat faster but the combination
together will increase more appetite a
lot of this is designed for kids your
kids have been advertised to so much and
if your child is uh demanding that you
stop off at the fast food restaurant uh
chances are you might give in and of
course when you go there there's a
playground there are free toys there's
also a lot of tactics and tricks that
they do to get more money from you
there's something called a lost leader
which basically they kind of might sell
something at cost or even at a loss to
then upsell you a lot of times the loss
leader is a small soda and then if you
supersize it the profit goes way up by
80% because glucose syrup or hypto corn
syrup is so cheap it's wild the markup
on these large sodas is
1,50% that's the profit margin then you
have other techniques like upsell
techniques by asking someone would you
like fries with that they found that you
can actually increase the profits by 22%
just by asking uh even the mobile apps
when people use them will increase
profits by 20% having a combo meal like
a complete meal uh can increase the
profits by 30% versus buying them
individually and also if the cost of the
meal involves the number nine as in $199
or $2.99 they tested that as long as it
has nine in there they can increase
profits by 24% now there are certain
products with very very high margins a
lot of profitability and of course the
high margin products really are the soft
drinks which is about 90% the french
fries are about 80% margins but the
products with the lowest margin which is
the most overhead is the beef the animal
meat and so the margins on beef go down
to 30% with chicken it's a little bit
less and cheese is very very high in
fact the cheese is like the biggest
overhead 40% but not if they do cheese
products right or something that
resembles cheese you know McDonald's is
one of the largest buyers of beef in the
US the big problem with this beef at
McDonald's and other places is this beef
comes from factory farms 70% of all the
US cattle is this type of farming 80% of
all the antibiotics go towards animals
not humans but McDonald's buys
1.7 billion pounds of beef every single
year Chick-fil-A processes their own
chicken like 4 million chickens per year
and the problem with the chickens is
they don't have a lot of space to live
they literally have about 6 to8 square
fet of room to survive in putting them
in a space of a half of a foot is
literally insane in torture for these
poor chickens as far as the cattle goes
they are sometimes put in the feed Lots
you know four to 6 months before they're
slaughtered in the feed Lots this is
where they give them a lot of grains to
fatten them up there are basically four
companies that own 80% of all the beef
in United States and a few of these
companies cross over two of the biggest
are Tyson Foods and JBS they're both
involved in chicken and beef then we get
to the quality of ingredients in fast
food let's first talk about this thing
called high fructose corn syrup corn
syrup is very unique and it affects the
body very differently than other types
of sugar in other words it creates a lot
of inflammation and secondly it doesn't
have a satisfying effect so you can
drink a tremendous amount like a super
siiz container and not really feel uh
filled up the effects in the liver are
similar to drinking alcohol as far as
the toxicity levels go and it's absorbed
much quicker than other sugars as well
so you have high frus corn syrup there's
a lot of corn oil soy oil seed oils
involved in these Foods you have
potatoes fried in the seed oil which is
very very dangerous and then you have
the famous famous chicken nugget okay
what's in a chicken nugget it's a
mystery is there any chicken maybe
there's a lot of corn flour there's corn
starch and then the chicken is fed corn
basically you're eating a lot of
byproducts from corn when you go to a
fast food restaurant then you have all
different types of sugars that are Corn
based something called dextrose corn
syrup but I didn't mention in a 32 o
there are 74 G of sugar that's 18 .5
tpoon of sugar in that one soda you know
it takes 7 lbs of corn to make 1 pound
of beef then you have a lot of the
fillers and thickeners as in multitran
modified cornstarch you're basically
eating something that is highly
processed it's highly inflammatory
because it's it's a lot of omega-6 fatty
acids the deep frying involve they don't
just use that one time sometimes they
use it for weeks maybe hundred different
times so you have the animals that are
fed with corn you have corn in the
breading you have corn in the condiments
and sauces you have corn in all the soft
drinks because it's high fructose corn
syrup so I hope that you're shifting
your viewpoint on a fast food restaurant
I used to go there all the time I used
to go there for the Lost leaders when I
was in college to save a little bit of
money I would get the two burgers for $1
and I did that for a long time and no I
did not feel very good when I ate that
food and of course I Justified I said
I'll eat healthy when I graduate but
that didn't happen the truth is that you
can find healthy foods at the grocery
store and make them yourself it might
appear that you're saving a little bit
of money and it's very convenient and it
might make you temporarily feel good
because of all the chemicals and the MSG
that gives it all this flavor but in the
long run it comes with a price I think
the next step that you need to know um
is what to eat okay to turn things
around
and for that watch this video right here
