hey I want to do a quick video on why
someone would have high blood glucose on
keto and intermittent fasting so I've
talked about this in other videos but I
wanted to do one video on this one
specific point okay when your insulin
resistant which great majority of the
population is they usually have high
amounts of insulin in their body okay
five to nine times the normal amount
okay so they have massive amounts of
insulin now insulin regulates blood
sugars by controlling them pushing them
down so they they basically lower blood
sugar so if you have all this insulin in
the body you're automatically pushing in
keeping the blood sugar controlled
that's the purpose of it okay so here
you are going along you know you could
be eating junk food sugar whatever but
you still have normal blood glucose
because the high insulin is pushing it
down and you do that for ten years
whatever and then eventually the
mechanism breaks where the cells of the
pancreas get exhausted and then the
insulin goes down and then the blood
sugar just go up that's when you start
having pre-diabetes and then they go up
higher and you get diabetes that's how
it works
but the point is that before keto you
probably had high insulin and now you
get on keto in a minute fasting you're
taking all this insulin out of the
picture you're healing insulin
resistance and you're lowering insulin
to the point where it's going to be
normal
well guess what since your body is so
used to this you remove that push down
force and the blood sugars are going to
go up that's why but it's only going to
be for a period of time it's in the
transition phase but you're just taking
this weight off of blood sugars and it's
just going to start to rebound a little
bit okay but the point is it will
eventually come down now it's not going
to go too high it might come up to 110
but it's it might not be down here for a
while so you all you have to realize is
that you're actually getting better
insulin is coming down blood sugars are
coming higher and you just need to give
it more time
okay all right thanks for watching so
we've been getting a lot of success
stories but I don't have your success
story yet so click the link down below
and upload you before and after I want
to actually hear about your success
story I want to see your before and
afters and every week we do featured
success stories so click the link down
below and share your success
