so let's chat about the most dangerous
symptom of a magnesium deficiency as you
may be aware of magnesium is involved in
over 300 biochemical reactions at least
57% probably more people have low
magnesium magnesium is involved in
energy production the transmission of
nerv impulses the ability to allow
muscles to relax blood sugar issues in
the list goes on and on and on now
several reasons why people are deficient
either they're not getting it from their
diet because they're not eating the
right things or they eating the wrong
things like processed foods
carbohydrates alcohol and also
inflammation your gut any type of like
bloating or chronic inflammation in your
gut that can prevent your absorption of
magnesium then you have something called
Fates that prevent the absorption of
magnesium as well fluide blocks
magnesium soft water versus hard water
blocks magnesium in fact they've done
test on this there's a high correlation
between people that have these water
softeners and a higher risk of getting
heart attacks versus people who just
drink hard water Spring Water things
like that they have a much lower risk of
heart problems and then you have just
all the food additives very specifically
the phosphates in the food additives and
you'll probably see it when you start
reading the labels on alter processed
foods but I want to cover 12 symptoms of
a magnesium deficiency starting with
number 12 and working backwards until
until we get to the most dangerous
symptom which you need to know about
number 12 muscle cramping number 11 is
loss of appetite 10 is nagas where your
eye is kind of going back and forth
number nine is fatigue number eight high
blood pressure number seven abnormal
heart rhythm number six low vitamin D
it's interesting you need magnesium to
help vitamin D work in the body number
five a pottassium deficiency you need
magnesium to allow for pottassium to
work in the body number four migraines
number three blood sugar issues number
two high levels of cortisol which is
going to affect your sleep but number
one the most dangerous symptom of low
magnesium is
pathological calcification let me
explain what that is magnesium is the
mass
mineral that controls other Minerals
Magnesium stops calcium from building up
in the cells if there's too much calcium
in the cell it causes the cell to commit
suicide magnesium also prevents
oxidative stress from occurring in the
mitochondria but that can be related to
neural inflammation in the brain which
also involves accumulation of calcium as
well I'm talking about the calcium that
builds up in the heart tissue that can
cause a heart attack I'm also talking
about the pathogenic calcific that can
build up in other soft tissues too
because you have vascular
calcification and then you have
nonvascular
calcification both scenarios have
calcium building up in the wrong place
because the calcium should be in the
bone not in your soft tissues and I've
talked about vitamin K2 helping protect
against calcium building up in the
arteries but you don't want to forget
about this magnesium it's also important
now when we're talking about this
pathological calcification we're really
talking about a calcification that is
not normal it usually follows
inflammation and some of the key factors
that help regulate this and prevented is
magnesium vitamin K2 zinc vitamin D and
Boron if you have not watched my video
on Boron this is a very neglected Trace
mineral that is fascinating and I'm
going to put that video up right here
check it out
