hey I'm gonna create a video on the
hidden carbs that could be slowing down
your ketosis okay
the main problem that I see with people
is going out to dinner okay because you
don't always know what you're getting so
I'm just gonna increase your awareness
on some commonly sugar-filled
or high glycemic type hidden'
carbohydrates okay number one processed
cheese like you buy this burger patty
you know at the at the restaurant they
put some cheese on it if they're using
processed cheese there's a lot of sugar
and a lot of carbohydrates in that okay
so you want a high quality cheese
barbecue sauce especially if you're
getting chicken wings or if you're
getting ribs that comes with a lot of
sugar okay especially if you're eating
out so find the sugar-free ones
dressings loaded with sugar what you
want to do is used olive oil and vinegar
vinaigrette okay sauces oh my gosh do
you go to a Thai restaurant do you know
how much sugar they put in that sauce it
makes it taste so good that actually
makes you hungry an hour later because
it spikes the blood sugar and it comes
down so the sauce is really that's
really the problem with a lot of
different meat dishes and things that
you would buy msg okay this can spike
your insulin by 300% it's in pretty
virtually all of the fast food
restaurants okay all the Chinese
restaurants so a lot of grocery store
items it's a flavor enhancer
okay so you want to be careful about
that if you go to a restaurant you know
make sure they're not adding it in their
breading breading on calamari or shrimp
or chicken wings
that's a hidden carb that can throw you
off okay
salsa okay a lot of hidden sugars and of
course what are you gonna scoop salsa
with like a chip another carbohydrate
dextrose that's just a synthetic sugar
in a lot of the deli meats that you
would get so you're go to the store or
get some deli meats look at the
ingredients if it is dextrose that's
sugar maltitol
is the worst sugar alcohol that you can
get it will spike your blood sugars I
can't even believe that this is on the
market you know camouflaging sugar
three when it really spikes your sugar
chili they put a lot of hidden sugars in
that protein bars I mean look at the
ingredients look at the sugar levels
they put agave syrup in there and by the
way some people will think gaba is low
glycemic because it doesn't increase
blood sugars yeah but it goes to the
liver and spikes insulin resistance
thereby increasing insulin so you want
to stay away from a gamma that's like
way worse than sugar protein powders
just read the ingredients some are okay
some are not okay crab meat a lot of
hidden sugar and msg
coleslaw a lot of times at a restaurant
I'll order coleslaw instead of the fries
and it comes to sweet pickles more sugar
sausage they put a lot of sugar in there
I mean this is like insane how much
sugar they put in our foods it really
increases the awareness of what's going
on and why we have these problems
especially if you're combining this
sugar with the protein so oil again it's
GML they use it in the restaurants it
can actually increase insulin resistance
so we want to stay away from soy oil and
corn oil so you have to actually be
careful when you go out to restaurants
just because they use that often Meat
Loaf meatballs they put different
breading in there and they put sugar in
there is the recipe so as you can see
there are so many things that can throw
you off if you go to restaurants so
anyway be aware of that look at the menu
make sure you ask questions and try to
avoid all this sugar thanks for watching
hey tell me what you think about this
video go ahead and comment below and
give me your feedback
