hey it's me again in this video I just
want to mention um some things about the
adrenal night formula this is designed
to take right before bed about 95% of
the population just need one before bed
and they sleep like a baby and then a
small percentage of those people might
need two before bed and in a rare
occasion up to three so you don't need
very many of these to create the effect
that you want
um there's a very small percentage of
people less than 5% that when they take
this it actually doesn't allow them to
sleep it actually wakes them up
more and that is because their whole
system is um sensitive to a certain
ingredient that um everything kind of
works opposite when you take this so if
that is the case what I want you to do
is I want you to take this in the
morning okay and it actually will
provide more energy and then you'll
sleep at night so that's what you want
to do if you take this and you actually
feel more awake it's very very rare so
I'm just mentioning this to that very
small percent of the population the
majority of people including myself and
my whole family we take this you take
one before bed boom you sleep like a
baby and you feel really good it doesn't
have melatonin melatonin is a hormone
that I don't like people to take because
it your own gland in your brain called
the pineal makes this melatonin
component and uh yeah it'll help you
sleep but you're inactivating your own
gland this is hormone free okay there's
no hormones in here it has a combination
of some real serious rejuvenating um
herbs that have been used for over 6 to
700 years so they have a track record of
being used in China for a long long long
time and uh so and the herbs that I'm
using are more
anti-aging um and they're actually
anti-g gray hair properties as well but
we're not using it for that we're using
it for stress reduction and supporting a
healthy adrenal so there's uh all the
ingredients in here um have the support
the neurotransmitters like um it helps
chill out um the
adrenaline um the cortisol responses
from the adrenal it helps um mood it
helps uh it's like a calming effect to
the flight or fight mechanism so it's a
really good combination that
evolved uh over the years because I keep
tweaking it to make it better and better
and
better so this is a this is a bottle of
90 we have one coming out that is a 30
count and that one's a slightly
different formula uh that one does not
have any glandulars so it's for those
vegetarians or people want to try
something a little different and instead
of the glandulars I put a little more El
tryptophan in there which is a just a
protein it's amino acid that helps sleep
as well
so both of these work very similar but
for those people that want just a a
smaller bottle we have that in a smaller
bottle um
so what happens is when you take this um
you're you want to take it about a half
hour before you go to bed and you want
to just drink enough water to get it
down and then you'll notice that you'll
drift off into a sleep now on some
people they wake up at
2:00 even if they don't take this they
keep waking up at 2 so they might sleep
better with this but then at 2 they're
wide awake or at 3: they're wide awake
if that's the case go ahead and just
take another one of these in the middle
of the night the only reason I only time
I wouldn't take this is let's say you're
waking up at 5: and you only have like
an hour to go don't take another one of
this because you it might make you a
little bit tired during the day the
point is that take one if you want to
take one at two go ahead and take
another one and just really get you back
into that deep sleep okay so this is uh
one of my favorite remedies and it's the
most common thing that I use on my
clients for sleep as we go ahead and
correct the adrenals okay so I hope that
helps so that's the details on the
adrenal fatigue formula
