hey guys it's Dr ber here we're going to
do part two of healthy lifestyle hacks
and here's the next principle number one
you want to substitute don't take away
every single time you tell someone you
can't have something they're going to
want it more so it doesn't work so we
want to replace the thing that you want
with something very very similar almost
equivalent but not the same and I'm
talking about the junk food giving up
certain bad habits that you have now
most people crave Breads and pastas and
cereals and crackers and cookies and
pancakes and things like that so we want
to have alternative healthy snacks now
uh most of you have this book you can
get it at Amazon or my website but this
is the healthy substitute pleasure
booklet and in here there's a whole
bunch of recipes and things that you can
you can substitute okay but here's some
simple things that you can get let's say
you want to go to the store or go on
Amazon and just buy the thing and not
have to make it check this out this is
diabetic kitchen gourmet chocolate
brownie mix no sugar okay and that's
what you need to look at well actually
has one gram of sugar per serving size
it's pretty low now look look what it
makes it actually makes these
amazing brownies okay so these you can
do one after each meal okay if you took
one of these you would be very very
satisfied now sometimes people get
bloating when they eat certain
alternative Healthy Junk Foods well that
just means you're probably doing too
much because they they have almond flour
and other ingredients so just take one
with a meal okay now here's another uh
thing let's there's there's certain
recipes that you can make like pancakes
without actual wheat here's a sugarfree
syrup Joseph's sugar-free syrup that you
that actually tastes like maple syrup
it's pretty good so here's an
alternative here's another
one Lily's Brand chocolate chips okay so
let's say you have a little chocolate
chips before like right after you eat as
a little snack so now you're you're not
feeling deprived right let's say we
added it to panut butter okay and this
together and you have a tablespoon right
after you eat that might be enough to
make you happy okay here why don't you
just buy some xylol too use this if
you're going to put it in your coffee or
put it in other recipes this tastes just
like sugar it doesn't have an aftertaste
it is almost a very low glycemic index
but zotl get the nongmo is something
that you could actually do in your
recipes if you want to make healthy
substitutes so the hack number two is
basically don't take anything away just
substitute it this is a workable
principle I used this many many times
all right great I will see you in part
three
