you know a lot of times when you go to
the doctor and they do all these tests
specially blood tests things don't show
up and so that would mean that those
symptoms could be subclinical or below
they're very sensitive they might be not
showing up on conventional tests yet
because their early symptoms of a
condition that takes years to develop so
there is a test that I do in my clinic
that's very very sensitive and it picks
up the beginning stages of different
situations okay but in order to explain
that I have to explain what it's
measuring and there's a system in the
body called the autonomic nervous system
a n-s if you've ever taken anatomy
physiology you've heard about the
autonomic nervous system autonomic
meaning kind of the involuntary
automatic system that works on autopilot
you don't have to even think about
breathing or your heart rate because it
just automatically goes so this system
is the system behind all other systems
it's behind the endocrine system it's
behind the organ system and it's kind of
like a part of the nervous system that
regulates on and off functions or hyper
or hypo so if you had a little light
switch and you had a little rheostat or
a little dial that to turn up the light
and down that would be what this system
controls is the turning up and the
turning down of different organ and
glenn functions okay so there's two
divisions one is called the sympathetic
and that would be another name for that
would be the flight or fight mechanism
and that is the stress state it's your
body's ability to react to stress if
there's a lion there you can either run
away or fight the lion if a car is on
your child you would try to lift the car
over the child and get this incredible
adrenaline rush
so the sympathetic nervous system kind
of runs on adrenaline and other hormones
that activate or turn things on so if
you can imagine in a certain stress
state all the different body reactions
that occur that would be controlled by
that part right here okay so that's like
the on switch now we also have the
switch which is called the
parasympathetic and that has to do with
more rest sleep and digestion so you
can't digest you're being chased by a
tiger
you can't reproduce if you're being
chased by a tiger so in body when these
bodies are in stressed states they have
reproductive problems they have hormone
problems they have digestive problems
and they can't sleep so this we consider
the system that helps relax you and calm
you down and so these things are
constantly going back and forth so if
you can imagine in a total relaxed state
all the different body functions that's
when you're healing that's when you're
that's when your metabolism is working
so this system measures all those
functions ok so we go back and forth so
this would be more like the reaction to
stress this is more of the ability to
recover from stress now what's really
cool is there's a test to measure both
of these systems and it's a technology
developed by the Russians in 1990 called
the heart rate variability and there's
over 2,000 studies and even certain
cardiologists use this as a predictor
for mortality from cardiovascular
incidence I don't use that for that
purpose I used it mainly to measure
stress in the body so the heart rate
variability technology will measure
information between the heart beats to
assess the nervous system that's
controlling the different functions of
the heart and from there we can kind of
get an idea what's going through the
entire body ok so that's what this test
is and and I want to just explain the
two scenarios we can actually visualize
what's going on with stress in the body
we can actually see stress in your body
and see how it's affecting your body and
see how you're reacting to it in a
normal body this graph this line should
be totally plumb up and down like
there's no Tigers in the room that
there's you know the walls are safe
everything's calm and everything should
be chilled out but when you measure
someone a lot of times it's stuck in
high mode yet their their body's
reacting to stress but there's no stress
there so they're basically kind of stuck
in something
in that state you might find them
thinking a lot analysing they can't turn
it off they can't relax so that would be
that state they're kind of stuck in
stress even when they're sleeping and
then we get a loss of that overtime when
you're stuck in stress when you're
burning out you end up burnt out and
then this tall dial goes to the left and
that would describe someone who kind of
lost their vitality their get up and go
mojo there and they feel like they're
lazy they feel like you're tired they
just can't seem to get going and so
that's what happens when this goes down
here because now their body doesn't
react to stress anymore
another physiological thing would be if
they were to exercise and the pulse rate
doesn't go very high so this does
control the pulse rate okay now over
here the parasympathetic it's measured
by a smaller dial right there so we
measure that too and normally that needs
to be all the way to the right okay
because you should always have a little
bit more of this than this because it's
like your buffer reserved to stress so
if you're being chased by a tiger you
need you need to be able to have enough
reserve to get away and then recover
from that so it's really the like once
you are done being chased by the tiger
how fast is your body come back and
recover how fast can you recover from
stress how fast can you recover from
exercise and if this brings the pulse
rate up when you're exercising this will
bring it down after you stop exercising
okay if you work out and you're extra so
your pulse rate stays high for a long
period of time then you don't have a
good system that can recover that that's
a very unhealthy state so this is
another system that measures kind of
like your ability to recover from stress
and this is an active recovery so your
body is constantly working to recover
from stress so if there's a problem with
this if this dial goes right here and
the more it goes to the left your
tolerance for stress is affected people
get on your nerves easily you have no
pain
you don't sleep you don't relax and it
kind of severely affect your metabolism
okay so those are the different
mechanisms and there is a test to
measure these and it's very valuable
especially in determining what exercise
the person needs kind of where they're
at on the body and then there's also
techniques that I do to extract the old
stress from the body using acupressure
to make a difference so I've been doing
this for like 25 years so I'm able to
manipulate the changes in this graph by
doing before-and-afters so I hope this
was helpful and it's called the
autonomic nervous system and then it's
called heart rate variability
