today I want to discuss the seven
warning signs of a zinc deficiency that
has the potential to make your life a
living hell now we're going to go
through all of these but I will say
number seven is the most deadly and it's
the most common the reason I'm doing a
video on zinc is because zinc is the
third most important nutrient number one
being vitamin D why because vitamin D is
involved in 2500 genes number two is
magnesium why because it's involved in
300 different enzymes and zinc is number
three because it's involved with over
200 different enzymes that's a lot of
biochemistry zinc allows you to make
glutathion which is the most powerful
antioxidant zinc is highly concentrated
in your prostate it helps you make sperm
and testosterone zinc is also in your
pancreas the specific part that makes
insulin zinc is even in your brain in a
very specific part that is like a relay
switch to your memories it's called a
hippocampus so when your hippocampus
goes down you get dementia then you also
have zinc's involvement in wound healing
decreasing gastritis helping you make
collagen and even helping you grow your
hair but now let's get into the symptoms
that can make your life a living hell
night blindness is one big indication of
a zinc deficiency and if you've ever
drove at night when it's dark out and
you can't see it's extremely scary and
dangerous all right number two low
testosterone in fact you can even get
something called
hypogonadism where your testicles are
shrunk now if you're female you're going
to notice your estrogen and progesterone
are going to be excessively low and if
you're female going through menopause
you need those hormones to be a lot
higher and if they're not your life can
be a living hell as far as cortisol goes
what happens the cortisol goes down
because someone's deficient in zinc and
then that sends a signal back up to the
brain and then the brain causes the
adrenal glands to overcompensate so then
you make more cortisol because you don't
have enough think so guess what you're
going to have more stress all right that
was number two number three is diarrhea
and if you've ever had chronic diarrhea
your life will be a living hell a lot of
children who consume a lot of cereal and
grains in poor countries develop
diarrhea because of a zinc deficiency
because these grains have something
called phytic acid that blocks the
absorption of zinc number four is acne I
had really bad acne in high school and
that was very unfortunate because it
really affected my self-esteem I had one
interest in high school that was girls
but I had acne so that was a big barrier
no confidence your skin is highly
influenced by zinc number five is
alopecia you actually lose hair if you
combine acne with hair loss that would
be a life of living hell zinc is so
important in helping the growth of the
root of the hair also making the hair
thick and also to support the elasticity
of the entire hair all right number six
is the need for cataract surgery because
a lack of zinc can cause cataracts which
is terrible because your lens of your
eye starts becoming opaque and you just
can't see you just like everything is
like white so personally I don't want
cerax and number two I don't want
surgery on my eyes all right now comes
number seven so you might want to be
sitting down for this one because this
one is extremely important maybe you're
not ready for this maybe I should cover
this in the next
video no I'm just kidding I'll tell you
what it is the thymus gland which is the
master immune gland which sits on top of
the heart shrinks but what's fascinating
is it starts shrinking right after
puberty check this out you have a very
healthy thymus gland right you have all
that gland right there and then at age
25 it's already down to this level now
the rest of this is just fat and then
look at at 50 years old significantly
less thymus Clan thus less immune system
and then at 70 you just have traces of
this thymus gland so you have maybe just
a little bit of residue left to be able
to fight infections the thymus is the
most important immune gland it makes te-
cells now I'm sure you've probably heard
of te- cells but the letter T stands for
thymus because they originate from the
thymus gland and these te- cells control
and coordinate every aspect of your
immune system if you instantly just take
an antibiotic for every infection in an
aspirin to reduce the fever you weaken
the immune system I would just let it go
through its cycle I wouldn't try to
suppress it if it gets over 104 okay
good check with your doctor but that
fever really is part of your immune
defenses and it's there to cook the
viruses and bacteria but the tea cells
are not just about infection they're
also about killing cancer and preventing
autoimmune diseases so if there's immune
cells they are not able to differentiate
in other words they're not able to tell
the difference between your cell and a
bad guy or a pathog
then your immune system kills them gets
rid of them cuz we don't want to have a
self attack and that's what happens in
autoimmune diseases a researcher
Professor Greg Fay who has some
mind-blowing research I want to share
with you his whole thing is about
anti-aging and he basically all of his
work is designed to help restore and
regenerate this atrophy thymus gland so
if you can actually regenerate the
thymus gland you can literally increase
lifespan because you're going to
decrease the risk of getting cancer and
infections so in his study he gave
patients growth hormone also metformin
and DHEA to prevent the side effect of
growth hormone which is diabetes the
growth hormone actually stimulated the
growth of the thymus and a 20% increase
in V2 Max I mean V2 Max is your maximum
lung capacity your ability to use oxygen
which a high level usually relates to an
athlete but the subjects that went
through his program didn't do a lot of
extra exercise he was one of the first
people to reverse this biological clock
so this is fascinating information I was
really excited about it I started to
look into the research on animal studies
and I found some additional information
I want to share with you in this one
study a rat study they transplanted a
thymus from a younger rat into this
older rat and there was remarkable
regeneration and aging it was just quite
mind-blowing the rat lived a lot longer
with regrowth of the organ okay now I
want to show you two amazing studies
involving giving zinc to mice a full
recovery of the thymus function with
regrowing of the organ and a partial
Improvement in the immune system as
measured by natural killer cells so
we're increasing these natural killer
cells that basically kill viruses and
they kill cancer let me just quickly
cover what causes a zinc deficiency
number one getting older number two
having gut issues number three not
consuming animal products alcohol sugar
chronic stress and certain medications
zinc also has to be balanced out with
copper and anytime you take zinc I
recommend taking also with Copper at a
ratio of 10 to one 10 times as much zinc
is copper I would recommend one more
thing and that would be a thymus extract
but when I buy supplements I do look at
reviews and it's quite Fascinating
People are improving their histamine
level levels decreasing allergies some
people claim that their hair is getting
darker because in the study that Dr Greg
Fay did he also found a smaller group of
people started noticing darker hair you
don't want to have premature shrinkage
of your thymus gland you want to extend
it as long as possible and even though
studies were done in mice you know it it
might help humans as well no claims here
you're going to have to try it yourself
no guarantees and if you want a little
bit more information about zinc you
should check out this additional video I
have which is fascinating
