hi guys in this video we're gonna talk
about insulin resistance and electrolyte
absorption okay what is insulin
resistance it's a situation whereby
insulin doesn't work very well anymore
it's not going into the cell and insulin
is like the key that opens a door that
not just regulates blood sugars but
helps you absorb electrolytes and that
brings me to the next thing right here
electrolytes are electrically charged
minerals like potassium magnesium
calcium and sodium and these minerals
allow the nerves to conduct their nerve
impulses they also control muscular
contraction and relaxation so they have
a lot to do with movement of things with
muscular nerve and even fluid okay so if
someone has a problem with electrolytes
they have a pacemaker problem at the
heart so the rhythm of the heart isn't
quite right they can have atrial
fibrillation skip heartbeat palpitations
things like that blood pressure issues
fluid retention dehydration constipation
because your colon is all muscular as
well so you can have all these issues
right here and that's why you see a lot
of these problems with a diabetic okay
because they have insulin resistance the
point on this video is just to show you
the relationship that insulin controls
these minerals so here you are if you're
trying to fix this by taking
electrolytes it's not going to work you
have to improve insulin you have to
allow now this insulin to go in the cell
to be able to pull these in now it's
going to help by taking these minerals
to start to allow insulin to work better
so you can improve insulin resistance by
taking electrolytes but you will never
correct it unless you actually fix the
insulin resistance in the first place
alright so you really want to do both
now I put a link down below of what I'm
gonna recommend that you eat to improve
insulin resistance and you're gonna find
just by that your absorption of the
nutrients will start going and all the
minerals will start going in versus not
knowing about that in the up taking all
those electrolytes and wondering why
it's not working right so we must fix
this and the way that I do it is with
keto and intermittent fasting alright so
go ahead and apply that and go ahead and
sure comments down below
