hey guys I wanted to create a short
video on a question that someone had
regarding why they might be tired after
they consume salad okay so let's just
talk about this okay so the first thing
you need to know is that the bacteria in
your gut live on the fiber in your salad
that's what they eat so what happens if
you're not used to it and you consume
too much salad you're going to basically
overwhelm the friendly bacteria and
you're going to get tired okay now some
people might say that it's the potassium
and the vegetables that calm you and
you're actually getting an overload of
potassium that's why you get tired but
it would take a long time for that to
happen to extract all those minerals
because right after they eat it they get
tired it's not like a delayed thing they
eat it they get tired right away so it's
not the potassium now it also could be
some hidden sugars in the salad dressing
that could make them tired from a spike
of insulin but more than likely it's an
overwhelming of the food salad that the
bacteria just can't keep up with the
digestion all right so now what do we do
to solve this problem simply reduce the
amount of salad or vegetable that you're
consuming let's say if you're doing 10
cups go down to 7 cups if you're doing 7
cups go down to 5 I don't think you're
gonna have a problem if you're consuming
5 cups of vegetables okay so what we're
trying to do is we're trying to get the
microbes adapted we're trying to
increase the amount of microbes so they
can release the enzymes to break down
the fiber and go through their normal
fermentation process but we're trying to
increase this more and more gradually
over time without getting tired but to
extract the nutrients the minerals the
phytonutrients because that's the whole
purpose of this all right well thanks
for watching and I will see you in the
next videos so I hope you're coming to
the keto Health Summit coming up in
October so I want to quickly comment on
what we're gonna do that's different
from other conventions okay the problem
with these other conventions is they
give you information over a load okay
it's so much data that you're basically
swimming in a sea of information we're
going to do things very differently
we're only going to cover the most
important thing
that make a huge difference now there
are three very powerful strategies that
we're going to be talking about at the
summit that you will not find and any of
my youtube videos number one is on
memory I'm going to be showing you
something very cool to dramatically
increase your memory in concentration
that's going to blow you away and number
two I'm going to show you how to
increase your stress tolerance so you
are completely calm all the time alright
and number three and most importantly if
you have a slow metabolism if you've
dyed it for a long time and everything
is kind of just really slow I'm going to
show you how to get complete control
over your metabolism so you can
literally turn up the dial as high as
you want and control as much weight as
you want to lose and these three things
are just a tiny bit of what you're going
to learn in the summit so click the link
below get signed up and I will see you
in October
