hey guys Dr Burke here I have a question
what food triggers ketosis okay what do
you think is it fat protein or
carbohydrates okay any ideas well let me
tell you first of all ketosis is the
process whereby your body is running its
its engine on ketones instead of glucose
okay so that's what ketosis is and a lot
of times people associate a ketogenic
diet with a high F diet thinking that
high fat is going to trigger
ketosis that is not true or protein like
in the Atkins a high protein diet will
trigger ketosis not true it's basically
the absence of glucose okay it's the
absence of
carbohydrate that triggers ketosis so
it's not even a food that will trigger
it's the absence of something it's not
doing something you have to keep these
carbs below 20 gram if you really want
to get into it but for some people it's
like below 50 grams a day all right so
that's what triggers ketosis if you have
too much protein that will nullify it as
well so you don't want to do too much
protein you want to keep a moderate
amount of protein or too much protein
will also uh nullify
ketosis now fat is fairly
neutral however you can do too much fat
and a in a meal or too frequent like a
snack and just for the fact that it
actually triggers your digestive system
can then raise insulin because eating in
general triggers insulin which will then
nullify ketosis so ketosis is a state
where your carbohydrates are very low
and the reason why it works is because
when you have lower glucose or
carbohydrates you have lower insulin so
it's really the absence of insulin
triggers ketosis insulin is the door
that opens the cell to glucose so it
controls glucose so they work together
all right thanks for
watching you I just wanted to take a
moment out to thank you for your amazing
feedback that you guys are giving me
it's just mind-blowing the success is
the wins I created a link down below so
you can actually type out your full
success story and if you have a before
and after with weight loss that would be
awesome and if you don't have a success
with weight but other things just put an
image of yourself and your personal
success story and I would love love to
read it and also share it with others so
I want to just thank you in advance for
doing that but there's a link down below
fill it out and I can't wait to read it
