hi guys Dr Berg here in this video we're
going to talk about vascular
calcification now this is the number one
cause of death in chronic kidney disease
it's also the best predictor of heart
attacks way better than high cholesterol
or anything with LDL so calcification
what happens is the valves the arteries
the aorta is becoming calcified it's
becoming stiff there's no more
elasticity and that leads to you know
heart heart attacks and the other thing
that it will do is it um raises blood
pressure so that's kind of a precursor
and if you're getting blood pressure
from calcification of the arteries your
blood pressure will stay high it doesn't
come down like some types of blood
pressure come up and down this one just
stays High because the arteries are
becoming calcified your your arteries
are basically becoming bone so there's a
key vitamin vitamin K2 responsible for
inhibiting calcification and making sure
that the arteries stay arteries and the
bone stays bone so it drives calcium
from the vascular into the bone itself
so it's good for osteoporosis
osteopenia and U it's a kind of a
calcification inhibitor so vitamin K2 is
always deficient in uh dialysis patients
you know endstage renal failure vascular
calcification they're always going to be
low in vitamin K2 It's relatively new
thing for people people haven't heard
about it but it's probably going to be
very popular in about two or three or
five years from now because it's amazing
actually it it's uh it basically can
reverse hardening of the arteries um so
you want to do your own research on that
now the other thing that works with
vitamin K2 is D3 vitamin D3 is also
always deficient in chronic kidney
disease as well as vascular
calcification and probably the reasons
why it's load in kidney is because D3
the active form of D3 has to be
converted through the kidney and so if
that doesn't happen you're not going to
absorb it so therefore you're going to
have a lot of calcium issues okay uh
where do you get K2 well you can get it
from sauerkraut you can get it from
other fermented vegetables there's also
a fermented soy uh in Japan called NATO
uh you can get that even as a supplement
it's also in all the grass-fed dairy uh
butter cheese um it's in grass-fed meat
it's in grass uh like pasture raay eggs
egg yolk so it's in actually the fatty
foods the very foods that doctors have
been telling people to avoid because of
heart problems which is interesting but
vitamin K2 is an amazing uh
decalcification vitamin and uh if you're
on warrin or Kum koutin which is
basically a blood thinner unfortunately
that blocks this whole process so you're
going to be deficient in K2 so here you
are preventing a clot but then you end
up getting
calcification so it's really a situation
so hopefully the doctor can give you
other options but that is a situation so
I just wanted to summarize if you go to
the doctor and you're checking your
cholesterol levels always have them
check for calcification in your arteries
in the ceds and uh see if it's a
situation and if it is start loading up
with K2 I'll put some links down below
to get some more data thanks what's the
next part what am I gonna say Take Five
do it
and where am I going with this hey if
you're enjoying my videos press the
Subscribe button below and I will keep
you updated on the future events thank
you so much
