hi guys in this video I want to talk
about kind of a missing link to hair
loss and it tear loss due to stress
right people always trying to regrow
their hair but they're not looking at
the deeper root causes one would be
stress and that relates to a hormone a
stress hormone called cortisol okay what
does cortisol cortisol is a stress
hormone that is made by your adrenal
glands those are two little glands on
top of your kidney deep inside and they
react and adapt to stress when your body
goes through too much stress it's very
very destructive on proteins okay it'll
start using proteins as fuel so it'll
start to break down proteins and turn
them into sugar yeah that's why you
always have a blood sugar issue when you
have too much cortisol and even you can
create diabetes
but the point is that if the cortisol is
too high you're going to have protein
loss in the body primarily hair nails
skin collagen if the cortisol is too low
you're also going to lose your hair too
but a little bit differently more like
alopecia which is patches of hair that
are coming out and that's because when
you go through like a severe loss for
example it can shock the adrenal and
then you lose cortisol function which is
an immune function and you start
developing an autoimmune where your
antibodies are attacking it's your own
tissue primarily the roots of the hair
so you can have an autoimmune condition
where it's attacking the roots and
causing patches of hair to fall out but
it's all triggered by a stress event
okay and then first and usually has low
cortisol after that so really we just we
need normal cortisol so there's several
phases antigen catagen and telogen those
are basically phases of growth and
dyeing of hair so an antigen is the
growth of the hair and catagen is the
transition between growth and the
maintaining of the hair and then you
telogen is kind of like where the hair
and then falls off so
all of us normally should lose about a
hundred hairs a day seems like a lot but
that's normal you have a lot of
different hairs in your head so it's not
that much of course I don't know I'm not
suggesting you count them individually
but you could and also a good test is
just to take like sixty hairs and pull
them and have someone pull your
hair and see how many hairs come out
okay so if you're pulling sixty hairs
out of your head just kind of pulling it
not like yanking now you normally it
should be less than six hairs that
should come out okay if it's more than
six hairs then we chances are we
probably have too much cortisol okay
that could be one of the causes so now
what do we do about this okay well
number one we have to remove any type of
external stress whether its
environmental from your job or maybe
it's a relationship problem it's a
family problem you have to do whatever
you can to resolve or improve that
because unless your you handle that
stress this can continue okay that's why
a change of environment changing your
friends and change your family right to
switch out your family with another
family member especially the stressful
ones and you'll be fine next one is
internal stress so that's your body's
like a pin cushion it accumulates stress
and over your lifetime you're a stress
bucket so there are techniques that you
could extract stress from the body I use
a massage slash acupressure technique
I'll put a link down below of a examples
of that okay so that's like working on
the body stress or you can actually take
supplements for stress I'll put a link
down below for that and then you can
feed the hair the nutrition that it
needs because stress depletes vitamins B
vitamins calcium and potassium so that's
interesting and the last thing you can
do is increase growth hormone growth
hormone is the it's kind of like the
thing that's the opposite of course all
growth hormone protects proteins it
helps you with stress it's anti aging
cortisol is aging and makes you get old
it makes your hair fall out makes you
wrinkly so growth hormone is a trigger
by high quality sleep okay so sleep high
intense exercise with lots of sleep and
recovery okay and a good amount of
protein and lastly and most importantly
is intermittent fasting so for you to
take six meals a day is a very very bad
idea you want three meals a day or even
two without any snacks because that
intermittent fasting will then stimulate
growth hormone and it could decrease
cortisol alright so I just want to kind
of give you an overview of what the
effects of cortisol can do on your hair
I hope that gives you a better
understanding thanks for watching Brett
that's it just let me do that over here
press the subscribe button press just
press this button right here subscribe
okay that one right there
just do it right now hey if you're
enjoying my videos press the subscribe
button below and I will keep you updated
on the future events thank you so much
