let's talk about TMJ relief okay there's
three things that I'm going to teach you
today that can give you a tremendous
amount of relief if you search out
information on TMJ you're G to find uh
dangerous treatments actual surgery
which has major
complications drugs people using splints
that really never do anything and maybe
you went to a chiroprator to get it
adjusted uh being in practice for 30
years and working with the jaw and
giving people adjustments to the jaw
I've never once found that to be
successful and simply because it's not
really a bone out of place that just
needs to be put back in the place it's a
combination of a lot of muscle tension
you have a little disc inside the joint
right here you have a lot of things
going on however I do want to say the
number one reason or the root cause of
TMJ from my experience is related to
recent dental work you had some work
done in your teeth and every time you
bite or
chew it throws off the mechanics of your
entire not just your jaw but the muscles
around the jaw the muscles in your upper
neck the muscles that go down the neck
into the shoulders it can create a
Cascade of all sorts of compensations
that can really throw your body off so
if you had recent dental work um go back
to the dentist and have them double
check to make sure that your all your
teeth are fitting perfectly
because just one tooth that's not quite
fitting can create a huge effect on your
jaw now I do want to say one other thing
that I found especially if you have pain
in your right side on the right side of
the jaw right here suspect potential
gallbladder problems why because the
gallbladder being underneath the right
rib cage um is very close to the
diaphragm and there's a nerve in the
diaphragm that if irritated if the
gallbladder is a little bit swollen can
activate this nerve which goes right up
through here to your neck and the
acupressure Meridian system as well can
cross over and cause pain in your right
jaw normally it's going to be in the
right shoulder or the upper back but it
can go right into the right jaw so if
you're working on the jaw for the next
10 years and the real problem is your
gallbladder you're never going to see
change
so whether you have pain clicking
popping let's just dive right into the
three steps okay the first step is
you're going to be first
locating which side it hurts the most
okay let's say for example it's the left
side right through in here and it hurts
right in this articulation right here
what you want to do is you want to
massage okay the opposite side on the
muscles okay and you're going to be
basically work working around the joint
so if it hurts on this side right here
don't massage on that side work on the
opposite side and and so you're going to
basically rub right above the TMJ joint
right through in here and just going to
massage that really good and then you're
going to work below it because there's
muscles too below that joint and you're
going to just really massage that really
good and even right into the joint as
well which is right in the front of that
your opening on your ear right here so
you're just going to massage this and
what you're going to notice when you're
doing this it's going to be very very
very tender like most people haven't
realized how tender it is on the
opposite side where you hurt you start
massaging this area right through and
here up into your skull right through in
here down through here and it's going to
bring relief to this side so that's
number one um I always recommend that
you rate the severity of pain from a
scale from one to 10 and then rate it
after you do this and then ask yourself
uh did the pain shift okay let's say it
went up or went down then you massage on
the opposite side so if the pain went
down you massage it a little bit lower
to the TMJ on that side okay and it
doesn't have to be any specific type of
massage it can be irregular or whatever
you're just going to activate the
opposite side okay so that's step one
all right step two okay and this is
probably going to give you the most
relief you have the buxin nator muscle
and the M muscle okay that comes right
through here
and you're going to massage that okay
now the way you're going to do that is
you're going to put your fingers or a
finger or Thumb in your mouth let me see
if I can show you this a little bit
better when you put a finger up into
your inside of your cheek on this side
what you want to do is you want to come
up a little high okay it's called
Superior you want to press up in here
and press outward right through in here
okay then you're going to angle it to
the mid part and press outward right
right here and then you're going to
angle it a little lower and press
outward right here so we're going on the
inside of the mouth and the outside of
the teeth okay behind a few big muscles
and we're going to gently press up and
out okay and I'll show you on myself
it's going to be very tender okay but
it's going to give you a tremendous
amount of relief because this muscle is
in a constant state of tightness and
spasm so you're going to give uh your
muscles a lot of relief you're going to
do both sides so as you just saw I
pressed upward and then outward and
downward and of course you're going to
spend more time holding that position um
but don't try to push it because it's
going to be very very tender and you're
going to hold those positions until that
muscle relaxes it's going to release and
your jaw is going to feel really good so
let me do it on the other side with my
finger so that would be step two okay so
we're working on the main muscles that
cause your jaw to shut and we're
stretching them a bit to create more
space in your jaw that alone will
probably make you feel really good okay
that's step two and then number three
we're going to exercise the opposing jaw
closing muscles the great majority of
the strength of your jaw is in the
closing action not opening your mouth
okay and so you spend a lot of time
clenching or closing so those muscles a
lot of times are overbalanced and to the
point where they can create uh pain in
your in your joints for this exercise
you want to work on the opposing muscles
the muscles that open your mouth okay so
the way you're going to do this is
you're going to just keep your mouth
shut okay and you're G to hold your chin
and you're G to try to open your mouth
like this and you'll do like three sets
of 10 okay now of course if you do this
in public don't mention my name because
it looks kind of funny when you're doing
this but you're just strengthening the
opposing muscles that have been
overworked again giving your jaw muscle
a chance to balance itself out all right
there you have it go ahead and do this
technique right now and comment down
below if it gives you any relief and if
you haven't seen the video on the right
sided jaw pain that's related to the
gallbladder check it out right here
