hi guys in this video I my goal is to
take this very complex topic and make it
as simple as humanly possible okay so I
don't know if you saw this floating
around the Internet it's this thing
called
mtfr it's a defect in this Gene okay now
genes are many instructions they're like
the blueprints to tell uh cells what to
do what to make and you have this whole
chain reaction in the cell uh you have
the blueprints you have a copy machine
you have literally a copy machine in
yourselves you have a translator you
have little uh little things that help
check for errors then you have a other
machine over here that builds the
different body parts okay well a defect
in this specific
mtfr gene causes a defect in the
mtfr enzyme okay and the function of the
enzyme normally is to convert folic acid
into its active form of folic acid folic
acid is vit vitamin B9 okay folic acid
is the inactive version It's supposed to
normally convert through this enzyme to
the active form called methyl folate and
it has a whole series of actions that
occur after that so basically this
condition is a defect that blocks full
capacity of conversion of the inactive
to the active Form B B9 that's all it
does that's the Simplicity of it okay
and when I when I say full conver verion
I'm saying it might convert somewhat but
it's like 40 to 70% defective so you
make a lot less than you should so it
doesn't convert and that leads to a
whole series of chain reactions that
occur within the cell and I'm not going
to even give you these these names
because it's not important what you
should know is that having a defect in
this Gene will give you a series of
symptoms and if you have these symptoms
then you should go get checked to make
sure that you don't have this because
believe it or not it's quite common but
there's a solution for it um number one
it can affect your heart coronary heart
disease stroke high blood pressure
demension okay it also affects uh the in
natural anti-inflammatory so you end up
with inflammation fibromyalgia achy
joints arthritic type pains okay you
also have the inability to
detoxify in your liver especially heavy
metals
especially iron so if you consume foods
that have heavy metals it can be very
dangerous to your liver in your body
because you lost that function very
important especially living in this
environment you also have the inability
to make the full capacity of
neurotransmitters okay I'm talking about
serotonin dopamine melatonin so that
affects your mood it affects your uh can
cause anxiety cause depression
it can cause uh low dopamine which which
gives you addictions addictions to
alcohol addictions to drugs addictions
to uh cocaine addictions to
smoking um melatonin is all about sleep
you can't sleep that well you
potentially could even get cancer so
there's all these things that happen
right and here you are and you're trying
to fix all this stuff and you don't
really know what's going on it could be
one simple defect of this genetic uh
little Gene thing okay now should go get
test uh tested um let me tell you the
remedy of this okay the remedy is very
simple you need to avoid taking folic
acid because it can build up it's not
converting and that would be in all the
enriched foods that you shouldn't be
eating anyway like the grains um so you
got to just look down the list and see
what foods have folic acid you want to
avoid that you do want to consume the
active form of vitamin B9 called methyl
okay methylate you want to take that as
a supplement you'll start feeling better
and then you want to take uh another
Chain Reaction thing that occurs you
want to take the active form of B12 and
that's called methyl camine okay you
want to take that as well and you want
to avoid gluten you want to avoid all
wheat of course sugar as well you want
to consume dark leafy green vegetables
charred some spinach kale you want to do
that big time because you need to
actually have help to detoxify because
you're not detoxifying 100% and you're
filling up with heavy metals you want to
really have organic food grass-fed
because you can't detoxify there's a
couple other supplements I would get to
help your liver detoxify and that would
be NAC you can find that supplement that
will help the liver detoxify and
glutathion glutathione reduced it's
called so this find something that says
glutathion reduce and take that and
you're going to actually assist your
liver in in the natural detoxification
you'll start feeling better okay so I
just want to create a video on the
Simplicity of what this is and what you
need to do thanks for
watching Press the Subscribe button
press it forget it forget it I'm
done press the Subscribe button and I
will keep you updated on the future
events
