hey guys today we're going to talk about
nine things to make in a minute
fascinating a lot easier one of the
biggest complaints that I hear is boy
intermittent fasting is so hard to do
because I'm so used to eating and I'm
tempted and it's just really difficult
so number one you can actually consume
tea through the day
make sure it's naturally decaffeinated
because all that caffeine can increase
insulin so we don't want to do that but
you can do teas like slippery elm bark
tea you can do liver supporting tea you
know kidney supporting tea you can start
to target different organs with
different types of teas just to support
your body
number two bulletproof coffee that's
gonna allow you to go a long period of
time and if you've never heard about
this before it's basically coffee with
some fat whether it's butter or coconut
oil you blend it up and you drink it and
it will allow you to go a lot longer
than if you just had regular coffee
but just make sure you don't do more
than one cup because the caffeine again
will spike insulin and it'll mess up
your adrenals all right three
electrolytes these are electrically
charged minerals like potassium
magnesium and even calcium and even
sodium that will actually improve
insulin resistance number four apple
cider vinegar this one's really
important right here if you were to do a
tablespoon of apple cider vinegar with
some water and drink that a couple times
through the day this will improve blood
sugars it will also help you if you have
a fatty liver but this is a really
important one number five a kale shake
kale shakes are a great way to
consolidate a kit out blend it you can
either put berries in there and blend it
up to actually offset some of the
bitterness or not even put berries at
all to keep the sugars way down I like
to put lemon wheatgrass juice powder in
there that way it's a little sweet and
that will make this very easy to consume
plus you have all the chlorophyll from
the wheatgrass number six keto bombs at
the meal so if you're doing two meals or
even one meal a day and you prepare some
keto bombs which are
kind of fat cookies and you consume
enough of those it's gonna be really
easy to go from one meal to the next
without having a problem because really
if you are satisfied and you were not
hungry especially at night the chances
of you grazing would be very minimal
number seven more sleep any time a
person is tired they're gonna be
hungrier and they're gonna blood Sugar's
are gonna be off too so even take a nap
that will help you let sleep is a real
key thing to make this easier number
eight exercise exercise can definitely
help your blood Sugar's but here's the
catch 22 if you're just starting in a
minute fasting you probably want to do
walking and it you want to do some
intense exercise make it right around
the meal because you can tap out your
blood Sugar's pretty quick end up with a
low blood sugar and make it very
uncomfortable to do in a minute fasting
and lastly number nine spend more time
while you're eating that meal or two
meals
what last thing I want to do is scarf a
lot of food down your throat too fast
take your time
chew your food let it digest and you're
gonna find that in a minute fasting will
be much better so you don't end up with
some situation where you're bloating and
you're stuffed and you're creating more
stress in the digestive system hey thank
you so much for watching keep spreading
the word and share this video
