the number one superfood in the world is
not this green powder it's red meat now
before you click off just hear me out I
know you've been taught that red meat is
a dirty type of protein red meat
obviously causes cancer right I mean
everyone knows that it's a carcinogen
causes type two diabetes colon cancer
heart disease because all the saturated
fat so why would I ever pick red meat as
being a superfood I have some wild
information to share with you that you
probably have never heard before yes
greens powder does have vitamins vitamin
C K1 betacarotene and if we look at the
vitamins and minerals there's a lot more
there's all the B vitamins there's other
vitamins there's most of the fat cable
vitamins with greens you have magnesium
and potassium you do have a little
magnesium potassium with red meat not as
much with red meat you have more iron
selenium and zinc out of all the
advantages that this green powder has I
think it's the phytonutrients it has a
lot of phytonutrients and that's great
it's very beneficial also there is some
phytonutrients as well in in red meat
depending on if it's grass-fed red meat
will also increase glutathione which is
an antioxidant you'll have some DH and
it has carnosine which also is an
antioxidant that prevents glycation
where you combine a a sugar to a protein
and it creates kind of a sticky protein
but there's something else that protein
has that is the icing on the cake and
probably shouldn't talk about icing but
probably the biggest problem I had was
brain fog I could not wake up until
later in the morning and I stumbled on
this book called mastering the Zone
chapter 2 and it talked about protein in
relationship to countering the effects
of insulin because insulin triggered by
a lot of carbs creates a lot of health
problems the biggest thing that he
talked about was what protein triggered
and that was a hormone called glucagon
and glucagon is not just about losing
weight it's about stabilizing your blood
sugar out of all the things in red meat
vitamins minerals because I took these
as supplements this is what was missing
right here greens powder is incomplete
and very low in protein and this is why
when I was a vegan I was always starving
I was always hungry this is what I was
missing and out of all the foods that
give you the highest quality it's red
meat and of course I'm talking about
grass-fed I'm not talking about
processed meat they don't differentiate
the two and no they have never proven
that grass-fed red meat has caused
cancer heart attacks there is absolutely
zero proof I mean just think about it
how much of your body is protein you got
a lot of muscle did you realize that 30
to 35% of all of your protein is
collagen ligaments tendons connective
tissue like fascia that's like a wets
suit that surrounds everything cell
membranes have some collagen in it your
skin has collagen your bones are 90%
collagen all of your enzymes you have
literally over
74,000 different types of enzymes in the
body they're all proteins all the
neurotransmitters the things that help
you think these come from proteins a lot
of the hormones in the body are made
from protein a good portion of your
blood is protein we also need a lot of
protein for our immune cells or
antibodies our bodies naturally have
this interesting mechanism called
autophagy when you exercise or basically
go on a fast your body goes through
autophagy that's a condition where your
body is recycling old damag tissue for
building blocks for our DNA there's a
few amino acids you have torine which is
high in red meat very low in protein
toine is needed to prevent high blood
pressure then you have another amino
acid called Lucine which is a very
important amino acid to trigger the
synthesis of muscle and then we get this
other interesting thing called gluco neo
genesis the production of new glucose
that happens in the liver some happens
in the kidney but most of it happens in
the liver this is a state where your
body is making glucose out of protein so
in other words if your body needs some
glucose certain tissues need it and they
can't get fed with anything else but
glucose your body has a mechanism to
take amino acids from kind of the
reserve or pool which is usually going
to be in the muscle and turn it into
glucose if you need it so there is a bit
of a reserve of amino acids but if you
if you're not consuming enough high
quality protein you can run into a
problem because the body's going to then
be short on these amino acids and then
it can start tapping into more and more
of your muscle and you can start losing
muscle now the whole point I'm trying to
make is out of all the things that you
eat red meat is at the very very top of
the list and of course it's going to be
vilified by certain people the World
Health Organization did was like you
said looked at hundreds of studies and
put the evidence from those studies
together to show that the consumption of
processed red meats uh was was quite
possibly associated with an increased
risk of a variety of different types of
cancer and that's usually how it works I
found an interesting observation about
health if you find that everyone's
telling you one thing okay especially
established conventional you know
medicine look in the exact opposite
direction for the truth and this
especially goes with this red meat
because what are they telling you about
red meat stay away from it it's going to
kill you the cows are destroying the
planet we have to get rid of all beef
really all right now let me show you
something even more interesting the
first thing is a hypothesis called the
protein leverage hypothesis animals
insects humans will continue to eat
until they satisfy their protein
requirement and this is also data in the
book called The Dorito effect where the
author talks about insects and they'll
keep eating until they get enough
protein I know this with my own animals
my horses for example if you raise a
horse on certain grasses especially in
the spring or the fall they get way too
much carbohydrate and they get fat and
they get all sorts of insulin problems
but really it's a combination of just
not getting enough protein and you know
when you think about it when you consume
this stuff if you notice something very
interesting about all this box food it's
always extremely low in protein and if
it does have protein as an insure or
protein bar what you're going to notice
is the type of protein is extremely low
quality we're talking about milk protein
in the form of this quinate which is a
refined protein soy protein isolates the
worst of the worst but also protein will
increase insulin why doesn't that make
you fat because protein also at the same
time stimulates that glucagon and
glucagon counters the effects of insulin
it helps stabilize the blood sugar if
people have low blood sugar they should
not be consuming candy they should be
consuming protein protein has always
been great for my blood sugar now I just
want to mention a side note on red meat
versus white meat what's the difference
well red meat has something called M
globin that is the type of protein that
helps carry oxygen so there's less my
globin in white meat than red meat and
you also get more iron in red meat and
this is especially good for people that
are anemic and so one more advantage of
having red meat meat than white meat is
if you're an athlete if you exercise and
you want more support for physical
activity red meat is definitely better
than white meat a cow a sheep a goat
they have a unique ability to
concentrate the nutrients from the grass
and turn that grass into amazing healthy
meat now what's even more interesting is
the fiber in the grass cannot be
digested by any of these animals so this
is where we get into the microbes in
their gut they have mult multiple
stomachs they have this huge vat filled
with microbes it's the microbes that
have the enzymes to break down the fiber
the animal provides home for the
microbes and the microbes in exchange
turn that fiber into energy for the cow
protein for the cow as well and a good
portion of those microbes when they die
will be absorbed and digested by the cow
to help the cow get energy not only is
protein the most satisfying
macronutrient but it's also the most
ogenic which means it can help you burn
more calories than fat or carbohydrate
since we are on the topic of red meat if
you have not seen this video about red
meat you should probably check it out it
was really popular
