I want to show you how to clear out your
respiratory mucus which includes
bronchitis mucus with pneumonia
sinusitis any mucus in your respiratory
system with something better than Salt
now I've done quite a few videos on
using salt to get rid of mucus and it's
good but there's something much better
and that remedy is NAC NAC is also used
in hospitals emergency rooms as the
antidote to Tylenol poisoning the
benefits of NAC go Way Beyond mucus
which I'm going to cover but let's just
focus on what it does to your mucus NAC
basically thins your mucus it makes your
mucus less sticky salt will do that as
well by absorbing water into the mucus
but NAC takes it one step further it's a
very potent anti-inflammatory it also is
a very potent antioxidant not only does
it thin the mucus but it also stops the
production of mucus it strengthens the
little hairs the cyia in your
respiratory system that helps move mucus
and not only that it's antibacterial
antiviral and it can even break up
something called biofilms which are
certain microbe colonies that live
within the mucus that are protected
sometimes by either calcium or other
things and there's three ways that you
can take NAC you can take it orally as a
supplement you can get it injected
certain doctors do that or you can
inhale it through a nebulizer and I'm
going to get into a little more details
in a little bit on how to take it and
the reason I'm putting this NAC on your
radar because it does a lot you can use
it for many different things whether you
have mucus from an infection or you have
something called clpd which is chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease where the
lungs are generating a lot of mucus or
even a genetic condition that involves
the lung in mucus called cystic fibrosis
n can come to the rescue and so let's
first touch on what it does for Tylenol
poisoning when someone takes too much
Tylenol what it's going to do it's going
to produce this chemical that's going to
deplete glutathione and without
glutathione your liver goes right down
the tubes you develop liver damage and
the liver can literally shut down NAC
helps build up glutathione in the liver
to protect the liver from breaking down
now why can't you just take glutathione
it just doesn't work you want to take a
precursor to help build up your own
glutathione in your liver the other very
interesting thing about NAC is it helps
enhance brain function because it
crosses the blood brain barrier and it
can act as a very powerful antioxidant
in the brain as well so there's some
pretty uh positive research on using NAC
for alimer Parkinson's obsessive
compulsive disorder certain addictions
to cocaine marijuana and even gambling
depression schizophrenia and just as a
side note if you know someone with
schizophrenia give them high doses of
Nomine that's another remedy for
schizophrenia NAC also apparently
improves insulin Sensi it so what would
that mean that means your blood sugars
are going to do much better you're not
going to develop a fatty liver from all
that insulin you're going to probably
end up with lower blood pressure and
better cholesterol profile so in other
words you'll have less oxidative LDL
also people with asthma take NAC and as
another side note with that if you have
asthma you're going to also benefit from
high doses of vitamin D3 there's even
immune benefits from NAC certain people
with HIV take Nic with good results and
even if you have a Mercury toxicity
apparently ni can act as a key later to
bind the Mercury and pull it out of the
body if we compare salt for mucus versus
NAC for mucus salt is good for acute
infections like some quick results with
your mucus but NAC goes a lot deeper it
handles not just the mucus but the
inflammation behind the mucus also the
oxidative stress it can kind of put the
fire out with that and it can even help
modulate or regulate the immune system
NAC if we do a comparison is just much
better for anything related to mucus in
your respiratory system there's even
reports that NAC is good for
fibromyalgia and also improving eye
problems with certain types of
autoimmune diseases and there's also
things you can take in addition to NAC
to speed things up let me just list the
things that can enhance the NAC effects
if you add vitamin C or or curcumin in
turmeric a probiotic can be very
beneficial magnesium can help the
Airways because it's aaso relaxer and
also you can add coratin which is a
phytonutrient that's usually in onions
but of course I think one of the biggest
things I would add is the vitamin D and
about 20,000 iuse vitamin D is hands
down one of the most powerful things to
help regulate the immune system so you
don't even get this infection in the
first place and if you do you can
overcome the infection pretty quick now
as far as the NAC dosage I would
recommend taking 600 mg three times a
day that would be your dosage and the
percentage of this liquid NAC would be
anywhere between 10 to 20% and you use
that in a nebulizer to create a Mist to
put it into your sinosis inhale it so it
goes down the respiratory tract and into
the lungs however taking orally also
does work you don't necessarily have to
use a nebulizer I wanted to make this
video fairly short to the point no fluff
and since vitamin D is so important with
respiratory infections you should
probably watch this video right here
