so this is Dr Berg and we're going to do
a little video on debugging weight loss
we have Connie with us and I want to
kind of go through kind of your history
um when you were I guess in high school
what did you weigh about 115 for number
of years it's like petite so here you
are going along and then when did you
start noticing that you started to gain
some weight well I had two children and
then
um a relation ship with uh my husband
who was psychotic yeah yeah um started
to just push a lot of stress and um just
trying to survive dayto day
became stuck on survive yeah you were
actually in flight or fight because we
did a little test and your body is in
flight or fight that's that adrenal
stress and so what what age did you
notice that the weight started gain you
started gaining weight well when you
live with someone that has um emotional
disorders um when you're in a safety net
of family there's a feeling of security
at about 34 we'd been married number of
years and the children started to get
older and we moved away from that safety
net of my father's presence and uh it
just became very crazy at that time um
with a lot more happening
um and it just wasn't
uh ever re a relaxed setting it was
always pins and needles you never knew
um how that person was going to react to
anything you did it was like jump
through this hoop
and you know one hurdle after another
but the hurdles always got moved um out
a little further yeah until you were the
one that was led to believe you were the
nut right yeah they make you feel like
you're crazy um and then you so you had
this um marriage that was um not great
actually it was it was terrible so you
had that and then you had um I think it
was like within a matter of was it a
year that you had 19 loss of people that
you lost yes um many people started just
exiting um Aunts Uncles grandparents um
and it was just an incredible number of
people that left this world very quickly
in very rapid succession and um after my
husband's passing um he committed
suicide uh I moved to Ohio to just get
out of Dodge um I couldn't be around
those surroundings any longer I had two
children there in Michigan but um I
needed to leave and in my leaving and
coming to Ohio to work uh there was just
more stress and more changes and uh my
body just wasn't able to cope anymore
and more and more weight every year just
continued to pile on and
um then health issues started to crop up
with well diagnosis of postraumatic
stress disorder which was just from all
of the traumas of my past and living
with this man and then um female issues
uh going forth with uh you know looking
at either having hormone replacement
therapy or um anti-depressants because
of the depression and the mood swings
and the anxiety and it was just you know
they wanted to give me one drug after
another and I just kept backing away
from it because I don't believe in that
type of process that's not for me um I
wanted to do it naturally but naturally
I I went out and walked every day and um
I could try to eat right and nothing was
making the sympathetic system work with
me it was working against me at every
turn yeah you told me about that because
what happened is that you you tried
pretty much everything on the planet and
then um low calorie diets you know low
calorie diets yeah I know it's like well
they say that you know just eat less and
you exercise more you'll be fine um so
you eventually um got to a point where
you're just kind of stuck and uh I think
somehow you kind of stumbled on some of
the videos that I had and then you
you're watching those for a while then
you you came out from Ohio and you're
here for like a week um so what we found
was we you're in flight or fight so we
began to do acupressure uh which is a
stress extraction technique and tell me
kind of what you're feeling as we're
doing this well um I kind of felt like I
was in one of those um those air filled
uh jumping uh bouncy type things or the
I was kind of like zipped into one of
these sumo wrestler suits and I was just
kind of bouncing off the world um I
think I mentioned to you the other day
that no one would go to a sports event
with me because if you sat in the
bleachers with me I was jiggling all the
time I was on constant move constant um
just stress movement yeah um vibration
even even at night I would wake up and
find myself rocking and and moving
because I just didn't feel good in my
skin um it was not a nice place to be
and after the first day here it was like
being unzipped out of that and someone
taking me out of that bouncy
just my body feels relaxed like it
hasn't felt in years wow um it's I know
the trauma is still there and I've
worked through the traumas but now I
feel like I'm
I'm free that's awes it's my body is
responded now M along with um being
stuck that's great because the physical
body is like a sponge and it holds on
the stress and so everyone's focused on
oh change your diet change your diet
exercise more but on top of a body that
is a stress bucket it doesn't work so
basically it's it's a very common story
where you have uh a stress trigger that
is needs to be removed moved so um so if
anyone's trying to lose weight and
you're going along and then all of a
sudden you start gaining weight and it's
not coming off there's always a
something that occurs just before that
in your situation it was living with a
psychopath and you had 19 losses in a
very short period of time that's a
tremendous shock to your system so how
can the hormones work it shuts
everything down so you can be on a diet
forever so um I've had people go on a
vacation removing the out of the
environment from all these people and
eat poorly and lose a ton of weight so
we know the stress will just tear you
down yeah so I think that's great Connie
so um I'm so so glad that you got out
here but uh now we now you can start to
heal you know and you're going to be
able to sleep and well the techniques
that you use here are phenomenal to very
quickly allow that sympathetic nervous
system to let go it's amazing I was
I'm still in awe um because I've done
massages and saunas and anything that I
could do to relax the body but until
this um this has been just amazing
that's great well thank you very much
you're welcome thank you MH
