let's discuss the number one vitamin
deficiency behind tired eyes now you may
automatically think it's your computer
screen which is possibly true but
there's also a vitamin deficiency behind
tired eyes this deficiency can also
create strain eyes it can actually make
your eyes sensitive to light it can
cause a burning feeling in your eyes
make your eyes very irritated feeling
like there's little sand particles in
the when there's not you can make your
eyes water now I had this problem when I
was in my late 20s I wish I would have
known what it was because it was driving
me crazy it created a dryness in my eye
which then created cracking in my cornea
and I had all sorts of eye problems but
this deficiency can create bloodshot
eyes and eventually cataracts in fact
they treat corneal thinning with this
nutrient but what happen when you're
deficient in this nutrient the cornea
it's kind of like a protective shield on
the surface of your eye um starts to
become abnormal specifically the blood
vessels in that layer well can you take
a guess what this deficiency is if you
guess vitamin B2 you are
correct if you're deficient in
B2 you also may feel like your throat is
sore or experience cracking in your lips
especially in the corners and even a red
tongue now in past videos I talked about
uh cracked corners of the mouth being a
vitamin B3
deficiency and a B2 deficiency because
vitamin B2 actually helps vitamin B3
convert from tryptophan into the active
form of B3 so both of these vitamins
could be involved and also vitamin
B2 allows for the conversion of vitamin
B6 from the inactive form to the active
form so if you know anything about
vitamin B6 as well as B3 they're very
very important vitamins and they're
dependent on vitamin B2 you can also
experience uh like migraines or or even
headaches behind the eyes if you're
deficient in B2 well where do you get B2
it's in liver and organ Meats it's in
meat eggs and Fish and Chicken and milk
products like cheese
it's also in green vegetables to a
certain degree but not as much as these
products right here you can also get it
in nutritional yeast and even brewers
yeast and some of your microbes actually
make it and the other question is how do
you become deficient well if your
microbes make B2 and you take
antibiotics that could be one reason
another reason is you consume refined
grains which I lived on all the way up
until it's probably you know mid 20s
especially refined wheat and this is why
in certain countries they fortify grains
or at least refined grains with some of
these B vitamins but of course they're
synthetic also if you're doing like um
refined corn products you know corn
chips corn
tortillas um that can create a
deficiency of B2 not to mention other
vitamins as well sometimes you're more
deficient in B2 if you're a vegan or if
you're a vegetarian athlete because your
mitochondria needs B2
and if you're using more energy you can
use up your B2 reserve and if you don't
have enough you can experience that
another situation would be
hypothyroidism okay and then of course
alcohol that's a given and high amounts
of sugar so if you're a diabetic for
example you may be deficient just
because there's higher levels of sugar
and in the metabolism of sugar you need
B2 as one of the enzymes as well as B1
also if you're under high stress okay
you can use more B2 all right I've just
given you the secret of how to fix your
tired eyes and of course the blue light
from the LED you know computer screens
is a huge Factor now the next most
appropriate video would be on a topic
called uh
EMF electromagnetic fields check it out
I put it right here
