hey guys had another question which was
a confusion between carbs and sugars on
keto so I want to create a quick little
video just to kind of cover these this
topic because it can be confusing
because on the back the label was a lot
of these foods you have the sugar grams
and you have the carbohydrate grams okay
so what are you trying to eliminate well
sugars are carbohydrates okay and there
are the things that are broken down into
the basic elements we have cane sugar
which came from sugar cane so you're
taking out the fiber taking out all the
nutrients and you have this white powder
and then we have grains which is the
seed of a plant and so in that grain you
have fiber you have bran you have the
wheat germ all sorts of vitamins and
then when they grind it up they strip
off the fiber part and they give you
this white flour that's a really refined
grain then you have another seed called
rice which you have wild rice with all
the fiber and everything and then you
have a refined product white rice
without anything but just the pure
carbohydrate each of those has a
different reaction on blood Sugar's and
then you have starches you have potatoes
you have wild yams you have sweet potato
you have you have different forms of
potato you have mashed potatoes french
fries each one has a slightly different
effect on blood Sugar's and then you
have fruits which have a combination of
fructose in fiber and then you have
juice of course if you're taking out a
fiber and you have fruit juice it's
gonna have a much greater impact on your
blood sugars then the actual fruit then
you have berries which have a lower
effect on blood sugars okay they have a
lot more fiber or less sugar and then
vegetables which basically have a lot of
fiber at very low sugar so they're gonna
have a very low effect on blood sugars
you have mushrooms which is considered a
fungus which has a smaller amount of
carbohydrate of course not a lot of
sugar but it does have a little bit of
carbohydrate and then we have nuts which
has a combination of fat protein and
some carbohydrate certain nuts have
different ratios of carbohydrate like
the cashew for example has much more
carbohydrate than the pecan for exam
and then we have seeds the same thing as
a combination of protein fat and some
carbohydrate and of course in the sugar
family we have the beet sugar and the
GABA dextrose high fructose corn syrup
each one of these can have various
effects on blood Sugar's as well so with
keto what we're trying to do was we're
trying to eliminate all the refined
sugars and all the actual sugar grams
like you don't want to consume things
from more than like two grams on the
back of the label you want to keep it
below two grams and best to keep it like
at zero or less than one gram that would
be the best thing then we have something
called the glycemic index which is the
measurement or index of how fast a food
will spike the blood sugars okay and the
whole goal with keto is to avoid spiking
blood sugars and insulin so there's a
thing called the glycemic index which is
a measurement of how fast a food will
raise blood sugars okay now grains are a
lot higher on the glycemic index than
actual cane sugar which is interesting
so you want to avoid grains all grains
even oatmeal avoid it okay and then we
have starches which are also very high
on the glycemic index we want to avoid
those potatoes and things like that okay
and then we get fruits and the problem
with fruits are just too high in sugar
and a lot of the fruits nowadays are
hybrids which means that they're bred
with higher amounts of sugar and then we
get to these things called berries which
are similar to fruits they do have some
sugar but they have a much lower
glycemic index and a higher amount of
fiber now within the berry family I
would recommend blackberry
and raspberries instead of strawberries
and blueberries because they're lower on
the glycemic index okay and then we
talked about vegetables and these are
totally acceptable because they're very
low on the glycemic index have a lot of
fiber even though their carbohydrates
now mushrooms very low on the glycemic
index even though there's some carbs
okay nuts low on the glycemic index just
make sure you avoid cashews
and then we have seeds another food that
is very low on the glycemic index and
then you have other products like
kombucha tea so when you're reading
labels you really want to make sure you
don't just look at the carbs look at the
sugar grams because the certain kombucha
tea has like six grams sometimes ten
grams if you were to consume kombucha
tea purchase the ones that are like two
grams or less and of course salad
dressings have hidden sugars okay so
read the not just the carbohydrates but
the sugar grams on the salad dressing
and try to get those that have less than
one gram that would be the idea of seen
so when you're doing keto make sure that
the sugar grams are as close to zero as
possible and when you're looking for
carbohydrates it really has to do with
the type of carbohydrates and the effect
that it has on the glycemic index you
want to stick with mainly vegetables a
small amount of berries maybe a half of
a cup to a cup mushrooms are fine nuts
are fine seeds are fine alright thanks
for watching so if you're enjoying these
videos click share and spread the word
