not only did he fast for 5 days but he
ran five complete marathons but not only
that he was a type 1 diabetic I brought
him on today to talk to him on how the
hell he did it and how he survived I
would argue it's more difficult to get
into ketosis a type one because we have
to inject insulin a fat burning body has
to have low insulin levels in order to
release the fat do they ever advise to
go 5 days without any
food I think you know the answer to
that so I have a fascinating interview
today I mean this is going to be a
bizarre interview because here's a
person a doctor Dr Ian Lake who did some
wild wild crazy things that he probably
shouldn't even have survived this but
what he
did not only did he fast for five days
but he ran five almost complete
marathons 100 miles in five days but not
only that he was a type one diabetic so
I brought him on today to talk to him on
how the hell he did it and how he
survived welcome Ian thanks for coming
on Hello thank you nice to meet you nice
meeting you so first of all you're a
medical doctor you're a type 1 diabetic
if we take a look at like the the main
consensus of the medical community with
type one um do they ever advise to go
five days without any
food I think you know the answer to that
um it's very difficult to persuade um
anyone to um ask us to fast and Skip one
meal so um I was trying to work out a
workaround for uh how we can convince
people that one meal skipping would be
safe so this was an extreme version of
skipping a meal
really you know to to prove this point
um you you went to the extreme and you
did this with how many
people uh eight people eight people did
this so you you basically uh did a
combination of a few things that were
very difficult to do on their own let's
first talk about how many calories you
actually burned within 5 days was it
roughly about what 20,000 calories yeah
it was roughly 20,000 calories so we
worked out how many calories we'd need
to if you believe in the glycogen
storage depletion idea to exhaust our
glycogen storage tfold to make
absolutely sure we were in ketosis so we
worked out about 20,000 calories would
be required I think we used a little bit
more than that from memory but we didn't
actually physically record it um the the
other thing we wanted to do really was
to um show how safe um nutritional
ketosis really is so we wanted to put
ourselves into very deep ketosis so that
was the rationale for doing this ready
okay so so just to back up on U just for
those people that don't know what the
word um glycogen is you depleted your
glycogen that's just the stored sugar in
your liver right so when you when you
exercise you're going to use that as
fuel and then after that's gone you're
going to tap into your fat reserves
right exactly yeah yeah so um typically
first let's start with a diabetic what
is the difference between a type one and
a type two someone with type one
diabetes cannot produce their own
insulin in enough volume to maintain
blood sugar because one of the key
features of insulin functions of insulin
is to reduce blood sugar and keep blood
sugar at at an even rate um and someone
with type 2 diabetes has more than
enough insulin in fact most people with
type 2 diabetes have too much insulin
and theirs is due to an overfueling
issue such that their body cannot handle
the amount of fuel that they're putting
into their bodies mostly carbohydrates
so there's a big difference between the
two conditions type ones we need to
inject insulin because we don't produce
any and in type twos they need to adopt
a lifestyle strategy that naturally
reduces the amount of insulin they're
producing so they're not at all
comparable conditions so if insulin
lowers blood glucose and a type two has
high insulin shouldn't they have low
blood glucose they become insulin
resistant this is the problem people
with type 2 diabetes um the various
ideas on it but their fat cells sort of
stop the body sort of taking on more fat
and they become resistant to the amount
of insulin they've got because as well
as lowering blood sugar insulin is a
hormone that stimulates fat deposition
so it's a fat storage hormone as well as
a glucose luring hormone and the two
things work together so in order to
lower blood sugar you either exercise or
you you put it into your into your liver
initially and then into your adpo tissue
or fat tissues as fat so we think of is
insulin as a glucose lowering hormone
and a fat storage hormone primarily okay
so when someone um is a type one they
don't have the insulin to regulate blood
glucose so what's what's going to happen
when they start exercising and not
eating they don't have fuel they
obviously they they have to tap into
their fat reserves right um and um talk
a little bit about that as well as a
really key issue which is is um adapting
to running on fat or ketones explain
that process our body can multifuel so
we can use sugars and we can use um fats
for our fuel and of course fats will
break down into Ketone bodies and we can
use Ketone bodies as fuel as well so in
the ideal situation our bodies can flick
between whatever fuel they need for the
requirements at the time so whether you
have type 1 diabetes or not if you're
performing exercise as like a Sprint
without any Oxygen you will have to use
glucose for your for your energy source
but if you're doing a more aerobic or
more relaxed um uh amount of physical
activity you're burning oxygen and you
can choose really whether you're using
um glucose or fat as your fuel however
um you're limited a little bit as to how
you can select your fuel because if you
have too much insulin on board you're
blocking fat burning so fat burning is
impossible if you've got too much
insulin on board now people do burn fat
when they are exercising and there's
this fat burning Zone which is otherwise
known as Zone 2 because there's a
hormone that called hormone sensitive
lipase which is which um enables fat to
be burned and that is also stimulated by
um uh lowering insulin or adrenaline
cortisol growth hormone things like that
so stress hormones will release that but
if you have too much insulin it will
override those hormones and block fat
burning so then you become entirely
dependent on on glucose so most people
with type 1 is will be dependent on
glucose because they're not encouraged
to burn fat so we tend to have too much
insulin on board so our bodies are
multifuel we can flick between fuels as
we need them and if we if we're fat
adapted all that means is that your your
fueling choice for your for your just
your food will be low carbohydrate so
low carbohydrates um require less
insulin in to to either be injected or
for your own body to ruce insulin
because because as type 1es we're
exactly the same as people with with no
diabetes and our insulin requirements
except we just know how much insulin a
non-diabetic body would need for the
same for the same requirements so a fat
burning body um has to have low insulin
levels in order to release the
fat am are you still with me that yeah
so basically um in order to get into the
fat burning we must lower insulin that's
really the key factor right exactly so
then then we can free up the fat burning
and and when we're adapted and takes
about 2 to three weeks to fully adapt
some people would say it takes even
longer and then the your body will
naturally burn fat quite happily produce
Ketone bodies and have a very low
requirement for sugar the important
thing about glucose or sugar is that we
don't need to eat sugar in order to
produce it our body will produce more
than enough for our requirements and
obvious example of that is those poor
people that get pulled out of disaster
zones like earthquake zones and they
haven't eaten for six or seven days but
they haven't expired because they are
producing enough energy for their body
requirements some of which will be sugar
so we we we respect the fact that our
body is multifuel and we wanted to show
in this um 100 mile run that we can
safely use um Ketone bodies and fat as
fuel and have no requirement for insulin
uh sorry no requirement for sugar at all
incredible okay so um there are a lot of
people they're trying to um lose more
weight they're plateaued you know I've
been telling people the most you can
lose per week is two pounds of fat uh
that's if you're healthy but this
experiment that you did if I'm not
mistaken correct me if I'm wrong but I
think um on average um all of you lost
about what almost almost seven pounds of
fat in five days right yes okay so um to
get into this keto adaptation obviously
you're going to have to either lower
your carbs and of course fasting is
lowering your carbs yes and um and then
on top of everything else you're
exercising so if someone were even to
think about doing a
fast do you have to um work up to it I
mean you're not going to just start
running and not eating right away I mean
you're going to have to you said it
takes um weeks to get into the keto uh
adaptation more or fat
adaptation um tell us a little bit about
how someone can work on getting
themselves into the keto adaptation
state is it just a matter of low carbs
or do you have to maybe combine fasting
at the same time both are very useful to
do um the only way you're going to
produce ketones being ketosis is to burn
fat and and and ketones are a natural
product of fat burning so in order to
fat burn you have to lowerer your
insulin in order to lower your insulin
you have to reduce the the main fuel
that stimulates insulin namely
carbohydrates so carbohydrates are the
prime driver in our diet for insulin
production so cutting down your
carbohydrates is is very important and
severely restricting your carbohydrates
to what we call the ketogenic zone so
your body has then to burn fat you have
to force your body into fat burning
that's around about 30 to 50 gram of
carbs a day which is about a tenth of
what most people would naturally eat
right it it's not difficult to do but
you have to sort of you have to
concentrate on it especially if you're
um you you like sugar or you're a little
bit addicted to Sugar it takes a little
bit more willpower um don't forget when
your insulin levels drop um naturally as
a result of not eating carbohydrates you
will actually um urinate a little bit
more because your your insulin will
enable your body to excrete salt or
sodium
and with the salt goes the water so it's
important to replace the fluids and just
drink more some people say constipation
is an issue fluids are very very good
for that and it doesn't last it only
lasts a few days if if at all and the
other thing is you may need to think
about replacing some of your salt
magnesium sodium you know table salt or
whatever because of this salt excretion
caused by the the lower levels of
insulin and after that it's pretty
straightforward you go into ketosis
within within days um type ones we can
go into ketosis after the first meal
because we have to inject our insulin so
we don't have to wait for it to reduce
in some ways um
and fasting is is useful because it
makes you much more insulin sensitive so
if you're fasting you become more
sensitive the insulin you've got so
you'll naturally be be more able to get
into ketosis and that's it really um one
of the big breakthroughs I had so when I
learned about the ketogenic diet just
completely by accident thank goodness
through the internet you know I'm a
medical professional I've never heard of
it in in the training materials that
we're given um I started doing a half
marathon a month I thought that was good
for me because I'm not really an athlete
in many ways I'm just an enthusiastic
jogger and I thought well if I do a half
marathon a month as Keo that'd be a
great experiment so the first two I
actually fueled up with with with
protein bacon eggs or whatever and I
thought well you've got to have some
energy before you start running you know
that's what we're all was told you got
to carb up you know you got to have your
pasta and your bananas or whatever if
you're carbing up so I thought well I'll
have that and then I got involved in the
bulletproof coffees which were a bit of
a fat at the time in the sense of butter
and coconut oil in your coffee and then
on the third one finally finally you
know stupid me I thought well why am I
actually giving myself energy before I'm
running filling my stomach up and they
diverting blood flow away from my
muscles if you like when I'd worked out
that with my body fat Mass I had 85,000
calories of fat and I have a body mass
index of
23 uh plus I have um so 85,000 calories
I have 17% fat Mass so it worked out
about 85,000 I think so that's our
average sort of fat mass and um so I
thought well why can't I just burn the
fat that I've got or I take it in if you
see what I mean so it took a while to
get out of the habit of doing physical
activity for pH doing s sorry fueling up
for physical activity I thought well
I've got the fuel all I all I'm doing is
just burning it at probably you know my
slow jogging speed twice the rate that
I've burning it when I'm walking so it
wasn't a big deal to think well you can
fast actually when you're doing physical
activity of course that that that was
wonderful from the point of view of type
1 diabetes because there's none of this
complicating worry about injecting
insulin when you're having carbs so that
really freed things up so on top of that
I well let's just extend the half
marathon and try to just sort of nudge
the envelope to to put Beyond doubt this
concern that type ones need insulin U
need car carbohydrates if they're taking
insulin and put Beyond doubt the fact
that if you're in nutritional ketosis
it's not a risk for what's called
diabetic keto acidosis which is a very
severe complication of type 1 diabetes
and the two aren't the same thing but
they're often confused by by clinicians
as as as
nutritional ketosis will lead to
diabetic keto acidosis oh okay so let's
talk about this because this is a
complex topic we'll simplify it tell us
in simple terms to a fifth grader what
is keto
acidosis okay so if your body is not
producing insulin at all um you cannot
then um put glucose anywhere so any food
that you eat or any sugar that your body
is producing natur natur Al um cannot be
put into cells actively so you can't get
rid of sugar in the blood so if the
sugar can't be removed from the blood
into the cells the cells are relatively
starved of energy so then because
insulin is not existent so this is a
type one problem it's it's purely a type
one problem if insulin is not existent
then you you cannot store fat you have
to burn fat so not only do you get build
up a blood glucose but you get a runaway
fat burning now ketones normally feed
back on all of this process and stop the
KE stop themselves Rising all the time
but if you've got no and they make the
body produce more insulin but if you got
no insulin you can't stop that process
so you get a combination of high blood
sugar high ketones which the body tries
to vent by getting you to breathe them
out or pee them out and and also you
pass a lot of urine because your your
sugars in in your kidneys is so
concentrated it drags the fluid out with
it and that makes you thirsty so um that
becomes a medical emergency um even
people like myself who are in
nutritional ketosis are a risk because
sometimes if you get a septicemia or a
very severe infection it means you need
a huge amount more insulin and a lot of
us are a little bit resistant to taking
that so for example when I had covid
which was only like a cold for me
luckily uh my insulin requirements went
up from 20 units a day to 60 units a day
if you mean so so person with no
diabetes would have the same insulin
requirement and but they would not go
into keto acidosis because they've got
natural insulin on board to protect
themselves we have to inject it so it's
totally different to nutritional ketosis
which is just a a lowering of the natur
of the insulin that you inject or your
natural insulin and and it's just a
regulated process if you got insulin in
your body sufficient you will not going
to diabetic keto acidosis so the risk of
getting keto acidosis really is if
you're diab IC and you do forget to take
your insulin yes an average person a
healthy person starts a ketogenic diet
and someone mentions well usually you're
G to see this in the news oh yeah you're
gonna you might develop keto acidosis
that's pretty much a myth yes 100% it
doesn't it doesn't um it doesn't work
with the science got it yeah I know I
I've seen that so many times um now as
far as um this adaptation into just keto
adapted or fat adapted you work with
patients I'm guessing you probably help
them with their getting on a ketogenic
diet I'm guessing um do you find that
some people have a harder time fasting
for a longer period of time than others
or is that dependent on insulin
resistance and it's just a matter of
time and and and doing it over a period
of time where they can go longer and
longer without eating or what's your
experience on that my personal
experience of fasting was that it was
quite difficult in the early stages it's
difficult getting through the first 24
hours because I think psychologically
you you're you're geared to have a hard
time you think you're going to have a
hard time uh and and I think when your
body suddenly gets this shock of not
eating um you know it makes you want it
makes you hungry and and but I think
most of it is psychology um and
certainly when I did my first fast I was
lying around in the afternoon you know I
started my fast in the morning think oh
pull me I'm hungry I must drink and I'm
feeling weak but after day two and three
you get used to that effect and it
becomes it becomes normal and from day
two onwards um with subsequent fast
there's no hunger at all and the choice
to break the fast was just really you
you got to eat at some point if you see
what I mean so subsequent fast became
much easier to do um and um because you
were aware of the changes in your body
the trick was to dial down your insulin
because you were not requiring as much
insulin when you were fasting so the
trick was to get the insulin levels down
to to a safe level for you to not have
high pose when you're exercising but it
was not difficult to do okay and then
what about so then we put this layer on
top of fasting this
exercise um you know people are they
have this idea that they have to eat
like like you mentioned they have to eat
to get the energy to exercise but once
your keto adapted after some weeks you
probably can then exercise and fast at
the same time
and um get your fuel from
fat that's exactly what I do all the
time it's so much easier to to manage
physical activity when you're fasted I
mean if you think about it the wild
animals I mean you never see an eagle uh
flying to hunt if it's if it's not
hungry I mean we tend as humans to go
and get our food when we we're hungry
because there's more of a desperation to
go and get it so and then we will eat
our food satiate ourselves and then and
and then you know we we're just
naturally lazy aren't we humans so we
wouldn't actually go out if we've got a
covered full or if if our tum is are
full so I I don't think it's unusual to
be exercising when you're fasting and
because you have such a store of fat in
your body you know it's it's 85,000
calories compared to say 2,000 calories
of of stored sugar which is there more
for uh you know sudden energy
requirements um it it you don't need to
worry about burning you know a couple of
thousand calories of fat which will be
around 20 miles of of of walking or
running and you'll put that back on
again when you when you get your food
source so you're not talking of
depleting your energy source to any
significant amount so I think that is
the key to it you just have to
understand that nothing's going to
happen in in a two three days five days
of fasting the reason we didn't go
further than five days was because we
were starting to worry then about are we
going to start breaking down protein
because at some point you're going to
run out of your sugar stores and you're
going to start to need to burn another
fuel to get the sugar that your body
naturally needs to produce so we wanted
to restrict it to 5 days so we were we
were pretty sure we wouldn't be burning
any any protein because at some point
you're going to be burning your muscle
mass or your protein stores and and we
we generally think that muscle mass is
is is use useful to have have more of
than less of so we didn't want to get
into the situation where we were
criticized for starving ourselves
because this wasn't star it was sort of
starvation because we weren't eating but
it wasn't what I would call serious
starvation because we were controlling
the fat burning and not encouraging
protein um degradation we had some
breath testing to to show that we're in
fat burning mode our our respiratory
quoti test and it showed that all of us
were in fat burning mode all of the time
so was quite good and then you also
tested your Ketone so typically I know
there's a couple different values um um
but the the values that they use in in
the US would be probably a little more
helpful but if you're just doing a low
carb diet you're going to be within a
certain range what like maybe3 to maybe
one to maybe two and then you start
fasting you're going to be higher if you
had exercise you're going to go higher
can you can you just tell me roughly
kind of how that works a little bit
yeah so 75% of people with type 1
diabetes are in the range 0.5 to 1.5
that's the blood ketones be that's
that's pretty average I would argue it's
more difficult to get into ketosis a
type one because we have to inject
insulin and we tend to have to use more
insulin because we put it into the skin
and it doesn't act as as naturally as it
does in some of no diabetes so that does
tend to block a bit of fat burning but
we can get safety into
ketosis when we did the run my ketones
went up to six five and a half six or
something like that for a couple of days
and my other friend John the other type
one who was running with me uh he's went
up to around about the same we wanted to
test ketones twice a day for 5 days and
we wanted every one of the the eight uh
participants to do the same because we
wanted to show that you don't go into
deep diabetic keto acidosis if you're in
nutritional ketosis so when we pulled
the graph of eight people twice a day
for five days and just did bar chart you
could not tell the type ones from the
non-type ones out of that group of eight
so we we we were confident that we were
in the same nutritional ketosis State as
our non-diabetic peers the other
interesting thing that I I heard or I
read in your your website that um as far
as you would think that uh people would
get extremely
and very very have to you know really
have to spend more time
recovering wasn't there a point about
there was there was not much soreness
going on which is very
unusual it was unusual when we started
we were we were pretty confident that
we'd be okay when we started um it was a
bit tricky in the early stages but not
one of us had any injuries at all and
none of us had recovery problems uh we
all managed every single day to to
complete our task
and none of us had any aches or pains
the next day which was remarkable but
last year about this time of year I did
a 150 mile run in a week it was along
the canal network of Britain so it was
flat and and equally it was keto is I
was on a keto diet then I wasn't fasting
but equally I had no injuries or no
soreness at all it seems to me that the
anti-inflammatory effect of ketones is
is is very powerful with in sport and
I've met lots of people I've interviewed
a professional Rugby Union player uh in
the UK and he said when he went keto he
was a type had type 1 diabetes he had
his best year as far as injuries went in
the year after he started his diet so
there's something about keto which is is
anti-inflammatory and and good for
Recovery fascinating what's the uh
longest you ever like I know um you know
we're talking about 100 miles or 150
miles what's the most you've ever ran
and uh over period of days I guess in a
row well that was the uh in a the
longest distance I've ever run is 35
miles that's the longest I've ever run
that's in one day one day that was a run
walk rather than the run more like an
ultramarathon type of thing uh mostly I
just do 10K 15K I'm not I'm not a great
fan of long distances in that sense um
you know I I'm not worried about doing
20 miles a day it wouldn't worry me but
um it takes a lot of time to keep
practicing for that so I'm a bit lazy in
that sense I mean you're pretty a lean
guy right yes so you and and you still
had how many calories of fat on your
body with your lean body mass well I had
a normal body fat mass for for my type
and and it was 85,000 calories 85,000
calories and someone who doesn't have a
weight problem so that's plenty of extra
energy to be able to you know do this
activity I think that's exactly it isn't
it it's just getting the mindset right
and as I said it was a it took me quite
a long time to realize that I can
actually do physical activity without
without fueling it first I could fuel it
when I was doing it and not have to
worry and that is so freeing especially
anyone here have type one diabetes you
don't have to worry so if someone came
up to me said now would you like to go
for a run or would you like to go for a
cycle ride and say yes let's go I
wouldn't say oh my goodness what am I
doing with my insulin I'd obviously
check it and I'll carry sugar glucose if
I needed it but I wouldn't I could go I
wouldn't need to prepare for it and it's
that spontaneity certainly in type one
that is so freeing for people wow when
people do marathons I know they um they
consume I guess it's called is it called
goo or this gel it's some type of starch
or or glucose that creates a lot of uh
digestive issues and a lot of side
effects when they're running I I've
heard anyway I don't know if you've
observed that certainly I mean before I
went into the ketogenic lifestyle diet I
I used carbs the same way as everyone
else because no one had told me and
obviously the conventional way of
managing diabetes with physical
activities to manage your insulin on
board which is the big problem so if you
got too much insulin on board which most
of us have most of the time because of
the way we inject it under our skin not
into a natural space um You're
vulnerable to host so the the protocol
for managing type one sports is to
reduce your insulin even the night
before and add carbohydrates to your
fueling regime 60 grams of carbohydrates
per hour is recommended and imagine
trying to eat that much when you're
trying to to do physical activity
because you know as stomachs really
should be empty even my mom told me you
know when I was eight that I shouldn't
go swimming after after a meal because
our bodies don't we can't exercise as
well when we've got fuel uh in our gut
really it needs to be in in the right
place so it's so much easier yes and and
you don't have that anymore that's not
an issue if you do happen to go hypo
it's it's six grams of carbs or
something it's absolutely nothing
there's a lot of different versions of
Keto I'm just curious what kind of um
plan are you on now or in the past yeah
I I I go
from different ideas to different ideas
at the moment I'm more carnivore than I
have been for a while um I will eat
green leafy vegetables and salads I do
eat fish and dairy nuts I'm a little bit
wary of because I think they cause
insulin resistance some of the nut oils
in in me personally um and probably some
of the oxalates cause joint pains a
little bit wary of that um I I avoid all
seed oils of any sort and um obviously I
don't I don't eat sugar or or anything
like that I I do take Dairy I find that
milk and cream aren't very good but
cheese is okay and and for some reason
yogurts seem to be okay so it's a mixed
diet at the moment tending to carnivore
I can never make my mind up on protein
I'm still the jur is out for me on
protein I've been doing the Burnstein
type of more protein than fat type of
thing for a while and then I felt that I
don't know I mean I've gone more fat
than protein for now but I always stick
roughly within I'm 75 Kg and I last time
I I estimated the amount of protein over
a week it was 100 grams of protein per
day so
1.2 uh grams of protein per kilogram of
ideal body weight most people would say
.75 to one so it's on the higher side
but um yeah that's what I do I I find
that some foods certainly the leafy veg
can be a little bit Carby and you have
to be a little bit more careful with
your with your blood sugar control I do
find that meat fish eggs um are the
easiest foods to use there's no doubt
about that but but you know but but I do
eat um a variety of foods as well um
alcohol I've gone off it Strangely I
used to drink like red wine prco I love
beer but I can't drink it anymore I'll
have probably two two glasses if I'm out
on a nice summer's day with friends or
something because that's just what you
do you know especially in the UK take a
h you have to live your life that's
right sunny in the UK yeah and um but
alcohol I find just my body tells me I
don't need it but I have drunk it in the
past and I I will drink it but it's not
something that features heavily in my in
my diet anymore you used to more five
six years ago probably yeah me me too I
I I can't tolerate any any more than a
sixpack on a weekend I can't tolerate
any more than that but um no I don't I
don't drink at all anymore but uh wow
this has been fascinating I think um um
I want to send a lot of people to your
website I'm going to put your link down
below but thank you for coming on and I
really appreciate this these insights on
this crazy thing you did which actually
is not very crazy you know it goes
against what's called what medical
wisdom which I don't even think is
wisdom right it's just again the certain
fixed ideas that the medical profession
has that end up you know not being 100%
true so uh this has been fascinating
thank you so much thank you very much
thank you
