hi guys I wanted to give you a tip today
on the cardiovascular system and talk
about atrial fib you should never take
calcium supplements if you have atrial
fib okay in fact if you have any
cardiovascular issues
I wouldn't take calcium as a supplement
because the calcium supplements are
associated with the 3.9 x increase risk
of getting atrial fib and if you already
have atrial fib you can worsen it by
taking calcium and even one of the
medications are used for blood pressure
is calcium channel blockers okay now 800
milligrams of calcium supplements can
also increase cardiovascular events
that's heart attacks by 85% okay so
don't take calcium if you're at risk for
heart problems or if you already have
heart problems if you have atrial fib
that's more of a potassium and magnesium
deficiency I'll put a link down below
now don't worry about the dietary
calcium for example from cheese because
that does not create the same effect and
if you're going to take calcium always
take vitamin d3 and k2 to allow the
calcium to be mobilized through the body
so it doesn't deposit in places that it
shouldn't hey if you haven't already
subscribed press the button below and I
will keep you in the know hey that runs
