[Music]
in 1996 I was a firstr draft pick to the
Minnesota Vikings
unfortunately by the end of my career as
an NFL football player three of my
original teammates Orlando Bobo Cory
Stringer and Orlando Thomas had died
they died from Strokes from heart
attacks and also from kidney and liver
failure and I know that all this was
brought by the harsh drugs that we took
the anti-inflammatories the painkillers
as well as the adrenal stress caused by
years and years of pushing our bodies to
its physical limit so when I got to the
end of my career I started to suddenly
gain weight I went from 265 lbs being in
great shape to 3155 pounds and I
realized that my energy had declined my
motivation had declined I was depressed
I noticed I was getting sick a lot more
and I knew I had to do something and
once I found out that hard work plus
recovery equals the ultimate goal then I
was able to implement this program set
forth by Dr ber he used exercise devices
that could actually tell me what my body
needed and by learning about what my
body needed I was able to actually work
smarter not just harder and within a
matter of four weeks I was able to lose
45 lbs get back down to my original
playing weight I had energy that I never
thought I would have again I was
sleeping better and now I know for a
fact that all the lifestyle choices that
I made during those years there was a
way for me to actually repair the damage
that they had did and now I live a
lifestyle that's healthy I eat the right
foods I can actually train and even
actually plan to pursue my career back
in the NFL even after 10 years so I want
to thank Dr Berg for his program and the
success it's given me
