hey guys in this video we're gonna
answer the question do I recommend
bulletproof coffee okay and the answer
is yes and no so let's talk about that I
think in the beginning of your program
with imminent fasting it is awesome
because it allows you to go from this
point the to this point without doing a
breakfast okay so we can lower insulin
but here's what you need to know you're
using coconut oil or butter with the
coffee and even know it's zero on the
glycemic index the fact that it has some
calories can stimulate insulin a little
bit in the stomach okay in which case if
you're doing this for a period of time
let's say you're into it for a month or
six weeks and you find that you're
plateauing because your metabolism is
very very low then we just cut out that
fat and just do coffee and maybe a
little cream or half-and-half okay so
that is my answer but if you have a
higher metabolism and everything is
working keep doing it not a problem but
use it as a tool to help you get from
this point to this point thanks for
watching so Karen and I are gonna create
some more recipes but we wanted to know
what recipes are you interested in okay
click the link and let us know
