it was funny cuz like our CTO sergy like
sent me a message on slack and he's like
uh Claude oh my God and he's a very
highly introverted individual doesn't
get very emotional hardly ever um so for
him to say that I'm like okay he came
across something pretty interesting and
and he showed me you know he's like my
God you got someone that is getting 91
medications and then you've got a bunch
of them in the 60s and the 50s and
overall on average I think the number we
came up with an average of 48 wow this
has got to stop what's happening in a
living homes and the number of
medications that these patients are on
is just mind-blowing to explain this I'm
going to interview right now the CEO of
a company that sells software to manage
the medications involved in patients in
assisted living homes as we got a
sampling of of a 100 residents it was
pretty astonishing what we saw and it
was funny because like our CTO sergy
like sent me a message on slack and he's
like Claude oh my God and he's a very
high introverted individual doesn't get
very emotional hardly ever um so for him
to say that I'm like okay he came across
something pretty interesting and he
showed me you know he's like my God you
got someone that is getting 91
medications and then you've got a bunch
of them in the 60s and the 50s and
overall on average I think the number we
came up with an average of 48 yeah when
I heard that I literally fell off my
chair because see I was under the
illusion that maybe six at the very most
10 but 48 medications that's the average
and there was someone that had 91
medications correct correct oh my gosh
Eric imagine the caregiver that has to
manage 91 medications every day or maybe
every other day some are given Monday
Wednesday Friday something like that but
just trying to keep track of those along
with probably taking care if it's a
large facility you know maybe 5 10 15
other people as well incredibly
incredibly it's just mind-blowing what's
happening you evaluated halil's uh
centers and what did you find with his
numbers as far as medications once they
get on his program I'm sure it's a
little bit less than
48 it definitely brought a smile to my
face because typically kind of being
within this industry as well because I
used to own three locations as well
there's usually one Trend and that Trend
goes upwards in terms of prescribed
orders it doesn't drop so looking at at
how's data it it really was just like a
breath of fresh air you know in October
2023 um his resident had a total of 47
uh prescribed medications as of July
2024 dropped down to 25 that's a 47%
decrease and that's something that is
just you don't see I was pretty excited
writing out this
emot um because this is this kind of
stuff that you just um this is what you
want to see right and it's encouraging
this is really exciting and and what's
unique about halil's facilities is that
he focuses more on diet and he actually
gives people real food and he doesn't
feed them what traditionally is fed
which is institutional Foods alra
processed foods is there any special
diets going on is there anything any
emphasis on diet uh in these homes
generally there's not a low carb diet or
we need to keep sugar away from them or
anything like that it's very medically
focused for a particular condition not
an overall health diet is ever described
we've never seen anything with regards
to low carp or having an emphasis on
maybe okay you are you're at this stage
right now let's try to get you away from
that and get you towards a a better a
better healthier stance whether it's
weight loss or just maybe getting offl
of meds you don't see that it's it's a
track box and make sure you have it
completed and that's about it in these
assisted living home uh centers they're
they're dealing with I would say
dementia is like one of the top things
is that correct by far I saw statistic
that 42% of all residents in assisted
living in the United States have
dementia if we just look at the cost of
care with dementia it's a bit expensive
on an average person right I mean
taxpayers plus the out of pocket for the
family have to spend a lot of money is
that true for for the lifetime of
dementia care I've seen figures between
800,000 and a million and a half per
person incredible consider all expenses
incredible and it's only getting higher
as well does any of those uh family
members ever get to go home because they
no longer need hospice we've had nine
people actually move back home wow um
dementia is a more challenging condition
and one that really
needs effective treatment or prevention
early on as you probably know Eric the
dementia starts in your 30s and 40s it's
not just suddenly hits you in your 60s
or 70s
um so if you wait a really long time
it's going to be hard to reverse the the
brain heals slower than the body but you
do see memory improvement even in the
people we don't send home we see
improved uh scores on the mocha and
slums test wow I would imagine the diet
for people in assisted living is the
exact same thing in nursing homes as
well as in hospitals I would agree as
well as our Public Schools I think and
our prisons um it stems from the FDA
food guidelines in fact that's what they
use as Guidance with the CDC and with
our Arizona Department of Health so the
the trick is we need to change the
guidelines at the source and you'll see
it proliferate out I think throughout
the whole of society well I saw a recent
comment by the committee members that
were on the dietary guideline they
basically their stances there is no hard
evidence or strong evidence to show that
alter processed foods contribute to
someone's
Health in one way or another my thought
is do we need an experiment to even do
on that can't we just look outside and
see what people eat and just look at
what they look like I mean do we we've
been doing an experiment for the last 50
years the food guidelines have been in
in place since the
1970s and and just look at the health of
the country since the 1970s I don't know
what
bigger contributing factor to your
health can be than what you put in your
mouth the system of medicine is medicine
it's not food it's not natural things
it's completely disconnected and because
of that this whole thing is held
together these medications are treating
the side effects from the junk food then
there creating more side effects that
then are treated by more medication I
mean this is like a paradigm that needs
to be changed and so I think looking at
root causes which is Lifestyle Changes
which at the core of it is your diet
needs to be brought up and we need to
educate people because um somehow uh it
got corrupted well a doctor's never
going to get sued for not recommending a
diet if a doctor removes you from
statins and you have a heart attack he's
opening himself up for liability if you
are on Statin and you have a heart
attack he can say well I was following
the standard of care all the incentives
are lining up to move away from eating
right deprescribing medications things
like that Claude has a phenomenal piece
of software it's wonderful for running
my assisted living homes and it does
everything the Department of Health
requires us to do to remain in
compliance with all their rules and
regulations but like he said he didn't
put anything in the software to
encourage a healthy or good diet because
he was looking at what the rules and
regulations were and there's nothing in
there about that everything that we
develop and we we produce it's based on
Demand right what is requested the most
and and this should be at the top of the
list right we should be promoting more
and more health and wellness um so
honestly I mean just like what this
experience you know going going through
and and Mining this data it it did
something it did something internally
even to our Tech Team right and these
guys write code you know but it's so
much more than that when they start
seeing that you know my gosh you know
these this is someone's life right this
is someone's life and if we can write
some code to contribute to help benefit
somebody and to prolong their life and
their wellbeing
and in this case h i mean with your your
perspective is like hey if I can get you
that healthy to get you out of here I'm
winning right that's something that's a
philosophy that's just not embraced that
that guy that you talked about that you
tracked in your software for me Claud is
now living on his own in an apartment
with his dog goes out walking with his
dog every day I'm gonna go visit him
again next week so you're helping us I
think this is a great conversation to
start and then start to dig deeper into
this to see what we can do to put it on
the map definitely just so they can
start to uh at least recognize the
problem as a first step because it's
been hidden I was under the under the
delusion that maybe at the very most it
was 10 medications but 48 is I think um
slightly too high I want to continue
this conversation and I want to ask you
this if we took someone like you and I
presume that you're healthy and we put
you on 48 different medications what
would happen to your body first of all I
don't think I can get any one that's
healthy to take 48 medications because
they would probably be severely sick but
I was just thinking about it if I took
48 medications right now what would that
do to my health we're basically taking
things that are going to make my liver
very very toxic we don't know what is
treating what I have a copy right now of
pages and pages of just one patient with
all the medications blood pressure
medications cholesterol medications
medications for a Tremor medications for
blood clot stool softener several
anti-depressants
medication for seizures insulin
schizophrenia runny nose nauseousness
prostate enlargement this is completely
insane when I was in practice I would
always ask this patient what are you
eating this question is never never
asked if you actually omit the diet
piece of the puzzle in an evaluation you
are missing the core cause because if
you don't fix a diet how are these
symptoms ever going to go away why is
there not a coordinated effort to find
the underlying cause masking a symptom
is not improving your health I'm not
saying the doctors are bad it's just the
system that we're in keeps big Pharma
very very rich but it keeps the patient
very very sick sometimes you hear well
we still need more research to
understand how diet influences our
health well you could just look on my
website drberg.com and I have over
8,000 success stories because of one
main thing changing the diet has created
profound effects on their body really
what I'm seeing is the medical doctor
with help of big Pharma is treating the
side effect from the alra processed food
calories AKA junk food as you can see in
this interview things keep getting worse
and worse please tell me what you think
about this problem and what we need to
do to solve it
