this is why you're not losing weight now
of course the obvious reasons why people
can't lose weight are they're eating too
much food or maybe they're just a couch
potato those are the obvious things and
then you also have people who are on a
healthy version of the ketogenic diet to
doing inent fasting and even they
Plateau today you're going to learn the
not so obvious things that are keeping
you from achieving your weight loss
goals insulin is at the heart of the
problem with slow metabolism your body
can always lose to that point but then
getting further is a problem that's
because of insulin insulin is triggered
by sugar and other things that are
hidden sugars okay so if you look at for
example this this has zero sugars this
has zero sugars this has zero sugars
this has zero sugars and so does this
too but wait a second doesn't have any
sugar well it has carbohydrates and it
doesn't have a lot of fiber so what's
left starches it's basically a string of
sugars connected together and because
it's so processed it's going to act not
just like sugar but worse than sugar on
the glycemic index so it's going to
spike your sugar a lot higher and it's
going to cause even more weight gain
than something like sugar cane sugar
cane itself on the glycemic index is I
think like 74 or 75 the starches in junk
food go above 100 and multitran can go
up to 185 so even though it's not called
a sugar we're just going to call it
Sugar because it acts like a sugar
another hidden one is seed oils seed
oils can cause a problem with insulin to
the point where you gain a lot of weight
stress and a lack of sleep can also slow
weight loss this is why when you don't
sleep good you might crave the wrong
Foods or be extra hungry if you really
want to do a good demo uh check your
blood sugars after a night that you
haven't slept you're going to see the
like way off and then frequent meals
like in
snacking devastating for insulin because
every time you eat anything you increase
insulin what do we do to fix this
insulin how do we lower insulin how do
we make insulin work better it's called
insulin sensitivity well number one of
course you reduce your sugars and
starches number two you start to not eat
frequently cut out snacks number three
exercise of course that's the obvious
one getting more sleep is also important
but there's the not so obvious things
that you might be doing that I need to
make you aware of even a piece of bread
for example can bump you out of fat
burning for a lot longer than you might
think because it takes some time to get
into ketosis could take 24 to 48 hours
let's say for example you're in ketosis
and then you drink a glass of wine then
next night you have a piece of bread
you're just not going to be in ketosis
why because it takes you a lot longer to
get any ketosis it's very easy to bump
you out but it takes longer to get you
in because the body is adapting and that
takes some time the next one is it's
actually working and you don't know it
you think it's not working because
you're looking at the scale and you're
not budging it's not lose weight to get
healthy it's get healthy to lose weight
and so when you start cutting down carbs
and you start burning your own fat your
body isn't in a healing mode you're
going from a kind of a blood sugar
diabetic area to a healthier area
there's really just two things to look
at number one did your hunger go away
and secondly your energy level if your
energy level is high that means you're
using the fat as energy those two things
means that it is working and you just
need to give it more time another point
is overtraining I've had people who
exercise too much with not enough rest
and all we did is give them more rest
all we did is we took that
high-intensity exercise program and
spaced it out more so there's more rest
and that worked the next one and this is
really important is getting enough sleep
I had one lady who came in uh she lifted
I think it was 3 million pounds at the
gym over the course of a year okay she
worked out every other day with her
friend and uh I think she lost one pound
in a whole year then I find out terrible
sleep okay I help her with her sleep she
starts losing a lot of weight over 20
pounds then you have medications
anti-depressive medication antibiotics
can also block your ability to lose
weight another way to reduce insulin is
called berberine it decreases
inflammation it even gets the
mitochondria to actually work a lot
better it does a lot more but just
realize that it's going to be really
good for helping you lose weight apple
cider vinegar 1 tablespoon per glass of
water sip it with the straw to make sure
that you don't get all this acid on your
teeth there's certain nutrients that
help reduce insulin the most important
one is vitamin D at least 10,000 I use
every single day but if you're out in
the Sun at least a half hour you're
getting 20,000 iuse so it's either Sun
or a combination of food and supplements
to get your vitamin D now of course the
obvious thing too is go on a healthy
version of the ketogenic diet lower carb
and at the same time do intermittent
fasting but I need to explain what type
of fasting I would recommend especially
if you're having a problem losing weight
now most people do like a pattern of 16
hours fasting with an hour eating window
and I do recommend it at first but after
you do this fasting okay and you get
used to it and you get your body to
adapt and you're eating healthy you want
to go to an 18 and a six-hour eating
window and then eventually maybe a
23-hour fasting with a 1hour eating
window so you're doing omad which means
one meal a day but then I'm going to
recommend something called dry fasting
don't eat or drink from some sunrise to
sunset now that's roughly about 12 hours
and if you did 12 hours of dry fasting
you're going to burn more fat you
trigger all sorts of genes that help you
survive fat doesn't have a lot of water
in it maybe 1 to 3% but fat can create
water when it's burned with oxygen
especially if you don't give your body
as much water and then graduating into
even 24 hours occasionally so let's say
today you're going to hydrate very well
okay and then at 6:00 no food no water
then you go to sleep tonight you wake up
in the morning at 6:00 that's 12 hours
you're dry fasting as well you're not
eating or drinking all the way until
6:00 at night where you have your first
meal and then you can start drinking
water that gives you 24 hours that's a
that's a pretty darn good dry fast and
you're going to notice some really good
change with that so I guarantee if apply
any of the things I talked about today
it's going to help you but if you
haven't seen my uh video on dry fasting
and you want a little more information
about that I put that up right here
check it out
