[Music]
hey guys we're back and in this video
we're going to show you how to make
something very very cool I have to deal
with waffles mm-hmm
has to do with waffles well the first
thing you're going to see in this video
is a just a classic almond flour waffle
and I have a lot of waffle irons I have
square ones round ones I even have a
Captain America waffle iron because food
should be fun but I learned something in
experimenting with waffles that if you
pull a few ingredients from this recipe
in particular you get a really kind of a
nice texture
beretti texture so you're going to see
the video on the standard waffle you
want to try I have butter
I'm just want to speak on and butter and
the maple syrup that I make that's sugar
for you will give you a link for that
but here's the question is this made out
of flour there's no flour in here it's
well almond flour which isn't really
it's just almond right and um any Goods
give them to your kids yeah or just you
sit in a corner and just eat a lot of
waffle but the point is that what's the
point here I have a point to make here
that all of these things I was inspired
by a cookbook called will it waffle and
I forget the guys name but it's a great
cookbook and with changing some of the
ingredients of the standard waffle I
made waffle bread and I'm going to keep
creating on this and I'm going to keep
sending recipes to you but the recipe
for the waffle bread will be just under
the regular waffle but sandwiches do you
miss sandwiches dms burger buns do you
miss your classic PB&J
ah do ya okay so here's your solution
it's a waffle bread not only can you
make it fresh it's great that's great
what do you want which way people want
bread people want but I'm going to do
that right there like big deli sandwich
little slice of that well take a bite
out of it and okay so yeah cuz I mean
people like bread people do like granny
personally I don't like bread but people
people do so other people other people
yeah like if you had to eat that someone
put a gun to your head and said you have
to have a sandwich no this is great yeah
first I want to you my mouthful you
don't want to eat with your mouth full
that's okay well that's for another
video people learning how not to eat
with your mouth full but for today
there's a lot to learn there's a lot of
fun to be had and you can have
sandwiches again you can have waffles
check it out
[Music]
yes
[Music]
you
hey guys thank you so much for watching
please click the subscribe button and I
will see you in the next video
