so a lot of times I'll get feedback from
people that have this idea that your
body especially your brain can only run
on glucose right that's the primary fuel
that is absolutely not true
you can run your body on ketones and
other types of fuel so ketones generally
will provide about 40 to 70 percent of
the fuel in the body so then the
question is what other fuel is going to
make up the difference because if
ketones are only providing 40 percent
what else we're going to run our body on
well there's always going to be a small
amount of glucose but your body can run
on something called fatty acids so the
fat will turn into ketones and fatty
acids okay so you can still use that a
small amount of something called lactate
but also glucose so what the brain is a
little bit different because you could
run 70% of the brain on ketones and the
rest is going to be either lactate or
glucose okay so the question is where
are you going to get the glucose if you
don't want to do carbohydrates well your
body can make glucose and that process
is called gluco neo Genesis the making
of new glucose where does it get it from
fat and protein so certain amino acids
can turn into glucose and also certain
fractions of fat can turn into glycerol
which will then convert into glucose so
that's really where you're getting your
glucose from so the body might need 36
grams of glucose per day it can easily
get it from fat or amino acids
you don't need carbohydrates to supply
this glucose so in summary when you
lower your carbohydrates you want to run
your body on mostly ketones and fatty
acids some lactate and some glucose but
originating from fat and amino acids not
carbohydrates
so we've been getting a lot of success
but I don't have your success story yet
so click the link down below and upload
you before and after I want to actually
hear about your success story I want to
see your before and afters and every
week we do featured success stories so
click the link down below and share your
success
