hey guys in this video we're going to
talk about the best remedy for viruses
okay and that is something called mono
Lauren mono Lauren is a type of fat it's
a super concentrated
lauric acid which is in coconut oil raw
or breast milk okay so you can get it as
a supplement but it's incredible for the
immune system especially if you have
chronic fatigue syndrome or you're
recovering from mold illness or you have
some virus that keeps coming and going
so mono Lauren helps dissolve the lipid
layer the fat layer around the virus so
it can't attach to your cells so it's
very effective against a lot of
different viruses and even bacteria
piece pylori chlamydia shingles
epstein-barr virus influenza which is
the flu mersa herpes fungus staph and
strep so you can look at it as a
broad-spectrum antibiotic but an
antiviral as well the only thing I want
to mention is when you take it take
small amounts at first and gradually
increase it to prevent any type of
die-off that might occur alright thanks
for watching hey guys I just recently
did a survey and I found that the number
one thing that you want is to know what
to eat okay you want examples of meals
so I created a series of recipes that
you can get which basically show you how
to combine the foods in the right
portions to do ketogenic in a minute
fasting they're totally free all you
need to do is click the link below and
sign up
