now I've talked a lot about the dangers
of sugar and why you need to come off
sugar but I haven't really talked about
the benefits of sugar so in this video
I'm going to talk about the interesting
benefits of sugar all right number one
big Pharma the drug companies are going
to love you especially the drug
companies that produce
anti-depressants ones that help you
lower your blood pressure colesterol and
the ones that help inflammation their
stockholders are going to greatly
appreciate you and the entire junk food
industry is going to really appreciate
you so if you ever wanted to be loved
and
appreciated eat more sugar all right
number two you're going to get a
dopamine rush for about I'd say 90
seconds so of course so maybe about two
to three hours after that you're going
to be a little lethargic but that
dopamine Rush is going to be totally
worth it and you're just going to feel
this wonderful pleasure sensation yeah
90 seconds but you know it's going to be
worth it all right number three you're
going to fit into the majority of the
population it's a very large group
they're mainly overweight they have
insulin resistance they share a lot of
symptoms I mean characteristics but they
all consume at least 152 pounds of sugar
per year so if you ever wanted to fit in
this is your time all right number four
the majority of the population will
consider you as being normal you no
longer will be considered this health
food fanatic weird keto person now
you're going to be considered normal and
well accepted number five over time the
arthritis will progress to the point
where you'll start getting better
parking places because you'll finally be
able to get that handicap permit and get
a great parking place all right and then
the sixth
benefit did I mention you're going to be
loved by the drug
companies so if you're enjoying my
content which I hope you are and you're
applying this knowledge to your health
and you have a success i' would really
appreciate you sharing your success
story so click the link down below to my
website where you can upload your
success story so you can help Inspire
others
