let's talk about how your stress can
affect your immune system now when we're
talking about stress we're talking about
the hormone cortisol cortisol based on
Civic collection of medical
illustrations volume four of the
endocrine system under the section
cortisol dr. Frank nadir talks about the
relationship to the immune system
cortisol has a purpose of suppressing
the white blood cell your white blood
cells are basically the army of your
immune system so cortisol suppresses
that function it inhibits that function
and this is why if you go to the doctor
and you're sick whether you have I don't
know allergies
some skin reaction some autoimmune
disease they'll give you prednisone
which is cortisol it's a synthetic
version and that will clear up the skin
reaction the allergy or even the poison
ivy and it will also get rid of
inflammation so it's suppressing this
over-reactive
immune system that's what cortisol does
and stress activates cortisol now if you
think about that stress should improve
your immune system right I'm going to
explain there's two types of stress
there's a cute stress and then there's
chronic stress and this is the one that
really is behind so many health problems
because when you chronically elevator
through years of stress or months of
stress or even a sudden overwhelming
shock of some stress you could create
what's called cortisol resistance okay
very similar to insulin resistance in
that this amount of cortisol that's
coming up through the body may even look
normal in your blood but it's not
effective it's the cells are not
sensitive to cortisol anymore they're
not connecting
so cortisol is not working despite
what's going on the blood and that means
it's not going to have a good effect on
your immune system it's actually going
to either create
spikin white blood cells which could
increase your risk for all sorts of
issues like heart disease or it's going
to cause you to lose your immune
protection it's going to make you more
susceptible to getting sick especially
pulling in microbes so when you get sick
whether it's from a virus or a bacteria
there's usually always something that
happens before you get sick it's some
type of factor that lowers your immune
system that makes you susceptible it
could be a combination of stress and a
nutrient deficiency or just stress
itself but this is something that a lot
of people will talk about but if you
reflect back on last time you got sick
you're gonna remember there was a stress
right before that fact working with
thousands of patients over 29 years I
ran into this over and over and over the
people that are getting sick are in a
stress environment and then they get
sick so stress is a really big part of
it
not quite emphasized and then you have
the nutrient deficiencies that are also
there as well and when you get an
infection and I did a video on this
recently the virus for example will
cause a nutrient deficiency it might
block vitamin D okay so having infection
now creates a nutritional deficiency
which keeps the infection there because
the microbes want to survive too so they
will do all sorts of things to weaken
your system and my last point is this if
you want more information on how to
reduce stress check out the videos on
this page thanks for watching
