[Music]
hey dr. Burke here I have the most
amazing cookie recipe these are the
healthiest cookies in the world you will
love these no sugar no flour and I'm
going to show you how to make them check
this out
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
okay okay those are actually really good
like the salt afterwards too much really
yummy these are good very good love them
I have the emotes in case I have the
most amazing recipe for cookies you are
going to love this
can you just keep all right so let's
let's roll it again all right take two
ready start
Wow these cookies are the best cookies
I've ever tasted I've gots have the
recipe dr. Berg
hmm it's better it's definitely better
can you give more of a pause relax you
know it's just a video so go ahead now
this is it think about the purpose we're
doing a testimony on the cookies right
so go ahead and start Wow super basic I
have to have the recipe afterwards okay
so
