someone had a question can antibiotics
cause weight gain and the answer is
definitely because what happens you
consume commercial meats and animal
products that have been exposed to
antibiotics uh you're being exposed to
antibiotics so that can create a problem
with your Flora your friendly bacteria
now just realize you have a thousand
trillion microbes growing around and
inside your body and so a lot of these
microbes are helping you by protecting
you against uh unfriendly microbes by
giving you certain vitamins to help your
immune system but if you kill off the
good bacteria you get an overgrowth of
the unfriendly bacteria and that's where
you get the increased Cravings The
increased hunger and increased
inflammation which then leads to insulin
resistance here's another mechanism that
goes beyond just consuming sugar or
frequent meals and that's what causes
you to get fat so inflammation can cause
insulin resistance leading to extra
weight game all right so that would be a
big fat yes no pun
intended so I want to know what you're
interested in as far as a future video
click the link down below and share some
ideas I want to hear
