today we're going to show you how to go
from a toxic fatty inflamed liver to a
liver that is clean without fat and
without scar tissue and I'm actually
going to give you eight different
recipes and these are very delicious
very easy to make the liver reversing
properties in these Foods heal your
liver and create a vacuum to also get
rid of the fat in your midsection as
well and then the last thing I'm going
to show you is going to blow you away
it's a recipe to make a very healthy
soda that will take your liver to the
next level the liver is the Hub of so
many different organs having a fatty
liver doubles your risk of heart attacks
a dirty liver cannot detoxify anymore
develops curosis and not having the
liver work right can really mess up your
hormones all these smoothies I'm going
to show you you're going to add one cup
of water with one cup of ice let's Dive
Right In the first recipy is simply
going to combine two different
ingredients one cup of spinach or just a
small hand full of spinach the cool
thing about spinach it'll decrease your
Cravings because it really helps blood
sugar and it can also help you remove
fat in your abdomen and then if we add
that with kiwi we're going to get a lot
of vitamin C and depending on the size
of the Kiwi you might want to add two or
three kiwis kiwi is one of those foods
that has almost the most vitamin C of
any food out there and it also has
certain properties to protect the liver
against damage combining these both can
enhance the repair of your liver you may
also want to add a little squeeze of
lemon or lime juice to this mixture
combine these ingredients blend it and
then drink up in the next smoothie we're
going to add spinach and grapefruit it
has a unique property of increasing the
sensitivity to the hormone insulin to
help with blood sugar and remember this
is a smoothy we're not juicing anything
we're going to take all the fiber blend
that with spinach spinach add a little
handful which is like one cup and then
you're going to do one grapefruit the
other cool thing about grapefruit is it
increases bile flow from the liver and
bile helps you break down fats but a lot
of the toxins from the liver go through
the bile ducts as they come out into the
small intestine and I also like to add
either half of a lemon or some lime
juice to this mixture as well go ahead
and blend and drink away the next
combination is kale with pommegranate
kale is one of the cruciferous
vegetables so it has some additional
properties to help with the
detoxification of the liver it's a great
anti-inflammatory for the liver and then
p it has the potential to really drop
that inflammation in the liver remember
too much inflammation can develop
scarring of the liver we don't want that
pomegranate also prevents fat from
accumulating in the liver itself if we
combine both kale and pomegranate
together we stimulate one of the most
powerful antioxidants in the body if you
want you can also add a tablespoon of
flax seed to this mixture as well the
thing about flax seed is it has a
precursor to omega-3 fatty acid anything
that can can increase more omega-3 fatty
acids can help inflammation the next
drink is really just a cup of sliced or
chopped papaya in water that's it and
maybe some ice cubes papaya is
interesting because it's loaded with
enzymes it can really help digestion and
it's really good for fighting
inflammation in the liver one thing you
might want to add a pinch of Himalayan
sea salt that way we can add some
electrolytes in there the next
combination is combining one cup of of
chopped celery with one cup of
blueberries celery is one of my favorite
vegetables it's good to increase bile
production it's great for reducing liver
inflammation and it's generally good to
counter the toxicity from junk food not
that you ever eat junk food but if you
ever do eat more celery with the
blueberries basically reduce fat on your
liver and if you also have excessive
iron overload like a lot of people do as
they Age Blue berries have the
polyphenol chemicals to help bind with
iron and remove it from the body if you
were brave enough to add maybe a
teaspoon of apple cider vinegar to this
mixture you would greatly enhance the
effectiveness as well as increase more
bile flow through this area when the
bile backs up into the liver you get
right shoulder pain through here and it
could radiate up to this side right
through here or in the back part right
here this is a great smoothie to help
the liver and help keep things flowing
the next one we're going to talk about
is cucumber and and lemon a cup of each
chop these things up and then blend them
and then drink away the thing about
cucumber it's super hydrating it has
great electrolytes it's great to
increase the liver's ability to detoxify
and there's also a study I read that
shows that it can help prevent the
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease adding
the lemon can also increase the
detoxification of the liver melons in
general are really good to pull edema
from your legs or your feet because
they're a natural diuretic and then you
can add a slice of Ginger to that and
make it a really tasty little Shake then
we get to the next one avocado with
strawberries I recommend doing a cup of
each with a glass of water and some ice
cubes blend it down all right what's in
the avocado one of the most powerful
antioxidants and they have reparative
properties for the liver strawberries
are great to increase overall liver
function they can help increase the
metabolism can help remove some of the
fat from the liver there's a common
theme here because we're talking about
fruit fruits and vegetables all are very
powerful antioxidants that support the
liver and the problem a lot of times
with the liver is we're eating foods
without those antioxidants like refined
foods and even if someone is a diabetic
or they have a chronic condition and
they have a lot of inflammation if they
also at the same time consume foods high
in antioxidants at least they would have
a lot less side effects this is just
another important reason why I think
people need to include these in their
diet the last smoothie is going to
combine coconut with Papaya this is a
really delicious smoothie Now coconut
has lric acid and that's really good as
an antiviral it's good for the immune
system coconut is loaded with what's
called
MCT fat these fats turn into ketones and
ketones are great for the liver because
they're a low stress fat for the liver
if we combine that with Papaya which has
a lot of enzymes and antioxidants we're
going to really drop the inflammation
and the scarring that's happening in the
what you might want to do is add a
little sprinkle of cinnamon to the mix
to take things even further especially
for the blood sugar I've given you a lot
of different options for smoothies but
now I want to show you something very
very cool this recipe that I'm going to
share with you came from Dr William
Davis he's the author of super gut and
also wheat belly and he shared this with
me in one of his emails and I want to
share it with you you're going to love
this it's like a probiotic and you're
going to combine that with fruit juice
any fruit juice
orange Apple
grapefruit
pomegranate cranberry and what's going
to happen is this microbe it's actually
a friendly fungus is going to ferment
and eat up the sugar in this juice over
a period of 72 hours and you're going to
leave it out of the fridge right on the
counter with maybe some cheesecloth over
it and if you don't have a cheesecloth
you can basically get a paper towel and
and put a rubber band around it because
within 24 hours you're going to get a
lot of CO2 production and if you close a
lid on this thing it's going to explode
with all the pressure in there so don't
do that you just take any amount of
juice you want you can just take a 16
oun you can take a 12 ounce and you'll
take one of these capsules now the type
of fungus or or probiotic that you're
going to need you can get from Walmart
or even the drugstore it's this robotic
right here it's called Flor store and
there's a very specific strain in here
CN CM
1-74 five and it loves sugar in fact
after 72 hours it's not even going to
taste that sweet it's going to be this
delicious carbonated slightly flavored
drink like a soda and then you put it in
the fridge you're going to love it it's
delicious and it's really good for you
as well it helps the gut it can also
help counter diarrhea and even press
small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
you're just going to take one capsule
from this open it up okay the contents
of one capsule and then just mix it up
cover it up with that paper towel or
cheesecloth with a little rubber band
and then put it on your kitchen counter
and put your timer to 72 hours and come
back and drink it and you're going to be
shocked we talked about the foods for
the liver but we didn't talk about the
entire diet that you should be on if you
want that information you should watch
watch this video right here check it out
