are you on keto and intermittent fasting
and still your blood Sugar's are not
coming down to normal let's talk about
that well that probably means that you
have severe insulin resistance and has
been there chronically for a long time
and that means that your insulin is just
too high and your cells have a problem
with absorbing insulin so it keeps the
sugars high okay
so there's a couple of things that you
should do number one are you doing
everything correctly
reevaluate are your proteins correct are
your carbs correct is your fats correct
are you doing enough vegetables so I'm
gonna put a link down below to show you
a little mini course so you can kind of
compare what you're doing to what you
should be doing to make sure that it is
correct
number two you may have to drop your
carbohydrates so if you're doing 50
carbohydrates per day 50 grams lower it
down to 20 if you're doing 20 grams of
carbohydrates drop it down to 10 grams
okay because this is a really important
point there's a lot of hidden carbs out
there so I'm gonna put a link down below
of a video on hidden carbs because that
will kind of bring up your awareness on
what you could be consuming unknowingly
okay but this is like a really important
thing to fix this because what's causing
this to be chronic and not come down is
it's there's something bringing up
insulin so we want to eliminate any
possibility okay number three decrease
the frequency of meals start pushing
your eating window closer and closer
together because the less meals you
consume now better this will get okay
number four you add the nutrients you
have the B vitamins in the nutritional
yeast
you have the potassium and electrolytes
two very important things you can also
add zinc and chromium those are other
trace minerals that can actually speed
things up but this is one of those
things that can actually accelerate
improvement of this number 5 exercise
another factor in helping improve this
situation okay and then number six the
weak link
what is your weak link
take a look at the other parts of your
body that are an issue so we take the
different systems you have digestion you
have hormones like the thyroid adrenal
you have the liver you have inflammatory
conditions you have all these different
things what I would do is I would take
your weak link and focus on that because
certain body problems could be hanging
this up so basically you want to take
these other things that you might not
think are associated prove those to
improve this and of course we'd also
want to include in there if you have
insomnia you want to sleep more if
you're under stress we want to reduce
the stress I have a ton of videos online
about this and I also have a book that
covers every possible barrier that goes
into the body types and a lot of other
conditions that can be preventing you
from normalizing the blood sugars okay
and then lastly it could be that you
just need to give it a little more time
because if you're doing all these things
correctly and this has been there for
years it's going to take time to resolve
so give it some time and eventually it
will improve thanks for watching hey if
you're interested in finding out the
underlying cause of your body issues
click the link below and take the
evaluation quiz
