hey guys Dr Burke here in this short
video we're going to talk about why
stretching worsens sciatica pain that
includes many yoga stretches as well so
I'm going to also show you what to do
but the worst thing you can do is
stretch that hamstring stretch that leg
and you're going to make it worse you're
going to flare it up now the satic nerve
is the longest nerve of the body it's
composed of several nerves from your
back and it goes down the back of the
leg and it's the widest nerve it's about
the white as white as my big thumb right
here and it comes right down now there's
many different causes of sadaka
irritation but the most common is a
protruded disc okay so here's your
vertebrae here's the disc right here and
when that disc protrudes in the back
part you know maybe you had an injury
maybe you're sitting incorrectly maybe
you're slouching too much on the couch
over time that disc squirts back and
puts pressure on this nerve Ro so if
you're going to take and stretch this
already inflamed nerve what you're going
to do is you're going to make it worse
there's only one thing you can do to
give yourself relief and that is in this
diagram right here and you can see we
want to stretch the opposite muscle you
want to Che uh stretch the thigh muscle
you want to stretch it backwards good
now here's another example of how you
can stretch this you want to take your
thigh stretch it back maybe a couple
minutes
twice or three times a day and do that
every day you're going to notice a
tremendous amount of relief because if
you stretch the hamstring you're going
to make it worse okay real simple so go
ahead and apply this and share your
comments below
