hey everyone we have a new
before-and-after I want to introduce you
to Joe and Joe welcome to the interview
I wanted to I got you before and after I
just I said I have to interview you
because it's amazing so I wanted to know
your story so why don't you tell me a
little bit about what we what happened
before as far as your weight and how it
progressed and then what you did yeah
sure I've I've always been pretty in
pretty decent shape but over the last
few years I've noticed that has been
more of a struggle to keep the weight
off and to be honest it's been a little
bit harder for me to not cheat so it's
not been helping very much either
so but I travel a lot during my job and
it just becoming more and more
uncomfortable in the planes and my
clothing and it's just you know I I kind
of hit a peak where I was at my heaviest
um was rum 200 and started looking
online and seen what else is there you
know I really want to understand getting
my business I do a lot of root cause
analysis and I wanted to understand what
is really causing me to gain weight you
know I everybody says sugar is bad in
cars or bad what why is it bad and I
never really understood it I never
really got a clear answer until I
stumbled on some of your videos and
started understanding a little bit more
about how the insulin affects it and how
the body actually works in that regard
so I wanted to test it out for myself
and started doing probably pretty
aggressively the keto diet ketogenic
diet including the intermittent fasting
and the apple cider vinegars and pretty
much everything that you guys have been
mentioning I've you know done other you
know look online to see if you know your
information correlates with what other
people might be saying and sure enough
it's all over the place once
looking for it and the nice thing about
it is once I did I started it you start
seeing the effects pretty quickly so
that gives you the nice incentive to
keep going it doesn't take a month
before you start seeing things like a
traditional exercise program where you
actually gain weight before you actually
start seeing the fat come off because
your muscles are getting bigger you
start seeing the effects quickly and I
didn't want to spoil the results by
exercising at the same time so that's
all I've done was the diet's in
following the routine with the
intermittent fasting other than going
out for a walk I didn't do anything else
wow that's amazing
so you're you're basically your job
you're in the plane a lot you're
traveling probably hotel restaurants the
whole thing right that's right yeah I'm
eating out all the time and have
constant temptations and you know
sometimes I don't have I don't have it I
don't take a lunch or sometimes I
unfortunately lost the restaurant at the
end of the day and ongoing town on a big
plate of whatever and usually involved a
lot of carbs and buns and whatever you
can think of and so it's actually kind
of nice doing the intermittent fasting
included with this process because I
don't have to worry about lunch like I
don't even take a lunch you know I my
lunch is at 4 o'clock in the afternoon
and sometimes even later and then I was
I was pretty aggressive with the
intermittent fasting where I was only
giving myself four hour window to do
what I needed to do and just kind of eat
everything I needed within that period
of time and then sometimes on the
weekends I'd give myself eight hours but
it didn't matter what I did really
seemed to help out a lot and I have had
more energy than I I could think of I
mean I was always coming home and
staying on the couch or just exhausted
on my way home from work and I didn't
want to do anything now I'm out doing
yard work and everything and I haven't
even eaten anything all day that's
amazing so you're basically just running
on your fat field which has actually
it's a better quality feel source - you
don't get the high
and lows when you at your peak I'll tell
you five eight five eight okay so then
so you started this did you start in a
minute fasting right off the bat or you
to kind of gradually phase it in when
you started to do the ketosis well I
started doing I don't know maybe within
the first week I mean it was it was
pretty it was almost immediately good
yeah and I didn't have too much of the
the withdrawal from the carbs carbs and
stuff like that I mean for a few days
maybe but I was able to transition into
it pretty quick I think that once you're
committed it makes it a lot easier and
for me I was I mean I think I got kids
and they got don't know it's all over
the place and cookies and whatever you
can think of and so I was able to do it
so that excuse doesn't work you know as
long as your commute commits you should
be able to do it absolutely when's the
first time that you would eat would you
eat at lunch or would you have a
breakfast and then do for how would you
work that out so normally what I do is
that my my I skip breakfast I don't have
a breakfast so I call it my lunch and
dinner my lunch is at 4 o'clock Wow Wow
so you know I just before I leave the
office I'm pretty much having my lunch
so um you know why I'm working during
lunch I just keep working and it works
for me because a lot of the plants and
and facilities that I support there in
different time zones so I don't have to
worry about much I just work through it
and then I'll I'll eat maybe 2 or 3
hours later my dinner so sometimes it's
kind of hard to do but there were days
where I just had one meal you know as
long as I'm hitting you know I think I
went to an online that calculator and
you know I'm supposed to be consuming
about 1,600 calories a day just as long
as I'm targeting around 70 74 75 percent
fact around 20 percent protein and then
I'm my target was like 20 grams of carbs
a day
into accounts fiber and all that stuff
from all the vegetables and so on Wow
that sounds really cool yeah the other
other day I was flying there was a day
where it's about twelve hours of flights
and luckily I found a meal where there's
like a low-carb burger thing and then I
the next meal was basically four
avocados and this guacamole like it was
huge it was so much food I could barely
stuff my body but it kept me going like
through the night to the next day so
when you would eat your first meal like
at 4:00 would you be hungry through the
day or do you get to a point now where
you can just go and you don't have that
hunger or cravings it got to the point
where I had to force myself I mean
there's there some days where I'm not
sure what it is but yeah I can probably
eat at twelve if I really wanted to but
then once I don't and I'm good till four
I don't know maybe I smell something in
the office or something like that I
don't know what it is but then you know
I get home and I'll just yell before I
go out and cut the grass or do something
I kind of force myself to eat something
so that way I still stay within my my
four hours in it for whatever reason I
did heat a little bit later well then I
just moved my four hours I know the
feeling because there's time so I'm like
you know I'm not even hungry
might as well eat something you know so
what would you eat in that meal give me
an example I get four what do you mean
so I really I'm more of the liver type
body type so I make sure that I don't
have more than three three and a half
ounces of protein I eat a lot of nuts
meats and chickens but a lot of salads I
started I started pounding the salad
like you're recommending so that way I
can get my vitamins
make sure I put the oil on it oil with a
little bit of apple cider vinegar and
just have a big plate of that and a
small little bit of meat where I was
always the opposite have big meat
potatoes and that much salad now it's
the opposite completely and the nice
thing is I'm also looking at you know
more of the proper types of foods so
trying to get
the eggs that are not caged chickens
I did a little bit of research on what
the actual difference was between the
two and that was pretty interesting and
yes it's more expensive but the nice
thing is I'm eating less frequently so
it's not like my grocery bills don't
went up three times the price I'm
actually eating a little bit less so did
that math basically how it is and then
and that I use My Fitness Pal to track
everything that I'm doing as best as
possible and a scale so I'm weighing
everything like some people think I'm
you know I'm chopping up peppers and and
everything that you can think of putting
a little bit of nuts and everything on a
salad runway every single piece of it
into my salad like I'm getting that
strict on how I'm just not I bought it
I'm actually weighing it to see what the
numbers and it's nice to know that
though because then you get to get an
idea of portion sizes visually once that
completed over over again now I know how
much a handful of pecans is I don't have
to weight it necessarily and then I can
kind of speed up things a little bit but
at the beginning you'd be surprised on
how much carbs is actually in a green
pepper people are like there's no carbs
a green pepper oh my gosh yeah there is
so you have to be a little bit careful
about all that I totally agree so then
when you because I saw your like your
initial picture and then the post
picture you get any people that coming
up to you that knew you before and go
what what the heck are you doing this is
incredible yeah actually pretty much
everybody and the nice thing is is I
just saw them two weeks ago so it's not
like it's not like I'm not seeing these
guys for months at a time like they're
like what the heck are you doing like I
just we went swimming like three weeks
ago and you do not look like the same
person Wow
and I'm just you know I kind of let them
know what I'm doing and all of a sudden
opens up can it works worms because I'm
excited about it and I kind of tell them
what I'm doing but you know the proofs
in the pudding right so instead of
telling everybody what you're gonna do
and how great it's going to be I just
wait
it actually happens and then I tell them
what I'm doing and it's a lot easier
when they see the results and you know
with my wife you know I didn't pressure
her into it at all
but she was very supportive and and made
all the meals the way I wanted it and
helped me weigh things and stuff like
that even though she wasn't doing at the
beginning but once she started seeing
the results then she's now she's on it
and she's she's to like the pastas and
stuff like that so every once in a while
should have that but nowhere near where
she was before and she's seeing dramatic
results too and I'm slowly trying to get
to the point where we can somehow figure
out how to get the kids off the cereal
and the pancakes and all that so we're
doing a lot of the research online for
alternative ways of making foods so we
can get them up but my primary reason is
because I just want the health benefits
you know I don't want the kids to get
cancer and you know this looks like it's
down the right path if you kill the feet
the fuel source then you probably won't
get it and we've got cancer in the
family plus you know just in general
being healthy and stuff like that to
just look younger and be stronger and
all that good stuff but don't want to
have to rely on the next Snickers right
I totally agree I you know eventually
you know because I'm not like up
constantly doing seminars I do a seminar
at the breakfast table and teaching my
kids over the years so they finally sunk
in you know after some years but you get
them on board and sometimes you have to
wait till a little bit older but I just
want to bring one point if you mentioned
about the liver body type some people
watching might not know what he's
talking about there's four body types
you got the adrenal the thyroid the
liver and the ovary type which is more
the hip weight
livers more of a protruded belly so I
wrote a book about the body types but I
just wanted to mention the liver body
type requires a lot of greens a lot of
salad not too much protein but I would
not recommend getting my book because
it's outdated get the new one it just
actually came to
but I'm not it's not released yet you
have to probably when you're watching
this videos gonna be released but it
won't be really as quite yet even though
we have them but this is like a new body
type guide and this covers all the the
nitty gritty details that people need
when they have a million questions about
what do you do about this and how do you
make this and you know all the details
I'm gonna be putting up a picture book
with it that shows exactly what you
talked about like portion size what does
it mean when you have seventy five
percent fat what does that look like how
much is three to six ounces of protein
how much is seven cups of vegetables
just to show people to give them the
picture because I think that will save
them time so definitely stay tuned for
that data that should be coming out
shortly of course if you're watching us
now it's gonna be already released but a
dream of body type in your picture and
we'll post a picture like you in fact
I'll just pull up a picture right now
you can see the belly that's more of a
liver type not necessarily you don't
gain weight in your hips or your legs
right it's in the belly right oh yeah
yeah so it's more liver type and but you
know in the in the book basically we're
bringing in an additional strategy not
just the body type data but in a minute
fast e fasting the right way to do it
and then and then ketosis healthy
ketosis because some people what they do
is they don't look at the quality of the
fats they don't look at the quantity of
vegetables so here they are doing the
ketosis diet with 20 grams of carbs but
there's just it's a small little salad
I'm like that's not going to be enough
because you're gonna dump a lot of fat
to this system you don't want to end up
with a fatty liver and you told me
you're doing the upside of vinegar too
right so it's that helps to clean out
that liver so you don't end up with too
much fat that's coming off your belly in
through to the liver as it's coming out
so that's awesome I mean it's amazing
before and after when I saw that I was
like impressive I mean who can
who's gonna argue with that I mean you
could visually see you got steps of what
happened it's amazing yeah but I mean it
was and I wasn't even gonna take the
photos and that was the thing that I'm
glad I did because even farther
you know farther down the line I'm
thinking I'm not really losing anything
anymore
when you actually take a photo and you
compare it you can see like my wife
noticed yeah I could see definition now
in your shoulder muscle and stuff like
that where I never even really noticed
it before and and all that so that my
next thing is that starting like just
literally two weeks ago all right now
I'm starting the exercising so now I've
got rid of the fat so now if I exercise
I should see the change in my muscles a
lot easier but now there's my incentive
to keep exercise so I'm just gonna keep
writing the incentive train and keep
expanding upon my before and after to
see you okay oh now what am I where am I
going look like in two months
when exercise using the exact same diet
although I am increasing my my daily
portion size is a little bit too like
2,400 kilo calories just tweaking it a
little bit here and there so I got the
energy but I really haven't had to do
too much my biggest struggle though is
that trying to figure out the right time
to exercise because from my research the
best time to exercise is still within
your fast don't eat before the before
still just use the energy that you have
during it fast because your testosterone
and everything is at its peak and then
eat afterwards well it's kind of hard
sometimes when I'm working all day too
so I'm still figuring that out well I'm
glad you brought that up Joe because I
wanted to bring a little point up
because in my videos I'm describing what
you're saying however it sounds to me
that you went in this without too much
of a blood sugar issue didn't seem like
you were too much of a pre-diabetic or
hypoglycemic because it your transition
was pretty smooth so I think
you can plug an exercise well within
your fast in fact some of the other guys
that are doing this now are losing even
more weight not necessarily more weight
but they're just getting more lean
because if you think about it here you
are in this fasting state insulin is
lowest then you add this exercise it
puts this growth hormone into serious
high gear spikes it way up and so they
usually do it actually what they'll do
is they'll eat like at 11 o'clock and
then at 3 and then the workout in the
evening like it may be 7 yeah burn a
night they're burning fat all night long
they wake up and they're like their
stomach is like getting leaner leaner or
each day so I don't think you're gonna
have a problem I think the main thing to
is the time it takes to adapt to doing
it on the fasting level like for example
if you if someone who do too fast and
had a blood sugar issue they would tap
into their glycogen reserve and then and
put the low blood sugar and feel dizzy
and all this other stuff but if you
could actually train yourself over time
if you had a blood sugar issue you could
literally work out in the middle of
fasting and just switch right to your
fat burning and not have to end up with
a low blood sugar issue so you'll just
burn fat faster there's there's several
studies out there right now with
endurance athletes that are able to not
end up with that massive blood sugar
depletion and any side effects at all
they're just burning massive amounts of
fat and then what'll happen though
you'll probably end up getting too lean
and you'll probably have to add a little
more fat to the diet or more calories to
keep up but I think I'll be interested
to see what happens if you start
plugging in the exercise and then maybe
in a month from now send me some more
pictures or communication I'll be I
think you'll do quite fine yeah that's
what I plan on doing I'm expecting my
weight to climb but my body percent fat
keep diving so that's why I kind of had
that in mind before and after to kind of
track all that stuff so that number
should still keep the pleading and then
but my weight will go up a little bit
that's awesome Joe you're perfect
before and after demo of how to do it
correctly so I'm impressed well done and
I appreciate the interview hey no
problem at all I'll keep the hopefully
you keep in touch and I'll show you what
the results are in the future awesome
thanks much yeah okay have a good one
YouTube
