hey Dr Berg here in this short video I'm
going to show you how to get rid of bad
posture within two minutes now not that
I'm seeing a bad posture but I think you
did tell me you have bad posture how
many hours a day do you sit by the
computer
um at least eight to ten and what do
your parents normally tell you to do
when you're slouching sit up straight
exactly that doesn't work never tell
your kids or anyone to sit up tall when
they're slouching in fact tell them to
slouch more because here's what's going
to happen if she's slouching like this
the reason it's not that she has weak
back muscles it's that she has very
tight muscles in the front part of your
body that's pulling her forward like
this if we stretch a tight muscle like
that it's going to be like a rubber band
it's going to pull it back but if we
stretch the back muscles what happens it
sends neurological signals to the tight
muscle on the front and loosens it up
okay if you don't believe me we're going
to try it okay so sit back a little bit
okay bring your legs out a little bit
more wide wide okay so now what you're
going to do is you're going to do this
okay
like
you're gonna slouch
and round your back forward between your
legs down like that yes
slouch as far as far as you can good
relax that good come back up
okay slouch again bring your legs a
little bit and just really ground your
back
okay
come back up
okay slouch and what you're trying to do
is make your body slouch
right there you feel tight to this see
how round it is okay let's kind of come
up she's gonna do that five times that's
three
one more time so you just hold it
and you can do this by your computer too
on your desk come back up
one more time
okay good now just sit up do you feel
any different now that is really wild so
it doesn't look like you're slouching
anymore so that is amazing yeah so it's
very cool this is the better way to fix
someone who slouches so the next time
someone slouches have them reverse it in
slouch more and they'll be able to sit
up tall
