hey Dr bur here in this short video
we're going to talk about Hashimoto's
thyroiditis simplified now Hashimoto is
a type of a thyroid problem which is a
hypothyroid but it's a different type
It's actually an immune issue problem
and I want to give you some insights
because when you do research on this you
really won't find much about it so I
want to show you something this is a CBA
uh collection of medical illustrations
endocrinology
volume 4 by Dr Frank net he's an MD uh
I'm going to just show you on page 84
I'm just going to read something to and
this page is on something that describes
cortisol the uh biological actions of
cortisol that's the stress hormone so it
says
cortisol diverts amino acids from the
lymph tissue now the lymph tissue is all
the immune tissue so it the cortisol
pushes protein
from that lymph tissue so you don't you
don't get as much amino acid and so we
get a marked reduction in size of your
lymph noes so in other words it causes
an atrophy or shrinkage of your immune
system yeah cortisol will cause the
shrinkage of the immune system and then
this accompanied by a release of
antibodies now what does that mean it
means that all those stored antibodies
now are released into the blood so we're
getting a release of these little
antibodies which basically help they're
part of the immune system and then it
says an eventual decrease in overall
antibody production so what happens with
cortisol is you get a lowering of the
entire immune system and and the ability
to protect our bodies um which then
breaks down the immune barrier and
raises susceptibility to viral and
bacterial infections so now what does
all that mean it means that there's a
huge connection between stress and the
immune deficiency issues when we get
into uh Hashimoto or any autoimmune
problem just ask the person this one
question when did it start and you're
going to find it will always start after
some stress event a loss of a loved one
a divorce a job loss uh an injury a
trauma whatever and all of a sudden it
sets up a weakness within the adrenal
lowering the immune system and then your
body starts attacking itself so why
would your body body develop antibodies
to attack itself other than that whole
system is lost control and it's out of
control and that's what this is It's a
your bodies has producing little
antibodies against itself and so it's a
self attack and it keeps the thyroid
inflamed so that's what this is and it's
triggered by I believe High cortisol
which is stress and then the whole thing
starts becoming a problem so now okay so
that's that's kind of my theory on
what's going on but now what could we do
about it well we want to do two things
we want to reduce the inflammation
because there's an itis and some really
good things to do for that um to help
the immune system is to take vitamin D3
and by the way that adrenal uh thing
that cortisol that will deplete your
vitamin D as well so you want to take a
little bit more than you normally take
so I take about 10,000 IUS but make sure
you take vitamin K2 with it I've done
videos on this this is very important
you need to take these together because
they work together so take about 100
micrograms of K2 10,000 I use of vitamin
D3 and then add some cod liver oil in
there about 500 milligrams and this
combination is very anti uh inflammatory
so it'll actually help the inflammation
piece of it but there's something else
that um is out there that you may want
to look into it's a product by standard
process and you're going to have to find
a practitioner that has it but it's
called thyroid thyro tropen PMG
thyrotropin
PMG and the PMG part is really DNA
extract of
thyroid gland from a cow or a sheep
whatever so it's a glandular extract but
it's a siphoned out DNA from that so
they take the DNA out and they put it in
the tablet it's it's been used for for
probably 40 years um in the area of
Alternative Health and so when a person
would take thyrotroph and PMG before bed
they probably take one uh it goes into
the stomach and because that DNA is very
similar to our
DNA instead of the thyroid attacking
itself it goes what what the heck is
this let's go back over here and start
attacking this thing in the stomach so
it actually never even leaves the
stomach it goes into the lymphatic
system around the stomach and it kind of
just hangs out there and it it causes a
diversion it distracts the
antibodies to attack this decoy and it
leaves the thid alone so the guy who
developed this theory is a genius Dr
Royal Lee back in probably 20s and 30s
um but this is a really simple way of
kind of taking the immune system and
shifting it um over here and leaving the
thyroid alone so it can start to heal so
th those are a couple tips in uh my two
cents on the Hashimoto thyroiditis
