well hello everyone we have a special
guest today Julie Collins is here and I
want to just introduce her because she
is a very enthusiastic person that
actually came to my summit she is uh she
had great success with keto she's
spreading it all over the place
so welcome Julie how you doing great so
Julie can you just briefly tell us a
little bit in a fennel sketch about your
story with keto yes so in the big big
picture I had to realize that I was and
had to admit that I am a sugar addict a
carb addict and for years I kind of knew
it because I already am in a recovery
program with addiction issues and you
know couldn't really understand how I
could have such success in that it with
my alcoholism and recovery from
alcoholism and I work a 12-step program
and I'm in a fellowship and you know
normally that's all anonymous but I
really have to bring it up because it
really applies to the success I've had
with keto and there's another doctrine
you just did a video recently dr. Berg
on addiction and car addiction and
there's another guy dr. Robert Silas
that I've been listening to and he's a
carb addiction guy and he speaks my
language and it the irony is a year ago
I kind of blindly took step one and said
I'm addicted to sugar I know that how do
you do how do you apply the stuff I've
learned to to this sugar thing that's in
our face on television you know how do I
do it and I did it one step at a time
one thing at a time you know there's a
level of pain when you're taking away
the one thing that's giving you power
and you know it they talk about a higher
power well food was my higher power
alcohol was my higher power and so how
do we find bridges and replace all that
and by educating myself by watching your
videos first of all I listen to audio
books Kito clarity is one that kind of
led me to you and just starting to
slowly educate myself and everyone says
well
keep it simple how do you keep this
simple when in schools were being taught
the old food pyramid you go to your
doctor he tells you to do low fat you're
pre-diabetic but lose weight but do low
fat you know it's it's so frustrating
and it's so easy to give up but because
of the stuff I had learned in my 12-step
program I knew to take it slow one day
at a time and just start following the
little signs and I would listen with my
headphones on because my husband would
be like oh my god turn those podcasts
off and I would listen with my
headphones to two or three of your
videos a day after your summit I found
other people to listen to and I loved in
your videos that you tell people listen
to other people listen but then you
think who do you trust and who do you
listen to that's why the summit was so
helpful because I kind of trust the
speakers that you got I'll look at other
summit sheets from other summits
throughout the country and I'll look at
names and I'll look them up on YouTube
and there's just so many of you out
there that are changing the world and
the saddest thing for me is it's kind of
like I quit smoking a year and a half
ago also I put 20 pounds on when I did
that but I have used the 12 steps for my
smoking when I said oh this is working
for cigarettes I'm powerless over
cigarettes interest I'm powerless over
sugar and I just started applying that
over it is so liberating that's great
what happened our Wow when you actually
like platelets you go to a meeting they
have a lot of carbs there right I mean
there'll actually yes I'm getting a
reputation for me the very annoying
person okay we grow a lot of our own
food and I would bring a lot of that
like last summer and as I was dropping
all this weight I'm also trying to learn
how to talk to women about weight and
you're the one that opened that door
with get healthy first and it made me
see how toxic and unhealthy my thinking
is and um this has been really difficult
because everyone when they see me says
Julie you're so skinny
oh you look so good and that was great
in the summer when I first was reaching
my goals and lost my fifty pounds now
six months later it's getting old
absolutely it's kind of rude and it's
made me see that I do that I did that to
people as well what do you say to an
addict when they come back in the room
and put the weight back on
oh girl you put all your weight back on
yeah very very shift how we talk to
people I know it's when you um how much
did you weigh at your near peak weight
185 okay I'm very small bone
I had pre-diabetes I was at 117 you know
with my fasting glucose okay I've had
high blood pressure I had chronic
snoring chronic heartburn which your
apple cider vinegar cured it
tums should be outlawed I was do that
and that was just your Apple site it's
on my counter over there um apple cider
vinegar has changed my wife like I had
Hartland since I started that Wow year
and a half ago that's why I really
started putting trust in your videos
it's like okay because how do you trust
something when you have doctors telling
you don't do that it's gonna hurt you
it's gonna kill you so I just I kind of
did the is it the a one experiment that
in P no clarity talks about the a1c the
experiment where you experiment on
yourself and I just kind of Nestea
plunge and so oh the fries and the
burgers we're gonna kill me when people
say keto is gonna kill you as they're
eating their fries and eating their
sundaes yeah um why not try this and as
I started to work my husband I don't
snore anymore
three weeks into keto that's that can
get very irritating if you're married
and they're your spouse - snoring oh
that's like you know the I have read
probably 3.5 million subscribers right
and I also have a three hundred thousand
people on this closed Facebook group and
so I have a chance to that other people
don't have a chance to not to experiment
with with different theories but
different theories out so I'm constantly
finding out oh go ahead and try this see
how this worked try this and then
getting Oh lots of feedback if I send
out a questionnaire within one hour I
can get 900 responses back and I can
quickly find out like oh that was a
terrible idea or that's like brilliant
we're gonna actually I'm gonna do a
video on that to focus on that so that's
really what I do I just get so much
feedback I bake so anyone that says that
that can't work yeah and he told me for
three years
you're pre-diabetic it was wait blah
blah blah and I would do it I had done
sugar Buster's a year ago years ago you
ever read that book yes I did stirs and
it didn't work I was eating Triscuits I
was eating you know and and and for me
sugar is a trigger
I can't gargle with tequila I can't you
know some of my friends now to say
you've lost all your weight can't you
have a cookie now and I tell them I
can't gargle with vodka no I and I have
to treat sugar like that and on your
Facebook page a lot of people say
there's all this cheating talk and not
everyone's a Carbajal like I am so if
you're doing keto and you're carbajal
'ok my recommendation is the only way is
abstinence yeah cuz you because you
can't even do the keto treats and all
that because it's just gonna open up the
door for if you're fine all this and you
start doing that and then the next to
something else
you do those for a while and I'm gonna
help me the irony now is it doesn't
trigger the dopamine because the sugar
okay wanna oh great
like I've got cupboard full of bars not
I want prime rib I want steak I want me
I am I have been leaning a little bit
more towards carnivore lately like two
to three days a week because I have some
digestive issues when I'm much yeah but
I still need my vegetables and I do feel
better when I eat the vegetables yet my
constipation when I'm doing carnivore is
gone
Wow I eat a lot of leafy greens and
cruise
first vegetables and I'll get backed up
I do a day of just meat and dairy you
know and then those days I mean a 12 to
14 ounce ribeye I know that that's
against some of your thinking but for me
a couple days a week I can work out I'm
jogging my whole life I've never been
able to run or jog and I can't hug now
that's amazing
it's just I just wished the food
industry and the pharmaceutical industry
and my husband said TV is wrecked for
you and I said why and he said because
all you do is get bad at it during the
commercials no simcha all the you know
all these um you know insulin resistance
is a problem take this and it just I am
so sad for people did you see the latest
disease out there they just came up with
I guess it's maybe not it's probably a
couple years old but it's called binge
eating disorder bed and this is now like
a psychiatric they took this normal
behavior the binging and snacking and
they just made it a disease they have a
drug for it and serious side effects I'm
talking like death stroke the heart
problems and and yeah if you actually
are into some fad diets like cutting out
food groups you know yeah and also if
you can't go for a few hours without
eating and snacking
if you eat when you're not hungry if you
eat alone like I did a video on it I
don't know if I really because you what
I got rid of my snacking cuz you I do
puzzles now if I'm like when you snack
that's good
snacking is a killer it is yeah at the
next summit that I do which is going to
be at the end of August I definitely am
going to be talking about that a lot we
have some really interesting speakers
coming this time I really wanted
speakers that are going to get practical
information that is not too technical
yet very credible so I really spent some
time to figure out who were inviting and
I have just over-the-top speakers so
you're interested I love it that you
didn't overdo it with the vendors and
one thing I would suggest to people when
they go to summits or whatever
is that um you can't rely on if it says
Kido right you really have to learn what
your body can tolerate and what
ingredients it can have some people can
say oh this I've tested my glucose and
it doesn't knock me out of ketosis I can
have this don't follow the pack on that
you've got to learn what your body can
tolerate because not everybody some of
these young my son is doing keto now he
I won't tell his story online that
wouldn't be fair to him and I I just
attraction rather than promotion a year
of them all coming here for holidays and
I would have all the keto stuff and they
would avoid it and then after Christmas
after they've set the example for year
finally in January my son said hey mom I
need help I need to do keto he's 28 and
got above two hundred and sixty seventy
pounds I'm had some blood work that I
won't put him out there but you know
he's and he has now lost 30 pounds Wow
and I went to spent a weekend with him
because he's got a baby due April 4th
Wow exciting
and I've been talking a lot about
children and sugar and I've kind of made
amends him that part of the reason his
metabolism is broken at such a young age
younger than mine showed up is because
the way I fed him so I can't wait to
make grilled cheese chocolate orange ah
so great because we have a my
granddaughter is living with us right
now and so it's I mean you can imagine
this is one keto sugar-free baby
everything that goes in her mouth is
like high quality and you can just see
it like I should probably do some videos
on her bone structure her development
her coordination she's calm she's like
the perfect kid am useless and is great
one thing I'd love to say and this and
I'm throwing myself out there I really
don't care because if it helps someone I
was diagnosed bipolar okay and this was
after a relapse from alcohol that I got
that diagnosis I think I've had those
brain issues my whole life but I think
I've been addicted to sure
since I could ride my bike to 7-eleven
and alcoholic since I first drank I mean
my brain likes that stuff both of them
and I think I was misdiagnosed I think I
had ups and downs and sleep issues
because of carbonation and heart
toxicity Wow so there's dr. Peter
Bregenz have you heard of him
and I started when you kept telling us
in your videos do your research do your
research I started my doctor when I told
when he said you're no longer
pre-diabetic after I'd been on keto
three months but your cholesterol is
high maybe you might need some statins
but I had listened to cholesterol
clarity and I had listened to you and
learn to how to start talking to him and
I said and I had listened to dr. Peter
Bregenz and I said give me six months
can we try getting the office seroquel
with your guidance in case I go into a
deep dark depression because the
seroquel can raise your cholesterol and
it can also cause some of the other
things can we wean it off and see if
this healthy fat in my brain and them no
longer having sugars brings that
cholesterol down so after your summit I
got my blood tested mm-hm and when I
went in I said can you test for large
particles and all of this is from you
and some of the speakers you had dr.
share and now they you know they're not
Natalie who was ever coming I recovered
yep I ever coming
well I knew how to talk to the doctor
and I said well you test for large and
small particles and this is after
getting off seroquel and all that and
the nurse said we don't do that and I
said well I'll pay out-of-pocket and I
said but I would like you to test for
large particles I didn't really even
know what I was talking about anyway it
came back my ratio had been 4.7 my ratio
is now three point four after summit and
I got an email not even from the doctor
saying you're fine Wow so sanics Wow
seroquel in nine months I go to bed at
10 p.m. I can't stay awake past that I
am up at 6 a.m. like my body just wakes
up but my your life going back to when I
was 12 and the sugar addiction I've
never
slept in my life Wow yeah and I've never
um not suffered from this it was like
pain and it's gone like I feel better
than I did in my 20s so you definitely
are very up tone your way up there so
that's awesome
plus you there listening or curious
about the particle and the cholesterol
let me just explain because LDL is
considered the bad cholesterol but
there's two types of LDL there is the
large buoyant like you can imagine
they're like big fluffy things and then
there's small dense LDL okay so these
small dents can penetrate through the
wall of the artery and create damage the
big ones can't so if you have high LDL
and you get your a deeper cholesterol
test and it measures like those
differentiating between the two you're
gonna fight if you're on keto you're
gonna find that you're gonna have high
levels of the large buoyant and very
small levels of the small dense so Karen
my wife I had her gonna get tested and
her LDLs LDL was very high so but but if
you looked at looked at a deeper it was
the large buoyant and it wasn't a small
small was normal what it's almost like
he knew they know that if your even if
your LDL is high if those other numbers
it was just interesting that yeah it's
um it's it's kind of like an advanced
test that they don't talk about there's
not a lot of doctors that know about it
yet but trust their patients like if
someone doesn't stick with it well
here's the thing they're taught in
school to do a certain way and there's
so many things that conflict with that
they just reject it they're not very
open-minded all the time and so they
have a certain way of doing this so
anything that conflicts makes them wrong
but there's certain doctors that are
like okay all right let me let me learn
about it but there's quite a few that
are just not open to new things
unfortunately until the entire
nice change around which is not going to
happen very soon I have my year
follow-up in two weeks
oh wow Wow it's gonna be interesting
well I'm excited to have you at this
this year's summit we're going to have
even more people you can grab better
speakers and I want to thank you for
your time I just wanted to hear about
your story and also the amazing kind of
tie in with the whole recovery program
that you've been through and you're
using that as a tool now for carbs
because it really you need to there
might be a wall had weight you know if
I'm not an alcoholic how do I get into
those meetings and there are no 12-step
meetings for but there are open 12-step
meetings of any addiction you can even
go to al-anon to an open meeting and
there's a book called the 12 steps for
anyone who wants them oh one Amma's you
can get it online you can apply the 12
steps to any addiction one if you find
one safe friend that's doing the same
thing you are the philosophy in the
12-step world is it's one person sharing
their experience strength and hope with
another person with the same issue and
it's that communicating and admitting
that you're powerless it makes it makes
you that's that's what becomes the
energy and so I tell people try to find
a support system of some kind and then
watch as many dr. Berg videos as you can
do you my favorite book of yours it's
your smallest one is this one oh yeah
that's it that's a very short one but a
lot of pictures simple but important so
yeah that's a real popular one it's
because some people don't have want to
watch videos but dr. Berg keep doing
what you're doing and I know that like
they still sell cigarettes at gas
station so it's gonna be a long time
till the commercials shift from a semca
to dr. Berg's electrolyte powder right
but that's what I'm saying is that all
of you in that world keep doing what
you're doing because you are saving
lives and I know that sounds dramatic
high blood pressure pre-diabetes
depression my arms were falling asleep
at night
I was to more and more medications and
slow yeah I read romantic but I'm gonna
get to place my grandkid now absolutely
well that's so awesome and thanks for
your feedback and your sharing your
Aussie well I like that so especially
since you're everything you're saying is
total it makes total sense so thank you
so much you summit go to dr. bird summit
all right awesome
