hey guys dr. Burke here in this video
we're going to talk about body proteins
I'm talking about muscle skin nails hair
I mean your entire body is almost all
protein you have minerals you have fat
but protein is necessary to replace the
body tissue so one talks about some
factors because it's a little bit
involved with some complexities it's not
just a matter of eating any old protein
to replace your body parts if you
replace your body with poor raw
materials you will going to have
problems with you just kind of like look
healthy you're going to look kind of
ragged you can look kind of you know
wrinkly you're going to have loose skin
so we're going to go through all the
factors to make sure that your body
stays beautiful throughout your whole
life sound good number one incomplete
proteins so if you're doing trying to
get your proteins from rice or beans or
or vegetables you really have to know
what you're doing because you can be
have an incomplete amino acid profile
that's why it's much easier to get a
complete protein from animal sources
specifically eggs our real good complete
source is probably the best source of
amino acid seafood is a good one fish in
general those are all really really
complete proteins all right there are
amino acids in vegetables but it's not
complete it has some so that's one thing
you have to also make sure that the
quality of protein is high you don't
want to do
soy protein isolates so when you buy
those protein bars or your shakes you're
going to make sure that it's high
quality you want something that is
non-gmo you don't want to do soy protein
you want to do whole proteins if at all
possible and you just don't want to do
like some cheap like they have vegetable
/ textured protein like it's just not
good also when you add sugar to protein
you really accelerate the insulin spike
to a major degree so you never want to
combine sugar with your protein and
again it's in the protein bars it's in
all the different
foods when you're taking like hamburger
and a bun or hamburger with a coke or
sugar not good because you're going to
raise insulin like way way up there so
insulin is a going to create a lot of
blood sugar problems and also belly fat
many other things the other thing I'm
talking about is hydrochloric acid in
your stomach you have a very powerful
stomach cold hydrochloric acid when you
age you deplete the acids in the stomach
when you don't have enough stomach I'm
stomach acid you have a lack of protein
digestion you also have a lack of
mineral absorption too so the purpose of
the stomach is to break down proteins
that's a big purpose so if you're not
breaking down proteins you're going to
get purification and that's called gas
indigestion
acid reflux GERD that all occurs in that
same low acid state if you have good
acid in a stomach you can break down
collagen and have healthy tendons
ligaments good connective tissue so
you're nice and strong and tight but
hydrochloric acid is probably the single
most common deficiency that I see and a
lot of people especially when they get
older
thus the opposite of vinegar tablets or
drink that you should do but this is a
really common thing especially if the
food sits there and one of the big
symptoms of hydrochloric acid deficiency
is acid reflux yeah so we need to have
strong acid to be able to break down
proteins okay trace minerals you need
minerals potassium but also you need
trace minerals trace minerals are
minerals required in small amounts to be
able to metabolize these proteins see
the trace minerals are involved in all
the cellular mechanics of protein so
your body takes protein as raw material
and builds immune cells and hair cells
and ligaments but to do that they need a
lot of enzymes enzymes are made from
protein enzymes need trace minerals the
DNA needs trace minerals so all the
metabolism and your energy factories
need minerals trace minerals so if you
don't have trace minerals you'll find
that your it's very hard to grow hair or
nails or connective tissue okay the
problem is in our soils we don't have
enough
based minerals so you end up having
empty nutrition from in your foods and
you you start wondering what the hair
falls out so trace minerals are
important certain B vitamins
specifically biotin b6 b5 are all
required for protein digestion and it's
not not just a matter of trying to eat
foods high in B vitamins it's trying to
avoid the foods that deplete the B
vitamins like the bread sugar pastas
crackers alcohol those are the things
that will deplete the B vitamins ok
nutritional yeast is the best source of
B vitamins okay and get it from health
of storr quantity if you're doing too
much protein and and this is a big
mistake doing six protein meals a day
having snacks of protein between meals
having large amount of protein is a bad
idea because it's going to spike insulin
so anything more than about twenty-five
to thirty to thirty five grams of
protein per meal is converted to sugar
it's going to spike insulin so what does
that mean it means just consume small
amounts of protein maybe three to six
ounces that's enough okay that's enough
protein if your metabolism is really
really fast maybe you can do a little
bit more but for most people three or
six ounces so it's not that much like
the palm of your hand maybe a little
smaller and sometimes not even three
times a day sometimes twice a day we
don't need as much protein as we think
and if you do too much you it's not
going to help your hair or your muscles
okay and I know there is some
controversy about that saying oh if I
don't need a protein I'm not going to
have muscle strength that's a that's not
true because what builds muscle is a
combination of hormones and protein and
actually healthy foods and exercise and
things like that and weight training not
just eating more protein if in fact the
more protein you eat the more you're
going to clog your liver up and then
you're going to not be able to utilize
that protein effectively so the liver is
a factor in protein metabolism too so
raw vs. cooked when we eat the majority
of our food cooked and then you add
pasta and breads and starches and sugar
bad because when you we cook protein
you're eating a dead protein your body
as a harder time utilizing that protein
it has to work harder to break it down
and I mean to utilize it and absorb it
so cook protein too much of that
destroys the liver and then it inhibits
your ability to process protein so what
does that mean
does it mean that you're going to drive
up to McDonald's and have a raw
hamburger no it means that you need to
have less cooked vegetables more raw
vegetables raw nuts I'll do a SEM I'll
do a video on how to germinate the nuts
which is soaking them in water overnight
I'll do that another one but raw nuts
raw seeds those are good not overly
cooked meat so maybe like medium or rare
that would be better okay so the point
is that we need more raw foods in the
diet so these are just some factors that
you might want to utilize to actually
improve your own body tissues protein
okay I'll see you in the next video
