if you are interested in a very
inexpensive way
to lower your risk for getting
respiratory infections now there's a lot
of research behind what I'm going to
show you but of course check with your
doctor before implementing what I'm
going to show you all right so this is
what it involves you're going to be
using povidone iodine okay and you're
going to get 10 you'll see on the lab
it'll say 10 which is really only one
percent available iodine and then you
can dilute it with water and I'm only
going to recommend take a half of an
ounce okay and then take another half
ounce of water dilute it so then you'll
end up with a 0.5 percent available
iodine and out of all the natural
remedies this appears to have the
broadest Spectrum effect of anything
that I know of it's antiseptic antiviral
antibacterial it has the potential to
oxidize
the nucleic acids of viruses the amino
acids of a virus the membrane of viruses
and bacteria and it can prevent the
virus from invading or sticking to your
tissues but you'd want to use this to
prevent upper and lower respiratory
infections and there's a lot of research
on this and it can significantly
increase your resistance to Chronic
respiratory infections so what you're
going to do is now that you have like a
an ounce of this liquid okay which is
0.5 percent iodine because you diluted
it with water and so you're first going
to get a cotton swab okay you'll dip it
into the liquid and you would want to go
inside your nostril on one side and then
the other side and then for the rest of
the material you're going to not swallow
it but put it into your mouth swish it
around and gargle for about 30 full
seconds one study that I read showed
that you can decrease bacteria by 99.4
percent and in another study I showed
that it can significantly lower your
viral loads so after you're done
swishing around in your mouth and
gargling this fluid then you're going to
spit it out and you're going to do this
twice a day once in the morning once in
the evening with about a 12 hour time
between when you do this all right so
this is a quick video but I wanted to
give you some something to do to lower
your risk for these infections that's
actually based on quite a few studies
and I will put those down below and it's
just amazing what you can do with iodine
now if you haven't seen my video on how
to apply iodine to skin tags and warts I
put that video up right here check it
out
