hey guys I recently had a question from
someone that wanted to know what causes
burning tongue and this is the same with
a burning mouth or a sore mouth it's
actually a b12 deficiency now the
question is how do you become b12
deficient there's several ways that
could happen number one low stomach acid
number two let's see a gastric bypass
and therefore you don't have the full
capacity of your digestive system and
you can't absorb b12 some type of
problem in your intestines like IBS or
Crohn's or inflammatory problem in your
bowel could do it as well being a vegan
could do it as well because most of the
b12 comes from either eggs animal meats
or animal organs or dairy so if you're a
vegan you might want to add b12 in the
form of methyl cobalamin okay this is
the natural form do not get the cyano
Cibola mean and drinking alcohol can
deplete b12
that's why alcoholics are usually
deficient in b12 and for that matter
anyone that has liver damage is going to
have a hard time absorbing b12 all right
there you have it thanks for watching
