hey guys welcome to the webinar and uh
I'm just going to Dive Right In uh one
thing I hate about webinars is that this
long introduction and you never really
get into the material so let's just jump
right in uh I'm gonna open up my
PowerPoint right
now okay good I got it awesome it
works okay good
all right we're going to talk about
blood sugars diabetes and Insulin uh the
only eating plan that makes sense okay
uh real quickly who am I I'm Dr Eric
Berg been proess for 27 years I'm a
chiropractor a health educator uh I
don't do Chiropractic anymore I do more
um basically health education and
nutrition I worked uh in my clinic over
with on over
45,000 people
over the 27 years taught at Howard
University as an associate professor in
the Nutrition department a bestselling
author the seven principles of fat
burning uh don't get that book because
there's a new one coming out in January
with lots of updates I trained over 2500
doctors in alternative medicine
including many medical doctors so I
actually train medical doctors in
Alternative Healthcare uh I've delivered
over 4900 seminars to a lot of different
agenci governmental agencies churches
other groups over the years um I like to
teach people right now I'm doing a lot
of YouTube videos on health every
possible subject of Health I have over
1326 million views I get about two and a
half million views every single 28 days
excuse me and I'm also the developer of
the for body type um philosophy of
weight loss okay now just as a personal
thing the reason I got into this which
is actually a really good thing uh I got
really sick uh when I was a kid the only
thing that I ate is sugar I was a sugar
Fiend I would just stand on the
cupboards looking for sugar and just I
never ate one vegetable till I was 21
years old um well it caught up with me I
had hypoglycemia low blood sugar when I
was 11 and it kept getting worse worse
worse worse I got into wrestling I went
to state
I would be undefeated for the first part
of the season and I would be completely
exhausted at the last part uh because my
nutrition was so bad not to mention
trying to cut weight joined the military
I barely passed the PT test after basic
training because of the amount of stress
I was under at that time and no sleep
and of course they fed you a lot of
sugar um so anyway I was going along I
started getting arthritis digestive
problems insomnia
when I hit 28 that was that's when I hit
my lowest point of my life I was a mess
okay so to make a long story short that
forced me out of necessity to find other
solutions to see if I could help myself
and uh since then I've been obsessively
studying nutrition and the learning
about the body and teaching um how the
body works and
researching like 247 so that's pretty
much all I do I like to teach uh the
truth about health and um in this
presentation we're going to get right
into a really important subject that
relates to insulin and blood sugars and
if you follow these
recommendations um not only can you
improve your blood sugar profile and uh
maybe even reverse your insulin
situation or your diabetic situation but
you can definitely be a lot closer in
preventing diabetes Now I not I'm not
making any claims it's against the law
so this is my disclaimer if you have any
medical conditions check with your
doctor before applying any of these
recommendations okay this is just food
for thought and uh if you get better
don't blame it on me all right good so
the root of the problem I always like to
get to the root of it um has to do with
insulin okay so if we're we have a
diabetic or a pre-diabetic or
hypoglycemic person insulin is at the
root of the problem now what's
interesting
about insulin and I'm going to Define
that in a second um so if anyone doesn't
know what that means I'll I'll get to it
is that the body will do everything it
can to maintain normal blood values okay
it does everything it needs to be at a
very constant rate it does not like to
vary and so insulin is that hormone that
helps stabilize the blood sugars to
maintain this constancy okay a very
narrow band so insulin really has to
work really hard at it's basically it
lowers the blood sugar okay so let me
just show you a picture of what it does
here's a picture of um the pancreas
that's a gland underneath your left rib
cage and it's a small gland that
secretes this hormone called insulin
that then is triggered in response to
carbohydrates especially in the form of
sugar and wine and juice and these other
things and what its job is to get the
excess sugar out of the blood okay
that's what it
does why why is it so important because
when you have high sugars it's very very
dangerous apparently sugar is very bad
on the body so um I mean like take a
look let's take an out of out of control
diabetic what do they have they go blind
their feet fall off they get gang green
they get art clogged arteries they get
strokes so it's very bad to have too
much sugar in the body so insulin has to
work hard to clean it out okay so
insulin
lowers the sugar in the blood okay got
that now what does it do with it after
it lowers like when it gets out of the
blood what does it do with it that's the
question um where does it go well the
body has three main
ways that it gets rid of this sugar okay
number one it drives it into the cell
now that's a good thing because we need
some insulin we need some insulin we
just don't need too much you can't live
without insulin so one of the functions
is removing it from the blood and then
putting it into the cell as like a
nutrition like a fuel so your body can
run on on glucose for sugar okay that's
purpose number one number two uh it also
stores the sugar as stored sugar it's
called glycogen what is glycogen it's
basically a bunch of little um you can
see on this chart these little glucose
molecules attached so it's a bunch of
sugar attached okay and that's called
stored sugar or glycogens it's stored in
the liver and stored in the
muscles the reason why you have stored
glycogen is it's equ quick release of
sugar if you need it fast if you like if
you're running down the street something
like that you need quick energy then we
have um stored is fat okay so that's
more for uh a rainy day if you need it
later so so insulin uh feeds the
cells store Sugar as stored sugar called
glycogen or it stores sugar as fat
especially if there's any excess okay
got that three main
purposes good we're making good time
here now so the fuel that goes in the
cell uh is fed by sugar and you're but
here's the thing sometimes people think
they have to eat sugar to get sugar but
everything pretty much you eat turns
into sugar eventually and that's what
I'm talking about like we want a nice
slow input of fuel to the
cells okay all right so we got the
basics because I'm going to build on
this so Drive Sugar into the cell into
your brain into the muscle into the
liver it converts sugar into stored
sugar and it also cons converts sugar
into fat cholesterol the bad cholesterol
LDL and triglycerides which are blood
fats so if you have high cholesterol if
you have high
triglycerides we know that you have too
much sugar in the
diet and this is the confusing thing for
people because they've been taught that
it's the cholesterol that you're eating
that causes high cholesterol more on
this later but that's not true it's the
sugar I can I can prove it all you have
to do is cut out the sugar and your
cholesterol will come right down and so
will the
triglycerides now now let's just kind of
keep defining things so you really get a
grasp on what a normal blood sugar means
because when you go to the doctor you
check oh yeah your blood sugars are
normal what does that mean well normal
is roughly between 90 and 100 could be
like a 90 to 110 okay that's considered
normal let's see it's a narrow band the
body doesn't like to go too high or too
low so what that means is you basically
have one teaspoon of sugar in your
entire body in your entire blood so the
ratio of one teaspoon per all of your
blood which is one and 13 gallon of
blood okay that would uh that's the
dilution or the ratio of sugar you
really need so is that a lot or is that
a little that's a very tiny amount so
you don't need a lot of sugar do you
so so basically that's now you know if
your blood sugars are normal um then
basically that's kind of the ratio it's
just a very slight amount of
sugar people are
surprised okay now what happens when you
eat too much sugar okay the sugar
Rises and that's called hyper glycemia
now hyper meaning High glycemia meaning
sugar that's diabetes if your sugar is
too high okay now normally the sugar
does increase after you eat but it's
just not going to go too high and it
kind of might go up and it kind of goes
down because the insulin's coming in
there but when you lose control of
insulin and it goes too high that's
called diabetes or hypoglycemia
okay now when it goes too low it's
called hypogly let me explain what
happens hypoglycemia is a
pre-diabetic situation so at first you
know when you eat sugar like me when I
was 11 eating tons of sugar the insulin
would come in really hard and push the
sugar down way too far okay and end up
with like lightheadedness blood sugar
feeling kind of irritable um craving
sweets all those are
hypoglycemic symptoms okay make sense
so here's the problem when you eat too
much sugar over too much time you
develop
hypoglycemia then something called
insulin resistance basically it's a
situation your body is blocking insulin
doesn't accept it anymore and then you
get diabetes type two and then you get
diabetes type one okay that's the kind
of the worsening of the this this spiral
um when I talked about this in the blog
I had some people disagree with some of
the data and they says well wait a
second no diabetes type two doesn't turn
into type one that's what they said they
say type one is a genetic thing or it's
an autoimmune well that's basically
they're telling you that because that's
what they've been told on some websites
um I will guarantee the type two can
turn into type one if you take a diab
type two I mean think about what happens
to type twos they get worse and what do
the doctors give them they inject with
insulin eventually they are taking
insulin so now they actually because
they run out and they become a type
one it's very
common now is it true that you can have
other causes absolutely autoimmune is
one okay so your body's attacking it but
the question is what causes
autoimmune they don't know but i h
observe an interesting thing that
happens with diabetics that turn into
type one and it's nearly always actually
it's not nearly it's always in my in my
observation it's always occurring after
a stress event okay some Shock stress
could be loss of a loved one some stress
like I'll give you an example I know
this
guy he um he had Bell's poliy where he
lost the the feeling on on one side of
his face it's the nerve that started
atrophying so they injected a steroid
shot okay that's adrenal hormones and
then he ended up with type one diabetes
autoimmune so that that injection
shocked the system because it was too
much a drug okay so that's just an
example all right so I just want to
clear that up but check this out an
average American consumes 31 TPO of
sugar every single day now that is
freaking crazy see why we got diabetes I
mean for someone to say that oh diabetes
doesn't come from eating too much sugar
or it doesn't come from anything other
that's genetic or autoimmune well wait a
second that it's completely illogical
because so many people consume so much
sugar don't you think that's having any
impact don't you think that's the most
lik cause of this problem I mean it's in
everything you
eat it does affect your body I
mean it's the obvious thing so what
happens when you consume too much sugar
too long your body considers it a poison
so it's going to reject it remember
because your body's trying to keep the
normal insulin at 90 to 100 doesn't like
to go too high or too low so what
happens is that
the thing that receives the insulin it's
called a receptor for insulin starts to
block the insulin okay starts to resist
it so it's kind of like if you were
to be around someone that's that talks
so much and they never shut up they keep
talking eventually you're going to phase
them out you're going to ignore them
well the thing is when you ignore anyone
guess what they do they start talking
more they increase the volum don't they
try to ignore some see try to ignore
your spouse and see what they do they'll
start talking
louder uh now so what happens you
develop a condition called insulin
resistance which is
basically the the cells are resisting
insulin so what's going to happen to
inside the cell we're not going to drive
the sugar in there anymore so we're
going to basically starve the cell
the brain the muscle of
fuel
okay that's where you get the Cravings
that's where you get the fatigue that's
where you get the feeling of not being
satisfied after you eat okay but what
happens a signal sent back to the
pancreas and it's going to tell the
pancreas hey we have a low
insulin increase more so insulin
resistant is a situation where the body
has resisting insulin and it's a
situation where you have have in certain
parts of your body too much insulin and
other places not enough insulin now if
we don't have enough insulin in the
blood what's going to happen to the high
sugar it's going to keep going higher
that's called diabetes so all diabetic
cases have insulin resistance insulin
resistance is a pre-diabetic it happens
right after hypoglycemia hypoglycemia
insulin resistance Diabetes Type 2
okay and in insulin resistance is really
interesting because when it gets it
starts off small and it gets worse right
so when it first starts off you might go
to the doctor and get your blood test
and it might be
normal because it hasn't your body is
still not that bad okay it's just it's
resisting a little bit so the insulin's
going higher to compensate for the low
insulin inside of the cell but we're
still have normal values
then what happens over a period of time
it gets worse to the point where now
it's started infecting your blood sugars
the reason I'm saying this is that this
is very difficult to test for when you
check blood sugars because you go to the
doctor he says oh we checked your blood
sugars we checked your A1C which is an
average blood sugars for three months
and everything's
normal you don't have any problem yeah
but you might have insulin resistance
because you could have it's like i a
pre-diabetic
state so what I suggest you do if you
have these symptoms is go get an a
fasting insulin assessment or test not a
fasting glucose but a fasting insulin
because that's going to show a lot more
insulin in your blood even though not
might not be affecting it because your
body's compensating um it's a really
good test so a real true insulin
resistant case has five to seven times
more insulin than a normal person
so so that's how you would diagnose it
okay all right so
now come let me just come back here for
a second if when you become a diabetic
type two you see that receptor right
there that receptor um when you're type
two
um is really resisting it so what
happens you take either metformin or
glucophage the medication which makes
the receptor more receptive and makes
the glucose work better and the insulin
work better and that's how Diabetes Type
2 medication works it doesn't give you
insulin it just makes the insulin work
better in the body okay the problem is
that it's doing it artificially it's
forcing your body to accept something
it's trying to reject so it has side
effects but the point is that that's how
diabetes type two medication works okay
so look at this here we got the pancreas
you eat a big carbohydrate me
it says uh oh we better secrete insulin
to get it out of the blood right well
you have insulin resistance and then it
blocks the low blood sugar but it's GNA
actually the low insulin will create low
blood sugar inside the cell inside the
brain inside the muscle but it creates
high sugar in the blood so you got
certain places that are too high certain
places too low okay that's why it's
confusing but now I hope I helped you
understand a bit how this works but if
like again if you're getting poor
acknowledgement like someone's not
acknowledging you will tend to talk more
that's insulin resistance okay so if you
take a normal cell on your left in a
insulin resistant cell you can see the
cell has starving of
fuel okay an insulin resistance and here
are the symptoms belly fat any belly fat
is coming from insulin okay that's an
insulin belly if I look around and see
someone with a fat belly I I instantly
know
they have too much insulin
okay fatty liver yeah people that have
big bellies have a fatty liver they go
hand in hand brain fog belly bloats and
swells sleepy after
meals classic not satisfied after meals
need a little something sweet high blood
pressure cravings for carbs and sweets
inflammation urination frequency at
night cannot go without sleeping from
one me I'm sorry cannot go without
eating from one meal to the next
excessive hunger because the cells are
starving forced to be having a snack at
night or between males okay these are
all symptoms of insulin resistance now
some of you have these symptoms so make
notes as we go through this because I'm
going to show you how to correct this SI
system if I could do anything for any
one uh this would be probably the most
valuable because I can prevent a lot of
problems down the road as you're going
to see just by getting the diet
corrected now okay diet nutrition so we
correct that and you can prevent a lot
of problems and you can clear up a lot
of these issues and it's not very hard
it's very easy if you know if you
understand um some people not going to
mention any names or professions would
like you to believe that once you get it
you can't get rid of it you're stuck
with it there's no cure no one
understands it blah blah blah okay I
don't buy
that so we talked about this people with
insulin resistance have higher fasting
insulin seven to t five to seven
times yeah normal that's
incredible now I just have to Define
again let's just Define diabetes type
two type two is that insulin receptor
problem your body's not accepting it so
we don't get the return communication so
then it's it's like it's like insulin
resistance more severe because now the
blood sugars are going to go higher so
it's high
sugar because the cells are not
receiving insulin and your body's
pumping out more but the insulin is not
re the insulin is not working like it
should that's type
two so I mean you could give someone
insulin to to help this but it's it's
like using a sludgehammer because you
don't need to do that so what they do is
they another medication to fix the
receptors for insulin to make them work
better and a lot of this happens in the
liver okay and I'll get into that in
about three slides but the liver is a
real key organ in correcting
diabetes now when you when you have type
two you can also then turn into type one
and again this can be coming from other
causes too it's like stress we'll get
into that but I'm talking about in this
case it coming from the diet eating too
much sugar too long and not changing
your ways so now here's diabetes type
one is where the pancreas is completely
exhausted and it doesn't have any more
insulin so therefore guess what's get
your blood sugars it's going to go way
way higher really high and that's
dangerous and when you don't have
insulin you're going to have to have it
injected okay so they have to control
every time they eat it's it's a problem
so now now we have out of control blood
sugars okay that's what type one
is now check this out there's more
effects of insulin more side effects
from insulin look at this dementia
insulin causes emid plaing on the brain
causing demension in Parkinson's and
Alzheimer's okay it's like di
Alzheimer's is like Diabetes Type 3
then it will actually clog arteries
causing a stroke it makes weak blood
vessels because it does control the
proteins in the body and you get an
aneurysm or a stroke so we get a clog we
get the artery blows out having stroke
or it gets clogged in the brain you get
a stroke um high cholesterol high blood
pressure a fatty liver diabetes heart
disease clogged arteries these are all
symptoms they're not diseases
there's symptoms of insulin see what I
told you before is if we could correct
and heal insulin we can prevent a lot of
problems and I'd like the Simplicity of
focusing on one
thing and uh you will see not only
you're going to lose weight on what I'm
going to tell you to do but you can
actually correct a lot of problems with
blood sugars and have I ever helped
anyone with blood sugars this is a
sensitive area because I can get in
trouble if I help too many people so I'm
just going to tell you that I've had a
lot of people who I've worked with with
the help of their doctors I have to
stick that in there um you know because
doctor controls the medication part I'm
I'm controlling the food part and eating
and the health so I've taken help women
or this several women that I know that
were actually had very very bad type one
diabetics okay and then they went from
type one type type two and now they're
off all the medication completely
okay but again I'm not going to make any
claims
because um I don't want to step on any
toes if you know what I mean but there's
um a lot of my clients were type two and
they're off all their medication type
two is a lot easier type one you can
still work with them but again if you're
going to do this suggest it with your
doctor before making any changes again
it's it's it's a very profitable
industry and again they don't like
anyone um you know conf creating
conflicting information
but I think it's good that you're
educated in this so you can make a a
choice because it's your body and uh
um my whole goal is to give you the
information to think with and research
further okay now check this out we got
the liver which is 100 times bigger than
the
pancreas okay so it's a huge organ on
the right rib cage the liver controls
blood sugars when you do not
eat the pancreas can controls blood
sugars when you're eating so they
reciprocate back and forth back and
forth back and forth now let me ask you
a question how much more time do you eat
versus when you don't
eat well you might say well I eat all
day long yeah well that's the problem
because the liver is bigger because it
has to maintain this blood sugars
between your between eating and it
produces a hormone called insulin like
growth factor number one and um so
that's the hormone that basically
mobilizes stored sugar in fat and then
raises the sugar and then insulin brings
sugar down so we have this nice little
balance if you were just to improve
liver function by 20% you can improve
the pancreatic function by 80% and
that's just something I've stumbled on
and we'll talk about what to do but I
just want you to get the concept of
diabetes is not just a pancreas problem
it's a liver problem it's an adrenal
problem it involves the whole body but
I'm really um want to emphasize that you
want to get the liver improved if you
want to help diabetes or prevent it uh
especially since the liver more likely
is filled with fat if you have a gut you
have a fatty liver if you have a f fatty
liver it's it's going to take some time
to undo this it might take three years
because it takes three years to uh fix a
liver and that's the problem is
sometimes you know even though you might
feel better it takes some
time glycemic index glycemic index is an
index that measures the blood sugars
that basically it's it's measuring the
reaction of carbohydrates to blood
sugars so if you eat uh jelly beans for
example you'll have a sudden Spike of
blood sugars if you eat celery it's
smaller okay so glycemic index is the
scale of how fast carbohydrates can
affect your blood sugars very simple
right
most of you already know about this so
you can see you eat a high carbohydrate
boom it spikes if you eat a low glycemic
index food it goes it's it's very small
okay but the G if you focus on the
glycemic index you've only focused on a
very small piece of not not a very small
you only focused on 50% of the
problem
because glucose is only half the problem
and I didn't talk about this yet but I'm
going to get into this right now so if
you've checked out check back in right
now I need your attention and this is
what you need to know there are other
things that affect
insulin there's an insulin index or a
scale non-
carbohydrates okay this is right out of
guidance
physiology um this is this is the
medical physiology textbook book that I
used when I went to school and I used it
in Premed okay and you can see the
coffee stains because I used to drink
massive amounts of coffee I'm talking
like pots of coffee to stay awake
because I was so fatigued and so burnt
out and didn't know anything about
nutrition at the time all I need is I
need coffee and Cuban coffee it finally
caught up with me okay so this is is
what I want to share with you right out
of G
physiology
um there's a couple other things that
trigger insulant one is amino acids
which is
protein and the next one is
gastrointestinal hormones which is
basically every time you eat so protein
and eating trigger
insulin don't worry it gets worse here's
a scale look at how much beef can
trigger
insulin
fish wow it's
huge now if you combined sugar with
protein you can really Spike insulin but
more than 200% so barbecued ribs breaded
Meats bun with the burger fries with the
burger soda with the burger ketchup with
the burger you're just spiking that
insulin way over there you're you're
gonna you're gonna have a lot of brain
fog if that happens okay so
fruit will do it too fruit will increase
the blood
sugars but here's the thing that I
wanted to mention it's not just any
protein it's specifically lowfat
proteins trigger insulin way higher than
fattier proteins now think about this
you go to the grocery store and you look
around fat free cheese fat free yogurt
Fat Free dressing
fat free like lowfat meat lean
meat lean chicken take the skin off
right do you realize that that is going
to be worse for your blood sugars than
having more fat because here's the
interesting thing on the insulin scale
which I'm going to go right
here look at what's very low on the
insulin scale butter olives coconut flax
heavy cream peans a avocado bacon in
other words the more fatty something is
the less response it has on your
insulin okay this goes against what
you've been
taught this is
huge see it's the thing that people
haven't done yet they haven't started
eating fat okay so let me show you
something
if you had a choice let's say you're a
diabetic and you had a choice between
eating
fat full 100% uh fat filled yogurt
versus fat-free yogurt go with the
fattiest yogurt if you had a choice
between whe protein and whole milk
cheese go with the whole milk cheese go
with the fat of your cheese if you had a
choice between lowfat cheese and Bree
cheese go with the Bree cheese lean fat
lean meat versus fatty feet go with the
fatty meat go with the fatty meat um
turkey bacon versus other bacon as long
as it's like nitrate free hormone free
go with the fat of your bacon um why
because that will lower
insulin wow this is all getting very
interesting isn't
it now some of you are like oh but what
about my colesterol right did you
realize that your body makes cholesterol
it makes over 3,000 th000 milligrams of
cholesterol every single day let me tell
you that's the equivalent of 14 eggs or
a pound of butter or
333 strips of
bacon when you eat less cholesterol
foods your body makes more when you eat
more your body makes less it has a
feedback mechanism I do four eggs a day
fake
cheese every single day of course my
cholesterol is 5,000 no I'm just kidding
now my cholesterol is roughly about 160
170 um it's well within a nice range so
your body makes that ton of cholesterol
now why if cholesterol is so bad why
does it make it well first of all it's
not bad secondly it has a purpose it has
a purpose to actually make hormones
especially stress hormones it actually
helps heal see the cholesterol that
comes into your arteries it comes in to
try to heal some type of Micro
Hemorrhage or bleeding Hemorrhage in
your artery wall that's what it's trying
to do so it's trying to help you it
feeds the lens of the eye so it feeds
the hormone so you need
cholesterol
okay the bad thing is adding the um the
sugar that's what's converting the
cholesterol
um okay now we also talked about e will
stimulate insulin too right check this
out now if you eat lunch breakfast and
dinner and then a snack a snack and a
snack at night you are raising insulin
insulin insulin insulin all day and all
night this is bad we never have a chance
for the liver to heal and we we're going
to create insulin resistance okay
because we have too much insulin too
long now I am guilty of in my book
telling you to cons assume snacks
between meals I no longer recommend that
that's bad advice and I'm correcting
myself now I'm sorry about that because
that
is it's not the right advice it's much
better to have three meals no snacks now
the problem is if you are have insulin
resistance you're gonna have a hard time
going from one meal to the next because
you're going to get hungry so what you
want to do is you want to add fat to the
meal
so you can go longer without eating okay
now what did I just went to the farmers
market last week and I bought some
really high quality um grass-fed pork
sausage
okay it's uh 1240 right now and I had
breakfast at 8 o'clock okay I had the
pork sausage I had three links I had
four
eggs and some cheese
I am not hungry right now at all like I
Am So
Satisfied my system I'm actually feeling
great I don't feel hungry at all so I'll
probably eat maybe another two hours but
the point is that you want to go longer
uh when I first started this I could
barely go for an hour without needing a
snack because I didn't have enough fat
you cannot fix diabetes without fat you
you can't fix insulin resistance without
by doing a lean piece of protein in a
salad why because you're going to be
starving all the time I went to a
restaurant a month ago ordered a steak
and S a huge salad and they brought me a
steak and I was starving like 10 minutes
later I'm like oh my God I need some
fat okay now this goes against what
you've been taught but this principle
will really really really really work
okay okay so what kind of fats olives
coconut oil peanut butter nuts breed
cheese all really good fats
okay now when you wake up in the morning
and you're not hungry don't eat do not
eat why because your body is eating your
belly all night long it's eating your
fat why would you eat you're going to
spike your insulin again it's going to
drop down you're going to get hungry so
this idea that eating stimulates
metabolism is bad advice not true it
actually just increases your hunger
don't eat if you're not hungry so let's
say you eat at lunch as your F first
meal just do two meals a day it's going
to be fine you're not going to lose
muscle
protein but the key is not to snack
anymore so there's three meals a
day because and here's two meals a day
so we want you to eat and then the
switch over for the liver so you can
burn fat and then burn to the pancreas
you burn sugar burn fat back and forth
we want this insulin switch to work
again so we want to heal it two there's
a couple different ways we want to heal
it from food and
nutrition what else can stimulate
insulin resistance cortisol what's
cortisol it's a stress hormone so stress
will increase insulin why because
cortisol breaks down protein in your
body body protein and it converts it
into sugar which then increases
insulin so you know we know that
cortisol causes belly fat but through
insulin insulin is the real culprit so
we want to lower stress as well some
people have a perfect diet they're just
stressed out and they need to fix that
okay causes of insulin resistance we got
the diet too much protein combination of
protein and sugar snacks between meals
and stress these are the culprits right
here
insulin is a dominating hormone and in
that all and this is interesting if you
checked out check back in because this
is another important Point all it takes
is a very tiny bit of insulin to block a
lot of fat burning hormones so let's say
your diet was perfect okay you're
exercising and you have a little bit of
juice a half a cup of juice a day that
is enough insul and Spike to bump you
out of fat burning for
48
hours especially if your metabolism is
slow all that takes is a tiny bit of the
wrong thing to destroy this fat burning
process so when you the key to doing
this is to bring your sugars down to
zero okay I didn't say carbohydrates I
said I said your sugars don't eat
sugar okay exercise is also good to
stabilize blood sugars long walks is
really good but exercise will help you
but if you if you're an exercise person
like you really hardcore exercise you
may need three meals a day but test it
out you might not stress we talked about
that uh
nutrition um these are the two
nutritional products that I use for
blood sugar cases why because the whole
cerous food is the one that supports the
liver it supports a healthy liver it
helps fat on the liver uh helps it you
know come off it it's it's a combination
of five organic cruciferous with six
additional vegetables including turmeric
and garlic and calp and all sorts of
really good things asparagus and um and
all these other cruus like kale broccoli
radish
cauliflower cabbage and those uh foods
have additional Health properties to
support the liver and help heal the
liver okay so it's a bottle of 250
tablets it's pretty amazing but that's
the one that we use for liver function
for blood sugars it works really really
good you're going to have energy so I
use it for liver support and increasing
your energy uh because a lot of people
have a hard time consuming all those
different types of vegetables okay the
other thing I use is wheat raw wheat
grass juice why because wheat grass has
um
amazing nutrition tons of pottassium
it's a highly concentrated nutrient
dense product that supports potassium
and nutrition for the cells
um pottassium and we'll get into this
when we get into food potassium
decreases the need for insulin so it
raises it so one teaspoon of this is
equivalent to a tray of wheat craft 20
in by 12 in and when teaspoon so you
drink that and you're getting massive
amounts of nutrition in just a small
little glass but I like to put it in a
little shaker bottle shake it up and
then drink drink it in the morning and I
do it at night too um I've seen amazing
results with blood sugars with using
weak Rass weak grass if you think too
about what happens to diabetics to their
neurological like their eyes and their
their feet they get these ulcers they
get all sorts of things this is what I
can apply topically to help that as well
but we we have it have them take it
orally and it goes in there and it
really helps to bring down their sugars
so and I'll show you some references on
on the effect of high blood sugars on
weak grass it's really a good
combination okay so we want to avoid
fruit grains including oatmeal starches
potato plain I mean even plain yogurt
has like 10 gram of sugar crazy alcohol
cut it up
it's not good for your blood sugars I'm
sorry look at an Apple has 19 grams of
sugar it's like eating a candy
bar now now that I took all your sugar
away I just want to let you know there
are um substitute pleasure
foods that you can
make with really good recipes and you
can eat only with your meal not between
so you don't feel a need for giving up
all the pleasur your life okay so there
are some great recipes that are
available to um little candy bars and
ice cream and all sorts of things so so
you can do this okay so we don't to I
don't like to say you can't have
something I just like to replace it with
something a little bit better but here's
the
thing potassium is the most important
mineral with diabetes and blood sugars
because it takes potassium to store
sugar in the liver okay without
potassium you can't store the sugar so
you constantly have blood sugar issues
if I increase the potassium in your diet
your Cravings will go away because it
stabilizes your blood sugars when you
are in fat burning and you're not
burning any more sugar you don't have
cravings that's how you know you don't
have insulin resistance anymore your
Cravings go away so potassium you'd have
to have 10 bananas or five avocados
every single day to get your potassium
because you need 4700 milligrams that's
a lot because one banana is only 300 so
I'm going to recommend you get it from
salad instead like 7 to 10 cups of salad
a day will give you all the potassium
you need and all the other nutrients as
well here's an example you see those
bags of salad you can get at the store
that's like seven ounces 7 ounces is
seven cups okay or the plastic
containers usually eight ounces that's
like eight cups so 1 ounce equals one
cup that's the quantity of vegetable
that you need every single
day there's my breakfast you don't have
to eat that much that's avocado in the
background you want to have between
three to six ounces of protein per meal
okay you don't need a lot just a little
bit um intermittent fasting a great
powerful tool for blood sugars two to
three meals a day only no snacking add
fat if you are hungry so you can go
longer not a problem I also like to
consume apple cider vinegar and lemon
with as a drink with with a meal why
because when you do this you're
switching your body from sugar fuel to
fat burning in the
process you may be more susceptible to
the kitty Stone so if you do lemon of
each day and upset of vinegar this can
easily flush out and clean and prevent
kidney stone development also upset of
vinegar helps to speed up the the fat
coming off your liver Okay so it's
really good for this program uh drink it
with a straw so it doesn't mess up your
teeth okay do two to three like two one
to two tablespoons of Al vinegar per cup
and one to two tablespoons of of lemon
or lime per cup okay real simple drink
with the straw boom you're
good so let's take a look at what a meal
looks like you have the vegetable the
protein and the fat those three things
you notice I left out the starch right
but this is Bree cheese Bree cheese is
great to get you to go longer without
eating
okay here's an example of a a week of
meals look at I have eggs bacon avocado
with the drink I have a kale Shake as my
salad fish breed cheese here's a salad
Burger without the bun peanut butter or
almond butter here's another salad
chicken wings olives here's a salad with
fish with avocado and then we just
repeat it with dinner three meals okay
see you're not starving because you're
eating fat you're going long periods of
time without eating at night but you're
not snacking anymore um this is the
fastest way to reverse blood sugar
issues and it's the fastest way to
um lose
weight this eating plan that I'm showing
you for blood sugars is the same thing
losing weight because you're lowering
insulin and insulin is a key hormone
involved with that um now at my seminars
I um all or our webinars we always give
people a discount okay so if you want to
get these two products uh today I will
give you a discount 10% off and I will
also give
you a new um ebook that I created that
shows you the details of what to eat and
it shows you the details of what we
talked about in this webinar with blood
sugars everything we talked about is in
this booklet okay it's a cool little
booklet it's a digital thing instant
download so if you get these two
products today you it comes with the
cool bonus all right um I also have
these three references that show the
relationship between
weft research on animals and humans and
the effect of what it does to your blood
sugars it's very powerful blood sugar
control nutrition okay so the cool thing
they're food-based they're not
synthetics so this is like this is like
raw wheat grass juice nothing heated
over 1060
degrees um it's grown on an ancient
seabed so has all the trace minerals on
Old ocean
floor um so it's raw it's highly
concentrated and and it's has tons and
tons of chlorophyll okay and then it's
100% certified organic this is also all
organic ingredients the only thing is
the capsule has gelatin we're changing
that but but you can just open it up if
you're have attention on that but all
the ingredients are organic okay so if
you're interested in getting the the
discount click below and uh check it out
um and
then I will also send you an email with
this booklet all right so I hope you
learned something in this webinar um
there's a lot of great information if
you don't want to get this that's fine
just APPA information and get the
results as much as possible but I want
to thank you for your attention I want
to thank you for your uh interest this
long you made it this far and um I
appreciate you and I I will see you in
some upcoming webinars real soon so I
hope you have a a wonderful result from
what I just taught you okay all right
we'll see you guys later
